10.2307/1521988|Annual mortality rates of breeding Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) have been measured from 1954 to 1998 at colonies near the mouth of the River Tyne in NE England, with most annual values in the 15-30% range. Over the period, mortality rates tended to increase progressively until the mid 1980s, when they briefly fell to the levels observed in the first ten years of the study. This was followed in 1997 and 1998 by the highest mortality rates recorded, reaching 39% and 58% respectively. No other species were involved. These high mortality rates, and those in 1984-1987, appeared to be caused by toxin-producing algal blooms. The toxin is extremely poisonous, killing birds away from the colony during a single feeding trip and affected significantly more females than males (possibly because of different feeding areas or methods between the sexes). Bodies floated ashore only when on-shore winds occurred. Birds died in several spring and summer months during each of three years and in the same restricted area about seven km off-shore and in, or close to, an area used to dump human sewage. Circumstantial evidence suggests that the nutrients from the sewage may have been responsible for larger than normal blooms of algae. As a result of the mortality, colonies in the immediate area, particularly at Marsden, have declined dramatically (43% during 1992-1997 and an additional 50% during 1997-1998). In 1998, over a quarter of the remaining occupied nests were frequented by males only.
10.2307/1521989|Published and unpublished information on the distribution and abundance of the Antarctic Petrel (Thalassoica antarctica) is reviewed. Currently 35 colonies with approximately half a million breeding pairs are known. All but one of these known colonies are situated in East Antarctica. However, an estimate derived from at sea studies in three of four apparent centers of oceanic occurrence suggests a population as high as four to seven million breeding pairs (10 to 20 million individuals). In spite of the tentative nature of such an estimate, the difference with the colony-derived figure strongly suggests the existence of large, currently undiscovered colonies, particularly in western Antarctica and Victoria Land, where a complete mismatch exists between bird observations at sea and known colonies. In eastern Antarctica, in addition to undiscovered colonies, some known ones could be considerably larger than currently documented.
10.2307/1521990|We investigated seasonal migration patterns of three age classes of California Gulls (Larus californicus). Using band recovery data and reported sightings of patagially marked gulls, we constructed location maps for fledglings, one to two-year-old gulls, and breeding-age adult gulls during five time periods: spring migration, breeding season, early and late fall migration, and winter. Using repeated observations, we also produced a location map with directional vector plots. Gulls followed a triangular pattern of movements. At the conclusion of breeding, gulls migrated west and northwest to the Pacific coast, distributing themselves mainly between San Francisco and British Columbia. During winter, gulls moved south along the Pacific coast and by spring were concentrated in southern California and northern Mexico. The range size was largest among fledglings which provided the northernmost and southernmost observations for the population. Few subadult gulls migrated to the breeding colony. During the breeding season, a substantial portion of breeding-aged adults remained on the Pacific coast and throughout the intermountain west but were not observed at other California gull colonies. While fledglings moved directly toward the Pacific coast at the end of the breeding season, many adults lingered near the colony site and at aquatic habitats south of the colony. We suggest that adults remain longer in the area to feed and to rejuvenate before attempting migration.
10.2307/1521991|The great majority of adult Wilson's Phalaropes (Phalaropus tricolor) is thought to stage at Great Salt Lake, Utah, Mono Lake, California, and/or Lake Abert, Oregon, before making a nonstop flight to South America. Their concentration at a few localities provides an exceptional opportunity for studying trends species-wide, so long as several important assumptions are fulfilled. Observations from 1980 through 1997 indicated that numbers of staging adults approximated 500,000-600,000 in the 1980s, then dropped by about half in the 1990s. Data from the breeding grounds in 1967-1992, including Breeding Bird Surveys, also indicated a general decline had been in progress, but did not indicate any sudden recent changes. The validity and severity of the decline is hard to test because correspondence between population sizes predicted from BBS trends and observations from staging areas is poor. Difficulties in gathering and interpreting data from a species that is easy to study raises questions about our ability to monitor and understand population trends in less amenable species. Whether population fluctuations in Wilson's Phalaropes are related to the availability of habitat in the main breeding range requires confirmation.
10.2307/1521992|Because of concerns about apparent population declines and low productivity of Gull-billed Terns (Sterna nilotica) along the coast of Virginia, we investigated whether food limitations may result in retarded growth rates of young. Several colonies of Gull-billed Terns were monitored from May to July each year from 1994 to 1996 on both sandy barrier islands and marsh/shellpile islands in coastal Virginia. Nests were visited one to three times a week to monitor clutch size and hatching success, and enclosures were installed around selected nests to monitor chick growth from hatching to at least two weeks of age. When comparing chick growth, we found significant year, habitat and hatch order effects. Chicks from marsh shellpiles had higher mass and culmen growth rates than did those from barrier islands, and first-hatched chicks had significantly higher culmen growth rates than did second-hatched chicks. Year effects were only found for mass growth rates. Growth rates of Gull-billed Terns in these Virginia colonies seem to be low relative to those of six other North American tern species from other geographic areas. These findings suggest that growth rates of young Gull-billed Terns, as well as other reproductive parameters, need to be examined in detail in other coastal areas such as Texas, where the species is more abundant, to determine whether our growth results are species- or region-specific.
10.2307/1521993|Because of a long-term population decline in Gull-billed Terns (Sterna nilotica) nesting along the coast of Virginia, we began a three-year study in 1994 to monitor hatching success and survival of Gull-billed Tern chicks at several Virginia colony sites. Colonies were located on either small, storm-deposited shellpiles along marsh fringes or large, sand-shell overwash fans of barrier islands. Nests were monitored one to three times a week for hatching success, and enclosures were installed around selected nests to monitor chick survival from hatching to about two weeks of age. Hatching success was lower in marsh colonies than island colonies, and was lower in 1995 than in 1994 and 1996, primarily because of flooding. The average brood size of nests where at least one chick hatched was 1.99 chicks. Survival rates of chicks to 14 days depended on hatch order and year but not brood size (one vs. two or more) or time of season. First-hatched chicks had higher survival rates than second-hatched and third-hatched chicks (0.661 compared to 0.442 and 0.357, respectively). The year effect was significant only for first-hatched chicks, with lower survival in 1994 (0.50) than in 1995 (0.765) or 1996 (0.758). Overall, productivity was low (0.53 chick per nest) compared to estimates for colonies in Denmark and was attributable to nest flooding by spring and storm-driven high tides and chick predation, mostly by Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus).
10.2307/1521994|Breeding performance and timing of breeding of six seabird species breeding in the northwest Atlantic were compared during 1992 and 1993 when oceanographic anomalies and changes in fishing practices provided an opportunity to compare effects of reduced food availability at a multi-species level. The inshore spawning migration of capelin (Mallotus villosus), a major prey for five of the six species considered here, was delayed by one month in 1992 and 1993, and a ground fisheries moratorium eliminated the production of fish offal, an important alternative food source for Larus gulls and Black-legged Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla). Inshore, surface-feeding piscivores, kittiwake and Herring (L. argentatus) and Great Black-backed (L. marinus) gulls, had lower breeding success than did pursuit-diving Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) and Common Murre (Uria aalge). Breeding performance of Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa), an offshore, surface-feeding planktivore, appeared unaffected by nearshore perturbations. Hatching, fledging and breeding success of inshore surface-feeders were much reduced while those of pursuit divers were similar to previous years when ocean conditions were normal. Later breeding in 1993 than in 1992 for kittiwakes and Herring Gulls resulted in more chicks of these species hatching after mature capelin became available, with subsequent higher breeding success. Results support the hypothesis that inshore surface feeders are more sensitive to changes in food availability than are pursuit-divers and offshore surface-feeders, and demonstrate the importance of timing of breeding in relation to temporal changes in prey availability.
10.2307/1521995|We reviewed 64 published investigations concerning effects of human disturbance on nesting colonial waterbirds. We summarized and reviewed articles, based on taxonomy, examining investigator, ecotourist, recreator, watercraft, and aircraft activity effects on physiology, reproductive behavior, reproductive success, and population trends of waterbirds. Though most studies found significant negative effects, taking careful measures minimized impact on some species. Guidelines for minimizing investigator and visitor disturbance are outlined. Little practical information for visitor management is available. Increasing pressure from the ecotourism industry to visit waterbird colonies makes research that develops scientifically-defensible tourism policies imperative.
10.2307/1521996| The winter diet of 522 Common Murres (Uria aalge) killed in fishing nets off stfold, SE Norway was studied by analysis of stomach contents. Temporal variations throughout the winter 1989-1990 and sex and age specific differences in food choice were given special attention. A total of 1,864 food items were found in the 477 stomachs with contents. Otoliths and other fish remains constituted nearly 90% of the items, while 10% were remains of polychaete worms. Clupeids, gadids and gobids were the most common fish groups, both numerically and by frequency of occurrence. Although there were no sex and age specific differences in the frequencies of occurrence of the main prey groups, such differences were evident when data were expressed numerically. Immatures took more clupeids, gobids and polychaetes but fewer gadids than did adults. Males took more clupeids, gadids and polychaetes than did females; females took more gobids than did males. The frequency of occurrence of clupeids, gadids and gobids in adults and immatures showed no significant variation during the winter. There was, however, a significant seasonal variation in the numerical occurrence of gadid items, but not of clupeid items, in stomachs from adults and juveniles during the three two-month periods in the winter 1989-1990. If this diet was representative, the total food consumption by Common Murres in Skagerrak during October 1989-March 1990 was about 12.520 metric tons, of which clupeids constituted 5,770 tons, gadids 6,435 tons, gobids 50 tons, and polychaetes 63 tons. The consumption of both clupeids and gadids totalled approximately 10% of the total landings by commercial fisheries in the North Sea and Skagerrak areas. 
10.2307/1521997|Early growth of Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) chicks is a strong predictor of chick survival and hence of productivity. Using data from a ten-year study at Falkner Island, Connecticut, we developed discriminant functions to predict chick survival from body-masses measured during the first three days of life. A discriminant function using only the mass of the B-chick (second-hatched in each brood) on day 2 of life yielded predictions of survival (83% correct classification) almost as good as any other. The correct classification rates were consistent across each of the 10 yr of the study. The simplest discriminant function gave good results (84% correct classification) in a limited test with a data set from another site. We derive a formula to estimate the total number of B-chicks raised to fledging from the number of individuals for which the discriminant function predicts survival. Productivity is estimated by assuming that almost all A-chicks (first-hatched in each brood) survive to fledging, and using the discriminant function and the formula to predict the number of B-chicks that survive. In the absence of predation, the resulting estimates of Roseate Tern chick survival and productivity are almost as good as those obtained by more intensive methods, but require less effort and less disturbance. This approach might be useful for other seabird species in which chick survival is determined primarily by parental performance.
10.2307/1521998|Analyses of marine bird surveys conducted in Prince William Sound, Alaska in July 1972 were compared to surveys in July 1989, 1990, 1991, and 1993 and indicated that populations of several taxa of marine birds that prey on fish have declined in Prince William Sound, but most taxa that feed on other prey species, such as benthic invertebrates, have not declined. Red-throated Loon (Gavia stellata), Pacific Loon (G. pacifica), cormorant (Phalacrocorax spp.), Surf Scoter (Melanitta perspicillata), Bonaparte's Gull (Larus philadelphia), terns (Sterna spp.), Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba), Brachyramphus murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus and B. brevirostris), Parakeet Auklet (Cyclorrhynchus psittacula), Tufted Puffin (Fratercula cirrhata), and Horned Puffin (Fratercula corniculata) populations declined by >50%. Most of these are piscivores, feeding on schooling fish. Some non-piscivorous taxa, such as Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus), goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula and islandica), and Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani), have increased in Prince William Sound between 1972 and 1989-1993, although a portion of the population was killed by the T/V Exxon Valdez oil spill. Declines in piscivorous bird populations also have been documented in the Gulf of Alaska, the Bering Sea, and along the California coast in the past two decades and have been coincidental to changes in forage fish species in the North Pacific Ocean. Many of the declines appear to be related to changes in forage fish abundance that occurred during a climatic regime shift in the north Pacific Ocean, although some taxa were also affected by the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
10.2307/1521999| The diet of Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) was studied by stomach-pumping birds at five colonies (San Lorenzo, Punta Clara, Punta Lobera, Monte Leon and Punta Dungeness) over the species' latitudinal range in Argentina. A total of 159 birds were sampled during the period February 1986 to December 1988. Most prey items consisted of pelagic school fish, although squid and shrimps were also taken. At any one colony, birds appeared to be principally mono- or bi-phagic and there were clear latitudinal differences in prey taken. Penguins in the northern colonies at San Lorenzo, Punta Clara and Punta Lobera consumed primarily anchovy (Engraulis anchoita) while birds at the two southerly colonies of Monte Leon and Punta Dungeness fed primarily on squid (Loligo spp. and Illex spp.), sprats (Sprattus fuegensis) and Hagfish (Myxine spp.). The strict dependence of Magellanic Penguins on commercially-exploited, schooling prey species makes the species particularly susceptible to changes in prey stocks, as has happened to congeners elsewhere that have suffered population crashes due to poorly-managed fisheries. 
10.2307/1522000| The retina of the Magellanic Penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus) was studied with light and electron microscopy. Rods, double and single cones were observed. Rods showed a uniform density over the entire retina, whereas cones gradually decreased from center to periphery. Cone-to-rod ratio was 2.0 in the center and 1.1 at the margin of the retina. Rods had a large outer segment (26.6  2.8 m long, and 2.1  0.4 m wide). About 80% of the cones were double. Principal members had a yellowish-green oil droplet and their outer segment was larger than that of rods (27.2  2.5 m, and 3.3  0.6, tapering to 2.2  0.3 m wide). The accessory member had a short outer segment and was devoid of an oil droplet. Single cones had either a transparent or orange oil droplet and a very long and thin outer segment. The large size of rod and principal cone outer segments might be correlated with increased sensitivity of the retina, perhaps as an adaptation to low illumination levels in deep oceanic waters. Their large diameter also implies that image focusing in the Magellanic Penguin eye would not be very sharp. However, the structure of the outer plexiform layer suggests that the penguin retina would be adapted to the extreme changes in illumination and contrast conditions encountered by diving penguins. 
10.2307/1522001| Diving behavior and feeding sites of 22 Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) foraging at small open-water leads were simultaneously measured by bird-borne small data-loggers and land-based radio tracking in an area covered with fast sea-ice. The Adlies foraged in ice cracks along the shore in early and mid January and around icebergs in late January. We identified a minimum of 1.6-3.7 feeding sites per foraging trip, executing 3.2-6.2 dive bouts of 78-85 min. duration at feeding sites. Birds changed feeding sites during 9.6% of the inter-bout intervals but stayed within a site for 80.7% of the intervals. Duration of inter-bout intervals did not differ between birds changing feeding sites and those staying. Surface time to dive duration ratio increased with the dive sequence for dive bouts before leaving feeding sites, though this effect was not significant for those staying. Large variation in dive depth occurred within dive bouts, while dive bouts, feeding sites and sea depth had no strong effects on dive depth, indicating that penguins foraged at variable depth in mid and surface waters under the ice. 
10.2307/1522002|We surveyed six Common Murre (Uria aalge) colonies in the vicinity of Elephant Seal Cove Beach (ESCB), Point Reyes National Seashore, Marin County, California from 1995 through 1997 to investigate the effects of disturbance on local murre populations in the wake of a small shipwreck and to establish seasonal and diurnal attendance patterns of coastal murre populations. Following the shipwreck in 1995, one colony (Cliff Rock West) was abandoned, and three others (Flattop Rock, Mid Rock, and East Rock) experienced reduced productivity due to disturbance and predation by Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis), Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis), and Common Ravens (Corvus corax). A fifth colony, Face Rock, farthest from the grounding site, was apparently not affected. Murres attended Cliff Rock West only early in 1996, and not at all in 1997. A new colony formed on another seastack (Northwest Rock) after murres left the Cliff Rock West colony in 1996. However, no eggs were observed at Northwest Rock in 1996 and this colony was abandoned early in 1997. Seasonal attendance among colonies on Flattop Rock, Mid Rock, and East Rock followed a similar trend in both 1996 and 1997. Murre attendance fluctuated widely until the onset of egg-laying in early May, but then stabilized and increased somewhat until July, when numbers began to drop at the end of the fledging period. Both air temperature and the upwelling index (UI) were significantly correlated with murre attendance in May and June during the incubation and nestling periods. Mean attendance increased 18-30% at these colonies between 1996 and 1997. Diurnal attendance in 1996 and 1997 varied both within and between colonies and days, yet there was a significant downward trend in numbers throughout the day, as well as an effect of colony disruption by other marine species. Given that seasonal and diurnal attendance patterns of Flattop, East, and Mid Rocks in 1996 and 1997 appear similar, both between years and to other studies, we assume that these colonies recovered quickly following the 1995 shipwreck. However, interspecific interactions and predation continue to affect diurnal attendance patterns and productivity of these colonies.
10.2307/1522003|After a severe storm in 1996 along the Atlantic Ocean shore of New Jersey that washed up large numbers of surf clams (Spisula solidissima) onto the beach, we found 39 Dunlin (Calidris alpina) with bills caught between the two valves of the clams. There was a flock of about 3,000 dunlin actively feeding on the clams along the 6.5 km of beach censused. This interaction of surf clams with shorebirds has not been described before, but the clams may be an important food source as well as a mortality factor for these birds.
10.2307/1522004|Swinhoe's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma monorhis), Bridled Tern (Sterna anaethetus), and Lesser Crested Tern (Sterna bengalensis) were found nesting on the islet of Wu Yu, Nan Ao County, extreme eastern Guangdong Province, China, on 21 July 1997.
10.2307/1522005|Rubber pieces of different shapes were baked in dough and spread at four localities around a mixed breeding colony of Mew (Larus canus) and Herring (L. argentatus) gulls on the lower River Elbe, northern Germany. Of 100 rubber pieces, 23 were detected later in four Mew Gull pellets found in the colony. The method is recommended as a means of studying the foraging ranges and potential feeding localities of gulls when trapping and marking of the birds is not possible (e.g. before incubation) or is likely to alter their natural behavior.
10.2307/1522006| Determination of breeding success of birds requires a variable amount of disturbance by human observers. The effects of human disturbance during research activities were assessed in a colony of South American Terns (Sterna hirundinacea) by comparing hatching success between visited and unvisited nests during incubation. Predation by a mustelid, probably the Little Grison (Galictis cuja), was the main cause of nest failure during incubation. Hatching success and daily nest survival rates during incubation did not differ between visited and unvisited nests. /// La determinacin del xito reproductor supone ciertas molestias a las aves por los investigadores. Estas molestias fueron valoradas en una colonia de Charrn Suramericano (Sterna hirundinacea), comparando el xito de eclosin en nidos visitados y no visitados durante la incubacin. La depredacin por un mustlido, probablemente Galictis cuja, fue la principal causa de fracaso reproductor durante la incubacin. El xito de eclosin y la supervivencia diaria de los nidos durante la incubacin no difiri entre nidos visitados y no visitados. 
10.2307/1522007| In northern Taimyr, Russia, nest attendance and changes in body-mass during incubation of a Greater White-fronted Goose (Anser albifrons albifrons) were studied with the help of a balance under the nest. All the energy required during incubation was derived from catabolism of endogenous stores since the female did not feed during this period. Body-mass loss was 25.4 g per day. The cost during incubation at an average air temperature of 9 C was estimated to be 610 kJ per day which is only slightly more than Basal Metabolism Rate (BMR, predicted on the basis of an interspecific allometric equation). Cost of thermoregulation during incubation was estimated at 2.1 g body stores per day per C; this is equivalent to an overall thermal conductance value of 0.59 W C. 
10.2307/1522008| Anti-predator flocking behavior was studied in a wintering population of shorebirds (Charadriiformes) at Fraternidad Lagoon, Puerto Rico (1230N, 5703W). Daily observations of flocking behavior were recorded when a raptor approached the foraging grounds. Raptor attacks later in the season resulted in fewer birds being isolated from the flock; isolated birds were invariably chased by the predator. Anti-predator flocking reactions also changed with time, complex flashing, rippling and columnar flights were more common later in the season. It appears that individuals (probably juveniles) gathered at common feeding grounds for some time gain the experience necessary to perform complex group anti-predator behaviors proficiently. 
10.2307/1522207| We studied distributions and abundance of seabirds in the Panama Bight during 1984 to 1991. Seabird densities were highest over the continental shelf, densities over shelf-slope and pelagic waters differed insignificantly. Storm-petrels predominated in slope and pelagic waters, and Charadriiformes predominated the continental shelf. Five of the seven most abundant species (from high to low: Black Tern, Chlidonias niger, Red-necked Phalarope, Phalaropus lobatus; Galapagos, Least, and Black storm-petrels, Oceanodroma tethys, O. microsoma, and O. melania, respectively; Brown Booby, Sula leucogaster, and Brown Pelican, Pelecanus occidentalis) were seasonal residents. Statistical relationships between distributions and environmental correlates for the Least Storm-petrel, Red-necked Phalarope, Black Tern, and possibly the Brown Booby and Brown Pelican, indicated a response to variation in upwelling. Least and Black storm-petrels, Brown Boobies, and Brown Pelicans increased markedly during the strong El Nio of 1990-1991, indicating range expansions from areas to the north. Predominance of planktivores in the Panama Bight was in contrast to the predominance of piscivores among avifaunas exploiting adjacent waters in the eastern tropical Pacific and Peru Current. These findings probably reflected differences in oceanic productivity, nest site availability; dispersal, and foraging behavior of seabirds in each regime. The Panama Bight avifauna exploited moderately productive waters and, with few available breeding sites, was mostly migratory. In comparison, the Peru Current supported a higher proportion of piscivorous residents that exploited highly productive waters with many nesting sites; and the western part of the eastern tropical Pacific, with low oceanic productivity and scattered breeding sites, supported primarily migratory piscivores, many of which exploited localized concentrations of prey forced to the surface by aquatic predators. 
10.2307/1522208|The White-faced Storm-petrel (Pelagodroma marina) breeds on several tropical, sub-tropical and temperate islands in both hemispheres, but some aspects of its breeding biology are still poorly known. The European subspecies hypoleuca is almost confined to a small archipelago, the Salvage Islands, about 300 km south of Madeira Island, North-east Atlantic. Because of its very localized distribution, this subspecies is relatively vulnerable to extinction and its population dynamics need to be understood and monitored. We studied the breeding biology of the White-faced Storm-petrel at Selvagem Grande Island in 1996. Birds first arrived at the colony in mid-December, eggs were laid from mid-March to early June, and the last chicks fledged in mid-August. Mean incubation period was 53.7 days, but was highly variable due to frequent egg-neglect that affected at least two thirds of the clutches. Mean nestling period was 60.3 days. Chick growth (body mass and wing length) is described. Hatching success was 60.7% (N = 89) and fledging success was 88.9% (N = 54). Breeding success (53.9%) was not low, in spite of frequent predation by house mice (Mus musculus), the main cause of nesting failures. Rabbits (Oryctolagus cunniculus) and Yellow-legged Gulls (Larus cachinnans), two species thought to pose threats to other seabirds of the region, had no measurable negative effect on breeding performance at our study nests. However, we had some evidence that gulls prey upon chicks and adult birds. Breeding success did not correlate with egg size. There was a highly significant seasonal decline in both hatching and fledging success. Using data on burrow density and occupancy obtained in the main colony, we estimated the breeding population on Selvagem Grande at around 36,000 pairs.
10.2307/1522209| Between November 1994 and May 1996, observations on the interactions between seabirds and trawl vessels were conducted on five Patagonian coastal fisheries between 41 and 52 S. Twenty- three seabird species used food made available by fishing operations. Mean number of species recorded per day varied between 2.5 and 6, depending on the fishery and was significantly lower in the Baha Engao area. The highest number of species (17) was observed at the Golfo San Matas area. Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) and Black-browed Albatrosses (Diomedea melanophris) were the most important seabirds, both in frequency of occurrence and numbers, followed by White-chinned Petrels (Procellaria aequinoctialis) or South American Terns (Sterna hirundinacea), depending on the fishery. Kelp Gulls were present between 91.6 and 100% of days at all fisheries except for Baha Grande (28.6%), with numbers which varied between a few and 600 birds (means between 148.2-178.8 birds). Black-browed Albatrosses were present between 92.2 and 100% of days at all fisheries except for Baha Engao (7.3%), with numbers that varied between one and 375 birds (means between 53.7-123.7 birds). Most other species were either present in small numbers or were rarely observed. Seabirds obtained prey during discarding activities or from the net. Seabird mortality as a result of incidental captures was very low, with only one Imperial Cormorant (Phalacrocorax atriceps) and one Magellanic Penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus) killed during 394 hauls on 124 trips in the five fishing areas. Coastal trawl fisheries appear to have a small impact on Patagonian seabirds in terms of incidental mortality, but might have a significant effect through the provision of fishing waste, especially for Kelp Gull and Black-browed Albatross populations. /// Entre Noviembre de 1994 y Mayo de 1996 se efectuaron observaciones sobre las interacciones entre aves marinas y barcos de arrastre en cinco pesqueras costeras Patagnicas. Veintitrs especies de aves marinas aprovecharon el alimento provisto por las operaciones pesqueras en todos los caladeros. El nmero medio de especies registradas por da vari entre 2.5 y 6, dependiendo de la pesquera. El mayor nmero de especies (17) se registr en el Golfo San Matas. La Gaviota Cocinera Larus dominicanus y el Albatros Ceja Negra Diomedea melanophris fueron las aves marinas ms importantes en las flotas costeras, tanto en frecuencia de ocurrencia como en abundancia, seguidas por el Petrel Negro Procellaria aequinoctialis o el Gaviotn Sudamericano Sterna hirundinacea dependiendo del rea considerada. Las Gaviotas Cocineras estuvieron presentes entre el 91.6 y el 100% de los das en todos los caladeros excepto Baha Grande (28.6%), en nmeros que variaron entre unas pocas hasta 600 aves (medias entre 148.2 y 178.8 aves). Los Albatros Ceja Negra estuvieron presentes entre el 92.2 y 100% de los das en todas las pesqueras excepto Baha Engao (7.3%), en nmeros que variaron entre 1 y 375 aves (medias entre 53.7 y 123.7 aves). La mayora de las otras aves marinas estuvieron presentes en bajo nmero o fueron raramente observadas. Las aves marinas obtuvieron presas durante las actividades de descarte o directamente de la red durante el izado, y capturaron presas tradas a la superficie durante el arrastre. La mortalidad de aves marinas debido a capturas incidentales fue muy baja; solamente un Cormorn Imperial Phalacrocorax atriceps y un Pingino de Magallanes Spheniscus magellanicus fueron muertos durante 394 arrastres (124 viajes) en los cinco caladeros. Las flotas costeras de arrastre Patagnicas parecen tener un bajo impacto sobre las aves marinas en trminos de captura incidental, pero podran tener un efecto significativo a travs de la provisin de descarte, especialmente para las poblaciones de Gaviota Cocinera y Albatros Ceja Negra. 
10.2307/1522210| Between August 1996 and June 1998 I monitored the harvest of wild birds in 17 rural settlements located in the surroundings of Pacaya-Samiria National Reserve (NE Peruvian Amazon). At least 47 species of birds were hunted for food in the area, 15 of which were waterbirds. Anhingas (Anhinga anhinga), Muscovy Ducks (Cairina moschata), Olivaceous Cormorants (Phalacrocorax olivaceus) and Cocoi Herons (Ardea cocoi) were the most commonly harvested waterbirds. Censuses of non-breeding birds conducted during 1998 in three areas of heavy hunting pressure (close to villages) and three areas of low hunting pressure (inside the protected reserve) did not show significant differences. The collection of bird eggs is also common in the study area. I recorded the use of eggs of 22 species of birds, of which the Great Egret (Casmerodius albus), Cocoi Heron, Boat-billed Heron (Cochlearius cochlearius) and Agami Heron (Agamia agami) were the most commonly harvested. Most of the egg-harvesting took place in two large mixed-species heronries and was done by people from the villages of Padre Lpez and Nueva Cajamarca. The number of heron eggs taken from these colonies ranged from ca. 6,200 in 1996 to only 220 in 1998. In 1998, human disturbance during early stages of nesting caused the total abandonment of the colony at Padre Lpez, whereas egg-harvesting during the laying period probably caused the abandonment of the colony at Nueva Cajamarca by Agami Herons. All the evidence suggests that human disturbance is severely affecting heronries and may represent a major threat for wading birds in the study area. /// Entre los meses de Agosto 1996 y Junio 1998 se registr el uso de aves silvestres en 17 asentamientos rurales ubicados en los alrededores de la Reserva Nacional Pacaya-Samiria (NE Per). Al menos 47 especies de aves, 15 de las cuales eran aves acuticas, fueron cazadas para alimentacin en el rea de estudio. Las Shararas (Anhinga anhinga), Sachapatos (Cairina moschata), Cushuris (Phalacrocorax olivaceus) y Uchpagarzas (Ardea cocoi) fueron las aves acuticas ms frecuentemente capturadas. Censos de estas aves realizados durante 1998 en tres zonas de alta presin cinegtica (cerca de los poblados) y tres zonas de baja presin (dentro del rea protegida) no mostraron diferencias significativas. La recoleccin de huevos de aves es tambin una actividad comn en el rea de estudio. Se ha registrado la utilizacin de huevos de 22 especies de aves, destacando por su cantidad los huevos de Garza Blanca (Casmerodius albus), Uchpagarza, Huapapa (Cochlearius cochlearius) y Guanayo (Agamia agami). La cosecha de huevos tuvo lugar principalmente en dos grandes colonias mixtas y fue realizada por pobladores de las comunidades de Padre Lpez y Nueva Cajamarca. El nmero de huevos extrados de estas colonias vari desde alrededor de 6,200 en 1996 a tan solo 280 en 1998. En 1998, las perturbaciones originadas por un grupo de cazadores durante los primeros estadios de anidacin provocaron el abandono total de la colonia de Padre Lpez, mientras que la recoleccin de huevos fue la causa ms probable del abandono de la colonia de Nueva Cajamarca por parte de los Guanayos. Todas las evidencias recogidas sugieren que las perturbaciones de origen antrpico estn afectando severamente a los garzales y representan una de las mayores amenazas para la conservacin de las aves zancudas en el rea de estudio. 
10.2307/1522211|The clutch size of the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) nesting on Coquet Island, Northumberland, UK has been studied for 41 successive years, during which time there has been a progressive decline in the annual mean clutch size, from a peak in 1962 of 5.37 eggs per nest to 3.43 eggs in 1996. There is evidence of a density-dependent relationship between clutch size and numbers of adult ducks from 1958 to 1981, but since 1982 the relationship has changed significantly and there has been a positive correlation between clutch size and numbers of adult ducks. In the early years of the study, the mean clutch size laid by young birds was lower than those laid by older birds, but this effect has been lost in recent years, apparently associated with the overall decline in clutch size. Clutch size did not change with age after the first breeding attempt. Comparisons of annual average clutch sizes for ten years' results from the Sands of Forvie, and for twelve years from The Netherlands, with those in the same years on Coquet Island showed no significant correlations. The mean clutch size in the sample of birds captured each year was significantly higher than that in the birds which left the nest early on the observer's approach. This could be an age effect or reflect the general body condition of the birds. I suggest the decline in clutch was caused by a deterioration in the food of the eider around Coquet Island, which in turn is possibly linked with an effect of sewage discharges on mussel beds. The eider appears to be a very suitable species for monitoring environmental conditions of inshore waters near its breeding sites, through systematic recording of clutch size and numbers of adults.
10.2307/1522212| The Northwest Atlantic population of the Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) is largely confined to a small breeding area along the northeast coast of the USA between 40 and 42N. This population was listed as endangered in the USA in 1987 because it was dangerously concentrated into a few breeding sites (85% on two islands in the 1980s). The nesting population in the area from Long Island, New York to Cape Cod, Massachusetts has been studied intensively since 1987, in conjunction with a program of management of the breeding colonies. This paper summarizes the results of the research program and discusses the extent to which it has contributed to effective management. The regional population now numbers about 4,000 breeding pairs and has been increasing slowly since 1987, except between 1991 and 1992 when it declined by about 17%. Noteworthy features of the demographic data collected since 1987 are: skewed adult sex-ratio (about 127 F to 100 M), high average productivity (1.0-1.2 fledglings per pair), low annual adult survival (0.83), and probably low survival from fledging to first breeding (about 0.2). This species is a specialized forager and may be limited within this region by the distribution of suitable feeding sites. When this regional population was listed as endangered in 1987, managers postulated that predation and displacement by gulls were important factors limiting numbers and productivity. Research since 1987 has suggested that the primary effect of gulls is to limit the number of secure sites available for nesting, and that high post-fledging mortality and skewed sex-ratios are probably more important as limiting factors on population size. Research activities have contributed both directly and indirectly to management of the regional population, but it has taken longer than expected to obtain needed information on demographic parameters, causes of mortality, and other limiting factors. 
10.2307/1522213|The breeding population of Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) in the Bay of Fundy has remained stable over the last decade, ranging from 8,000 to 10,000 breeding pairs. However, the number of ducklings surviving to fledging in the Bay of Fundy decreased from >14% of the adult breeding population prior to 1991 to <10% between 1995 and 1998. Although the breeding population in the Grand Manan Archipelago decreased over the decade, these colonies produced more ducklings that survived to fledgling in the Bay of Fundy between 1995 and 1998 and represented an important source of potential recruits (44-87%) to the eider population. Higher duckling production in the Grand Manan Archipelago cannot be attributed to higher hatch success, but may reflect lower predation rates by Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus). The number of ducklings observed during aerial surveys was not correlated with commercial catches of herring (Clupea harengus), an alternative food source for predatory gulls. Duckling survival to fledgling was higher for a local breeding population in the Gulf of Maine (12%) than in the Bay of Fundy (6%). The relatively large number of ducklings associated with a two-island archipelago within the Petit Manan National Wildlife Refuge accounted for a large proportion of the surviving ducklings and may reflect lower predation rates by Great Black-backed Gulls as a result of gull control measures. The current populations of Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls breeding in the Bay of Fundy in New Brunswick are estimated at 5,367 pairs (5,011-7,282: 95% CI) and 1,771 pairs (1,685-1,868: 95% CI) respectively. Assuming that the age structure of gulls in this region is similar to that of the expanding New England population, the total number of individual gulls in the Bay of Fundy probably exceeded 56,393 (54,173-62,289: 95% CI) in 1998.
10.2307/1522214| A study of the breeding biology of the Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis) was carried out during 1993-1998 in the Po River Delta, a major wintering area in northeastern Italy. The first of five colonies was founded in 1993, and breeders increased from 69 pairs in 1994 to 285 pairs in 1998. The period of egg-laying lasted from early March to late July, but 65% of all clutches were initiated between late March and the end of April. The average clutch size (SD) was 3.830.65 eggs (range two to six). The survival rate of entire nests, evaluated by the Mayfield method, was always higher during the nestling stage than during incubation. The majority of losses occurred during the egg stage due to predation by Hooded Crows (Corvus corone cornix). During the five years, hatching success was 72-91% and total nest success, 67-86%. The number of young fledged per successful nest ranged between 2.3 and 2.9 The reproductive parameters of Great Cormorants recorded in the Po Delta lay at the upper range reported for NW Europe populations and are close to the estimated values for newly-established colonies in Italy and for growing colonies in the traditional breeding areas. Unlike other Italian colonies, the availability of breeding sites and food presently do not limit expansion of the breeding population in the Po Delta. If no control measures are undertaken, it is likely that this southern population will continue to grow. 
10.2307/1522215|We studied patterns of dispersal and philopatry within a Black Guillemot (Cepphus grylle) colony, based on a 22-year capture-recapture study of individually-marked birds. The study colony in western Iceland was divided into 15 subcolonies. Out of 356 local recruits, 122 settled in their natal subcolony, a far higher proportion than expected from a random distribution. The western part of the colony attracted significantly more recruits than did the eastern part. Breeding dispersal among subcolonies only occurred in one percent of all cases in which a bird was captured in two successive years. We suggest that potential recruits select their breeding site based on an assessment of quality as expressed by conspecific breeding success, and also that philopatry occurs because this information acquisition is less than perfect and birds bias their search towards their natal site.
10.2307/1522216|In many bird species, sexing individuals accurately is impossible if no sexual dimorphism occurs. This is often particularly true for chicks. However, genomic differences between sexes exist, and molecular techniques make it possible to determine the sex at any stage, provided that a specifically-designed protocol exists. Such a protocol for the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus Pallas) is presented here, together with results from Greater Flamingos in the wild.
10.2307/1522217|In 1992, as part of an integrated Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) recovery plan, the U.S. National Park Service initiated a long-term gull control program to reduce nesting by Herring and Great Black-backed gulls (Larus argentatus and L. marinus) at Breezy Point, western Long Island, New York. An estimated 600 pairs of the two species nested in an area of about 50 acres. Gull management included discharging pyrotechnics to harass gulls and keep them off the nesting areas prior to the onset of breeding, and the physical destruction of all gull nests and eggs in the colony. This program was non-lethal to adult gulls. From 1993 to 1996, we found no evidence that discharging pyrotechnics at the colony site prior to egg-laying reduced the daily numbers of loafing gulls. Gulls appeared to habituate to the pyrotechnics and to our activities as the day (morning to evening) and season progressed. The physical destruction of nests and eggs was an effective method to eliminate the production of fledglings and eventually, starting three years after gull management began, reduced the number of nesting attempts 60%, from 742 total clutches in 1994 to 282 in 1998. Destroying gull clutches was an effective (albeit slow) method to control and reduce nesting by Herring and Great Black-backed gulls but, since about 40 percent of the colony remains, nest destruction will need to continue for several more years if the colony is to be eliminated.
10.2307/1522218| Although increasing numbers of Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) are nesting on artificial substrates such as dredged-material and roofs, it is not known if these colonies are successfully fledging young. Aspects of Least Tern nesting ecology were studied in 1996 and 1997 along Georgia's coast. Numbers of nests, eggs, chicks, and fledglings at beach, dredged-material, and roof colonies were surveyed using walk-through counts from late April to mid-July. Numbers of nests ranged from 6 to 929 and they did not differ between years or among habitat types. Percent hatching success ranged from 0 to 53.4% and did not differ between years or among habitat types when the data were compared among colonies. High within-habitat type variability due to catastrophic colony failures masked differences in hatching success among habitat types. Causes of mortality included tidal flooding and human disturbance on beaches; extreme temperatures, predation by raccoons, dogs, cats, birds, and fire ants on dredged-material islands; and extreme temperatures, flooding, avian predation, and falling off roofs on buildings. More than 70% of Least Terns in Georgia are nesting with 30% hatching success on flat, gravel-covered roofs. These roofs could provide better refugia and nesting habitat if they continued to be gravel-covered rather than vinyl-covered, if drains were screened, and if 30 cm parapets were constructed around the perimeter. 
10.2307/1522219|A colony of European Storm-petrels (Hydrobates pelagicus) on Benidorm Island was studied during 1996 breeding season. We experimentally tested whether ectoparasites affected growth and health of nestling stormpetrels. Four species of ectoparasites were found on nestlings; the most common were a dermanyssid mite and the flea Xenopsylla gratiosa. We manipulated ectoparasite loads on chicks by assigning them to one of three treatments: fumigated with insecticide, ectoparasite addition, or control. Nestlings in the fumigated group gained mass at a higher rate than those in the control group, and nestlings from the parasite addition treatment gained mass at the lowest rate. Because slower mass gain may delay fledging or reduce survival, ectoparasites may be an important selective force on European Storm-petrels.
10.2307/1522220|Agricultural development has been considered a major factor influencing changes in species, species' distributions and abundances. We examine the effects of this process on colonial ardeid populations in a Mediterranean ecosystem in south-western Spain, where an ambitious irrigation plan has lead to structural homogeneity of a large area. During this process Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) and Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) populations have increased in the area. The Cattle Egret population was strongly associated with irrigated land while the Grey Heron population increased in the general area as a consequence of the recent colonization of it, but avoided local areas with extensive irrigated lands. Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) and Black-crowned Night-heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) populations were independent of the changes in agricultural practices.
10.2307/1522221| Audouin's Gulls (Larus audouinii) were observed in seven of 14 visits between August and November 1996 at two refuse dumps in central Spain. All gulls were juveniles except a bird in molt from second-summer to third-winter plumage, and they were observed throughout the period of their post-breeding migratory movements. Audouin's Gulls foraged on refuse, kleptoparasitizing Black-headed Gulls (L. ridibundus), and roosted in reservoirs and gravel-pits with other gull species. /// Se observaron Gaviotas de Audouin (Larus audouinii) en 7 de 14 visitas a 2 basureros de Espaa Central entre Agosto y Noviembre de 1996. Todos los ejemplares observados fueron juveniles excepto un individuo mudando de plumaje de segundo verano a tercer invierno, en fechas incluidas a lo largo de todo el periodo de movimientos post-nupciales de la especie. Las gaviotas se alimentaban de basura recogida en el basurero o robada a Gaviotas Reidoras (L. ridibundus), y percnoctaron en embalses y graveras junto a otras especies de gaviotas. 
10.2307/1522222|Two problems were encountered when banding frigatebirds (Fregata spp.) and boobies (Sula spp.). These are related to 1) the age at which chicks are banded and 2) size differences in adults. The problems, not addressed in the North American Bird Banding guidelines published jointly by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Canadian Wildlife Service (USFWS, 1991), include guano buildup inside the bands of downy frigatebird chicks and geographical and sexual size differences in adult birds of both genera. Both problems can cause deformities in the foot and leg of banded birds. I discuss correct procedures for banding these species and urge the development of longer lasting, non-corrosive, and easy to apply bands for long-lived birds.
10.2307/1522223|I sought to determine which seabird species initiated small, ephemeral, multispecies feeding flocks in Prince William Sound, AK (PWS). I observed 47 feeding flocks at five sites during June 1996 and determined the initiating species at 34. All of the latter flocks were initiated by pursuit divers, of which 76.5% were Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus), the most abundant seabird in PWS. Formation of feeding flocks followed either of two scenarios: 1) larids were attracted to a feeding location by the presence or activity of Marbled Murrelets (26.9%), or 2) both larids and murrelets were present and flock feeding began after the murrelets dove from the surface (50.0%). Other principal participants were Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) and Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens).
10.2307/1522109|Pathogenic Newcastle disease virus (NDV) caused wide-spread mortality of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) in Canada in 1990 and in Canada and the USA in 1992. Presence of pathogenic NDV in Double-crested Cormorants is important because of the potential risk of spread to other wild birds and domestic poultry, and the effect on population dynamics of Double-crested Cormorants. The first isolation of NDV from a member of the Phalacrocoracidae was from European Shags (P. aristotelis) in Scotland in 1949. It was found in Great Cormorants (P. carbo) from the Volga Delta in 1974, and in Double-crested Cormorants from Quebec in 1975. From 1990 to 1997, pathogenic NDV was isolated from Double-crested Cormorants in different parts of North America in five of eight years. Newcastle disease may cause high mortality of juvenile Double-crested Cormorants; affected birds typically have wing or leg paralysis, loss of balance, and non-suppurative inflammation of brain and spinal cord. There are no reports of extensive mortality from Newcastle disease in wild birds cohabiting with Double-crested Cormorants; however, it is likely that commercial range turkeys contracted Newcastle disease from Double-Crested Cormorants in North Dakota in 1992. Newcastle disease virus isolates from Double-crested Cormorants from widely separated breeding sites and from different years have the same predicted amino acid sequence of the fusion protein cleavage site. This sequence includes the substitution of arginine for glutamine at position 110 of the fusion protein, which appears to be unique for NDV isolates obtained from cormorants and associated species since 1990.
10.2307/1522110| An examination of inter-observer reliability was done in the context of a study of courtship feeding and reproductive success in Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla). Two observers simultaneously scored events taking place in the same nests in six sessions (N = 28, five sessions and N = 24, one session) lasting a total of 14 h. The behavior patterns scored were rates of adult returns, food solicitations, courtship feeds and copulations. Percent agreements and Pearson correlations were calculated to estimate reliability, and the applicability of each method was assessed in relation to the goals of the study. Correlation coefficients were judged to be the most appropriate method. In the reliability sample, data on adult returns and successful copulations were scored reliably (r  0.7, P < 0.05); data on food solicitations showed evidence of systematic error, while all the other variables were affected by random error. As the hours subjected to reliability assessment represented only 7% of the time spent in observation, seasonal plots were made for each variable and the observers compared. In this case, most variables showed evidence of systematic error and only data on copulation attempts displayed a high and significant r value and no systematic error. The implications of these results for the courtship feeding study varied depending upon the type of error and the questions to be answered. Extensive training for inexperienced observers, fewer nests, a larger reliability sample and wiser choice of variables to record would improve inter-observer reliability. 
10.2307/1522111|This paper reports the first comprehensive surveys of Fea's Petrel (Pterodroma feae), Bulwer's Petrel (Bulweria bulwerii), Manx Shearwater (Puffinus puffinus), Little Shearwater (Puffinus assimilis baroli) and two temporally-segregated forms of Band-rumped Storm-petrel (Oceanodroma castro) in the whole Azores archipelago, conducted from 1996 to 1998. Listening to nocturnal vocalizations was the main survey method. Breeding of Fea's Petrel was not confirmed and new sites of Bulwer's Petrel were not found (previous status: one site, 50 pairs), but previously undocumented colonies were identified for the remaining species. Manx Shearwater occurred in four colonies with 115-235 pairs (previous status: probable breeder), Little Shearwater occurred in 28 colonies with 840-1,530 pairs (previously: four locations, > 150 pairs), hot-season Band-rumped Storm-petrels occurred in 5 colonies with 250-300 pairs (previously: two locations, 200 pairs) and cool-season Band-rumped Storm-petrels were found in eight locations with 665-740 pairs (previously: three locations, 600 pairs). Most colonies were confined to precipitous cliffs and islets, which may be a result of predation threats by introduced mammals. Although these surveys provided a valuable revision of the status and distribution for these species of conservation concern, further survey work is warranted and target areas are indicated. We discuss the potential and limitations of listening for nocturnal vocalizations as a method to survey and monitor shearwater and petrel populations in inaccessible habitats.
10.2307/1522112|We studied nest habitat selection and hatching success of Eurasian Oystercatchers (Haematopus ostralegus) breeding inside and outside colonies of Yellow-legged Gulls (Larus cachinnans) on barrier and dredge islands of the Po Delta, Italy. Oystercatchers nested on most of the islands, independently of habitat, distance from mainland and occurrence of gulls. Percentage of eggs hatched was significantly lower in clutches inside gull colonies than outside. Gulls were the main predators of eggs, accounting for 42-64% of egg loss; late oystercatcher breeders were more affected than were early breeders. Nevertheless, gulls and oystercatchers were significantly associated, and numbers of breeding pairs of the two species were positively correlated on the islands. This appears due to similar habitat requirements, since other possible explanations seem unlikely.
10.2307/1522113| We measured eggshell thickness in seven species of seabirds breeding at Southeast Farallon Island (SEFI) and Ao Nuevo Island, off the central California coast, in 1993. Eggshell measurements of the Common Murre (Uria aalge) from 1993 were significantly thicker than those of eggshells from SEFI measured in the early 1970s (by 10.9%), but thinner than those of eggshells from SEFI measured before 1947 (by 3.2%). In five species, eggshell thickness measurements at SEFI in 1993 were thinner than those of eggs from Oregon collected in 1979 (by 0.3 to 5.8%). In four species, Brandt's Cormorant (Phalacrocorax penicillatus), Common Murre, Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba) and Rhinoceros Auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata), we measured levels of six chlorinated hydrocarbons in the eggs and related them to eggshell thickness. After adjusting for the effects of other compounds, all six compounds had negative correlations with eggshell thickness when species were pooled, although only for oxychlordane was the correlation significant. Oxychlordane also had significant negative effects on eggshell thickness in Common Murre and Rhinoceros Auklet, after adjusting for the effects of other compounds, although the small levels of this and the other compounds in the seabird eggs may negate the biological meaning of these results. No other compounds (including DDE and PCB) had significant negative correlations. Hatching success of six species at SEFI showed no significant changes during the period 1971-1994. Based on these results we conclude that organochlorine contamination and eggshell thinning do not currently pose a problem for seabirds off the central California coast. 
10.2307/1522114| During the past 200 years, the breeding range of the Northern Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) has expanded dramatically in the eastern North Atlantic. In contrast, the establishment of breeding colonies of Northern Fulmars in the western North Atlantic has been a relatively recent occurrence, limited largely to southwest Greenland and Atlantic Canada. Northern Fulmars prospected at a number of locations in Atlantic Canada during the 1950s and 1960s, and breeding was confirmed at four locations in the region in the 1970s. However, no comprehensive estimate of breeding numbers has been undertaken in Atlantic Canada since these initial records were made. This paper documents new breeding and prospecting locations of Northern Fulmars at Gull and Ship islands and Cape St. Mary's, Newfoundland, Corossol Island, Qubec, and at Columbier and St. Pierre islands in St. Pierre et Miquelon. Estimates of the breeding populations at these and previously known breeding locations at Outer Gannet and the Gannet Islands, Labrador, and at Funk, Baccalieu and Great islands, Newfoundland, are presented and integrated in an Atlantic Canadian synthesis. 
10.2307/1522115|We studied food resource use by two similar seabird species, Common (Uria aalge) and Thick-billed murres (U. lomvia), breeding sympatrically at the Gannet Islands, Labrador, to examine the overlap in their chicks' diet and thus to indirectly evaluate whether the two species were in competition for food. We used Monte Carlo randomization to establish whether murre chick diet overlap in 1996 and 1997 were greater than would be expected by chance. Diet overlap was higher than 75% in both years and was not lower than that predicted by the null model. To determine whether the two murre species' chick food resource use converged in ways other than diet composition, we compared timing of breeding, sizes of fish delivered to chicks, maximum dive depths and diurnal feeding patterns. In both years, the murres' chick-rearing periods overlapped almost exactly. The size of the principal item in their chicks' diets did not differ significantly. During one of two all-day feeding watches in 1997, the murres' chick-feeding peaks were concurrent, but during the other they were not. In 1997, foraging Common and Thick-billed murres dove to similar maximum depths. Taken together, these results suggest that chick food resource partitioning might have been negligible between Common and Thick-billed murres breeding at the Gannet Islands in 1996 and 1997.
10.2307/1522116|To investigate the effects of nocturnal disturbance of predators on body condition of adult Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) we present data on body mass, mass change from evening to morning as well as data on flight activities and reproduction during nocturnal predation by a Long-eared Owl (Asio otus) and compare the periods before, during, and after predation. Birds were individually marked with transponders, allowing continuous recording of activity on resting sites and body mass. Predation caused prolonged incubation periods and lowered hatching and breeding success. Terns showed high flight activities during evenings ("panic flights") and adults left the colony one hour after sunset, performing flights through the entire night and returned to resting sites in the morning at the time when normal flight activity started in the periods without predation. In 24% of the nests, mostly outside of the predation center, the incubation period was not prolonged, indicating a return of these adults in the night to their nests. During the predation period, body masses were not reduced and mass loss during night (difference in mass between evening and morning) did not differ compared to non-predation periods. The only difference between periods was the lack of correlation between evening mass and mass change during the night and a positive correlation between morning mass and mass change during night in the period when owl predation occurred. Terns appeared to forage very early in the morning before returning to the colony site, compensating for increased energy expenditure after extensive flight activity. Adults chose to leave the colony site to escape predation and to forage before returning, a strategy that appeared to favor self-survival over survival of offspring.
10.2307/1522117|We obtained banding and recovery records from 1914 through 1994 for seven species of wading birds from the Bird Banding Laboratory, United States Geological Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Research Center. We analyzed these data to evaluate differences in dispersal distance and frequency of dispersal movement among species. All records were from birds banded as juveniles and recovered at least five months later between March and July, which is the breeding season in most regions of North America. Focusing on recoveries during the breeding season reduced the chance that movements were related to migration rather than dispersal. When an individual was banded and recovered in the same ten-minute block of latitude and longitude, a movement distance of zero km was recorded. The frequency of zero-distance records provides an indication of breeding site fidelity for each species at a spatial resolution of ten minutes. Our results showed that mean dispersal distance was greatest for the Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea; 1148 km) followed by Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus; 1142 km), Tricolored Heron (Egretta tricolor; 1019 km), Great Egret (Casmerodius albus; 909 km), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula; 837 km), Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias; 758 km), and White Ibis (Eudocimus albus; 545 km). Species which dispersed large distances also exhibited fewer zero-distance records, indicating greater movement frequency. The White Ibis has been classified as a nomad, at one end of a continuum defined by low breeding site-fidelity and several life history traits associated with unpredictable foraging habitat. We found that White Ibises were indeed recovered at new locations the majority (76%) of the time but that the other six species of wading birds we examined were even more likely to move to different sites during subsequent breeding seasons. Movement distance and site fidelity will both likely affect whether a response to habitat restoration is due to immigration or local reproduction. Although an increase in total birds using a restored habitat may be an indication of increased habitat quality, caution should be used in inferring population changes without understanding reproduction, mortality, and movement of individuals using restored habitats.
10.2307/1522118|The effects of nesting site availability on colony size were investigated in a Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) colony on dead trees in north-East Italy. Trees have collapsed and colony structure has changed in recent years. After a steady increase in size, the breeding colony decreased dramatically as predicted by estimates of potential nesting space. After the formation of a new sub-colony in living trees, the colony grew again. Tree structures were used differentially, with low-quality sites occupied in years of strong space limitation. However, the proportion of nest sites that were used twice in a season increased only slightly as nesting space diminished, perhaps reflecting the high costs of breeding late. The mean brood size at fledging remained unchanged between the growing and declining phases, suggesting that food availability to cormorants did not change, despite the apparent decrease in fish harvest size. In addition, immature-plumaged cormorants still attempted to breed when the mean nest-site quality was at its lowest. This study provided an example of a breeding colony where yearly changes in size were not a good indicator of its actual phase of development.
10.2307/1522119|Observations of the foraging flights of nesting Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus), Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta), Black-crowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) and Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) in 1997 and 1998 from the A Chau Egretry in Starling Inlet, Hong Kong, China, showed that shallow coastal waters were the major feeding habitat of Great and Little egrets, whose habitat use greatly overlapped. Black-crowned Night Herons, the dominant breeders in the colony, preferred mangroves and fishponds, while Cattle Egrets made most use of freshwater marsh and abandoned paddy fields. Cattle Egrets showed the highest use of feeding habitats outside the Inlet. In both years, Cattle Egrets made the longest median flights at both high and low tides. Black-crowned Night Herons made the shortest flights at high tide in both years while Great Egrets and Black-crowned Night Herons flew the shortest distance at low tide in 1997 and 1998, respectively. In both years, Great and Little egrets flew farther at high tide, when nearby shallow waters were too deep for feeding. Foraging flight distances varied significantly between years only for Cattle Egrets. More Black-crowned Night Herons and Cattle Egrets were involved in group flights. The feeding habitats in Starling Inlet supported far more breeding ardeids than expected for their area, probably because of their high productivity. The short foraging flight distances of Black-crowned Night Herons may reduce foraging costs and help explain the dominance of this species in the colony. Conservation of all wetland feeding habitats in Starling Inlet will be necessary to maintain the present size and diversity of nesting ardeid populations.
10.2307/1522120| Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) are sensitive indicators of change in Antarctic marine and terrestrial habitats, and have been intensively monitored as part of international efforts to understand the role of apex predators in the Southern Oceans. Among the key variables annually assessed by these monitoring programs are measures of population change which are typically obtained with ground and aerial censuses. Aerial censuses, however, are expensive and logistically complex, while the accuracy of ground censuses tends to decrease as colony size increases, especially in complex landscapes where high relief may block sections of the colony from the observer's view. Here we describe the use of kites equipped with remote-controlled cameras to census Adlie Penguin colonies at Palmer Station, a research site in the western Antarctic Peninsula region. We suggest that this method, which produced excellent results, may bridge an important gap between ground and aerial censuses, offering the opportunity to obtain better data for large or difficult to census colonies at a fraction of the cost of aerial surveys. 
10.2307/1522121| Over a period of four years, nineteen adult Humboldt Penguins (Spheniscus humboldti) banded at a colony on Islote Pjaro Nino near Algarrobo, Chile were recovered or sighted at locations away from the colony. Eighteen birds were found dead, and one bird was sighted alive at another breeding colony. Eight of the penguins were found entangled in fishing nets, while the circumstances of death for the other ten birds were unknown. Dead birds were found three km to 592 km from Algarrobo. The live bird was sighted approximately 88 km north. These data indicate that adult Humboldt Penguins may visit other breeding colonies and corroborate previously published data that Humboldt Penguins may travel long distances from their breeding colony. Our data also indicate that accidental drowning in fishing nets is a cause of mortality in this species. 
10.2307/1522122| This study compared the diurnal and nocturnal behavior of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) at and away from the colony, throughout the reproductive cycle. The study was conducted during 1991 and 1992, at a Ring-billed Gull colony on I'lle de la Couve, in the St. Lawrence Seaway, south of Montral, Qubec. Observations were made between 2200 and 0100 h EST and between 0700 and 1100h EST. Nocturnal observations were made using a light intensifier (60,000). At the colony, the number of copulations observed during the day was similar to that observed at night. However, significantly more copulations were interrupted during the day than at night. Incubation attentiveness was significantly greater during diurnal observations compared to nocturnal observations. This is probably due to the fact that predation was more prevalent at night. Chicks were fed significantly more often during diurnal observations than at night. Nocturnal predators elicited responses typical of diurnal predators, but nocturnal anti-predatory behaviors were less intense and could involve nest abandonment for up to several hours. Away from the colony, gulls were very rarely seen on land at night. Gulls were observed on water at all phases of the breeding cycle during both the day and the night. During the day, gulls were typically observed as singles or pairs on the water, whereas at night the gulls were observed in significantly larger groups (>5000 individuals), especially during the colony settlement/laying period. These large, vocal groups may provide protection from predators, as well as facilitating the formation and maintenance of pair-bonds, and synchronization of pairs within a subcolony. 
10.2307/1522123|Most Northern Hemisphere ducks form pairs on the wintering grounds, and timing of pairing varies considerably among species and populations. Hypotheses to explain variation in pairing chronology utilize sex-specific cost-benefit frameworks. These hypotheses have not been adequately tested, largely because of inadequate sample size of pairing chronologies, especially within the tribe Mergini. Wintering Common (Mergus merganser), Hooded (Lophodytes cucullatus), and Red-breasted mergansers (M. serratus) were observed at several sites in south-west British Columbia to determine pairing chronology. Courtship displays of Hooded Mergansers occurred significantly earlier than those of Red-breasted Mergansers. Hooded Mergansers began to pair in mid-November, Red-breasted Mergansers in early February, and Common Mergansers in late February. We tested the prediction that the largest species of ducks pair earliest. This could occur if females derive energetic benefits as a result of pairing, and females of larger species begin to accumulate endogenous nutrients earlier. It could also occur if pairing exerts an energetic cost on males, such that males of smaller species are more prone to winter mortality as a result of fluctuations in energy demand. The much earlier pairing of the smallest species (Hooded Mergansers) is inconsistent with either scenario. We suggest that between-species differences in pairing chronology may be better explained by the constraints imposed by sexual segregation during winter.
10.2307/1522124| The fauna of Chile's Sala y Gomez island (2628S, 10521W) is not well known because of the island's remote location, small size, and low profile. Previous literature about the bird life of this island consists of one report based on two visits of less than three hours duration, listing 11 species of seabirds, of which seven were observed breeding. The authors of the present study remained on the island for six days, during which time we observed 14 species of birds, ten of which were nesting. Both species richness and abundance were greater than reported previously. Sala y Gomez Island has significant breeding colonies of Blue-gray Noddy (Procelsterna cerulea) and Christmas Shearwater (Puffinus nativitatis). Also we recorded for the first time nesting by small numbers of Redbilled Tropicbirds (Phaethon aethereus) and White Terns (Gygis alba). /// La fauna que habita en la isla Sala y Gomez (2628S, 10521W), Chile, es escasamente conocida debido a lo remoto de esta isla, su pequeo tamao y baja altitud. Sobre sus aves slo existe un reporte que da cuenta de dos visitas de menos de tres hr de duracin. Esta nota describe la presencia de 11 especies de aves marinas, siete de ellas nidificantes. Durante nuestro estudio nosotros permanecimos seis das en la isla, registrando 14 especies de aves, con 11 especies nidificantes. Tanto la riqueza, como las abundancias registradas por nosotros fueron mayores a las mencionadas por el reporte anterior. La isla Sala y Gomez posee importantes poblaciones reproductivas de Procelsterna cerulea y Puffinus nativitatis. Ademas en ella nidifican Nesofregetta fuliginosa, Sula dactylatra, Phaethon rubricauda, Anous stolidus y Sterna fuscata. Adems registramos por primera vez la nidificacin de Phaethon aethereus y Gygis alba, pero en bajo nmero. 
10.2307/1522125|Complex foraging skills may be acquired slowly and may therefore improve with age and experience. This note compares foraging proficiency of adult Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) to that of juveniles aged eight to ten weeks (still being fed by parents) at a pre-migratory staging area located on Nantucket Island, MA, USA. Adults used high plunge dives exclusively, while juveniles used four different dive types. Adults were statistically superior foragers. Juveniles had a lower capture rate (0.27 prey captures/min) and were less successful (0.15 prey captures/attempt) than adults (0.98 prey captures/min; 0.52 prey captures/attempt). These data are discussed in light of extended parental care in Roseate Terns.
10.2307/1522126| The diving behavior of ten adult Rock Shags (Phalacrocorax magellanicus) foraging at Punta Loma, Patagonia, Argentina was studied, using radiotransmitters deployed during two chick-rearing periods. Shags dived continuously during foraging trips, spending 75% of their time at sea underwater. Mean dive duration was 47  14 sec while mean subsequent surface interval was 146 sec (N = 11,212 dives). During both seasons, there was a weak linear relationship between dive duration and recovery time. Only four of the birds showed a positive and significant linear function between these diving parameters. Rocovery time at the surface was independent of the previous dive time only during low tides. Dive efficiency (dive time/recovery time) was the highest reported for a foot-propelled diver (mean = 3.7 and 4.2 for 1996 and 1997, respectively). Food resources located in shallow waters at Punta Loma allowed the shags to optimize their searching period underwater by decreasing the energetic costs associated with diving. 
10.2307/1522127|We report a hitherto undescribed foraging mode for Royal Spoonbills (Platalea regia) in Indonesian New Guinea. The "Row and Circle" maneuver was employed by a flock of 70-80 birds.
10.2307/1522128|Four styles of artificial nesting platforms were tested at a Red-footed boody (Sula sula) colony at the Marine Corps base at Kaneohe Bay, Island of O'ahu, Hawai'i to determine the most appropriate platforms to supplement nesting trees lost to wild fires on an artillery range where the boobies nest. The platform that most closely resembled trees were preferred.
10.2307/1522129|Data on age correlation between members of breeding pairs of the European White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) were collected during a long-term study (20 years) of this species in western France. Data from 43 pairs of known age indicated significant age correlation between mates. We tested if the age correlation could be explained by nonrandom mate selection with respect to age or experience or by factors linked to the life-history traits of that species. However, when mate changes occurred, White Storks did not choose their new mate according to experience. Consequently, the correlation between ages of mates is not achieved by nonrandom mate selection with respect to age or experience. Possible causes leading to the observed age correlation are discussed.
4641104|We studied the feeding ecology of Kittlitz's (Brachyramphus brevirostris) and Marbled (B. marmoratus) murrelets in Prince William Sound, Alaska, during 1996-1998 in relation to environmental characteristics and other attributes (e.g., time of day, season). The proportion of feeding Kittlitz's Murrelets was significantly affected by survey type, season, year, habitat type, ice cover, distance from shore, water depth, and shoreline substrate. The proportion of feeding Marbled Murrelets was significantly affected by survey type, time of day, year, habitat type, ice cover, sea-surface temperature and salinity, distance from freshwater input, distance from shore, water depth, and shoreline substrate. Both species primarily ate the common forage fishes that occurred in these glaciated fjords, except in early summer, when it appears that they forage extensively on pelagic invertebrates. Prey species and mean sizes of fishes eaten, occurrence in mixed-species feeding flocks, and dive times were similar between species. Thus, the two species exhibit extensive ecological overlap in feeding during summer.
4641105| We subjected nesting Black Terns (Chlidonias niger) to one of four protocols that varied in intensity of disturbance at Horicon National Wildlife Refuge, Wisconsin, in 1999. We also evaluated the efficacy of nest enclosures for obtaining reliable estimates of reproductive success for this population. We found no differences in either hatching success or fledging success among the four treatment groups. None of the 23 adults trapped on nests permanently deserted its clutch, although adults trapped before seven days of incubation generally took much longer to return to the vicinity of the nest site than did adults trapped during the latter part of incubation. The estimated range of productivity for nests that hatched one egg and were enclosed with fencing (1.56-2.25 fledglings/nest) fell within the range for nests not enclosed (1.30-2.45) and compares favorably to other estimates for this species. Although 47% of 64 nests failed to hatch chicks, most failures were attributed to inclement weather and predation. Our results indicate that intensive study of Black Terns, which involves trapping, banding and repeated nest visitations, can be conducted without detrimental impacts on reproductive success. We provide some recommendations and protocols for future work with this species. 
4641106|We studied the post-nesting site use of Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) females in the northern Baltic. We compared the dispersal pattern of lone females tending young, multi-female tenders and failed female nesters without young. We also examined if females from the same colony used the same sites and if the sites of birds from neighboring colonies were segregated. Primary movements, the distance from the nesting site to the first observation site, were similar in length irrespective of female breeding status or colony. Secondary movements, the median distance moved from the first observation onwards, tended to be shorter among lone tenders than females without young. Female home ranges were similar, irrespective of breeding status or time of the breeding season, but were smaller in the outer study area than in the innermost eider colony. Blue mussels (Mytilus edulis) were more abundant in the outer area, so food resources may influence home range size. Home range size correlated positively with the number of ducklings in broods, indicating that large broods need more food and also a larger feeding area. Females from the same colony were significantly aggregated to the same sites close (< one km) to their nesting island. A long-distance nest exodus after hatch was absent, compulsory for eider populations with separate nesting and feeding sites. The sites of neighboring colonies were essentially spatially separated. This may be due to females moving to the nearest available feeding site, or it may result from mutual avoidance or aggression between females from different colonies. Our results indicate that familiarity with post-nesting feeding sites may be advantageous during brood-rearing. Because multi-female tenders may originate from the same island, kin selection or reciprocity might affect post-hatch brood amalgamation behavior.
4641107|Young American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorynchus) were marked with dyes (for two years) and patagial tags (for four years) just before they fledged from three breeding colonies in California and Nevada. This was done to identify movements and areas used by pelicans in an investigation of pesticide-related mortality of the birds in the west. Dyes on feathers disappeared after four months, while tags remained on birds for up to one year or more. Dispersal from the three colonies varied among colonies and years. Most dyed birds from Anaho Island moved into the central valley of California in 1963, but most remained in the Western Great Basin in the fall of 1964. In 1963 and 1964, some dyed juveniles from Lower Klamath Lake and Clear Lake dispersed into California, but others moved into the Snake River Plain and the Great Salt Lake. Most sightings of juveniles tagged between 1967 and 1970 were reported near breeding colonies and from the San Joaquin Valley, the Pacific Coast, Southern California, and Mexico. Results identified the relative use of specific wetlands by pelicans from colonies and suggested movements in some years were influenced by weather and habitat conditions.
4641108|The purpose of this study was to examine recent trends in cormorant wintering populations and their economic impact in the delta region of Mississippi and to examine the response of these populations to management efforts directed at reducing their predation on channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus). We monitored Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) populations in the delta region of Mississippi through the use of midwinter ground counts and aerial surveys during the winters of 1995-96 through 1998-99 and surveyed the reported take of cormorants by catfish farmers in the region under the recently-enacted Cormorant Depredation Order. This order issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in March, 1998 allowed catfish farmers in the region to kill unlimited numbers of cormorants seen causing depredations at their farms. Despite roost dispersal programs and continued harassment of birds at farms, cormorant populations have significantly increased and based on ground counts have doubled from approximately 32,000 birds to more than 64,000 birds between 1995 and 1999. Mid-winter ground counts and aerial counts were highly correlated and the best linear prediction of ground counts (Y) from aerial counts (b) took the form Y= 1.55 b, (Y-intercept = 0). Roost dispersal programs continue to have the desired effect of shifting birds away from areas of highest catfish concentration, but these effects are temporary at best. However, without such programs, the impact of cormorant depredations on the catfish industry in 1997-98 and 1999-98 probably would have more than doubled compared to previous years. Catfish farmers in the delta region of Mississippi reported taking more cormorants under the Cormorant Depredation Order than previously reported under past depredation permits issued to individual farmers. The reported take of at least 9,557 birds by Mississippi catfish farmers had no apparent impacts on wintering populations during 1998-99. Further monitoring of cormorant wintering populations over more of their wintering range is recommended.
4641109|Published accounts of interspecific differences in habitat use by waterbirds predict that shallow wetlands should accommodate more species and greater numbers of waterbirds than deep wetlands. We evaluated this hypothesis by examining relationships between winter (January/February) waterbird use (presence/absence, density and number of species) and average depth, variation in depth and size of 25 wetlands in the northern San Joaquin Valley, California. Bird densities correlated consistently with depth. Likelihood of use increased in shallow wetlands for all nine wading birds (shorebirds and ibis); densities of three dabbling duck species and Black-necked Stilt (Himantopus mexicanus) also increased in shallow wetlands, whereas use and densities of two diving birds increased in deep wetlands. We observed no statistically significant relationship between depth and densities of two other waterbird species. The number of species of waterbird, dabbling duck, and wading bird increased in shallow wetlands, whereas the number of species of diving bird increased in deep wetlands. Wetland size and topographic variation inconsistently predicted waterbird densities, but both characteristics correlated positively with number of species. Our results provide general support for shallow flooding of wetlands to provide habitat for more species. We conclude that managers seeking to provide foraging habitat for a diverse community of wintering waterbirds should flood wetlands to average depths of 10-20 cm, where topography can provide a range of depths attractive to a large number of species. However, this prescription is region-specific and influenced by the great diversity and abundance of waterfowl and shorebirds wintering in California's Central Valley.
4641110|Aquatic hazing devices recently have been developed as a possible means of deterring waterbirds from oil spills, thereby reducing casualties. However, the effectiveness of these devices has not been examined with rigorous statistical tests. We conducted a study in the San Francisco Bay estuary to develop a design for testing the effectiveness of an aquatic hazing device on waterbirds in open water. Transects marked with poles at 100-m intervals up to 800 m from the hazing device were established at two sites separated by three km in the north bay. Alternating two-day test and control periods were conducted at each site. Observers in over-water blinds counted the number, species and behavior (swimming, diving, or preening) of birds on transects each day. Aerial surveys of birds within four km of the device were conducted at the beginning of each test. For both aerial and ground surveys, a three-way mixed model analysis of variance test was used to examine trial, distance from the device, and treatment (device on or off) fixed effects, and site as a random effect on numbers of Greater and Lesser scaup (Aythya affinis and A. marila), Surf Scoter (Melanitta perspicillata), and all other waterbirds. We could not detect a significant deterrent effect of the hazing device in either aerial surveys of all ducks or scaup (all ducks,
4641111|Foraging habitat use by Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) during the breeding season was studied for three coastal colonies during a drought year and compared to habitat use during normal rainfall years. Information on the distribution of wetland habitat types was derived using U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetland Inventory (NWI) data within a Geographic Information System (GIS). Foraging locations were obtained by following storks from their colonies in a fixed-winged aircraft. Differences in hydrologic condition and, the resulting prey availability in coastal zone freshwater wetlands greatly affected foraging habitat use and breeding success of the three stork colonies. In 1997 (dry), although the foraging range of each colony did not differ from wetter years, storks used estuarine foraging habitats much more extensively. Breeding success (fledged young/nest) in 1997 was less than half the success of the wetter years. Palustrine (freshwater) wetlands seem very important to storks breeding along the Georgia coast. During dry years, estuarine wetlands, by themselves, do not appear to be able to support the breeding population of storks in this region. Reasons why these productive wetlands do not provide sufficient resources for successful breeding are unclear, but could include limitations to only two foraging periods (low tides) in a 24-hr period.
4641112|Nest site characteristics were studied in five Audouin's Gull (Larus audouinii) colonies breeding on small rocky islands in the Aegean Sea, eastern Mediterranean. Although rocks and vegetation constituted the habitat of Audouin's Gulls, there were many intercolony differences in the use of these habitat features, especially those related to vegetation. Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) indicated that vegetation parameters effectively identified habitat variables at nests. Different habitat variables discriminated between nest and random quadrats in three colonies. Percent rock cover around nests varied. The gulls nested relatively far from the available protruding rocks without a tendency to nest near rock crevices and, in two colonies, rock height had no relation with nest placement. In two of three of the colonies, gulls nested farther from vegetation, in lower vegetation, and in one colony percent vegetation cover at nests was higher than that generally available. Differences in vegetation types on each island partly accounted for such differences. Bushy plants seemed to be more important for the protection of larger chicks, rather than for nest sites, whereas the halophyte Limonium vulgare was mostly used for egg support.
4641113|We report on the first deployment of satellite transmitters in large alcids. In 1995 and 1996, we surgically implanted 51 transmitters in Common and Thick-billed murres (Uria aalge and U. lomvia) and Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) at three colonies in Alaska. These devices furnished more than 2,900 locations over succeeding months (eight months maximum transmitter life), some 30-40% of which had calculated errors of <1,000 m. We considered other data to be reliable if locations were repetitive within a short period of time. As measures of data collection efficiency, we calculated location indices (number of locations per hour of transmission) of 0.44 during the breeding season and 0.35 overall. Those values compared favorably with satellite transmitters previously deployed on large mammals at similar latitudes. Transmitters did not last as long as expected because lithium batteries tended to self-discharge when kept at the high internal temperature of a bird. Most importantly, we encountered high mortality of instrumented birds, especially in the interval from 11-20 days after release. Our results suggest that radio transmission itself somehow impaired normal feeding behavior or otherwise compromised the birds' health. Those two problems (battery life and bird mortality) will need to be solved before implantable devices can be applied effectively to the same or similar species in the future.
4641114|From July 1993 until November 1998 the authors studied the distribution, abundance and habitat association patterns of four grebes species, White-tufted Grebe (Rollandia rolland); the Silver Grebe (Podiceps occipi-talis), the Great Grebe, (Podiceps major), and the Pied-billed Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps), in a wetland of the Mediterranean zone of Chile. Possible relationships between these patterns and increased precipitation associated with El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) were also studied. The study was carried out in four wetland habitats over the 47 months. The results showed a positive correlation between the spring average abundance of these species and total rainfall in the previous year. Grebe populations increased in the summer of the year of the ENSO event and peaked in the spring of the post-ENSO year. The patterns of habitat association did not change with the quantity of rainfall. In general, the four species were associated mostly with seasonal habitats, which are deep and hold abundant emergent vegetation. The Silver Grebe uses this kind of habitat to establish breeding colonies only during ENSO and post-ENSO years.
4641115| From May 1996 to June 1998, we studied the feeding ecology of Peruvian (Sula variegata), Blue-footed (S. nebouxii) and Masked boobies (S. dactylatra) on Lobos de Tierra Island, at the northern edge of the Peruvian Upwelling System. During this period, changing oceanographic conditions affected prey availability: 1996 was cold and 1997-1998 was an El Nio event. The three species showed different responses to changes in the surrounding marine environment. Peruvian Boobies fed exclusively on Peruvian anchovies (Engraulis ringens) during both 1996 and 1997 and were not present on the island in 1998. Blue-footed and Masked boobies fed extensively on this prey during 1996, less so in 1997, and no anchovies were found in their diet in 1998. In 1997-1998, Blue-footed Boobies switched to coastal fishes other than anchovies, and Masked Boobies fed almost exclusively on oceanic prey species. Changes in regurgitate mass and mean number of prey items in regurgitates were also observed. Results suggest that the abundance and availability of fish prey species, mainly Peruvian anchovies, determines thresholds at which booby species change foraging strategies to avoid possible competition for less available resources. 
4641116|From February to June 1996, we observed breeding numbers, chronology, nest characteristics, and productivity of Yellow-footed Gulls (Larus livens) on and near Isla del Carmen, Baja California Sur, Mexico. Of 124 active nests on Isla del Carmen, 75.8% were single or in groups of ten nests. Most nests observed were 1.5-10 m above high tide line on top of bare rock. Distance to the nearest neighbors' nest varied from one m to 50 m (
4641117|I observed two mixed clutches between scaup (Aythya spp.) and Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis). In the first, one Ring-billed Gull egg was found in a scaup nest with eight scaup eggs and in the second, a single scaup egg was found in the nest of a Ring-billed Gull, with three gull eggs. These incidents could represent parasitism, accidental laying, or usurpation of nests. The observations reported here and other unusual behavior recorded in waterfowl literature appear to result from similar circumstances which include: high densities of nesting birds on islands; a tendency for waterfowl to nest in association with larids; and perhaps competition for nest sites in proximity to colonial-nesting species.
4641118| I studied the effect of brood size and hatching date on the age at which the chicks are left alone and begin to form creches in the Chinstrap Penguin (Pygoscelis antarctica). Chicks from one-chick broods were significantly older at creching than either oldest or youngest chicks in two-chick broods, suggesting that provisioning ability may be involved in determining the onset of the crche period. This difference was more marked early in the season, suggesting time restrictions for late breeders. 
4641119|Live-capturing chicks of asynchronously-hatching nidifugous waterbirds to obtain blood for DNA analysis can be difficult and disruptive. To avoid disturbance of broods during this sensitive period, we obtained samples from vessels attached to the shell membrane of Red-necked Grebe (Podiceps grisegena) eggs during mid-incubation. We detail our field protocol for this procedure, which included: (1) locating an appropriate blood vessel, (2) cutting a window in the shell, (3) extracting blood through the shell membrane, and (4) sealing the window with wax. Of the 20 eggs from which blood had been drawn, 18 hatched successfully.
4641120| We studied the diet of the South American Tern (Sterna hirundinacea) by the analysis of 389 regurgitated casts collected at different localities from Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Fishes were by far the main prey (occurrence, F = 100%), followed by crustaceans (Decapoda, F = 8%) and insects (Coleoptera, F = 7%). Eight fish species were identified. Argentine anchovy {Engraulis anchoita) was the most frequent fish (65%) and important, both by number (45%) and mass (83%). Both number of fish and species found in pellets varied with the sampling locality. The average size of fish prey was 92.0  32.8 mm. The size of prey increased from northern to southern localities. The mean estimated mass of casts was 21.3  14.2 g, with a maximum value of 98.4 g. 
4641136| Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea diomedea) survival rates were analyzed by means of capture histories of a small population of breeding birds banded from 1988 to 1998 in two caves on the Tremiti Islands, South Italy, to test the hypothesis that El Nio has a negative effect on Cory's survival rates. We tested the hypothesis of a relationship between Cory's survival rates and the ENSO cycle, modeling the survival and recapture probabilities by means of the program SURGE. After allowing for temporal variation in capture probabilities, we found that the variation of survival rates during our study period was in accordance with the ENSO cycle. We found no evidence of a negative effect of the warm episodes (El Nio) on the survival rates of Cory's Shearwater; instead, a lowering of survival rates were detected in connection with the cold episodes (La Nia). The main effect of La Nia over the range of GCory's Shearwater is cooler and wetter conditions along the Atlantic coasts and in South Africa, where the birds winter, but La Nia conditions may also strengthen the Atlantic hurricane season. We then constrained the survival rate by the number of intense hurricane days, producing a second, better-fitted model. The effects of the greater numbers of Atlantic hurricanes and storms may be a possible explanation of the lowering of Cory's survival rate observed during La Nia years. 
4641137|Many shorebirds show elaborate breeding displays that include aerial flights and ground displays accompanied by song. The mate attraction hypothesis suggests that breeding displays function to attract mates and maintain pair bonds, whereas the territory defense hypothesis suggests breeding displays function in defining and defending nesting and feeding territories. We tested these hypotheses in the Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri) by contrasting the duration and level of male breeding displays among pairs that differed in their mate and site fidelity. As predicted by the mate attraction hypothesis, males performed the highest number of song sequences during pair formation, and males paired with their mate of a prior year sang less than males paired to new mates. Further, sitefaithful males mated to a new but experienced mate displayed significantly more than remated males or males new to the area. This suggests a male's prior familiarity with an area and his neighbors does not lessen his display rate as was predicted under the territory defense hypothesis. Limited support for the territory defense hypothesis came from observations of males performing breeding displays with neighboring males along nest territory boundaries. This behavior was short-lived, however, as males abandoned nesting areas after pair-formation and used adjacent or disjointed feeding areas during egg-laying and incubation. Male aggression (i.e., aerial and ground chases), as opposed to breeding displays, appeared to be the principal means of maintaining territory boundaries. Indeed, the rate at which males chased other males remained fairly constant and high throughout the breeding season. Male chasing behavior may also serve as a paternity guard to protect against extra-pair copulations. Our study also found that a female's prior breeding experience in an area correlated with a reduced display rate by her mate, particularly if that mate was new to the area. This indicates female characteristics may not only drive nest initiation, as has been shown in other studies, but are important in determining the duration and extent of male display.
4641138|We salvaged dead birds from high seas driftnets in the Central North Pacific Ocean during a study of the impact of high seas driftnet fishing on marine ecosystems. Digestive tract contents and stable isotopes of nitrogen and carbon in breast muscles of these birds were analyzed to assess the effect of driftnets on the trophic relationships of marine birds. The diets of Sooty (Puffinus griseus) and Short-tailed (P. tenuirostris) Shearwaters associated with high seas driftnets in the transitional region of the North Pacific Ocean overlap broadly. The principal differences between them include 1) Sooties prey more heavily on immature stages of invertebrates, especially the barnacle Lepasfascicularis than do Short-tails, 2) Pacific saury (Cololabis saira) are the primary fish taken by Sooties while lanternfish (Myctophidae) are the primary fish taken by Short-tails, and 3) Sooties take a wider variety of prey than do Short-tails. During the last years of extensive high seas driftnet fishing (early 1990's), both shearwaters augmented their diets with about 15% offal and discards from fishing vessels. Values for stable isotopes of nitrogen and carbon in breast muscle tissues (
4641139|Cattle Egrets probably established the first breeding colonies in the coastal area of Texas between 1954-1959. The first nests were recorded in Galveston Bay on the upper coast in 1959 and probable breeding birds were also seen on the lower coast and in southeast Texas. Between 1959-1968, they had breeding colonies in coastal and southeast and northeast inland areas. From these nuclear areas, they radiated (1969-1975) until most of the coast and eastern area of Texas was colonized (1976-1999). Between 1987-1999, small scattered colonies have been established in west Texas. Range expansion and colonization were uniformly linear. Population growth was logistic with an upper asymptote reached about 1979. Apparently, there is an annual influx of immigrant breeding birds from Mexico or Central America. The limiting factor to population growth appears to be the availability of nest-sites within heronries established by native colonial herons and egrets. Received 6 October 1999, accepted 24 December 1999.
4641140|A common wetland management objective is to provide habitat for a diverse assemblage of species, which requires data on interspecific differences in habitat use. Consequently, we studied habitat use by ten waterbird taxa (four dabbling ducks and six shorebirds) foraging in managed, seasonal wetlands in the northern San Joaquin Valley, California during late winter and early spring of 1994 and 1995. A MANOVA analysis detected strong interspecific differences in habitat use, with water depth explaining 86% of differences among taxa in a discriminant function analysis. ANOVA identified four groups based on similarities in use of water depth: 1) small shorebirds (<5 cm); 2) large shorebirds (5-11 cm); 3) teal (10-15 cm); and large dabbling ducks (>20 cm). Among these groups, variation in water depth at foraging locations increased with size, suggesting that water depth constrained foraging by shorebirds and teal more than larger waterfowl. In California's Central Valley, where large numbers of shorebirds and waterfowl winter, our findings suggest that managers can provide habitat for shorebirds and waterfowl by reducing the average depth to which habitats are flooded, especially during winter when deep-water habitat is abundant. Within a wetland complex or an individual wetland, this prescription will yield greatest diversity of water depth, and, hence, bird use in wetlands characterized by variable bottom topography.
4641141|We studied breeding Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) in Prince William Sound, Alaska in 1998 to assess whether these birds have recovered from previously identified effects of the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill. We collected data on nesting distribution, nesting effort and success, and chick development and survival. We compared among-year differences in distribution and abundance of breeding pairs using data collected by other investigators from 1989-1993 and conducted within-year comparisons that contrasted previously oiled and unoiled sites at two scales: regional and territorial. We found no oiling effects for nesting effort, breeding phenology, egg volumes, chick growth rates, and chick survival. Only nesting success showed an apparent oiling effect at the regional scale. Nest predation appeared to be the dominant force influencing nesting success in 1998, but regional differences in predation rates probably were unrelated to the oil spill. We concluded that oiling from the Exxon Valdez oil spill did not negatively affect breeding oystercatchers in 1998 and that this population largely has recovered from the effects of the spill.
4641142|The feeding ecology of Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) in the Deep Bay Ramsar Site and Starling Inlet mudflats of Hong Kong was studied from October 1996 to October 1997. The feeding behavior of thirty birds on each mudflat was observed once a month and the densities of mudskippers (Boleophthalmus pectinirostris and Scartelaos viridis), crabs (Macrophthalmus sp. and Grapsidae), nereid worms (Nereidae) and other benthic invertebrates were estimated. Birds in Deep Bay had a higher feeding rate, capture success and strike rate than those in Starling Inlet. Birds in Deep Bay mainly fed on benthic invertebrates, while those in Starling Inlet fed on gobies (Mugilogobius piapensis) and shrimps (Exopalamon styliferus). Nereid worms were only taken by birds in Deep Bay, even though the densities of nereid worms, mudskippers and crabs in Starling Inlet were higher. Although feeding behavior differed between the two mudflats, the estimated energy intake rate was similar. Feeding on exposed mudflats alone cannot meet the Little Egrets' daily energetic requirements, but this habitat provides predictable food resources, such as nereid worms and gobies. The differences in feeding behavior were mainly due to differences in prey composition and behavior. Factors such as the hydrological regime and degree of organic enrichment may influence prey availability for the birds and thus may indirectly contribute to the differences in behavior. We suggest that energy intake rate should be considered when assessing the relative importance of habitats for wading birds.
4641143|The feeding activity and behavior of Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea) were observed in a tidal flat with reference to habitat type (eelgrass beds and mud flat) and tidal cycle in Notsuke Bay, northern Japan, from April to August in 1997. The number of feeding herons fluctuated between spring and neap tides, as well as low and high tides, and increased from spring to summer, corresponding to food requirements. Herons foraged more efficiently in the eelgrass beds than on the mud flat, and on spring tides than on neap tides. Feeding behavior changed seasonally, corresponding to food abundance and growth condition of the eelgrasses. I conclude that herons dependent on the tidal flat face the risk of food shortages, if they have few alternative non-tidal feeding habitats.
4641144|We present an overview of long-term patterns of population and colony dynamics of four species of colonially nesting herons, in relation to major environmental changes that had occurred in the Camargue, southern France, over the last 30 years. We considered the environmental factors: cold, rain, water levels, salinity and rice surface area, simultaneously within a generalized linear model (GLM) framework. We found no significant association between water levels, rainfall and the number of nests for any species over the study period. Our final model indicates an effect of time (year) on the total number of nests and colonies of Squacco Heron (Ardeola ralloides), Little Egret (Egretta gaizetta), Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) and Black-crowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax), as well as on the number of nests per colony for the last two species. The effect of surface area of rice in the Camargue was significant on the total number of nests of Cattle Egret and on the number of colonies of Little Egret and Squacco Heron. The effect of salinity was significant on the number of nests per colony of Black-crowned Night Heron and Cattle Egret. Our results contrast with some previous studies in that they suggest the importance of local rainfall may not be as important as the influence of other local environmental parameters. Our results were consistent with a previously reported effect of prolonged freezing on the number of Cattle Egrets and Little Egrets, but indicated that this effect is important only during extreme years.
4641145|In 1990, >5 million L. of oil was accidentally discharged into the Arthur Kill, a narrow waterway that separates New York City from NewJersey. This oil had both immediate and long-term effects on the local estuary. It affected reproductive success at a large wading bird colony, caused changes in foraging habitat quality and food availability and may have caused birds to change foraging locations. In 1989, the year before the spills, we made 51 h of observations of foraging flights by wading birds nesting on the Isle of Meadows, a small dredge-spoil island located in the Arthur Kill. In 1998, we made 40 h of flight line observations at this same island colony. Glossy Ibises (Plegadisfalcinellus) showed significant differences between 1989 (pre-spill) and 1998 (post-spill) in flight line patterns; however, flight patterns for piscivorous Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula), Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus) and Blackcrowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) did not differ significantly between these years. In both 1998 and 1999, we made censuses by automobile and boat to locate major feeding sites used by wading birds nesting on the Isle of Meadows, and made >900 feeding observations of Great Egrets and Snowy Egrets. Based on these ground censuses and feeding observations, it appears that birds have returned to once-contaminated estuarine foraging locations, and feeding success has returned to patterns documented before the oil spills.
4641146|Factors influencing initiation of regional and interregional movements by nonbreeding ducks are poorly understood, especially during winter. During winters 1990-1991 through 1992-1993, we radiotagged 347 female Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) in southwestern Louisiana and monitored their movements to three regions: (1) the Gulf Coast Region of Louisiana and Texas (outside of southwestern Louisiana), (2) the Rice Prairie Region of Texas, and (3) the Mississippi Alluvial Valley. We found that adult females were 1.9 times more likely than were immatures to emigrate from southwestern Louisiana during winter. During winters 1990-1991 and 1991-1992, females were more likely to emigrate during stormy than during fair weather, whereas they were more likely to emigrate during fair weather in 1992-1993. Females were more likely to emigrate during duck-hunting seasons than during nonhunting seasons, regardless of weather. Daily emigration probabilities did not differ in relation to body condition when released (body mass adjusted for body size) or to number of previous emigration events. Each winter, large numbers of females consistently moved from the Gulf Coast Region to areas with abundant rice (Oryza sativa) agriculture within the Mississippi Alluvial Valley. We conclude that destination of interregional movements by this population of Northern Pintails is highly predictable, and that initiation of such movements is influenced by female age and long-term winter precipitation patterns in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley. Furthermore, timing of these movements is predictable, based not on calendar date, but rather on duck-hunting seasons and, usually, the environmental cues to habitat availability provided by stormy weather.
4641147|I recorded interspecific agonistic interactions (n = 578) and opportunities for interactions (n = 1,550) of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) during incubation and brood-rearing periods at Lake of the Woods, Minnesota to determine whether interactions (chases, balanced agonistic encounters, fights) were potentially detrimental to Piping Plover reproductive success. Piping Plovers interacted with 16 species, but five (Common Tern [Sterna hirundo], Ring-billed Gull [Larus delawarensis], Spotted Sandpiper [Actitis macularia], Semipalmated Sandpiper [Calidris pusilla], Killdeer [Charadrius vociferus]) accounted for 88.6% of male and 92.7% of female interactions. Interaction opportunities and interactions peaked during the brood-rearing period. Several species (Common Tern, Franklin's Gull [L. pipixcan], Spotted Sandpiper, Semipalmated Sandpiper) posed a low risk of direct negative effects on reproduction, ignoring Piping Plover chicks when they were in close proximity. Piping Plovers responded intensely to three potential predators (Ring-billed Gull, American Crow [Corvus brachyrhynchos], Common Grackle [Quiscalus quiscula]). Killdeers had the highest interaction indexes and under certain circumstances posed a threat of physical harm to Piping Plover adults and chicks. This method of quantifying interactions could be used at other Piping Plover breeding sites to help identify problem species and facilitate development of site-specific management strategies to reduce detrimental aggressive interactions.
4641148|Relatively little is known about the seasonal abundance of migratory shorebirds in southern South America, or about seasonal change in prey density prior to departure of long distance migrants. Regular counts of shorebirds and invertebrates were made from January through June at Peninsula Valdez, Argentina. Red Knot (Calidris canutus) and Hudsonian Godwit (Limosa haemastica) became abundant during a two-month pulse in March and April. Sanderling (Calidris alba) departed earlier, in late March. White-rumped Sandpiper (Calidris fuscicollis) decreased steadily from January through April. During the later part of the austral summer, the density of large (> 3 mm long) invertebrates did not decrease substantially on a beach with high numbers of foraging shorebirds. This contrasts with large decreases at the end of the boreal summer at migratory stopovers at similar latitudes in the northern hemisphere.
4641149|Prevalence of leucism was observed in 3 Pygocelid penguin species from the Antarctic peninsula, including the first report in the literature of this condition in Chinstrap Penguins (P antarcticus). The frequency of occurrence of leucism in the sample we observed was 1:114,000 in Ad61ie Penguins (P adeliae), 1:146,000 in Chinstrap Penguins, and 1:20,000 in Gentoo Penguins (P papua). The frequency of leucism in penguins of the Antarctic Peninsula is consistent with the frequency of recessive albinism observed in other bird species and suggests that leucism survives in part on the Antarctic Peninsula due to survival and successful reproduction of leucistic individuals.
4641150|This paper provides new data on the location and size of Southern Rockhopper Penguin (Eudyptes chrysocome chrysocome) populations at Staten Island, Tierra del Fuego, Argentina, in view of population sizes previously reported for all the subspecies. Surveys were performed mainly during November-December 1998 and 1999. Mean nests were calculated in circular plots of 100 m
4641151| We used radio-telemetry to examine survival of adult female and juvenile Spectacled Eiders (Somateriafischeri) from 30 days after hatch until departure from the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD) during 1997-1999. Juvenile survival was 71.4%; adult female survival was 88.5%. Mink (Mustella vison) were the most common predator identified for both adults and juveniles. Detectable levels of lead were found in bones of 74% ofjuvenile carcasses recovered and 21% had levels indicative of acute exposure. Average age at departure was 59  1 days old forjuveniles and 56  1 days after hatch for adults. Most broods (60.5%) departed the YKD synchronously. Overall our data indicate that mortality during the latter half of brood-rearing is higher than previously thought. We conclude that brood rearing is a period of high mortality for brood-rearing females and that lead poisoning is responsible for reductions in juvenile survival to fledging. 
4641163|This Commentary presents a critique of studies of effects of human disturbance on breeding colonial waterbirds, including a recent review by Carney and Sydeman (1999). It challenges the mind-set that the effects of disturbance are always adverse, and the resulting management principle that disturbance should be minimized. I argue that many studies do not withstand critical scientific scrutiny, and that published papers and reviews systematically overstate the adverse effects of human disturbance. I propose definitions of the terms "disturbance", "habituation" and "tolerance", as well as classifications of types of disturbance and types of effect. Contrary to prevailing opinions, there is little scientifically acceptable evidence that human disturbance causes substantial harm to terns (Sterna spp.), gulls (Larus spp.) or herons (Ardeidae), although it is likely that sporadic incidents of harassment and vandalism are under-reported. Convincing evidence of adverse effects has been presented for several other species and groups of species; most well-documented cases have been early in the nesting cycle and/or mediated by diurnal avian predators. Although there are no formal studies of habituation, many or most colonial waterbirds can become extremely tolerant of repeated human disturbance. I recommend that, where appropriate, waterbird colonies should be managed for multiple uses (including research, education, and recreation) by deliberately promoting habituation. Although many field biologists are careful to investigate the effects of their activities and are successful in minimizing them, others appear insufficiently aware of the potential for harm, so that there is a need for more complete guidelines and better training.
10.2307/1522172|Estimates are presented for the population sizes of 53 species of Nearctic shorebirds occurring regularly in North America, plus four species that breed occasionally. Shorebird population sizes were derived from data obtained by a variety of methods from breeding, migration and wintering areas, and formal assessments of accuracy of counts or estimates are rarely available. Accurate estimates exist only for a few species that have been the subject of detailed investigation, and the likely accuracy of most estimates is considered poor or low. Population estimates range from a few tens to several millions. Overall, population estimates most commonly fell in the range of hundreds of thousands, particularly the low hundreds of thousands; estimated population sizes for large shorebird species currently all fall below 500,000. Population size was inversely related to size (mass) of the species, with a statistically significant negative regression between log (population size) and log (mass). Two outlying groups were evident on the regression graph: one, with populations lower than predicted, included species considered either to be "at risk" or particularly hard to count, and a second, with populations higher than predicted, included two species that are hunted. Population estimates are an integral part of conservation plans being developed for shorebirds in the United States and Canada, and may be used to identify areas of key international and regional importance.
10.2307/1522173|The behavior of Northern Shoveler (Anas clypeata) was studied from September 1996 to March 1997 in four protected areas, one artificial and three nature reserves, in the Marshes of Rochefort, Western France. Shoveler numbers exceeded the Ramsar criterion of international importance (i.e., 400 individuals) during most of the winter. Birds concentrated first at sewage works, showing a diel pattern of foraging depth which could be linked to vertical migrations of crustaceans. Zooplankton density decreased over the winter, leading the Shovelers to abandon the site for natural areas. The two sites which hosted most ducks were those where straining the water surface for zooplankton was the most frequent feeding behavior. At the two other sites, straining was gradually replaced by deeper foraging, possibly because Shovelers at least partially turned to benthic invertebrates. This study suggests that food abundance is of crucial importance for winter habitat selection by Shovelers, and that even the sites with abundant foods in autumn may not be able to sustain large concentrations of Shoveler through an entire winter. Our results support previous studies which highlighted the importance of some artificial wetlands for the conservation of this duck species. Management options that enhance zooplankton production and, in the event of invertebrate crashes, the creation of alternative sites at close distance appear to be highly valuable to wintering Northern Shoveler populations.
10.2307/1522174|We examined effects of season, time of day, tide stage, tidal oscillation, and sea surface temperature on Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) abundance and distribution at sea. We also evaluated whether constraining surveys to specific time periods or tide stages would reduce temporal variability in counts. Murrelets were surveyed daily from small boats and from shore in Auke Bay and Fritz Cove, Alaska, from May through August in 1992 and 1993. Murrelet numbers were high before egg-laying, declined by more than half during egg-laying and incubation and were highly variable during chick-rearing and fledging. Murrelet numbers were highest in early and late morning and declined throughout the day, sometimes increasing slightly in the evening. Peak murrelet numbers occurred on high or falling morning tides, especially in shallow areas where Pacific sand lance (Ammodytes hexapterus) were abundant. Differences between years in murrelet abundance and breeding phenology probably resulted from interannual differences in the pattern of seasonal warming and subsequent effects on production at lower trophic levels. We recommend that surveys for trends in abundance in Southeast Alaska be conducted in early morning, in June, at high or falling tides. Power analyses indicated that surveys conducted in this manner would minimize the number of years required to detect a significant change in abundance.
10.2307/1522175| We monitored radio-marked female American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) and Mallards (A. platyrhynchos) in agricultural landscapes of southern Qubec in 1994-1996 to characterize nesting habitat, and to compare nesting success and female survival rates. In early spring, when nesting cover is almost non-existent in agricultural fields, both species avoid fields for nesting. These habitats are rather used later in cases of renesting. Both species selected recent wood cuts and edge-transition habitats (abandoned farmland, hedgerows and riparian areas) as nesting habitat. Median nest initiation date, clutch size, and nest success rates did not differ between the two species. Especially high Black Duck nesting success (100%) in peatlands underlines the importance of these habitats. When peatland nests are excluded to provide a better indication of what prevails in typical agricultural landscapes, nesting effort of female Mallards is almost twice that of Black Ducks. Survival rates of females were similar for both species, both during laying and post-laying periods. 
10.2307/1522176|The breeding range of the Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia) covers large parts of six geographic regions in North America. We obtained data from individuals who monitor colonial waterbirds to determine current status and distribution of the Caspian Tern in the U.S., Canada and Mexico and to report regional population trends. We estimate 32,000-34,000 pairs nested in North America from the late 1980s to 1998. The species' breeding range is expanding along the Pacific coast and in central Canada. Over the last three decades numbers of breeding pairs have significantly increased in the Great Lakes, central Canada, and along the Gulf and Pacific coasts; the Atlantic coast is the only region where significant decline has occurred. On the Pacific and Gulf coasts, large numbers of Caspians utilize artificial habitat (e.g., dredge spoil islands, salt dikes and levees, landfills, artificial lakes). Changes in food supply may be at least partly responsible for population increases in the Great Lakes, on the Pacific coast, and in central Canada in Manitoba. Other factors that may contribute to increases include creation of artificial habitat that Caspian Terns find attractive for nesting, and legislation that protects Caspian Terns and their habitat.
10.2307/1522177|We sexed adult Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) using DNA-based genetic techniques, behavior and morphology and compared results from these techniques. Genetic and morphology data were collected on 605 breeding kittiwakes and sex-specific behaviors were recorded for a sub-sample of 285 of these individuals. We compared sex classification based on both genetic and behavioral techniques for this sub-sample to assess the accuracy of the genetic technique. DNA-based techniques correctly sexed 97.2% and sex-specific behaviors, 96.5% of this sub-sample. We used the corrected genetic classifications from this sub-sample and the genetic classifications for the remaining birds, under the assumption they were correct, to develop predictive morphometric discriminant function models for all 605 birds. These models accurately predicted the sex of 73-96% of individuals examined, depending on the sample of birds used and the characters included. The most accurate single measurement for determining sex was length of head plus bill, which correctly classified 88% of individuals tested. When both members of a pair were measured, classification levels improved and approached the accuracy of both behavioral observations and genetic analyses. Morphometric techniques were only slightly less accurate than genetic techniques but were easier to implement in the field and less costly. Behavioral observations, while highly accurate, required that birds be easily observable during the breeding season and that birds be identifiable. As such, sex-specific behaviors may best be applied as a confirmation of sex for previously marked birds. All three techniques thus have the potential to be highly accurate, and the selection of one or more will depend on the circumstances of any particular field study.
10.2307/1522178| Analysis of Christmas Bird Count (CBC) data for the Honolulu, HI area showed a population which dropped following the strong 1982-1983 ENSO (El Nio Southern Oscillation) to 4% of its pre-ENSO value for Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) and to 35% for Red-footed Boobies (Sula sula). The time for the populations to regain their pre-ENSO values was over a decade. CBC data for the Farallon Islands, CA shows a less striking but still significant decrease in populations of Brandt's Cormorants (Phalacrocorax penicillatus), Pelagic Cormorants (P. pelagicus), and Common Murres (Uria aalge) following the 1982-1983 ENSO. Both the Hawaii and Farrallon Islands data exhibit longer term correlations with the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO). Populations are suppressed during the warm phase of the PDO. CBC data for some California and Oregon coastal areas showed some weaker indications of an ENSO effect for the latter three species but little indication of a PDO effect. 
10.2307/1522179|We evaluated variation in densities of Barrow's Goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica) during winter at 214 sites within oiled and unoiled study areas in Prince William Sound, Alaska in relation to physical habitat attributes, prey biomass, and history of habitat contamination by the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill. Using general linear model analyses, we found that goldeneye densities were positively associated with occurrence of a stream within 200 m, lack of exposure to wind and waves, and mixed (versus rocky) substrate. We speculate that these associations relate to habitat profitability via selection of beneficial attributes and avoidance of detrimental features. We also determined that biomass of blue mussels (Mytilus trossulus), the primary prey, was not related to Barrow's Goldeneye densities; we suggest that mussel standing stock exceeds predation demands in our study areas and, thus, does not dictate goldeneye distribution. After accounting for habitat effects, we detected no effect of history of oil contamination on Barrow's Goldeneye densities, suggesting that populations have recovered from the oil spill. Although other studies documented hydrocarbon exposure in Barrow's Goldeneyes through at least 1997, either the level of exposure did not affect populations via reductions in survival, or effects of oil exposure were offset by immigration.
10.2307/1522180|From 1990-1997, we observed food deliveries to Common (Sterna hirundo) and Arctic (S. paradisaea) tern chicks in the Gulf of Maine; deliveries were observed at four Common Tern colonies from 1991-1997 and at three Arctic Tern colonies from 1990-1997. Dietary overlap was high, 0.812. Fish comprised over 96% of the prey delivered (frequency) to Common Tern chicks. In contrast, Arctic Tern chicks were fed a diet consisting of 65% fish and 35% invertebrates. Although the two terns fed different proportions of fish, both species relied heavily on white hake (Urophycis tenuis), Four-bearded rockling (Enchelyopus cimbrius) and Atlantic herring (Clupea harengus). American sand lance (Ammodytes americanus) was an important prey for Common Terns at one island. Overall, Common Terns fed their young a greater diversity of prey than did Arctic Terns. We found significant inter-annual and inter-colony differences in the diversity and proportions of prey types. "Boom and bust" years were evident for particular prey. We suspect dietary differences in Maine were due to colony location; however, a detailed study of the relationship between prey availability and abundance and the foraging ecology of terns in Maine is needed to elucidate these relationships. We believe long-term diet data sets gathered from multiple sites are the best way to characterize waterbird diets.
10.2307/1522181|Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) populations are threatened in several regions of North America and are increasingly the subject of monitoring and research efforts. To focus future studies on critical information needs, I used a population model to determine the sensitivity of population growth rate (r) of Black Terns to reproductive and survival estimates commonly measured in field studies, and developed research priorities based on these results and a review of the literature. Sensitivity was estimated by two methods: 1) percent change in r resulting from a 10% increase in a parameter's value and 2) percent change in r resulting from an increase in the value of a parameter by an increment equal to 10% of the range of field estimates for that parameter. For 10% changes in baseline rates, r was more sensitive to adult (168% increase in r) and sub-adult survival (62%) rate than to reproductive estimates (4-31%) as expected; however, when sensitivity was examined relative to variation in estimates for wild populations, adult survival, chick survival and nest success had similar effects (33-38%). Clutch size, hatchability, renesting rate, proportion of 2-year-old terns breeding, and longevity had relatively less influence on r (4-10%). Adult and chick survival rates should be high priorities for future study because adult rates are important for evaluating breeding success data and chick survival rates are needed to estimate productivity. Sub-adult survival is important, but will be difficult to study in small populations. Clutch size and hatchability information should have lower priorities. Although sensitivity to renesting rate was low, the lack of information justifies a greater emphasis. For nest success, the research emphasis needs to change from monitoring rates to quantifying limiting factors.
10.2307/1522182| Many seabird nesting areas have been altered by human activities, including modification of habitats and introduction of animals. In the Humbolt Current upwelling ecosystem, starting in the mid 1970s, the Humboldt Penguin (Spheniscus humboldti) colony at Pjaro Nio Island, central Chile, has undergone major modifications, including its joining to the mainland by a causeway and the removal of its pine forest. Although detrimental effects were expected, penguins continued breeding and the modifications provided new nesting habitats in which reproductive success has been similar to that observed in natural habitats. Additionally, the island holds today substantial numbers of breeding Chilean Pelicans (Pelacanus thagus) and Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) which have also been able to use the modified habitats. Although local residents and tourists sporadically use the causeway to reach the island, human disturbance is kept to low levels. Some terrestrial mammals have been able to reach the island and are responsible for some degree of habitat degradation and predation. Despite these disturbances, Pjaro Nio Island is one of the most important breeding sites for Humboldt Penguins, Kelp Gulls and Chilean Pelicans in central Chile. /// Numerosas reas de nidificacin para aves marinas han sido alteradas por las actividades humanas, incluyendo modificacin de hbitats e introduccin de animales. Desde la segunda mitad de la dcada de 1970 la colonia de pingino de Humboldt (Spheniscus humboldti) en la isla Pjaro Nio, Chile central, ha experimentado importantes modificaciones de hbitat, incluyendo su unin a tierra firme por un piedrapln y la tala de su bosque de pinos. A pesar de que se esperaban efectos adversos, los pinginos han continuado nidificando y las modificaciones proporcionaron nuevos habitats de nidificacin en los cuales el xito reproductivo es similar al observado en hbitats naturales. Adicionalmente, cantidades importantes de pelcano (Pelecanus thagus) y gaviota dominicana (Larus dominicanus) nidifican en la isla y han podido utilizar tambin los hbitats modificados. An cuando residentes del rea y turistas no autorizados ingresan a la isla espordicamente a travs del piedrapln, la perturbacin humana es mantenida a niveles bajos. Algunos mamferos terrestres han podido pasar a la isla y han causado cierta degradacin de hbitat y depredacin. A pesar de estas perturbaciones, actualmente la isla Pjaro Nio es uno de los sitios de nidificacin ms importantes para estas tres especies en Chile central. 
10.2307/1522183| The breeding biology of the Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba) was studied at Cape Ulyakhpen, the Chukotka Peninsula, Russia, in 1988-1990. In 1989 the bulk of Pigeon Guillemot population arrived in the vicinity of the colonies on the south coast of the peninsula in late April. In 1989 and 1990, the median dates of laying, hatching and fledging were 23 and 20 June; 20 and 17 July; 25 and 19 August, respectively. The average clutch size was 1.77  0.42 eggs, with the average egg dimensions, 61.2  2.1 mm and 41.1  1.3 mm. Replacement clutches were initiated on average 12.3  0.8 days after losing the first clutch. During incubation eggs lost on average 15.2  0.4 per cent of their initial mass. Chicks averaged 39.2  3.7g at hatching and 402.4  40.9 g. at fledgling (87.2% of adult mass). Chicks left their nests at the age of 36.3  2.8 days. Chick mass at fledging showed no significant intra- and interannual variation. 
10.2307/1522184|Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger) have undergone an extended population decline over much of their range, including the coast of Virginia, USA, where the population has decreased by 80% in the last two decades. A combination of starvation, flooding, predation and human disturbance has been cited as the cause of low reproductive success. This study tested the hypothesis that, at a colony on an artificial island in the James River, Hampton County, VA, a shortage of food was responsible for the chronically low success of breeding skimmers at a site protected from flooding, predation or human disturbance. Parents that fed more fledged a higher proportion of nestlings, suggesting a relationship between food and chick survival. Abundance of one of the two primary prey species underwent a regional decline during the skimmer breeding season, and both primary prey species began seasonal declines before most skimmer chicks had fledged. Both of these fish species have also undergone long-term declines in the region and their annual abundance has been closely correlated with regional skimmer numbers. Mortality of eggs was low (30%) while mortality of chicks was high (70%), and nestling growth rate and size at fledging appeared to be lower at this site than published data would indicate was the case at other sites, all consistent with the hypothesis that starvation was occurring. Finally, first-hatched chicks were more likely to survive than were their siblings, consistent with starvation as a primary cause of death.
10.2307/1522185| We determined population status and reproductive success of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) at Lake of the Woods, Minnesota during 1988-2000. This is the only remaining breeding population of Piping Plovers in the state and is the last geographic link between the Great Lakes and Northern Great Plains populations. Previous studies, beginning in 1982, recorded populations of up to 50 birds at this location in 1984. Since then, despite intensive management attempts to improve reproductive success, numbers have gradually declined to a low of six birds in 1997. Of 88 nests monitored over 13 years, 54.6% hatched, 18.2% were depredated, 13.6% were destroyed by storm waves and 13.6% were abandoned. The number of chicks fledged per breeding pair ranged from 0.0-2.7 (x = 1.1) among years. Varying water levels either exposed broad sandy beaches or led to inundation of Piping Plover nests and substantial erosion of breeding habitat. Management activities included seasonal posting of sanctuaries, trapping of mammalian predators, destruction of Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) nests, use of elevated string gull deterrents, use of predator exclosures around nests, destruction of American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) nests, and removal of trees and shrubs. Despite these efforts, during most years, fledging rates have been below those believed necessary for population stability. 
10.2307/1522186|In intertidal habitats, Dunlins (Calidris alpina), like other shorebirds, spend most of the time around high tide roosting on the ground. Occasionally, however, Dunlins remain airborne at high tide and fly over the sea rather than sitting in saltmarshes. Here I describe over-sea flocking in Dunlins on the German Wadden Sea coast and try to analyze factors associated with this behavior. Over-sea flocking occurred at only one site, the Jadebusen, where it was recorded on 5 out of 35 occasions. Over-sea flocking was associated with the absence of safe (poorly or non-vegetated) roosting sites, the presence of tall trees close to the site and the presence of raptors, suggesting that over-sea flocking is a reaction of Dunlins to high risks of surprise attacks by raptors.
10.2307/1522187|We studied the prevalence of hematozoa/ectoparasites of Crested Auklets (Aethia cristatella) at Talan Island in the northwestern Sea of Okhotsk, Russia to investigate whether individual differences in the degree of ornamentation could be related to presumed hematozoa/ectoparasite load. A total of 131 Crested Auklets were caught and sampled. None of the birds showed signs of hematozoa or ectoparasites and we discuss different reasons for this absence of parasites. We conclude that other types of parasites than haematozoa may be involved in the evolutionary play between parasites and host elaborate traits.
10.2307/1522188| Analysis of the morphology of 141 Antarctic Shags (Phalacrocorax bransfieldensis) breeding at Harmony Point (6217S, 5914W), South Shetland Islands, and 85 at Danco Coast (6409S, 6057W), Antarctic Peninsula, indicated that males are significantly heavier and larger than females. However, there are overlaps in the morphometric variables (mass, culmen, bill, tarsus and wing length, and bill depth and width) between sexes. Two discriminant functions correctly classified 97.8% and 97.6% of the males and females considered to generate them. When the validity of the discriminant functions was checked on other Antarctic Shags breeding at Harmony Point and at Danco Coast, the rate of correct classification remained high. These discriminant functions could be used to sex chicks older than 45-50 days and juveniles. 
10.2307/1522189| Stimulated by an "off-season" breeding observation at a Brown Booby (Sula leucogaster) colony on Isla San Jorge, northeastern Gulf of California, I monitored this island from October 1997 to November 1999, visited some other localities during breeding and "non-breeding" seasons, and reviewed all the available data on breeding seasons. The incubation season of Brown Boobies in the Gulf of California ran from January to May, except that the colony at San Jorge began to breed about 3 months earlier, while ending at the same time as the other colonies. El Nio events caused a premature cessation of the breeding season of the Brown Booby colony on San Jorge and appeared to affect also other Gulf of California colonies. 
10.2307/1522190| Nest size and location, breeding timing, and reproductive success were documented at a newly established colony of tree-nesting Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) at Lake Naivasha, Kenya (049S) in 1995. Reproductive success was significantly higher in canopy-top nests than in nests below the canopy, and there was a positive and significant relationship between nest size and reproductive success. Early-breeding pairs preferentially located their nests on the canopy top and built significantly larger nests than later breeders. When the effect of breeding timing is taken into account, the effects on reproductive success of nest size and location were not significant. 
10.2307/1522191|The Humboldt Penguin (Spheniscus humboldti) has been reported as declining along its distributional range and has recently been classified as vulnerable. The actual size of the Humboldt Penguin population is still unknown, and a complete population assessment is required. Here we present a study combining both counts of molting birds on land and counts of birds at sea during the molting period. We conducted our study in the Coquimbo Region, Northern Chile, and found 7,619 birds on land and 2,700 at sea, adding up to a total of about 10,300 Humboldt Penguins during the molting season (February 1999). Since these numbers are much higher than all other recent estimates, we emphasize that assessment on land and at sea need to be combined to provide more reliable estimates.
10.2307/1522192| The diet of adult Gentoo Penguin (Pygoscelis papua) was investigated during the autumns of 1993-1996 on Laurie Island, South Orkney Islands (6046S, 4442W), Antarctica. Fishes were the most important prey by mass in 1995 (81.1%) and 1996 (60.5%) while crustaceans predominated in 1993 (70% by mass). Among fishes, species of the family Nototheniidae predominated in the diet with G. gibberifrons the most important prey by mass in 1993 and 1995 and N. nybelini in 1996. Other nototheniid fish such as L. nudifrons and T. newnesi were also well represented in the three sampling periods. Krill (Euphausia superba) was largely the most important prey among the eleven crustacean taxa identified in the samples. A total of 1,628 squid lower beaks was found, 97% identified as Psychroteuthis glacialis. Diet composition in terms of frequency of occurrence, mass and number is compared with previous studies. 
10.2307/1522193|Male and female Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) are not clearly sexually dimorphic and are thus difficult to identify in the field. This paper evaluates sexual size dimorphism in this species and provides a reliable method for predicting the sex of measured individuals. Discriminant analysis of six morphometric characters of adult birds indicated that head length, bill length and bill depth were the most accurate variables for use in a discriminant function model, predicting sex with 97% accuracy.
10.2307/1522194|Two immature Zigzag Herons (Zebrilus undulatus) were observed on the north bank of the Matiyure River, Venezuela, and their vocalizations recorded. The birds appeared to counter-call with an average call interval of 13.4 s. Analysis of vocalizations, including sonagrams, are presented. The herons were found in narrow tracts of river-edge gallery forest within extensive areas of open Llanos (Plains) and thus differ in habitat from most recent sightings of Zigzag herons in extensive tracts of lowland forest.
10.2307/1522203|In the next century, wading birds will have to deal with the cumulative impact of climate change, human population growth, and the recovery of avian predators. Conservation areas, established under former climate conditions and when there were fewer people and predators, might be inadequate to maintain wading bird populations in the future. We assess the potential effect of climate change and increased predation, and provide hypotheses as a framework for future work in these areas.
10.2307/1522140| Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) chicks have been ringed in the Camargue (southern France) since 1947, and similar long-term marking projects have since begun at several other breeding sites in the Old World. Capture and marking techniques are discussed. PVC leg bands engraved with a unique code that can be read in the field provide the ideal tool for studying many aspects of flamingo breeding biology, movements, life history, survival, and longevity. Identification of the foraging areas used by breeding birds is particularly relevent to the conservation of this species. /// Los pollos de flamenco comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) han sido anillados en la Camarga (sur de Francia) desde 1947, y otros proyectos de largo plazo de marcaje tambin se han iniciado en otros sitios de reproduccin en el Viejo Mundo. Se discuten mtodos de captura y tcnicas de marcaje. Los anillos de plstico grabados con un cdigo nico que pueden leerse en el campo proporcionan un instrumento ideal para el estudio de varios aspectos de la biologa reproductiva del flamenco, de movimientos, de la historia vital, de su supervivencia, y su longevidad. La identificacin de reas de alimentacin usadas por flamencos durante la temporada de reproduccin es particularmente relevante para la conservacin de esta especie. 
10.2307/1522141| The nocturnal movements of breeding Greater Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) between Fuente de Piedra Lake (Fuente de Piedra, southern Spain) and foraging areas was studied from 1986 to 1988. Fuente de Piedra is the only seasonal lake in Europe where Greater Flamingos breed regularly. Analysis of color-banded birds and fluctuation in flamingo numbers established that the marshes of the River Guadalquivir and its surrounding wetlands, situated within a 200-km radius from Fuente de Piedra, play an important complementary role to Fuente de Piedra during the breeding cycle when chicks are in crche. During the incubation period and the presence of chicks in the crche, flamingos may fly to foraging areas. During chick-brooding, however, movements were more restricted as evidenced by more attendance to chicks. Two flight directions were used from Fuente de Piedra: southwest (SW) and northeast (NE). The seasonal variation of numbers of birds joining departure groups at Fuente de Piedra was related to the number of chicks in the crche and numbers of flamingos in the Guadalquivir marshes. The cross-country movements between the breeding colony at Fuente de Piedra and the foraging areas were conducted at night, probably because they are energetically more profitable with lower temperatures. During the night, the arrival of adults to the lake is greatest, activity within the colony is very intense, and most feeding of chicks is undertaken. When the chicks in the crche were small and found resources were abundant, some adults arriving to feed chicks in early evening then returned to the foraging sites the same night. This behavior involved movements in excess of 300 km each night. At the end of the breeding season, the nocturnal flocks returned later to Fuente de Piedra, and the majority of adults remained in the lake until the following day. During this phase of reproduction, the feeding of chicks was more spaced out and some adults stopped feeding their chicks, which then began to leave the colony. Conservation of the flamingo breeding colony site at Fuente de Piedra requires protection not only of the breeding habitat but also of the wetlands used for foraging. /// El presente trabajo se basa en el estudio de los movimientos del flamenco comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) entre la colonia de cra de la Laguna de Fuente de Piedra (Fuente de Piedra; suroeste de Espaa) y las zonas perifricas de alimentacin durante el perodo 1986-88. Fuente de Piedra es el nico humedal estacional europeo donde el flamenco comn se reproduce regularmente. A partir del anlisis de los individuos anillados y de las fluctuaciones numricas de flamencos, se ha establecido que las marismas del ro Guadalquivir y otros humedales del entorno, situados en un radio de 200 km en torno a Fuente de Piedra, desempean un importante papel complementario a Fuente de Piedra durante el ciclo reproductivo, cuando los pollos se encuentran en la guardera. Durante los perodos de incubacin y de guadera, los flamencos presentan menos restricciones para desplazarse a las reas de alimentacin que durante el perodo de atencin al pollo en el nido. Las principales direcciones de vuelo seguidas por los grupos de flamenco desde Fuente de Piedra fueron la suroeste (SW) y la noreste (NE). La variacin estacional del nmero de flamencos que integran los grupos de partida est relacionada con el nmero de pollos que alberga la guardera y con el nmero de flamencos censado en las marismas del ro Guadalquivir. Los desplazamientos entre la colonia de reproduccin de Fuente de Piedra y las reas de alimentacin se efectan por la noche, debido probablemente a que son energticamente ms rentables cuando la temperatura es menor. Durante la noche, las llegadas de flamencos a la laguna son numerosas, la actividad en la colonia es muy intensa y se produce la mayora de la alimentacin de los pollos. Cuando la guardera alberga pollos pequeos y los recursos alimenticios son abundantes, algunos adultos llegan a la colonia al anochecer y regresan a las reas de alimentacin esa misma noche. Este comportamiento implica movimientos que exceden los 300 km por noche. Al final del perodo reproductor, los grupos llegan a Fuente de Piedra ms tarde y la mayora de los adultos permanecen en la laguna hasta el da siguiente. Durante esta fase, los pollos son alimentados con menor frecuencia o dejan de ser alimentados, y comienzan a abandonar la laguna. La conservacin de la colonia de reproduccin de flamenco comn en la Laguna de Fuente de Piedra requiere no slo la proteccin del hbitat de reproduccin sino tambin de las zonas complementarias de alimentacin. 
10.2307/1522142| We present results of analyses of the sex of Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) chicks in the Camargue, southern France. Our aim was to determine the relation between sex and size at ringing and to question whether this relation was a consequence of simple sexual size dimorphism or the result of seasonal variation in the chicks' sex. First, a strong relation between tarsus length and sex was found at the time of ringing. Second, the absence of detected sexual dimorphism in these 1.5-3.0-month-old chicks strongly suggested that this relation is due to sex ratio manipulation. Proximally, primary sex manipulation is suggested. The evolutionary advantage of producing 1 sex early in the breeding season and the other sex later on is discussed and some hypotheses are advanced. /// Presentamos los resultados de un anlisis de sexo en pollos de flamenco comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) en la Camarga, Francia. Nuestro objetivo fue determinar si existe una relacin entre el sexo y el tamao del flamenco en el momento de anillar y preguntarnos si esta relacin era consecuencia de un dimorfismo sexual en tamao  el resultado de variacin estacional en el sexo de los pollos. Primero, encontramos una fuerte relacin entre la longitud del tarso y el sexo. Segundo, la falta de deteccin de dimorfismo sexual en estos pollos de 1.5-3.0 meses sugiere que la relacin se debe a una manipulacin de la proporcin de los sexos. Esto sugiere de carcter inmediato una manipulacin sexual primaria. Discutimos la ventaja evolutiva de producir un sexo al inicio del ciclo reproductivo y el otro sexo ms adelante y planteamos algunas hiptesis para explicarla. 
10.2307/1522143| One of the greatest challenges facing ecologists and conservationists is to ensure the continued coexistence of wildlife with the increasing pressure of human recreation. In birds, the use of flock members to reduce individual levels of vigilance has been the focus of many studies that have tried to explain the relationship among vigilance, group size, and distance to cover by using foraging or preening as indicators of disturbance. To avoid the confounding variables associated with foraging and preening, in this study I observed the effects of increasing levels of human disturbance on vigilance by measuring distances among individuals in flocks of Greater Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus). Reactions to 112 disturbances were recorded during 61 hr of observation. Undisturbed flamingos exhibited no relationship between individual distance and flock size. When joggers appeared, birds became alert but continued to feed. Individual distance was not influenced by flock size when motor vehicles (jeeps) drove past, but was different in value from that in undisturbed flocks. However, when tour groups stopped and the occupants got out of vehicles, individual distance was significantly reduced and flock size positively influenced flock cohesiveness (i.e., smaller flocks had smaller individual distance values than large flocks). Flamingos appeared to be especially disturbed by all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), and in 82% of the encounters they flew away. In these cases, flock cohesiveness was extremely dense, but flock size did not influence flock reaction. This study demonstrated that flocking species seek protection in numbers, but they leave an area when insufficient conspecifics are present and when serious disturbance occurs. /// Uno de los mayores desafos que enfrentan los eclogos y conservacionistas es asegurar la coexistencia continuada de la fauna silvestre ante la creciente presin de las actividades humanas de recreacin. En aves, el uso de integrantes del grupo para reducir niveles individuales de vigilancia ha sido el tema de varios estudios que tratan de explicar la relacin entre vigilancia, tamao de grupo, y distancia a cobertura mediante el uso de comportamiento de forrajeo y acicalamiento como indicadores de las perturbaciones. Para evitar las variables perturbadoras asociadas al comportamiento de forrajeo y acicalamiento, en este estudio yo observ los efectos del aumento en niveles de perturbacin humana sobre vigilancia, utilizando las distancias entre los individuos en grupos de flamenco comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus). Las reacciones a 112 perturbaciones fueron registradas durante 61 horas de observacin. Los flamencos que no fueron perturbados no mostraron relacin entre distancia individual y tamao de grupo. Cuando aparecieron personas corriendo, los flamencos se mostraron alertos pero continuaron alimentndose. La distancia individual no fue influenciada por el tamao del grupo cuando pasaron vehculos motorizados (jeeps), pero fue distinta a aquella en grupos no perturbados. Sin embargo, cuando pararon grupos tursticos y los participantes bajaron del vehculos, la distancia individual fue reducida significativamente y el tamao del grupo de flamencos fue influenciado positivamente por la cohesin del grupo (por ejemplo, grupos ms pequeos tuvieron menor distancia individual que grupos ms grandes). Los flamencos parecieron particularmente perturbados por vehculos de todo terreno y en 82% de estos encuentros los flamencos tomaron vuelo. En estos casos, la cohesin del grupo fue extremadamente densa pero el tamao del grupo no influy en la reaccin del grupo. Este estudio demuestra que especies que forman grupos buscan proteccin en nmeros pero abandonan un rea cuando no hay suficientes conespecificos presentes y cuando ocurren perturbaciones serias. 
10.2307/1522144| Some 25 years ago a group of Chilean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus chilensis) appeared in the coastal waters of The Netherlands, Germany, and Denmark. In subsequent years, the group was enlarged by some Greater Flamingos (P. ruber roseus) and Caribbean Flamingos (P. r. ruber) and also appeared in inland waters. This free-living flamingo group became very adaptive to these habitats. I reviewed literature on flamingo presence in Western Europe, habitats and weather conditions in these areas, as well as summarized my own observations. The flamingos established an inland breeding colony and winter in the joint delta of the rivers Rhine, Meuse, and Scheldt. They developed a clear annual migratory pattern. Although salt and brackish waters are available, the flamingos prefer fresh water. Young flamingos are born almost annually, but it seems that numbers can only be kept stable (about 50) by the occasional addition of escapes. /// Hace 25 aos, un grupo de flamencos australes (Phoenicopterus chilensis) apareci en las aguas costeras de los Pases Bajos, Alemania y Dinamarca. En aos siguientes, el grupo aument de tamao al agregarse algunos flamencos comunes (P. ruber roseus) y caribeos (P. r. ruber) y tambin se observaron en lagunas del interior. Este grupo de flamencos se adapt a estos hbitats. Yo revis la literatura sobre la presencia de flamencos en Europa occidental, los hbitats y las condiciones climticas de estas reas, y tambin resum mis propias observaciones. Los flamencos han establecido una colonia de nidificacin en el interior e invernan en el delta comn de los ros Rin, Meuse y Scheldt. Tambin establecieron un patrn claro de migracin anual. Si bien hay aguas salinas y salobres disponibles, los flamencos prefieren sitios de agua dulce. Cada ao se producen flamencos juveniles pero parece que los nmeros slo pueden mantenerse estables (alrededor de 50) con la incorporacin ocasional de flamencos escapados. 
10.2307/1522145| Lesser Flamingos (Phoeniconaias minor) occur mainly in Africa where they breed on isolated and often inhospitable soda lakes in the Rift Valley (East Africa), and on old lake beds in southern Africa (Botswana and Namibia). Controversy surrounds 2 aspects of their ecology: (1) whether populations are stable or declining, and (2) whether East African and southern African populations are genetically isolated. Here I review evidence showing that declines may be as high as 21% over 2 decades for African populations (5.10 million to 3.99 million present day), and 27% for southern African populations (55,000-40,000 birds in 20 years). Similarity in these declines, based on different sources of evidence, suggest the declines are real and not artifacts. Evidence for disjunct populations in East and southern Africa was based on (1) a presumed energetic inability to fly the 2,200 km from Natron (Tanzania) to Sua Pan (Botswana), (2) no evidence of birds landing in areas midway between the 2 areas, and (3) no evidence for birds flying north (or south). However, because resident southern African populations never exceed 55,000 birds, the 1 million birds reliably estimated from Etosha (Namibia) in 1971, and the 1.7 million birds reported from Sua Pan in 1974, show that birds must have come from elsewhere. Simultaneous declines in East African populations suggest an exodus from the Rift Valley. Research has also shown that flamingos deposit fat as do other migratory birds, allowing them to cover the distance nonstop. Night flights and alternative coastal routes through Mozambique would reduce the likelihood that birds would be seen migrating. Finally, an influx of thousands of young Lesser Flamingos into Kenya-Tanzania was reported in April-May 1997, when no breeding was known. At that time thousands of birds had been breeding on Sua Pan. The evidence, therefore, suggests both a population decline and constant movement between the 2 main breeding areas in East and southern Africa. /// El flamenco menor (Phoeniconaias minor) ocurre mayormente en frica donde se reproduce en lagunas saladas aisladas y frecuentemente inhspitas el Valle del Rift (frica oriental), y en las cuencas secas de las lagunas en la parte sur de frica (Botswana y Namibia). Dos aspectos de su ecologa son polmicos: (1) si las poblaciones son estables  estn disminuyendo y (2) si las poblaciones del este y del sur de frica son aisladas genticamente. Aqu yo hago una resea de la evidencia que demuestra disminuciones que, a lo largo de 20 aos, pueden ser tan altas como 21% para las poblaciones africanas (de 5.1 a 3.99 millones actualmente), y 27% para poblaciones de la parte sur de frica (de 55.000 a 40.000 individuos en 20 aos). En base a distintas fuentes de evidencia, estas disminuciones parecen ser reales y no artefactos. La evidencia para la separacin de las poblaciones en el este y el sur de frica fue basada en (1) la presumida inabilidad energtica de volar los 2.200 km de Natron (Tanzania) a Sua (Botswana), (2) la falta de observaciones de flamencos en reas entre estas dos reas, y (3) no existen observaciones de flamencos volando hacia el norte (o sur). Sin embargo, como poblaciones residentes en el sur de frica nunca superan los 55.000 individuos, el milln de flamencos estimado confiablemente en Etosha (Namibia) en 1971 y los 1.7 millones registrados en Sua Pan en 1974 demuestran que estos individuos tienen que haber provenido de otra parte. Desminuciones simultneas en poblaciones en el este de frica sugieren un xodo del valle Rift. Las investigaciones han demostrado que los flamencos depositan grasa como las aves migratorias, lo cual les permite cubrir la distancia sin hacer escalas. Los vuelos nocturnos y el uso de rutas costeras alternativas por Mozambique reduciran la probabilidad de observar a estas aves durante la migracin. Finalmente, se registr la llegada de miles de juveniles de flamenco menor a Kenya y Tanzania en abril-mayo de 1997, cuando se supone que no hubo reproduccin all. En ese momento, miles de flamencos haban estado nidificando en Sua Pan. La evidencia demuestra tanto una disminucin en la poblacin y un movimiento constante entre las dos reas principales de reproduccin en el este y sur de frica. 
10.2307/1522146| There are 2 species of flamingos in Kenya: the Lesser Flamingo (Phoeniconaias minor) and the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus). Flamingos in Kenya are part of the East African population, which mainly breeds at Lake Natron in Tanzania. The main flamingo feeding sites in Kenya are Lakes Bogoria, Elmenteita, Magadi, Nakuru, and Naivasha. However, lack of proper baseline data on flamingo numbers has made it difficult to develop a conservation strategy. A biannual waterbird monitoring scheme on these lakes was initiated in 1990, and conducted from 1990 to 1998. This monitoring program estimated a maximum number of 1,518,650 waterbirds of which 1,472,850 were flamingos, and a minimum of 389,400 waterbirds of which 337,400 were flamingos. The average number of waterbirds for the period 1992-98 was estimated at 805,000/year. Lesser flamingos were the most abundant species, constituting 92% of the total, while Greater Flamingos were 2%; all other waterbirds were 6% of the total. The trends over the monitoring period showed a general decline in the number of flamingos. The declining trend coincides with periods of drying of Lake Nakuru, a renowned feeding site for high numbers of flamingos. The main threats to flamingos are breeding failure, predation of young (mainly by Marabou Storks [Leptoptilos crumeniferus]), drying of lakes and resultant hyper-alkalinity, soda mining, and other human developments resulting in disturbance, as well as pollution caused by sewage and heavy metal effluents from industries. Diseases include tuberculosis, which is present in the population, and septicemia, which has been responsible for a significant number of flamingo deaths. Flamingo movements in Kenya are not well understood, but Lesser Flamingos are thought to move in response to changes in the abundance of the blue-green algae Spirulina platensis, their main food. /// En Kenya se encuentran 2 especies de flamenco: el flamenco menor (Phoeniconaias minor) y el flamenco comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus). Los flamencos en Kenya forman parte de la poblacin del este de frica que nidifica en el Lago Natron en Tanzania. Los sitios de alimentacin ms importantes en Kenya son los lagos Bogoria, Elmenteita, Magadi, Nakuru y Naivasha. Sin embargo, la falta de una lnea base de datos sobre el nmero de flamencos ha hecho difcil la elaboracin de una estrategia de conservacin. Un esquema bianual de monitoreo de aves acuticas para estos lagos fue iniciado en 1990 y seguido de 1990 a 1998. El programa de monitoreo estim una poblacin mxima de 1.518.650 aves acuticas, de las cuales 1.472.850 fueron flamencos, y una poblacin mnima de 389.400 aves acuticas de las cuales 337.400 fueron flamencos. El nmero promedio de aves acuticas para el perodo 1992-98 fue estimado en 805.000 por ao. El flamenco menor fue la especie ms abundante, constituyendo 92% del total, mientras que el flamenco comn represent 2% y el 6% restante lo constituyeron todas las otras aves acuticas. A lo largo del perodo de monitoreo se detect una tendencia general hacia una disminucin general en el nmero de flamencos. Esta disminucin coincide con perodos de sequa en el Lago Nakuru, un sitio reconocido por sus alto nmero de flamenco. La amenaza principal hacia los flamencos son el fracaso de la reproduccin, la depredacin de cras (principalmente por cigeas [Leptoptilos crumeniferus]), el secado de las lagunas y su consecuente hipersalinidad, la minera, y otras actividades humanas que resultan en perturbaciones, as como contaminacin por aguas negras y metales pesados provenientes de industrias. Las enfermedades que afectan a los flamencos incluyen la tuberculosis, que se encuentra en la poblacin, y la septicemia, que ha sido responsable por varias muertes en la poblacin. Los movimientos de flamencos en Kenya no son bien conocidos pero se cree que el flamenco menor se desplaza respondiendo a cambios en la abundancia del alga verdeazul Spirulina platensis, su alimento principal. 
10.2307/1522147| This paper presents the results of research conducted from 1974 to 1976 to examine the distribution of Lesser Flamingos (Phoeniconaias minor) on the lakes of the East African Rift Valley. I used aerial photographic censuses to collect data on flamingo distribution, and I also collected data on the availability of the 2 primary food resources: the planktonic blue-green algae Spirulina, and benthic diatoms. Two distinct patterns of population distribution were observed, clumped and dispersed. The clumped distribution occurred when a high density bloom of Spirulina was available at 1 or more of the larger lakes. Productivity models showed that the carrying capacity of Spirulina when present at 1 of these larger lakes was sufficient to support more than the entire population of Lesser Flamingos at 1 site. However, the standing crop density of Spirulina could fluctuate significantly over short time periods. When Spirulina density fell below a certain threshold, Lesser Flamingos could not obtain enough food to meet their energy requirements. Spirulina blooms were not widely available, however, and Lesser Flamingos were forced to change their diet to benthic diatoms when none of the larger lakes supported a high standing crop density of Spirulina. The productivity of diatoms was 1-2 orders of magnitude less than Spirulina, but it was a resource that was much more predictable and widely available. As a result, the flamingo population became much more dispersed when it was dependent on benthic diatoms, because no single lake could support a high proportion of the population. /// Este trabajo presenta los resultados de investigaciones realizadas desde 1974 hasta 1976, que examinaron la distribucin de flamencos menores (Phoeniconaias minor) en las lagunas del valle de Rift del este de frica. Utilic fotografas areas de censos para obtener datos sobre la distribucin de flamencos y tambin colect datos sobre la disponibilidad de los 2 recursos alimenticios principales: el alga verdeazul Spirulina, y las diatomeas bentnicas. Se observaron dos patrones distintos de distribucin poblacional en los flamencos, agrupado y disperso. La distribucin agrupada ocurri cuando se produca un aflormiento de alta densidad de Spirulina en una o ms de las lagunas mayores. Los modelos de productividad demostraron que la capacidad de carga de las lagunas mayores para Spirulina era sufiente como para mantener ms de la poblacin total de flamencos menores en un sitio. Sin embargo, la densidad de Spirulina puede fluctuar de manera significativa sobre perodos cortos de tiempo. Cuando la densidad de Spirulina lleg por debajo de un umbral, los flamencos menores no pudieron obtener suficiente alimento como para satisfacer sus requerimientos energticos. Los afloramientos de Spirulina no eran ampliamente disponibles y cuando ninguna de las lagunas mayores mantena una alta densidad aprovechable, los flamencos se vieron forzados a cambiar su dieta a diatomeas bentnicas. La productividad de diatomeas fue 1-2 rdenes de magnitud menor que la de Spirulina pero fue un recurso mucho ms predecible y ampliamente disponible. Como resultado, cuando la poblacin de flamencos dependa de diatomeas bentnicas, era mucho ms dispersa ya que ninguna laguna sla poda mantener una proporcin alta de la poblacin. 
10.2307/1522148| Little is known about the feeding ecology and breeding success of the Lesser Flamingo (Phoeniconaias minor) and Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) on the ephemeral salt lake of the Makgadikgadi, Botswana. Some observations of large numbers of both species have been recorded breeding on the Makgadikgadi salt pans, and it is believed that this site is among the most important breeding sites for both species of flamingo in Africa. This paper addresses the importance of the Makgadikgadi salt pans by revising some of the observations made in the past and also introduces a long-term research project that is currently underway to determine more about the ecology of the pans and the flamingo breeding success at this important site. /// Se conoce poco acerca de la ecologa y el xito reproductivo del flamenco menor (Phoeniconaias minor) y del flamenco comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) en los salares efmeros de Makgadikgadi, Botswana. Se han observado grandes nmeros de individuos de ambas especies nidificando en las salinas de Makgadikgadi y se cree que este es el sitio ms importante de nidificacin para ambas especies en frica. Este trabajo trata la importancia de las salinas de Makgadikgadi mediante la revisin de observaciones hechas en el pasado y tambin presenta un trabajo de investigacin a largo plazo que actualmente se est realizando para determinar ms acerca de la ecologa de los salares y del xito reproductivo en este sitio importante. 
10.2307/1522149| The population of Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) on the Yucatn Peninsula of Mexico occurs within an 8,000- km
10.2307/1522150| From September 1995 through December 1996, standardized, simultaneous monthly censuses of Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) were conducted at 17 locations along the Venezuelan coast and several offshore islands. Maximum numbers of flamingos were observed in May 1996 (34,171) and December 1996 (33,085). Most flamingos (82.4%) were observed on the west coast, 17.4% were seen on the east coast, and only 0.2% were on islands. Age of most of the population (96.3%) was classified as unknown (subadults, adults), while 3.7% were classified as juveniles. Overall, 47% of flamingos tallied used 3 coastal wildlife refuges year-round as their main habitat. The total estimated population of Caribbean Flamingos along the Venezuelan coast was 37,110, which was a 2-fold increase in numbers compared with censuses in the 1970s and 1980s. Our data indicated that Venezuela hosts almost 38% of the total Caribbean Flamingo population. The observed increase in numbers could be due to measures taken by the Venezuelan government to protect feeding and resting habitats, but also may be due to the broadened spatial and temporal coverage of the Venezuelan coastal wetlands during our surveys. /// Entre septiembre 1995 y diciembre 1996 se realizaron censos mensuales simultneos de flamenco caribeos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) en 17 localidades a lo largo de la costa e islas de Venezuela. El nmero mximo de flamencos contabilizados fue en mayo (34.171) de 1996 y diciembre de 1996 (33.085) La mayor proporcin de flamencos (82,4%) se observ en la costa occidental seguido por la costa oriental con 17, 4% y la zona insular con solamente el 0,2% de la poblacin censada. La edad de la mayora de la poblacin (96,3%) de flamencos se clasific como indeterminada (subadultos y adultos) mientras que el 37,7% se clasificaron como juveniles. Se determino que a travs del ao el 47% de la poblacin de flamencos utiliza como hbitat principal tres refugios de fauna silvestre localizados en la costa occidental. La poblacin total de flamencos estimada en la costa de Venezuela es de aproximadamente 37.110 individuos, lo que duplica los resultados de los censos realizados en la dcada de los aos 1970 y 1980. De acuerdo a nuestros datos, en Venezuela se concentran casi el 38% de la poblacin. 
10.2307/1522151| From October 1996 to May 1998, we sampled benthic macroinvertebrates (BMI) in shallow, openwater areas accessible to feeding Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) at the Los Olivitos Wildlife Refuge and Fishing Reserve, western Venezuela. We collected 60 samples/month from 3 permanent stations, using a 10.16-cm diameter plastic tube inserted to a depth of 10 cm. Average BMI density was 1,058/ m
10.2307/1522152| From October 1996 to June 1998, we determined to what extent Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) at the Los Olivitos Wildlife Refuge and Fishing Reserve, western Venezuela, fed at a new, adjoining solar saltworks. Soon after filling (October 1996), 39% of the birds fed at the saltworks (Concentrator 1), but within a month <2% fed there. Flamingos did not return again in large numbers (>1,000) until several months later (May 1998). Thus, birds visited the area infrequently but in large numbers. In all, 17.4% of the birds that visited the wildlife refuge fed at the saltworks. Evidently, a large number of feeding birds (2,922) quickly overexploits the food supply, which "needs time to recuperate." Also, copepods and amphipods, abundant in the beginning (October-November 1996), were eliminated due to increasing salinity in the concentrator and "replaced" with brine shrimp (Artemia sp.) and brine fly larvae (Ephydra sp.) by March-May 1998. In Venezuela, solar saltworks are important for flamingo conservation because they offer alternative and protected feeding sites. At the Los Olivitos saltworks, 6-8% of the total flamingo population in Venezuela and Bonaire may feed there on any given day. /// Desde octubre de 1996 hasta junio de 1998, nosotros determinamos si el flamenco caribeo (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) que habita el Refugio de Fauna Silvestre Los Olivitos, Cinaga de Los Olivitos, al oeste de Venezuela, utiliza los concentradores de una nueva salina solar comercial adyacente al refugio como rea de alimentacin. Poco despus del llenado de los concentradores (octubre de 1996), el 39% de las aves se alimentaban en las instalaciones de la empresa salinera (Concentrador 1), pero al cabo de un mes, <2% estaban alimentdose all. Los flamencos no regresaron otra vez en grandes nmeros (>1,000) hasta varios meses ms tarde (Mayo 1998). As, las aves visitaron el rea de forma infrecuente pero en gran nmero. Por todo, 17,4% de las aves que visitaron el refugio se alimentaron en la empresa salinera. Evidentemente, un gran nmero de flamencos alimentndose (2.922) rpidamente sobreexplot el suministro alimenticio que "necesita tiempo para recuperarse." Adems, debido al incremento de la salinidad en el concentrador, coppodos y anfpodos, abundantes al principio (octubre-noviembre de 1996), fueron eliminados y "reemplazados" por artemia (Artemia sp.) y la larva de la mosca salina (Ephydra sp.) en los meses de marzo-mayo de 1998. En Venezuela, las empresas salineras son importantes para la conservacin del flamenco, porque ellas ofrecen un sitio alternativo y protegido de alimentacin. En la empresa salinera de Los Olivitos, 6-8% del total de la poblacin de flamencos de Venezuela y Bonaire podra alimentarse all en cualquier momento. 
10.2307/1522153| I made 69 monthly censuses of Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) from June 1990 to September 1996 in the Los Olivitos Wildlife Refuge and Fishing Reserve, western Venezuela, to determine temporal and spatial variation in abundance. Overall, the total number of flamingos increased from a mean of 3,092/month in 1990, to a mean of 8,206/month in 1995. Flamingos were most abundant in October (mean = 8,567) and November (mean = 9,183), especially in 1990, 1994, and 1995. The highest number of birds (20,000) occurred in October 1994, when monthly rainfall was also highest. Birds were few or sometimes absent from February to April. Fifty-five percent of the birds used the central and northeast open-water area of El Arroyo, but 25% also used the outlet area of Cao Viejo. Human intervention included the frequent presence of fisherman and their boats, and sometimes the use of Los Olivitos as a target area during military exercises in nearby areas. Dike construction by the solar saltworks may have covered about 2,500 ha of possible feeding area for flamingos, but flamingos started to feed in the saltworks (Concentrator 1) even before construction ended. /// A fin de determinar la abundancia espacial y temporal del flamenco caribeo (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) en el Refugio de Fauna Silvestre y Reserva de Pesca Cinaga de Los Olivitos, Venezuela occidental, se efectuaron 69 censos mensuales entre junio de 1990 y septiembre de 1996. En general, se observ un incremento en el nmero total de flamencos, desde un promedio de 3.092/mes en 1990 hasta un promedio de 8.206/mes en 1995. Los flamencos fueron ms abundantes en octubre (promedio = 8.567) y noviembre (promedio = 9.183), especialmente en 1990, 1994 y 1995. El nmero mayor de aves (20.000) ocurri en octubre de 1994, lo cual coincidi con el valor mensual ms alto de precipitacin. De febrero a abril, se observaron pocos flamencos o estaban ausentes. El 55% de las aves utilizaron las albuferas centro y noreste del sector El Arroyo, pero tambin, un 25% usaron el rea aledaa a la desembocadura del Cao Viejo. Las perturbaciones humanas incluyeron la presencia de lanchas y pescadores en forma frecuente y en ocasiones el uso de la cinaga como rea de impactacin (blanco) por las prcticas militares realizadas en las reas adyacentes. Por otro lado, la construccin de diques correspondiente a la empresa industrial de sal, posiblemente afect aproximadamente 2.500 ha de rea disponible para la alimentacin de los flamencos. Aparentemente, sto slo afect a las aves en su etapa inicial, dado que se observaron alimentndose dentro de los mismos (Concentrador 1), an antes de que se finalizaran los trabajos de construccin. 
10.2307/1522154| The James Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus jamesi), the Andean Flamingo (P. andinus), and part of the Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis) population occur in the High Andes of Bolivia, Chile, Argentina, and Peru. Until January 1997, the altiplano population and distribution of the James and Andean Flamingos was unknown, except for very crude estimates made in 1977. We performed simultaneous censuses (by car) with the participation of Bolivia, Chile, Argentina, and Peru. In January 1997, we censused 100 lakes and counted 47,619 James Flamingos and 33,927 Andean Flamingos. In January 1998, we censused 133 lakes and counted 63,143 James Flamingos and 25,643 Andean Flamingos. In August, the wintering season for these species, we counted 31,657 James Flamingos and 13,944 Andean Flamingos in the same region. During the summer months (January-March), the James Flamingo was concentrated mainly in Bolivia and Argentina, whereas the Andean Flamingo was concentrated in Chile and Bolivia. During the winter months (June-September), the James Flamingos was found in Argentina, Chile, and Bolivia, while the Andean Flamingos were principally in Chile and Peru. /// Las poblaciones de flamenco de James (Phoenicoparrus jamesi), andino (P. andinus) y parte del austral (Phoenicopterus chilensis) se encuentran en la regin altoandina de Bolivia, Chile, Argentina y Per. Hasta enero de 1997, la distribucin de las poblaciones de flamencos de James y andino en el altiplano era desconocida, salvo estimaciones aproximadas hechas en 1977. Nosotros realizamos censos simultneos (por tierra) con la participacin de Bolivia, Chile, Argentina y Per. En enero de 1997, censamos 100 lagunas y contamos 47.619 flamencos de James y 33.927 Flamencos andinos. En enero de 1998, censamos 133 lagunas y contamos 63.143 flamencos de James y 25.643 Flamencos andinos. En agosto, la temporada de invierno para estas especies, contamos 31.657 flamencos de James y 13.944 andinos en la misma regin. Durante los meses de verano (enero-marzo), el flamenco de James se concentr mayormente en Bolivia y Argentina mientras que el andino se concentr en Chile y Bolivia. Durante los meses de invierno (junio-setiembre) los flamencos de James se encuentran en Argentina, Chile y Bolivia, mientras que los andinos se concentran en Chile y Per. 
10.2307/1522155| Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis) breeding colonies in Mar Chiquita, Argentina, (among the largest saline lakes in the world) were monitored by annual aerial surveys from 1969 to 1999 (26 years). During this period, the lake underwent a 9-m increase in water level, while salinity decreased from 275 g/L to 29 g/L. Breeding was recorded in 9 years. Nesting ceased when mudflats were flooded (1977) and was detected again in 1992 when the lake receded from peak levels. The highest number of juveniles produced in a single year (1987) was 42,800, with an estimated adult population of about 100,000 individuals. A total of 159,508 juveniles was produced throughout the study period. Breeding by the Chilean Flamingo appears constrained by availability of suitable habitat (islands with extensive mudflats), as well as availability of fresh water and nutrients from the incoming rivers. At present. Mar Chiquita is among the most important nesting areas for the Chilean Flamingo. Unfortunately, the lake is threatened by irrigation projects that will divert water from its main tributary, which may produce a negative effect on flamingo populations. /// Las colonias de nidificacin del flamenco austral, (Phoenicopterus chilensis) en Mar Chiquita, Argentina (uno de los lagos salados ms grandes del mundo) fueron monitoreadas mediante censos areos anuales desde 1969 a 1999 (26 aos). Durante este perodo, el nivel de agua en el lago aument 9 m mientras que la salinidad disminuy de 275 g/l a 29 g/l. Se registraron eventos de reproduccin en 9 de los aos. La nidificacin ces cuando se inundaron los bajos de lodo en 1977 y se reanud en 1992 cuando bajaron de su auge los niveles de agua. El mayor nmero de juveniles producidos en un ao fue estimado en 42.800 en 1987, con una poblacin adulta de 100.000. En total, 159.508 juveniles fueron producidos a lo largo del perodo de estudio. La reproduccin del flamenco austral aparenta estar limitada por la disponibilidad de hbitat adecuado (islas rodeadas de bajos extensivos) y por la disponibilidad de agua dulce y nutrientes provenientes de ros que fluyen hacia la laguna. Actualmente, Mar Chiquita es una de las reas de nidificacin ms importantes para el flamenco austral. Desafortunadamente, el lago est amenazado por proyectos de irrigacin que desviarn agua de su tributario principal, lo cual puede tener un efecto negativo sobre las poblaciones de flamencos. 
10.2307/1522156| Breeding by the Andean Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus andinus) was recorded for the first time in Argentina at the Laguna Brava salt lake (2919S, 6851W, 4,200 m above sea level) in 1998. This breeding event coincided with a strong El Nio year and high water level at La Brava. /// Eventos reproductivos del flamenco andino (Phoenicoparrus andinus) fueron registrados por primera vez en Argentina en la laguna salada Laguna Brava (2919S, 6851W, 4.200 m sobre el nivel del mar) en 1998. Este evento reproductivo coincidi con un ao intenso de El Nio y altos niveles de agua en La Brava. 
10.2307/1522157| Three flamingo species occur in the High Andes wetlands of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, and Per: James (Phoenicoparrus jamesi), Andean (P. andinus), and Chilean, (Phoenicopterus chilensis). During summer, the Vilama Lakes concentrate 30% of the James and Andean Flamingo populations of Argentina. These 9 lakes differ in size, depth, water composition, plankton, and submergent vegetation. We studied flamingo populations and wetlands of the Vilama Lakes region from 1995 through 1998. Species abundance was related to habitat variables. Shallow and highly saline lakes, rich in diatoms and cyanophytes but poor in zooplankton, concentrated the James Flamingo. Deep lakes with macrophytes and dense zooplankton provided habitat for the Chilean Flamingo and had more diverse waterbird communities than the shallow lakes. The Andean Flamingo occurred in almost every lake but in generally low numbers; however, it was more abundant in intermediate-character lakes and shallow lakes. Overall, shallow lakes sustained great numbers of flamingos, but changes in lake size did not explain abundance variations. The Vilama Lakes are complementary habitat patches for these species of flamingo, and for other vulnerable species (e.g., Horned Coot [Fulica cornuta]). This biological information contributed to the design of Vilama National Reserve (160,000 ha) with its 9 lakes under the management category of Natural Monument. The planned Vilama Reserve would contribute to a 3-nation reserve proposal formed by the present Eduardo Avaroa National Wildlife Reserve in Bolivia and Flamingos National Reserve in Chile, thus protecting the whole area of highest conservation value for Andean and James Flamingos. /// Tres especies de flamencos habitan los humedales altoandinos: los flamencos de James (Phoenicoparrus jamesi), andino (P. andinus), y austral (Phoenicopterus chilensis). Durante el verano, las lagunas de Vilama concentran el 30% de las poblaciones de flamencos de James y andino de Argentina. Estos 9 lagos difieren en tamao, profundidad, caractersticas de sus aguas, plancton y vegetacin sumergida. Estudiamos las poblaciones de flamencos y los lagos de 1995 a 1998. La abundancia de las especies estuvo relacionada con variables del hbitat. Lagunas someras e hipersalinas, ricas en diatomeas y cianfitas y pobres en zooplancton concentraron flamencos de James. Lagunas profundas, con macrfitas y abundante zooplancton fueron hbitat de flamencos australes y presentaron comunidades de aves ms diversas que las lagunas someras. Los flamencos andinos estuvieron presentes en casi todos los tipos de lagunas pero en bajas abundancias, aunque predominaron en aquellas de caractersticas intermedias y en las someras. Las lagunas someras sustentaron mayor numero de flamencos que las profundas, pero los cambios en el tamao de los espejos no explicaron las diferencias en abundancia. Las lagunas de Vilama son parches de hbitat complementarios para estos flamencos como as tambin para otras aves acuticas amenazadas, como por ejemplo la gallareta cornuda (Fulica cornuta). Esta informacin biolgica contribuy al diseo de la Reserva Nacional de Vilama (160.000 ha), cuyos 9 lagos principales quedaran bajo la categora de manejo de Monumento Natural. El proyecto de Reserva de Vilama contribuir a la propuesta Reserva Trinacional integrada tambin por la Reserva Nacional de Fauna Eduardo Avaroa en Bolivia, y por la Reserva Nacional Los Flamencos en Chile, protegiendo el rea de mayor valor de conservacin para los flamencos andino y de James. 
10.2307/1522158| The existence and biological importance of Lake Salinas is among the principal reasons for the creation of the Salinas and Aguada Blanca Nature Reserve in the high plateau and southern Andes of southern Per. Little has been done, however, to maintain and protect this reserve. The lake constitutes a vital area for several colonies of Chilean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus chilensis), Andean Flamingos (Phoenicoparrus andinus), and James Flamingos (Phoenicoparrus jamesi). Although their numbers vary during the year due to evaporation of surface water, these natural variations are being rapidly modified by human activities. The southeastern sector of lake is divided into 2 parts by a highway that exists for the extraction of borate from the lake. There is intense activity of machinery in this area, and the material of the lake bed is disturbed. Rural artisans exploit salt, which necessitates the creation of drying plots. The refuse from the adjacent communities is washed into the lake during the rainy season. The gathering of flamingo eggs and a certain degree of poaching constitute additional problems that affect Lake Salinas and the flamingos that reproduce there. These human disturbances urgently require that the Reserve's administration develop plans to minimize negative human impacts and to maintain the integrity of the lake and its biological assets. /// La presencia e importancia biolgica de la laguna de Salinas constituy una de las principales justificaciones para la creacin de la Reserva Nacional Salinas y Aguada Blanca, en la puna y andes meridionales del sur del Per. Sin embargo, poco se ha hecho para mantener la integridad de este recurso. La laguna constituye un rea vital para varias colonias de flamencos australes (Phoenicopterus chilensis), andinos (Phoenicoparrus andinus), y de James (Phoenicoparrus jamesi). Aunque su nmero vara a lo largo del ao, debido a la disminucin natural del espejo de agua, estas variaciones naturales se estn modificando rpidamente debido a las actividades humanas que all se desarrollan. Para la extraccin de borato de la laguna, existe una carretera que divide en dos partes a la laguna en su zona sureste, en donde hay intenso movimiento de maquinarias y remocin del material del fondo de la laguna. A nivel artesanal, los campesinos explotan sal, para lo cual forman parcelas de secado. La basura de las comunidades aledaas son arrastradas en la poca de lluvias hasta la laguna. La extraccin de huevos de flamencos y ciertos niveles de caza furtiva son otros problemas por los que est atravesando la laguna de Salinas y los flamencos que all se reproducen. Es urgente entonces, sugerir a las autoridades administrativas de la Reserva, acciones que minimicen el efecto de los problemas antes mencionados y mantener la integridad de la laguna y sus recursos biticos. 
10.2307/1522159| Collection of data on biology of wild flamingos is constrained by the infeasibility of individually identifying all flamingos, even within 1 population, and by limitations on how closely flamingos can be approached and manipulated. Although captive flamingo colonies are much smaller than wild colonies (with some exceptions) and are restricted in movement, studies of captive flamingos that complement field studies can be of great asset in answering some questions about flamingo biology and plasticity of characteristics. Past, present, and proposed studies on captive flamingos cover a variety of disciplines, including ethology, morphology, physiology, and endocrinology. Field and zoo researchers would benefit from closer collaboration in identifying potential research contributions of captive flamingos and in conducting relevant investigations. /// La colecta de datos sobre la biologa de flamencos silvestres est restringida por la inabilidad the identificar a todos los individuos de la poblacin y por la distancia limitada a la que uno puede acercarse y manipularlos. Aunque las poblaciones en cautiverio son mucho ms pequeas que las colonias silvestres (salvo algunas excepciones) y estn restringidas en su movimientos, los estudios de flamencos en cautiverio que complementan los estudios de campo pueden ser un recurso valioso para contestar algunas preguntas sobre la biologa del flamenco y la plasticidad de algunas caractersticas. Estudios pasados, presentes y propuestos sobre flamencos en cautiverio cubren una variedad de disciplinas, incluyendo etiologa, morfologa, fisiologa y endocrinologa. Los investigadores de campo y los de zoolgicos se beneficiarn de una colaboracin ms estrecha para identificar las contribuciones potenciales de las investigaciones de flamencos en cautiverio y en la realizacin de investigaciones relevantes. 
10.2307/1522160| In the Basle Zoo, Switzerland, I studied the behavior of the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) in a group of color-ringed birds with breeding success for the past 42 years. The "courtship display," a group display occurring occasionally throughout the year, may last for hours in the prebreeding months. The ritualized movements, identically performed by both sexes indicate changing mood, or place, or both. Highest synchronization occurs in groups of 15-25 birds. This behavior brings birds of similar breeding readiness together weeks before breeding, often at places far away from a possible breeding site, and is interpreted as preparation for a prospective collective change of activity (to breeding), and of place (to the breeding site). If breeding conditions improve, these groups may begin egg-laying within a few days. The duration of the pair bond varies from changing the mate every season to several years, probably depending on the number of birds present. Molting of the remiges is highly variable, ranging from replacing only a few feathers to loosing all within a few days, from molting every year to skipping 1 year or 2. Chicks are capable of flight before they are full-grown. Overall, the factors that enable the Greater Flamingo to reproduce successfully in a habitat characterized by irregular climatic conditions, which often lead to irregularly available feeding and breeding sites, include the following: (1) the highly developed behavior of social stimulation; (2) the formation of breeding groups independent from breeding time and place, which allows rapid initiation of breeding after arrival at the nesting area; and (3) the early attainment of flight capability in chicks. /// En el zoolgico de Basle, Suiza, yo estudi el comportamiento del flamenco comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) en un grupo de individuos anillados que ha reproducido exitosamente durante los ltimos 42 aos. El despliegue de cortejo, un despliegue colectivo que ocurre ocasionalmente durante todo el ao, puede durar varias horas en los meses previos a la reproduccin. Los movimientos ritualizados son realizados de forma idntica por los dos sexos e indican cambios en disposicin, lugar o ambos. El grado ms alto de sincronizacin ocurre en grupos de 15-25 individuos. El cortejo congrega a individuos del mismo grado de disposicin varias semanas antes de reproducir, frecuentemente en lugares lejanos al lugar de reproduccin, y es interpretado como una preparacin para un cambio probable en actividad (a reproduccin) y de lugar (al sitio de reproduccin). Si las condiciones para la reproduccin mejoran, estos grupos pueden comenzar la postura de huevos en pocos das. La duracin del vnculo de la pareja vara desde un cambio de pareja de una temporada a otra, a un cambio cada varios aos y probablemente depende del nmero de individuos presentes. La muda de plumas remeras es altamente variable y va desde el reemplazo de pocas plumas a la prdida completa en el transcurso de pocos das, a mudas anuales o cada ao por medio o cada 2 aos. Los pollos son capaces de volar antes de llegar a tamao adulto. En general, las siguientes caractersticas son adaptaciones que permiten la reproduccin exitosa del flamenco mayor en un hbitat caracterizado por condiciones climticas irregulares, que frecuentemente llevan a una disponibilidad irregular de sitios de alimentacin y reproduccin: (1) comportamiento de estimulacin social altamente desarrollado; (2) la formacin de grupos reproductores fuera de la poca y del sitio de reproduccin, lo cual permite la iniciacin rpida de la reproduccin una vez que llegan al sitio; (3) la capacidad temprana de vuelo en los pollos; (4) el patrn de muda de las plumas remeras. 
10.2307/1522161| Plumages and molt patterns of Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) have been previously described by various authors. However, there is no consensus on exact numbers of plumages from hatching to adult and no study appears to have documented the details of timing and sequence of molt for individual feather tracts. This study examined the plumages and molts of individual birds in a captive breeding flock of Caribbean Flamingos at the Audubon Park Zoo in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA. Timing of flight-feather molt was found to depend on age and breeding status. Frequency and timing of body molt varied by feather tract, with some tracts being replaced up to 3 times/year, and others only once every 2 years. Each feather tract seemed to have defined, predictable periods of replacement that were not necessarily concurrent with replacement cycles of other tracts. As a result, individual birds were replacing feathers nearly year-round. /// El plumaje y los patrones de muda en el flamenco caribeo (Phoenicopetus ruber ruber) han sido descritos por varios autores. Sin embargo, no existe un consenso sobre el nmero exacto de plumajes por los que pasan desde la eclosin hasta el perodo adulto, y ningn estudio ha documentado los detalles de la cronologa y secuencia de la muda para tractos individuales de plumas. Este estudio examina los plumajes y las mudas de individuos de un grupo de flamencos caribeos en cautiverio en el Parque Zoolgico Audubon en Nueva Orleans, Louisiana, EE.UU. Se encontr que la cronologa de la muda de las plumas de vuelo depende de la edad y del estado reproductivo. La frecuencia y el ritmo de la muda corporal vari por tracto y algunos tractos son repuestos hasta 3 veces por ao mientras que otros slo una vez cada 2 aos. Cada tracto de plumas aparenta tener perodos definidos y predecibles de reemplazo que no son necesariamente concurrentes con los ciclos de reemplazo de otros tractos. Como resultado, individuos reemplazaban sus plumas durante todo el ao. 
10.2307/1522162| Flamingos reproduce with some regularity in captivity. Although birds tend to be monogamous when selecting a nest site, incubating, and rearing chicks, extra-pair copulations are common. Over 13 years, a captive breeding flock of Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) at the Audubon Park Zoo in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, was studied to document formation and longevity of pair bonds, mate fidelity, pair separation, and how fluid relationships related to promiscuity. Notes were taken on a daily basis during the breeding season and included observations on pairings, copulations, selection and defense of nest-sites, and chick rearing. Associations outside the breeding season also were followed. Some birds remained faithful to a single partner throughout the study period, whereas others changed partners several times. Trios or quartets tended to form among small social groups of birds that regularly traded partners within the groups. Extra-pair copulations occurred both within and outside the social groups. /// Los flamencos se reproducen con cierta regularidad en cautiverio. Si bien tienden a ser mongamos cuando estn seleccionando su sitio de nidificacin, durante la incubacin y la cra de pollos, las copulaciones con individuos fuera de la pareja son comunes. El grupo de flamencos caribeos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) que reproduce regularmente, en cautiverio en el Audubon Park Zoo de Nueva Orleans, Louisiana, EE.UU, fue estudiado durante 13 aos para documentar la formacin del vnculo de la pareja y su duracin, la fidelidad de pareja, la separacin de pareja y cmo las relaciones fluidas estaban relacionadas a la promiscuidad. Se tomaron notas diariamente durante la temporada de reproduccin que incluyeron observaciones sobre formacin de parejas, copulaciones, seleccin y defensa de sitios de nidificacin, y la cra de pollos. Las asociaciones fuera de la temporada de reproduccin tambin fueron seguidas. Algunos individuos se mantuvieron fieles a una pareja durante el perodo completo del estudio mientras que otros cambiaron de pareja varias veces. Tendieron a formarse grupos sociales pequeos de 3 y 4 individuos y estos individuos cambiaron de pareja regularmente dentro del grupo. Copulaciones fuera de la pareja ocurrieron tanto con individuos dentro como fuera de los grupos sociales. 
10.2307/1522163| Vocalizations are an important life-history attribute of birds, vet the various vocalizations of flamingos have never been thoroughly investigated. Hence, the objective of this study was to determine, sonographically, the variability in calls of 2 species held at the Dallas Zoo, Texas, USA: the Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis) and the Caribbean Flamingo (P. ruber ruber). I recorded vocalizations of individually marked flamingos performing various behavioral acts, which were grouped into categories of alert, aggressive, head-flag, walk, wing-flap, and miscellaneous. The calls had 4 different structural forms: repetitive (a rapid repetition of short notes), tonal (harmonic), buzzy (a broad-spectrum call), and combination (a call with both repetitive and tonal elements). The alert behavioral category had the largest variability in call types for both species. Calls given during aggressive and wing-flap behavioral acts were short notes with less variability. Males tended to produce repetitive or buzzy call types, while females produced tonal call types. This trend was most obvious in the vocalizations given during the wing-flap display. /// Las vocalizaciones son un atributo importante de la historia vital de las aves. Sin embargo, las vocalizaciones de los flamencos no han sido profundamente estudiadas. El primer objetivo de este estudio fue determinar de manera sonogrfica la variabilidad de cantos de dos especies de flamenco albergadas en el zoolgico de Dallas, Texas, EE.UU.: el flamenco austral (Phoenicopterus chilensis) y el flamenco caribeo (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber). Yo grab las vocalizaciones de individuos marcados mientras realizaban varios tipos de comportamiento que agrup en las categoras alerta, agresin, flanqueo de cabeza, caminando, aleteo y miscelneos. Las vocalizaciones tuvieron 4 formas estructurales: repetitiva (una repeticin rpida de notas cortas), tonal (harmnica), zumbido (de amplio espectro), y combinacin (con elementos repetitivos y tonales). La categora de comportamiento alerto tuvo la mayor variabilidad de tipos de vocalizacin para las dos especies. Las vocalizaciones producidas durante comportamientos agresivos y aleteos fueron notas cortas de menor variabilidad. Los machos tendieron a producir vocalizaciones de tipo repetitivo  zumbidos mientras que las hembras produjeron vocalizaciones de tipo tonal. Estas tendencias fueron ms marcadas en vocalizaciones producidas durante el aleteo. 
10.2307/1522164| When the group of Greater Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) in the Basle Zoo, Switzerland, was moved to another area, the opportunity was taken to develop a new exhibit that reflected the behavioral demands of the flamingos to a greater extent than was possible at the old enclosure. The main objectives of at the new location were improvement of the feeding situation and a reduction of the high egg losses in the breeding colony, which were interpreted as a husbandry problem. Because of the different structures in the new exhibit, the following goals were largely achieved: (1) a more natural behavior over the year; and (2) a general increase in activity, particularly foraging behavior and social stimulation. The start of breeding also become calmer, and egg losses in the settling colony were reduced. /// Cuando se translad a un grupo de flamencos comn (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) a un lugar nuevo en el zoolgico de Basle de Suiza, se aprovech la oportunidad para disear una exhibicin que tomara en cuenta las exigencias del comportamiento de los flamencos en una medida mayor a la que permita el recinto anterior. Los objetivos principales en la ubicacin nueva fueron el mejoramiento de la situacin de alimentacin y la reduccin de las altas prdidas de huevos en la colonia de nidificacin. Estos dos fueron interpretadas como problemas en el cuidado y manejo de los animales. Debido a las diferentes estructuras en la nueva exhibicin, las siguientes metas fueron mayormente logradas: (1) un comportamient ms natural durante todo el ao; (2) un aumento general en actividad, particularmente en el comportamiento de forrajeo y el de estimulacin social. Se logr calmar el inicio de la reproduccin y las prdidas en la colonia asentadora fueron reducidas. 
10.2307/1522165| SeaWorld California (SWC) has a well established and prolific Caribbean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) colony, and recently has achieved reproductive success with Lesser Flamingos (Phoeniconaias minor). In 1996, 2 Caribbean Flamingo chicks neglected by their parents were successfully hand-reared. In 1997, SWC simultaneously hand-reared 3 at-risk Caribbean Flamingos and 3 at-risk Lesser Flamingos. The latter were the first reported Lesser Flamingos successfully hand-reared in North America. Here we examine and compare incubation, food volume, hand-rearing techniques, and growth rates of the 2 species through various stages of development in the 1997 season. /// SeaWorld California (SWC) tiene una colonia bien establecida y prolfica de flamenco caribeo (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) y recientemente ha logrado reproducir exitosamente al flamenco menor (Phoeniconaias minor). En 1996, 2 pollos que fueron descuidados por los padres fueron criados a mano con xito. En 1997, SWC cri a mano simultneamente 3 flamencos caribeos de alto riesgo y 3 flamencos menores tambin de alto riesgo. Estos ltimos son los primeros registros de flamencos menores criados a mano exitosamente en norteamrica. En este trabajo examinamos y comparamos la incubacin, el volumen de alimento, las tcnicas de crianza y las tasas de crecimiento de las 2 especies durante varios estados de desarrollo en la temporada de reproduccin de 1997. 
10.2307/1522166| The Flamingo Specialist Group, established by the International Couincil for Bird Preservation (ICBP; now BirdLife International) in 1971, is among many specialist groups functioning on a voluntary basis under the auspices of Wetlands International and the Species Survival Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN). The Flamingo Symposium held in Miami in October 1999 was the second truly international gathering of persons interested in this group of birds, the first symposium having been held in the United Kingdom in 1973. Other meetings and workshops have been held over the intervening years, concerning flamingos both in the wild and in captivity, in both the Old World and the New World. Estimations of the numbers of the different species and subspecies of flamingos occurring in the world are discussed. The group produces an annual newsletter and will soon establish a flamingo action plan. /// El Grupo de Especialistas en Flamencos (FSG) fue fundado por el la Consejo Internacional para la Preservacin de las Aves (ICBP, ahora BirdLife International) en 1971. Es uno de los grupos de especialistas que funcionan en base a trabajo voluntario, bajo el patrocinio de Wetlands International y la Comisin para la Conservacin de Especies (Species Survival Comission) de la UICN. El simposio sobre flamencos que se llev a cabo en Miami en octubre de 1998 fue su segunda reunin internacional. La primera tuvo lugar en Inglaterra en 1973. Entre tanto, otras reuniones y talleres se han llevado a cabo sobre flamencos en cautiverio y silvestres, tanto en en Nuevo como Viejo Mundo. Se discuten las estimaciones globales de poblaciones de las distintas especies y subespecies. El Grupo produce un boletn informativo anualmente y pronto desarrollar un Plan de Accin para la Conservacin de Flamencos. 
10.2307/1522167| Although flamingo biologists have made significant contributions to the conservation biology of the birds they cherish, historically progress in the field has been both measured and incremental, with most effort focusing on documenting the natural history of free-ranging flamingos and the care and maintenance of captive birds. Many flamingo biologists speak to each other more than to workers in other areas of biology and conservation science. Progress in our field has been greatest for those working for long periods and over large areas, in collaboration with workers in other disciplines. However, sufficient information about habitat dynamics and how flamingos use habitat has been generated to know that regional, landscape-level strategies will be required for conservation of wetland complexes and their associated flamingos. We suggest that future advances in flamingo biology are most likely to accrue to those who (1) form partnerships and integrate their efforts into the larger fields of ornithology and conservation science, (2) operate at the appropriate scale for the questions at hand, and (3) increase efforts to test hypotheses and adopt an experimental approach. /// Si bien los bilogos que estudian flamencos han hecho contribuciones significativas hacia la conservacin de las aves que aprecian, histricamente, el progreso en el rea ha sido medido e incremental. La mayora de los esfuerzos se han enfocado en documentar la historia natural de los flamencos silvestres y el cuidado y mantenimiento de estas aves en cautiverio. Muchos bilogos que trabajan con flamencos hablan entre s ms que con gente que trabaja en otras reas de la biologa y la ciencia de la conservacin. El progreso en nuestra rea ha sido mayor para aquellos trabajando por perodos largos de tiempo y abarcando grandes extensiones de terreno, en colaboracin con gente de otras disciplinas. Sin embargo, se ha generado suficiente informacin sobre la dinmica del hbitat y cmo los flamencos usan este hbitat como para saber que se requerirn estrategias regionales y a nivel del paisaje para conservar los complejos de humedales y sus flamencos asociados. Sugerimos que avances en el conocimiento biolgico sobre flamencos son ms probables para quienes (1) forman alianzas e integran sus esfuerzos a campos ms amplios de la ornitologa y la ciencia de la conservacin, (2) operan a una escala adecuada para las preguntas que estn haciendo, y (3) aumentan sus esfuerzos para probar hiptesis y adoptan un enfoque experimental. 
10.2307/1522236|We studied the diurnal and seasonal activity budget of Moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) along a river in NW Italy. Since visual observations are sometimes difficult, we utilized radio-tracking with motion-sensitive transmitters, a technique that distinguishes between resting and walking/foraging activities. Radio-tracking estimates of the home ranges provided values (mean 3-5 ha) about one order of magnitude higher than those reported in the literature and based on visual estimates. Analysis of habitat preferences showed a positive selection for reeds, marsh woods and stretches of water, while cultivated fields were avoided. The percentage of time spent in activity during the day was distributed differently between the colder (December to February) and warmer months (March and April). In winter, the birds were active mainly in the early morning, and resting increased progressively as the day proceeded. In spring, activity was distributed uniformly throughout the day. However, there was no overall difference between the colder and warmer periods in the total time spent in activity each day (about 44%). The time spent in activity was not related to daily temperature. In the same group of birds, the fat reserves were progressively depleted during winter, as demonstrated by a gradual decrease of total body mass and fat; moreover, the loss of mass was greater on colder days. The findings for both activity budget and mass variation suggest that the birds do not try to counteract fat loss; they do not increase the time spent feeding in the colder months nor do they increase their activity during days with lower temperatures.
10.2307/1522237|Satellite tracking was used to examine movements of the threatened Pink-footed Shearwater (Puffinus creatopus) from Isla Mocha, Chile, during the chick-rearing period in 1998. We were able to track one breeding bird, one bird of unknown status and one prospector. Whereas the first two performed foraging flights and returned to the colony after about a two weeks absence, the last traveled north for four weeks, suggesting that it had started migration towards the wintering grounds in the northern hemisphere. Faster travel speeds during the day than during the night were found for all three birds. A major foraging zone was located about 250-300 km north of Isla Mocha and close to the Chilean mainland. The preference of Pink-footed Shearwaters for waters close to the coast when feeding, as well as when migrating, has implications for the conservation of the species.
10.2307/1522238|The three South American flamingos, Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis), Andean Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus andinus) and James' Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus jamesi), coexist in Laguna de Pozuelos (Jujuy Province, northwestern Argentina). This lake is an important overwintering habitat for Andean and James' Flamingos. The Chilean Flamingo is the predominant species and the only one breeding on the lake. This study was conducted from 1992 to 1995 during a period of drought. I report changes in the habitat conditions and how they affect the presence and abundance of flamingo species. Results indicate that in years of below average rainfall, the number of flamingos decreased appreciably, and their expected seasonal pattern of abundance is affected. Chilean Flamingo abundance showed a positive association with the size of the lake, possibly related to the scarcity of deep foraging areas. Zooplankton was lacking, so the presence of Chilean Flamingo might not be related to it. Diatom density was not a limiting resource for James and Andean Flamingos. James' Flamingo preferred to feed near the banks, and was favored by the availability of shallow foraging habitats as the lake contracted. Flamingos recorded in Laguna de Pozuelos represent a fraction of their entire populations within the high-Andes wetland complex. In this context. Pozuelos is an important habitat for flamingos and one of the main breeding grounds for Chilean Flamingo at high altitudes.
10.2307/1522239| We conducted weekly aerial surveys of islands along the central Maine coast from April-June of 1993-1997 and used aerial photographs to determine peak nest count dates for Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus). These data also were used to determine the potential effect of survey timing on the ability to detect long-term trends in the abundance of these species. The number of cormorant nests in the study area peaked in mid-June, while Great Black-backed and Herring gulls peaked in late May and early June, respectively. Peak nesting dates generally were consistent for each island across years, but varied by up to a month between islands during a given year. A 10-year monitoring program using annual surveys conducted between 23 May and 23 June, or biennial surveys conducted from 2-17 June, would have an 80% probability of detecting annual changes of 5% for all three species in this region. 
10.2307/1522240|In most seabirds, breeding success can be related to the ability to obtain a suitable nest-site within the colony, and this may result in competition for the limited number of available sites. Thus, if nest-sites vary in quality, individuals of the same sex are expected to compete for access to the highest quality nest-sites to enhance their own fitness. It is therefore expected that intrasexual competition would result in a correlation between size in the competing sex, or the size of a trait used as a weapon, and nest quality. Chinstrap Penguins (Pygoscelis antarctica) fight with other conspecifics using the bill as a weapon. If bill size provides an advantage for intra-specific combat, we would expect stronger bills in males occupying the best nest sites. We studied patterns of some adult morphological traits in relation with nest position in a colony of Chinstrap Penguins. Bill morphology was related to nest position in the colony, with individuals occupying the central positions having the deeper bills. This relationship was found in both sexes. Our data suggest that competition for position within the colony is not an important factor involved in the sexual dimorphism shown by the Chinstrap Penguin.
10.2307/1522241|Recruitment is the process by which young birds are added to the breeding population. The two most commonly used methods to estimate recruitment in ducks are pair/brood counts, and fall age ratios based on wings returned by hunters. Direct counts on the wintering area to determine the proportion of young males to adult males (age ratios), can be used for species with delayed plumage maturation. This is useful for species that are difficult to study on the breeding grounds and are seldom hunted, such as Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus). Such an approach is only valid if age classes are equally sampled. Between 1994 and 1999, the proportion of male Harlequin Ducks that were immatures in the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia, was estimated at 0.068. The proportions differed across years. Little difference occurred through the winter months until spring, when there was a significant increase in proportions in March. If these age ratios are accurate, then recruitment would not be compensating for annual adult mortality and the population could have been declining during the period of our study. However, if immature males are not distributed evenly among the population, then our assessment may underestimate or overestimate proportions. Delayed breeding means that immature birds experience several additional seasons of mortality prior to breeding, and thus the actual recruitment rate into the breeding population would be lower than that presented here.
10.2307/1522242|We sexed 327 Roseate Tern chicks (Sterna dougallii) at hatching and measured their growth during the first three days of life. These data on early growth predict their survival to fledging with high confidence (97% for A-chicks and 83% for B-chicks), using a discriminant function derived in an earlier study. After controlling for other factors, there was no evidence that early growth or survival differed between males and females. This finding in a sexually monomorphic species is consistent with the hypothesis that the sex-biased chick mortality observed in sexually dimorphic species results from differential costs in chick-raising.
10.2307/1522243| We studied the diet composition and overlap of Scarlet Ibises (Eudocimus ruber) and Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea) in a mangrove swamp in southeast Brazil during the 1996-1997 breeding season, which occurs during the rainiest period. Crabs comprised 95% of all prey taken by the ibises and 80% of the prey of the herons. Nevertheless, diet overlap was small (30%) due to ibises feeding mostly on Uca spp. and Eurythium limosum crabs, which were taken from their burrows; the herons fed on the arboreal and semi-arboreal Aratus pisonii and Metasesarma rubripes crabs. Divergent hunting strategies of ibises (tactile foragers) and herons (visually-oriented predators) explains the diet segregation when preying on an ecologically diverse crab guild, but it is unclear why herons prey rarely on fiddler crabs. Scarlet Ibises bred successfully while feeding on estuarine organisms living in low salinities in the mangroves, showing that mangroves may be adequate foraging habitats for chick-rearing ibises during periods of low salinity. 
10.2307/1522244|The breeding biology of the only Scarlet Ibis Eudocimus ruber colony in southeastern Brazil was studied during the 1996-97 breeding season. The ibises began to visit their colony site by mid-September. Nest building and egg laying took place in early November and was synchronous, making the first "nesting pulse". Mean clutch size in this pulse was 2.45 eggs/nest, and 0.67 young/nest reached age three weeks, when they were able to walk about the nest tree and environs. Predation was the main cause of nest failures (74% of all losses), followed by nest collapses (19%). A second nesting pulse, also synchronous, started in late December, when the young from the first nests were already able to wander about the colony and make short flights. Mean clutch size of this pulse was 2.05 eggs/nest and productivity was 0.34 young/nest. Nest collapses during storms accounted for 58% of the losses, and predation for a further 27%. A third pulse, with only a few nests, started when the second pulse young were in their third week, but no nest was successful. The incubation time was 21-24 days, and the young were able to fly well when 40 days old, deserting the colony by age 75 days. Nesting early in the breeding season yielded greater success. Nests were built close to each other (a sphere with a 1.8 m radius and centered on an average nest would include the four nearest neighbors) and there was always more than one nest per tree. Most nests were built on the upper third of the nest-tree and had some cover from overhanging branches. There was a trend for the ibises building their nests in even closer proximity during the second pulse, perhaps as a strategy to lessen individual predation risks.
10.2307/1522245|We studied the feeding ecology of Sandwich Terns (Sterna sandvicensis) in the presence of kleptoparasitising Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus) on the Isle of Griend, The Netherlands, between 1992 and 1998. About 30% of all of the food the parents transported to the colony was lost, mainly through intervention by Black-headed Gulls. The gulls mainly took the larger fish, but showed no preference for the energetically more profitable herring. Apparently, the gulls selected for prey length or visibility of the prey, rather than for energy content of the fish. The proportion of food robbed by the gulls increased with the age of the tern chicks and was in parallel to the increase in prey length Sandwich Tern parents brought to the colony. Kleptoparasitism showed a clear pattern with time of the day, tide and wind speed. During the first few hours of the day, almost no kleptoparasitism occurred, while robbery was high around 09.00h and at dusk. This bimodal pattern in kleptoparasitism might be related to the foraging activity of the gulls. A tidal effect on food loss was less pronounced, although kleptoparasitism was significantly higher during high tide, when foraging activity of gulls for other foods was low and the number of potential pirates in the tern colony was high. Wind strength had a significant negative effect on the amount of food transported to the colony, while kleptoparasitism increased. Therefore, wind speed severely affected energy intake of the tern chicks and had strong negative effects on chick growth. During the first two weeks post-hatching, kleptoparasitism was relatively low and had only small effects on chick growth, even under unfavourable weather conditions. From then on, the negative effects of kleptoparasitism on growth became considerable. Chick growth was severely affected by strong winds. Sandwich Terns show several behavioral strategies in order to reduce the rate of food loss by the gulls and to minimize the effects on chick growth and survival.
10.2307/1522246|Egg size variation in the Pied Avocet Recurvirostra avosetta was studied at seven breeding colonies on the North Sea coast of Schleswig-Holstein in Germany in 1999. A total of 999 eggs from 283 clutches were measured during the whole breeding period. Egg size was very variable and most variance was due to differences between clutches. Eggs within a clutch were relatively uniform in size. Size differences due to laying order could not be detected. Egg size did not differ between four-egg and three-egg clutches. Egg size, clutch size and the length of the incubation period decreased as the season progressed. Egg size and chick size at hatching were positively correlated.
10.2307/1522247| Common Terns (Sterna hirundo), which breed in North America and migrate into the southern hemisphere in winter, show a wide nonbreeding distribution that includes the Atlantic coasts of Argentina and Brazil. At Punta Rasa (Samborombon Bay, Argentina), there were about 30,000 Common Terns. Their diet in winter was assessed by the analysis of regurgitated pellets collected at Punta Rasa. Adult Coleoptera, Odonata, Orthoptera and Hemiptera were the main insects found in the diet. A total of 14 species of fishes were identified. Argentine Anchovy (Engraulis anchoita) and Anchovy (Anchoa marinii) (Family Engraulidae), represented 79% by number and the 78% of the consumed biomass of fish prey. The average length of fish prey was 90.0  17.6 mm. Half the prey lived in seawater, while the other half was taken in estuarine or seawater. There was no evidence of fish prey taken by terns foraging in freshwater habitats. Total consumption of food was estimated as 106 tons of fish (most of them juvenile) during a five month period at Punta Rasa. 
10.2307/1522248| We developed both deterministic and stochastic (through Monte Carlo simulations) matrix projection models to account for the relative roles of local recruitment and immigration in the formation and growth of a new colony of the European Shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) in the western Mediterranean (Columbretes Islands). The best fit of observed and simulated growth curves of the colony was obtained by introducing two immigration waves and taking into account demographic stochasticity. Immigration and local recruitment of the founder population alone cannot explain the observed growth of the colony. Immigrants might come from a large colony in Majorca Island, approximately 160 km. away, that declined markedly at the same time that the Columbretes colony was established. According to a sensitivity and elasticity analysis, changes in 4 year old adult survival have the largest impact on the population growth rate (). 
10.2307/1522249|We measured waterbird richness and abundance, and characterized wetland features (altitude, size, and presence of submergent vegetation) of 50 altiplano wetlands, during summer and winter, 1998. We estimated 36,700 individuals of 24 avian species during the summer census. James' Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus jamesi) and Andean Flamingo (P. andinus) were the most abundant species, followed by Horned Coot (Fulica cornuta), Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis), and Crested Duck (Anas specularioides). These species comprised 78% of total individuals. In winter, we counted 7,421 individuals of 16 species, and the three flamingo species were the most abundant. In summer, we found Chilean and Andean Flamingos primarily in intermediate-altitude wetlands (3,500-4,000 m a.s.l.), whereas James' Flamingos and other waterbirds were above 4,000 m. In winter, the three flamingo species moved to lower-altitude wetlands (below 3,500 m). Waterbird abundance was positively correlated with wetland size in wetlands with aquatic vegetation, with waterbird richness in wetlands without macrophytes. During summer, total abundance and richness were significantly higher in wetlands with macrophytes, where Chilean Flamingo and ten other waterbird species (e.g., ducks, grebes, gulls, and coots) were more common. James' Flamingo was the only species more abundant in hypersaline wetlands. In summer, four wetlands (Grande, La Alumbrera, Vilama, and Pozuelos) contained 68% of the total individuals, with more than 3,000 waterbirds each. In winter, wetlands Pozuelos and Guayatayoc included 50% of waterbirds counted, with more than 5,000 birds each. Thirty four percent of the wetlands surveyed are within protected areas, but only in Laguna de los Pozuelos Natural Monument is it actually implemented. In 42% of the wetlands we detected land uses that could represent threats to these environments. Here we propose some criteria to detect and prioritize relevant sites for conservation of altiplano waterbirds: a) large aggregations of individuals, either seasonal or permanent, b) vulnerable and/or endemic species and presence of nesting sites, c) ecological uniqueness, d) proximity to other complementary wetlands, e) high heterogeneity between and within sites. The complementary use of these environments by waterbirds, both seasonally and spatially, suggests considering conservation action from a landscape perspective.
10.2307/1522250|Infrequent but synchronized flowering of bamboo species in southern Chile provides abundant seeds, causing outbreaks of granivorous rodents. During one of these events in 1995 at Peulla, Todos los Santos Lake, a flock of Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) fed almost exclusively on dead rodents, mainly the Rice Rat (Oligoryzomys longicaudatus). After the mouse outbreak, gulls abandoned the area. As gulls are not abundant residents of inland lakes in southern Chile, these observations suggest that gulls were particularly attracted to the area by the high availability of dead rodents.
10.2307/1522251|Four attempts of double-brooding (rearing two broods in one year) in the Red-necked Grebe (Podiceps grisegena) in SE Poland were recorded out of 163 breeding pairs studied over the period 1993-1999. Two pairs successfully reared two broods during the same nesting season. Time appears to be an important constraint on the incidence of double-brooding. The pairs attempting double-brooding were among the earliest breeders and the second clutches were started early, relative to the hatching time of the previous brood. All pairs attempting a second brood nested on fry ponds with high fish availability. Double-brooded pairs fed the first-brood young more frequently before the onset and after termination of incubation of the second clutch than did single-brooded pairs during the corresponding period of brood rearing. However, in comparison with single-breeders, parents attempting double-broods were aggressive to the first-brood young earlier and fed them less frequently during the incubation of the subsequent clutch. Apparently only early breeding on territories with abundant food allows grebe parents to overcome conflicting pressures resulting from overlapping parental investment in successive reproductive attempts.
10.2307/1522252|During the winter months Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) often form feeding associations with Red-breasted Mergansers (Mergus serrator) at Bolsa Chica Ecological Reserve, Orange County, California. We quantified and compared foraging success of egrets feeding in associations with success of egrets feeding independently. During winter 1996-1997, egrets feeding with mergansers increased their rate of prey acquisition by increasing both their striking rate (strikes/min) and their striking efficiency (captures/strike). In contrast, during winter 1997-98 we found no differences in the rate of prey acquisition between egrets feeding independently and those feeding in association with mergansers. Although we did not quantify the size of prey taken, egrets feeding in associations in 1997-1998 may have captured larger prey than those that were feeding alone. Egrets may benefit from feeding in associations with mergansers by increasing their prey capture rate and/or by capturing larger prey.
10.2307/1522253|We examined the diet of Long-tailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) in the autumn and winter of 1998-99 in the Belcher Islands, Nunavut, Canada. Collections were made in early November before sea ice had formed and in February and March, the time of maximum ice cover. Eight birds collected in the autumn and 19 collected in the winter had food items in the proventriculus/esophagus. For birds collected in the fall, 89% (aggregate wet mass) of the diet consisted of the amphipod Calliopius laeviusculus. The remainder consisted of other smaller amphipods (5%) and sandlance (sandeels, Ammodytes sp.; 6%). In winter, Long-tailed Duck diet consisted of the amphipod Ischyrocerus anquipes (69%), fish eggs (probably sandlance; 24%), sandlance (1%) and other amphipods (5%). Long-tailed Duck foraging at the landfast ice floe edge along coasts fed mostly on fish and fish eggs, while those in polynyas among islands fed on amphipods. Consuming soft-bodied prey with high energy densities is likely to allow Long-tailed Ducks to successfully winter in the predominately ice-covered Hudson Bay.
10.2307/1522254|Gulls breeding in enclosures tend to have slightly lower success than those nesting elsewhere in a colony. Yet, in several recent years, California Gulls (Larus californicus) nesting in enclosures at Mono Lake, California, produced far more young than those breeding outside. In each of those years, colony-wide productivity was extremely low, due to predation on eggs and chicks by conspecifics. Birds in enclosures probably fared better because the fence walls reduced trespassing. Because rates of intraspecific aggression and predation vary annually, enclosure effects should be expected to vary between years. Conditions throughout a colony need to be evaluated before data from enclosures are used as an index of overall production.
10.2307/1522255|Longlining has been encouraged in Peru as an opportunity for small-scale fishermen to reduce cetacean mortality in gill nets. Very little is known about seabird by-catch in this longline fishery. In January 1999, we conducted surveys in five fishing villages in northern Peru to estimate seabird by-catch and 29 fishermen were interviewed. Eighty percent of the fishermen used frozen bait, which increases the probability of seabird mortality. Ninety percent of fishermen confirmed that birds are hooked while setting the gear. Additionally, we found that over 40% of hooked seabirds were albatrosses. The most common albatross off northern Peru is the Waved Albatross (Phoebastria irrorata) and about 60% of the population of the Chatham Island Albatross (Thalassarche eremita) winters off Peru. Both species are considered threatened due to their small population sizes. Seabird by-catch in the Peruvian small-scale longline fishery should be of conservation concern; pooled estimates of by-catch rates based on interviews were 1 to 2 birds/1,000 hooks. The estimated by-catch of albatrosses by the entire fleet is likely to lie between 2,370 and 5,610 birds each year, which represents between 5% and 13% of the pooled populations of the Waved and Chatham Island Albatrosses. Even though these numbers are extrapolations, they can be considered a rough indicator of the magnitude of the seabird by-catch by the small-scale longline fishery in Peru. Further research that includes onboard seabird by-catch surveys as well as a larger sample of interviews with fishermen are required. Public awareness that encourages the implementation of by-catch deterrence measures such as bird lines, night setting of hooks, and the use of fresh bait, will help reduce by-catch and bait loss, thus benefiting fishermen and promoting albatross conservation.
10.2307/1522024| Habitat use by ardeids in Starling Inlet, Hong Kong, was assessed by walking a fixed 6 km route, two or three times a month, during low tide between August 1997 and August 1998. A total of 36 surveys were made, with a mean count of 452 individuals per survey (S.E.  128). Eight species of ardeids and two species of bitterns were recorded. In the winter, non-breeding season, the dominant species was the Great Egret (Casmerodius albus), while in the summer (breeding season) it was the Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax). Shallow coastal waters and mudflats were the most important habitats at low tide for Great and Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta), and Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea), while fishponds were the most important for Black-crowned Night Herons. A freshwater marsh was used mainly by Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) and Intermediate Egrets (Mesophoyx intermedia). During the 1998 breeding season, a comparison was made between the census and a flight-line methods in evaluating ardeid habitat use. Both methods gave similar results for habitat use by Great and Little Egrets, but the census method underestimated the use of mangrove habitats by Black-crowned Night Herons and missed the use of wet grassland habitats outside the inlet by Cattle Egrets. We suggest that the census method is more efficient for assessing the use of particular open habitats, while the flight-line method is more accurate for investigating overall use of a landscape during the breeding season. 
10.2307/1522025| Although the Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) usually nests in mature coniferous trees throughout most of its range, in south-central Alaska Marbled Murrelet nests have been found on the ground in unforested areas as frequently as they have been found in older-aged forests. Because ground nests are typically found serendipitously, the relative occurrence of ground nesting is unknown. Further, the importance of unforested habitat to nesting murrelets is unknown. Comparing murrelet dawn activity (related to breeding activity) in forested and unforested habitats in the Kenai Fjords National Park, Alaska in July, 1993, we found that the number of inland murrelet "detections" was appreciably and significantly higher in forested than in unforested habitat (forested stations: x = 48.1 detections per station, SE  7.7; unforested stations: x = 17.4, SE  4.0). Visual observations of murrelets flying close to the ground or trees are indicators of nesting, and were much more frequently observed in forested areas. Within unforested areas, murrelet land-use may be related to the amount of low vegetation and shrubs, as stations with more vegetation had higher dawn activity. These data suggest that, although Marbled Murrelets nest on unforested ground in south-central Alaska, forested habitat is much more heavily occupied than unforested habitat. We propose that habitat devoid of older-aged coniferous forest is suboptimal due to the shortage of nest sites that are as protected from predators and weather as those provided by the 3-dimensional structure of mature trees and older-aged forests. 
10.2307/1522026|Males and females of many avian species may show no plumage dimorphism, but often can be sexed by differences in body measurements. Sex determination of many Cory's Shearwaters Calonectris diomedea, was possible by multiplying bill length by bill depth. In this study, discriminant analysis of six measurements (bill length, bill depth, wing, tail, tarsus and mass) was performed on Cory's Shearwaters breeding on Linosa Island (Sicilian Channel), Italy and the efficiency of sex determination was compared with the univariate method. Results show the advantages of the discriminant functions. Bill depth is the best parameter (up to 92% correct classification), followed by mass (84% correct classification); using mass is simple and causes less disturbance to the birds.
10.2307/1522027|Studies of kin recognition in birds have rarely tested its adaptive value. We tested whether sibling recognition helps Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) chicks find their nests. The ability to discriminate the natal nest from neighboring nests is critical to survival in chicks of ground-nesting, colonial birds, such as the Common Tern. We temporarily moved 70 four-day old chicks 1 m from their nests and compared their ability to return home across the following treatments: siblings in natal nest, no chicks in nest, siblings in neighboring nest, and non-siblings in test chick's nest. With a sibling in the natal nest, test chicks returned within 20 min in 14 of 20 trials. In all other treatments, fewer than half of the chicks returned. When chicks did return, they typically did so within 5 min. Several additional factors may affect nest site homing, such as parental behavior, aggression by neighboring adults, and habitat type. To control for these factors, we restricted the dataset for analysis to 27 nests by excluding chicks led back to the nest by a parent, chicks attacked by neighboring adults, and nests on a rocky beach (most experiments were performed in grassy habitat). In the restricted dataset, seven of nine chicks with siblings in the nest returned. Two of five returned in the empty nest treatment, none of six with siblings at a neighboring nest returned, and one of seven with non-siblings in the nest returned. There was significant variation among treatments in the final distance of test chicks from their nests. Siblings appeared to affect nest site homing, even though parents usually returned quickly to the nest and were least likely to search for displaced chicks if siblings were home. We also tested the ability of singletons to return to the nest, using an identical protocol. Singletons returned to the nest in only two of 14 trials, in none of the six cases when the dataset was restricted.
10.2307/1522028|We studied kleptoparasitic behavior of Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) feeding on fishery waste at trawl vessels in northern Patagonia, Argentina, by experimentally discarding fish. Intraspecific kleptoparasitism by gulls of all age-classes was recorded at all hauls. During experimental discarding, Kelp Gulls attempted to steal fish from other gulls in 23.5% of 1,915 cases. The length of fish handled differed between age-classes, tending to be larger in younger age classes. The size of fish being carried by victims of kleptoparasitic attempts was similar between age-classes. On the other hand, adult and sub-adult were more frequently attacked when they carried larger fish, while juveniles were victims of kleptoparasitic attempts independent of the size of the fish carried by them. The lengths of successfully stolen fish were similar between victims of different age-classes. Adult and sub-adult were successfully robbed when they carried larger fish, while juveniles were successfully robbed irrespective of the size of the fish carried by them. Gulls of different age-classes were victims of kleptoparasitic attempts, in direct proportion to the number of fish handled by each age-classes. However, juveniles were successfully robbed more often than other age-classes. Juveniles lost prey in 83% of kleptoparasitic attempts, while sub-adults and adults lost their fish in 41% and 42% of cases, respectively. Although selection of juvenile hosts to attack could be more profitable, attack rate on young birds was not higher than expected, suggesting attacks at trawlers were at random. Feeding where there is a high density of potential victims may be advantageous for juveniles compared to feeding elsewhere because they are not selectively harassed or displaced by older, foraging gulls. If so, this could contribute to juvenile survival which could contribute to an increased population size.
10.2307/1522029|Heermann's Gulls (Larus heermanni) have been reported to nest on 19 islands in Mexico, but during 1999-2000 they bred on only twelve. Of the known active colonies, one, Isla Rasa, harbors over 95% of the breeding numbers, with between 300,000-400,000 adults. Three islands each support between 2,000 and 20,000 adults, and the rest from 4 to 2,000 adults. The colonies of this species have exhibited major variations through time, but data are inadequate to judge whether human activities or changes in oceanographic conditions were the cause of these variations. These two, along with size and distribution of nesting colonies, should be monitored, if the species' population dynamics are to be understood.
10.2307/1522030|We studied American Oystercatchers (Haematopus palliatus) by examining reproductive success and the factors affecting it at one location, and by examining the status and trends of breeding population numbers from Florida to Nova Scotia on the east coast of North America. We conducted our field research on Cape Lookout National Seashore, Carteret County, North Carolina from 1997 to 1999, and we documented larger scale breeding population trends by contacting state biologists and reviewing the literature and historical accounts. Presence of eggs and young were checked two to five times per week (by observing from a distance), and efforts were made to determine the reasons for loss of the nest contents. We monitored a total of 245 nests and found low productivity. At least one egg in 32 (13%) nests hatched and one or more chicks fledged from 12 broods. Overall, 14 chicks successfully fledged (nine from North Core Banks and five from South Core Banks) during the three years of the study. Of the 213 clutches that did not hatch, 163 (76%) failed because of predation, and 46 (22%) because of overwash or severe weather. Our minimum estimate for the number of oystercatchers breeding along the entire Atlantic coast and the Gulf coast of Florida is 1,624 pairs. North of Virginia, numbers appear to be stable or slowly increasing and the species has expanded as far north as Cape Sable Island in Nova Scotia. From Virginia south, breeding numbers show a decline in recent years. The number of oystercatchers breeding on barrier islands in Virginia has decreased by more than 50% in the last 20 years. Given their relatively small numbers and inherently low productivity, American Oystercatchers are at risk in rapidly changing coastal ecosystems.
10.2307/1522031|We compared reproductive success and territory fidelity in Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) in the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia. Twenty-four of 34 nesting pairs hatched eggs in at least one year of the study, and of which 16 pairs raised chicks that fledged. Mean fledging production for 34 pairs in 1996 and 1997 was 0.44 fledglings per breeding pair per year. Thirty of the 34 pairs observed used the same territory in 1996 and 1997. Of the 30 pairs that occupied the same territory in both years, 16 pairs failed to raise chicks in both years, seven pairs fledged chicks in one year and seven pairs fledged chicks in both years. Oystercatchers showed stronger site fidelity to territories where chicks were fledged than territories where they failed to raise young.
10.2307/1522032|During the non-breeding season, many shorebirds use coastal habitats where tides influence their dispersion patterns and social systems. We spot-mapped Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus) at the Elk River estuary, California to examine variation in territory occupancy from May 1999-April 2000. Curlew abundance was highest (a maximum of 16 territorial and up to 10 non-territorial birds) from July to September, after which time numbers declined progressively to 2-6 in winter. Five curlews were resident on >50% of observation days (N = 133) from June-April; these individuals returned to the estuary earlier and departed later than 11 other territorial curlews that were present 12-37% of occasions and mostly from July-November. Territory occupancy declined in association with precipitation and diurnal low tides ranging between -0.7 and 1.3 m. The absence of two territorial curlews coincided with rainy periods. The absence of curlews from five territories coincided with neap (low) tides; four of these curlews held territories at lower intertidal elevations with gently sloping topographies, such that they were inundated longer than other territories. At the Elk River estuary, territoriality may limit the number of curlews using intertidal habitats, but individual variation in territory residency suggests that numbers, and possibly carrying capacity, changed seasonally with availability of food in intertidal and pasture habitats. Habitat losses, such as those accompanying moderate (25-50 cm) rises in sea level associated with global warming, may reduce the carrying capacity of estuaries where existing levees preclude creation of new intertidal habitat.
10.2307/1522033|Radio transmitters have potential for measuring rates and causes of mortality in precocial chicks. To assess their utility, elastic harnesses were used to attach radio transmitters to 49 newly hatched Banded Dotterel (Charadrius bicinctus) chicks, a bird breeding along braided rivers of the South Island, New Zealand. Twelve chicks either lost their transmitters or the transmitters were removed, six chicks survived to fledging, 26 chicks died and the outcome was unclear for the remaining five chicks. A minimum of 18% of chicks that died were taken by predators, but predator identity was clear in only one case. The transmitters did not appear to affect growth rates of radio-marked chicks, but three chicks died from harness entanglement. This technique provided only limited information about causes of mortality in Banded Dotterel chicks, and radio transmitters attached with elastic harnesses are not suitable for young chicks.
10.2307/1522034|The median density of shorebirds during their non-breeding season on the coast of South America was significantly greater in coastal zones with high primary productivity than in zones with moderate and low primary productivity. A world-wide review showed that sites harboring large numbers of wintering and migratory shorebirds corresponded significantly with regions of high coastal zone productivity. We suggest that the spacing of rich intertidal foraging habitats along the world's coastlines has been an important feature in the evolution of long distance migration by shorebirds.
10.2307/1522035|Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) ducklings and associated females in the Bay of Fundy feed extensively on invertebrates found in association with Knotted Wrack (Ascophyllum nodosum), commonly referred to as rockweed. To assess whether commercial harvest of rockweed, which is occurring in New Brunswick, might adversely affect ducklings, I examined their feeding behavior in relation to rockweed availability and duckling age. Ducklings fed in rockweed whenever it was available. Young ducklings (less than 3 weeks old) spent more time dabbling for invertebrates in the floating rockweed canopy and less time diving than did older birds. Young ducklings fed when rockweed was most available at the surface, whereas rockweed availability had no effect on the feeding rate of older ducklings. When rockweed was unavailable, older ducklings dove for food, while younger birds still attempted some dabbling. These results suggest that if rockweed harvest lowers the canopy height and reduces the time during each tidal cycle that algae floats at the surface, it might adversely affect Common Eider ducklings during the first weeks of life, when they are less able to dive for food. Consequently, in areas where ducklings feed regularly, care should be taken during harvesting to avoid changing the height and structure of the rockweed canopy. Similarly, harvesters should avoid disturbing foraging ducklings, because it could increase the already high predation risk that these birds face in their first few weeks of life.
10.2307/1522036| Because it has been suggested that waterbirds may ingest lost or discarded lead fishing weights as grit, we examined grit in the gizzards of Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis), Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus), and Mute Swans (Cygnus olor), three species where individuals have been poisoned by the ingestion of lead fishing weights. The greatest proportion (by mass) of grit in gizzards of Sandhill Cranes consisted of particles with a minimum dimension of 2.36-4.75 mm. Grit particles in swans were much smaller, with the most prevalent (by mass) being 0.6-1.18 mm. The greatest dimension of the largest grit particle found in cranes and swans was 17.4 mm and 14.0 mm, respectively. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has proposed a ban on lead fishing weights of 25.4 mm in any dimension. Based on the size of grit particles that we found in gizzards of Sandhill Cranes, Mute Swans, and Tundra Swans, we believe it is unlikely that individuals of those species would ingest, as grit, lead fishing weights larger than 25.4 mm in any dimension. 
10.2307/1522037|The Eared (Black-necked) Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis) is the most numerous grebe species in the world. Its status is largely a consequence of its abundance in North America where, unique among North American grebes, it is able to exploit the superabundant food resources of hypersaline lakes in the Great Basin. This results in high survivorship of juveniles during the critical first months of independence and of adults through the extended autumn staging period, and ultimately to increased population size. Because the major hypersaline lakes in North America are of post-Pleistocene origin, the Eared Grebe's current preeminence has likely been achieved only in the past several thousand years.
10.2307/1522038| Twenty-one American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) were captured and fitted with radiotransmitters in south Louisiana and the delta region of Mississippi during the winter and early spring of 1994-1997. The pelicans were monitored to determine their daily activity budgets while using different habitats such as catfish ponds, crawfish ponds, rivers, lakes, and bayous. Pelicans foraging at catfish ponds spent about 4% of their day foraging and 96% loafing, while pelicans foraging in other habitats spent about 28% of their day foraging and 72% loafing. For an individual bird, the mean number of foraging sessions per day was 2.5 ( 0.53 SE) and the mean length of each foraging session was 66.7 min. (8.08 SE). Aerial censuses were also conducted to determine the numbers of pelicans in the delta region of Mississippi. Each year the numbers of pelicans wintering in the delta region of Mississippi peaked in February and March, corresponding with spring migration. Pelican numbers reached approximately 4,600 during February and March 1996. Pelicans were observed foraging in larger flocks for shorter periods of time on catfish ponds than in other habitats. 
10.2307/1522039|Numbers of wading birds are declining throughout the Murray-Darling Basin in Australia, and the loss of wetland habitats to agriculture is the most likely cause. This study describes the foraging of egrets in irrigated rice fields that occur extensively in areas of former wetlands. Tadpoles were the main prey of Great and Intermediate Egrets (Ardea alba and A. intermedia), with insects important secondary prey. Insects were the main prey of Cattle Egrets (A. ibis). Prey capture rates for Great and Intermediate Egrets declined by around 40% between November and January as the rice plants grew from seedling to mature stages. Cattle Egret prey capture rates did not decline. The abundance of tadpoles and most aquatic insects in the rice fields declined significantly between November and February. All three egret species laid eggs mainly during December and had young in the nest during January and February. Thus the declining profitability of rice fields as foraging sites coincided with the maximum demand for food by the birds to rear their young. Rice fields may not be an adequate substitute for natural wetlands for Great and Intermediate Egrets.
10.2307/1522040|We studied seven species of waterbirds that nested on Isla Montague, Mexico, at the mouth of the Colorado River, during the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons: Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla), Least Tern (Sterna antillarum), Gull-billed Tern (Sterna nilotica), and Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger). Breeding occurred along several tidal channels of the Estero del Chayo and on shell mounds near the lighthouse. There were low levels of predation, by at least one Coyote (Canis latrans), and unknown, but likely avian, predators. Tidal inundation was the major factor affecting the nesting of the birds, as it destroyed almost all nests, eggs and chicks on at least five occasions during one breeding season. It seems likely that the pattern of inundations we recorded does not happen all years.
10.2307/1522041|Age-assortative mating occurs frequently in birds, and may be produced by active selection for older and more successful mates, but also simply by age-related differences in breeding time, or by mate fidelity, without age-related selection. We describe the occurrence of age-assortative breeding in the Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) near Wuxi, China. Throughout the whole breeding season, 59% of the breeders were adults i.e., birds older than two years, and 41% were younger birds in juvenile plumage i.e., birds in their second year. Most of 206 pairs were strictly assorted by age, and only 2.4% had one adult and one juvenile. A part of this assortment was due to age-related differences in the breeding period, but even when this seasonality is accounted for, the observed frequency of mixed pairs is much lower than expected. Mate fidelity is not likely to account for the observed assortment. We conclude that the strict age assortment we observed in Black-crowned Night Herons is to be ascribed to active mate selection by age. Reproductive success was higher for pairs of adults than for those in juvenile plumage, while no difference was found for egg size, chick condition or asymmetry. Pairing between adults may therefore be adaptive because it enhances reproductive success. The high frequency of Black-crowned Night Herons breeding in juvenile plumage in China (41%) contrasts sharply with the situation in other parts of the species range, where birds in juvenile plumage rarely breed, are even seldom seen near colonies, and are believed to remain in their wintering areas.
10.2307/1522042| Mercury concentrations were measured in blood, down and feather samples collected from 20 post-fledging Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) captured in the coastal zone of Georgia to establish a reference level for free-ranging storks utilizing this region and assess if mercury is present in potentially hazardous concentrations. Blood concentrations ranged from 0.04-1.57 g Hg/g (wet weight) and down and feather concentrations ranged from 1.23-18.05 g Hg/g (dry weight). Comparisons of observed concentrations with published levels of concern suggest that some free-ranging storks may be at risk of sublethal effects due to mercury contamination. Observed concentrations are generally higher than those reported for Wood Stork nestlings in this region from the same time period, possibly resulting from differences in diet and patterns of down/feather growth and molt. 
10.2307/1522043|We studied the breeding phenology of a colony of Boat-billed Herons (Cochlearius cochlearius) on the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica during 1999. Breeding season lasted from early February to July and two periods of nesting were recorded, strongly suggesting the occurrence of double-brooding. Clutches from the first and the second period started during the dry season, but clutches from the second period developed during the rainy period.
10.2307/1522044|A Black-crowned Night Heron (Nyticorax nyticorax) was observed manipulating bread to catch fish attracted to the bait. This is the second recorded instance of a Black-crowned Night Heron fishing with bait. Bait-fishing has also been observed in the Green Heron (Butorides virescens) and the closely-related Striated Heron (Butorides striatus); a related foraging technique has been reported in the Great Egret (Ardea alba) and the Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias).
10.2307/1522045|We studied the diving behavior of chick-rearing Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) in Shetland, U.K., in July 1998. Seven birds were caught on nests and fitted with data loggers attached to a plastic ring on one leg of each bird. Only one data set, spanning ten days was recovered. Dives (N = 972) were generally shallow; the maximum dive depth was 2.6 m. Maximum dive duration was 8 s. Diving took place most often in the afternoon; hardly any dives occurred during the night. Diving activity was irregular over the study period with a peak activity of 0.9 dives/min over many hours.
10.2307/1522046|During 13 visits to the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil outside of the breeding season, stomachs were collected from 144 dead and randomly selected first-year Magellanic Penguins Spheniscus magellanicus and their contents analyzed. Cephalopods were an important item in the diet and were found in 76% of the stomachs, averaging five cephalopod beaks per stomach. The following cephalopods were identified from the remains: Illex argentinus, Histioteuthis sp., Loligo sp., L. sanpaulensis, L. plei, Argonauta nodosa and one specimen of family Cranchiidae. Smaller numbers of fish and fish otoliths (less than one per stomach); a few Hydrozoa, Isopoda and Salpa sp. were also found. Parasitic Nematoda were recorded in 80% of the stomachs. Many of the cephalopods were small and were probably planktonic. Maximum size of prey were larger than those reported from the breeding season.
10.2307/1522047|We report for the first time on Buff-necked Ibis (Theristicus caudatus) greeting and courtship displays during nest building. Displays included both individual and simultaneous Up-down Displays and Stick Shaking. The nesting attempt was brought to an abrupt end, apparently by interactions with Crested Caracaras (Polyborus plancus) and/or interspecific competition with Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) for nest material.
10.2307/1522061|From 1989 to 1999, I examined intra-seasonal and annual changes in the abundance and local distribution of two groups of wintering Dunlin (Calidris alpina) occupying different positions along hydrographic gradients in the Tomales Bay estuary, California. Reciprocal translocation of color-banded Dunlin indicated a discrete separation of wintering Dunlin between the north and south of Tomales Bay. Local abundance in both groups was significantly associated with cumulative seasonal rainfall within and among years. Increased variation in annual and intra-seasonal abundance was related to reduced tidal circulation, greater freshwater stream flow, and increased salinity variation. On average, winter Dunlin use peaked later but declined earlier in the southern part of the bay (near the head of the bay) than in the northern part of the bay (near the mouth of the bay). Shifts in distribution associated with changes in hydrographic conditions and weather revealed consistent intra-seasonal changes in habitat preference on temporal scales other than tidal cycles. In the northern part of the bay, changes in habitat preference by Dunlin corresponded to thresholds of 20-25 cm cumulative rainfall and 0.5-1.0 m
10.2307/1522062|We investigated wading bird productivity in four estuaries from Delaware Bay to Boston Harbor in northeastern U.S.A. over the period 1986-1998. To document and characterize reproductive performance of numerically dominant species for use in wildlife and habitat management planning, we recorded 1) number of eggs laid, 2) percent of eggs hatched, 3) percent of hatchlings surviving 10-15 days post-hatch, 4) number of nestlings produced, and 5) factors of offspring mortality in nests of Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), and Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus). We randomly selected 30-50 nests of each species (as available) for study at colonies in Delaware Bay (1993-1998), New York Harbor (1986-1994), Cape Cod (1990-94), and Boston Harbor (1993-94). In addition, we recorded abundance of nesting wading birds and avian predators in most years of study. Colony size ranged from 120-8,300 nests. Clutch size of all species was greater at northern-most sites. Loss of eggs varied between estuaries for all species except Glossy Ibis. Hatching success ranged from 75-88% and differed between estuaries for Black-crowned Night Heron and Glossy Ibis. Hatchling survival ranged from 16-87% and was lowest in Delaware Bay for all species. Nestling production was lowest in Delaware Bay for all species. In general, predation was high in Delaware Bay and egg inviability was high in Boston Harbor. Predation of nestlings was greatest in Delaware Bay for Cattle Egret, but there were no differences between estuaries for other species. Proportions of avian predators to nesting herons did not explain high predation rates in Delaware Bay.
10.2307/1522063| Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) are threatened seabirds that nest in coastal old-growth coniferous forests throughout much of their breeding range. Currently, observer-based audio-visual surveys are conducted at inland forest sites during the breeding season primarily to determine nesting distribution and breeding status and are being used to estimate temporal or spatial trends in murrelet detections. Our goal was to assess the feasibility of using audio-visual survey data for such monitoring. We used an intensive field-based survey effort to record daily murrelet detections at seven survey stations in the Oregon Coast Range. We then used computer-aided resampling techniques to assess the effectiveness of twelve survey strategies with varying scheduling and a sampling intensity of 4-14 surveys per breeding season to estimate known means and SDs of murrelet detections. Most survey strategies we tested failed to provide estimates of detection means and SDs that were within 20% of actual means and SDs. Estimates of daily detections were, however, frequently estimated to within 50% of field data with sampling efforts of 14 days/breeding season. Additional resampling analyses with statistically generated detection data indicated that the temporal variability in detection data had a great effect on the reliability of the mean and SD estimates calculated from the twelve survey strategies, while the value of the mean had little effect. Effectiveness at estimating multi-year trends in detection data was similarly poor, indicating that audio-visual surveys might be reliably used to estimate annual declines in murrelet detections of the order of 50% per year. 
10.2307/1522064| In 1997, one of the strongest recorded El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events occurred in the eastern Pacific. It caused strong oceanic and climatic anomalies, such as high sea surface temperatures (SST) and heavy rainfall along the eastern Pacific coast. We investigated the effects of this event on the reproductive ecology of the Neotropic Cormorant (Phalacrocorax brasilianus) in central Chile (3637'S; 7303'W) by comparing the pre-El Nio season in 1996 with the 1997 El Nio year. Fish landings immediately prior to the 1997 breeding season were notably lower and rainfall increased. In 1997, the number of breeding pairs declined by 71% from the previous year. During El Nio, laying started 15 days later, was less synchronized and ended 35 days later. Although egg size, clutch size and hatching success did not differ significantly between the two years, the decrease in the breeding numbers in 1997 would have caused a considerable drop in offspring production. We suggest that poor environmental conditions may have caused young or poor quality birds to miss breeding in the El Nio year. Since it appears that large El Nio events are becoming more frequent, it is important to undertake more research into the ability and mechanisms of seabirds to cope with them. 
10.2307/1522065|We studied possible genotoxic exposure in Royal Terns (Sterna maxima) by collecting blood from adults and juveniles at five breeding colonies in coastal North Carolina in 1999. These colonies are located in three estuarine systems (Core Sound, Pamlico Sound, and Cape Fear River), each subjected to different contaminant loads. DNA in red blood cells was analyzed using the comet assay to determine levels of DNA strand breaks, a technique previously not applied to birds. In addition, we weighed each bird and estimated its fat reserves as an indication of nutritional health. Gross health assessments showed no significant differences between study sites, both for adult and juvenile terns. The comet assay indicated that blood cells from the adult and juvenile terns from two Core Sound colonies, Wainwright and Sand Bag Islands, had significantly higher levels of apparent DNA damage than the remaining study sites. Based on previously published studies of sediment contaminants, the Core Sound colonies have relatively low overall pollutant loads, a finding contrary to the expected result based on the DNA damage. Plausible explanations for these finding are that birds from the Core Sound are exposed to an undetected genotoxic contaminant(s) or that birds from the more polluted sites have had an adaptive response to the contaminant exposure.
10.2307/1522066|We studied the foraging ecology of Royal Terns (Sterna maxima) and Sandwich Terns (S. sandvicensis) in North Carolina during the breeding seasons in 1999 and 2000. Foraging habitats were surveyed using 95 fixed-point observations (30-45 min each) and over 100 h of inshore and offshore transects. Stable isotopes (
10.2307/1522067|We compared shorebird behavior, abundance and prey availability between natural and created wetlands along the Gulf of Mexico, Texas, USA. Locations included Aransas National Wildlife Refuge, the Nueces River Delta, and Mustang Island. Few significant differences existed in invertebrate density or biomass between sites; greater differences were found seasonally than between natural and created sites. Non-metric multidimensional scaling of avian abundance separated Mustang Island from Nueces Delta. Cluster analysis of behavior of Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola), Long-billed Curlew (Numenius americanus), "peeps" (Calidris minutilla, C. pusilla), and Willet (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus), showed no clear differences in their behavior on natural and created sites. Mustang Island sites were more similar to each other than to Nueces Delta. All created sites had natural hydrology and tidal circulation, which appear to facilitate invertebrate and avian recruitment.
10.2307/1522068|Several species of fish-eating birds are commonly observed near aquaculture facilities in the southern United States. An understanding of the relationships between these birds and specific commodities is needed to interpret and manage bird impacts to aquacultural production. We conducted two foraging experiments to evaluate the preference of Great Egrets (Ardea alba) for three specific size classes of Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus). During six no-choice feeding trials, egrets consumed significantly more small (7.5-10 cm) fingerlings than medium (15-18 cm) or large (23-25 cm) catfish. Egrets captured 19 large catfish, and ingested only two, even when no other fish were available. During two-choice trials, Great Egrets significantly preferred small fingerlings to medium-sized fish, and medium-sized catfish to large fish. Handling time was directly related to the size of catfish ingested. Handling time was inversely related to the number of catfish ingested from each size class, particularly when Great Egrets were given a choice between two catfish size classes. Thus, we infer that the ease of capture and physical defenses (e.g., catfish spines) associated with particular foods affect Great Egret foraging preferences. Management of Great Egret impacts to aquacultural production should focus on dispersing egrets from ponds containing small (<18 cm) Channel Catfish, rather than generalized dispersal at all ponds on all farms.
10.2307/1522069|Dalmatian Pelicans (Pelecanus crispus) in Lake Mikri Prespa nest on islands of Common Reed (Phragmites) rhizomes formed at the interface between marsh and open water and mostly ranging from 6-80 m
10.2307/1522070|Although forage quality strongly affects gosling growth and consequently juvenile survival, the relative use of different plant communities by brood rearing geese has been poorly studied. On the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska, population growth and juvenile recruitment of Emperor Geese (Chen canagica) are comparatively low, and it is unknown whether their selection of habitats during brood rearing differs from other goose species. Radio-telemetry was used to document the use of habitats by 56 families of Emperor Geese in a 70 km
10.2307/1522071|Habitat use by wintering Ruddy Shelduck (Tadorna ferruginea) in Lijiang Lashihai Lake of southwest China was studied from 1 November 1999 to 29 April 2000. We divided habitats into five types-deep water, shallow water, mudflat, grassland and farmland. Shallow water and grassland, with rich food and easily accessible water, were preferred by wintering Ruddy Shelducks. Farmland was preferred in mid-winter but avoided in early winter and late winter. Even in mid-winter, the feeding Ruddy Shelduck on farmland were not equally distributed in fields and preferred wet fields (just irrigated) and avoided dry fields. In dry fields, the distances to water sources had great impact on the feeding distribution. Mudflats were only selected in late winter, coinciding with the growth of water-weeds. Deep-water areas were always avoided. Prohibition of human disturbance and retaining shallow water areas and grassland are important measures to mitigate conflict between Ruddy Shelduck and local people.
10.2307/1522072|We examined the flexibility in feeding ecology of Steller's Eider (Polysticta stelleri) by comparing its diet to the taxonomically relatively close Long-tailed Duck (Clangula hyemalis) during two winter periods (early and late) when the two species occurred together. Steller's Eider generally fed on the same type of prey in early and late winter, with a dietary overlap of 43% between the two periods (57% among shelled prey). The mean number of prey species per bird was 7.8 in both early winter and late winter. In contrast, the Long-tailed Duck changed completely from feeding on benthic invertebrates in early winter to spawning Capelin (Mallotus villosus) in late winter. The dietary overlap between the two bird species was 38% in early winter. In early winter, the mean number of prey species was 5.5 in the Long-tailed Duck, and not significantly different from the Steller's Eider. Steller's Eider seemed to be restricted to small prey, both compared to availability of sizes and also to the prey size taken by the Long-tailed Duck. Thus the worldwide rare Steller's Eider seems to be a specialist with limited ability to exploit different food resources, while the numerous Long-tailed Duck is an opportunistic generalist. Low flexibility in feeding ecology indicates that winter habitats for Steller's Eider may be limited, and protection of these areas would probably benefit the species.
10.2307/1522073| We investigated the diet of the Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger) in three consecutive years (autumn 1998, autumn 1999 and summer 2000) by analyzing 642 pellets collected at Punta Rasa, Samborombon Bay, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Fish was the main prey in the diet (occurrence = 100%), while insects were present in only 2.7% of samples. Among the 14 fish species identified, Argentine Anchovies (Engraulis anchoita) (occurrence = 38.7%, N = 31.5%), Silversides (Odontesthes spp.) (occurrence = 38.3%, N = 26.2%) and White Croakers (Micropogonias furnieri) (occurrence = 11.6%, N = 20.5%) were the most important prey. Fish prey averaged 77 mm in length (34 mm, range 15-169 mm, N = 123), and had an average mass of 6.9 g (7.3 g, range 0.1-31.6 g, N = 123). Marked differences were observed in the frequency of occurrence and numeric importance of the fish prey species found in the three sampling seasons; while typical marine fishes, such as the Argentine Anchovy, constituted the bulk of the diet during 1998, estuarine juvenile fish prevailed in 1999 and 2000. The comparison of size and mass of prey between seasons also revealed large differences. Fishes caught in 1998 were significantly larger and heavier than those caught in other seasons. The diet of skimmers overlapped with that of South American Terns (Sterna hirundinacea), Royal Terns (S. maximus) and Sandwich Terns (S. sandvicensis) in the area during 1998, when prey was mostly marine fish. 
10.2307/1522074|Many birds move at night, and although there is strong potential for collisions with stationary structures, the behavior of birds in response to such structures is poorly understood. We studied the nocturnal interactions of waterbirds with a 550v transmission powerline in the flat, open landscape of the Florida Everglades using a combination of surveillance radar to detect incoming birds, and night vision optical equipment to observe flight behavior. During 118 hours of observation we recorded a total of 285 flocks of ciconiiform birds crossing the powerline during spring 1997. We visually observed 663 birds in 187 flocks, and documented their response to the powerline. We found that the flight directions and the colony site locality strongly suggested regular nocturnal foraging behavior of some species, especially Black-crowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) and Wood Storks (Mycteria americana). Birds flying at night were less likely to react to the powerline, suggesting that powerlines may pose more of a collision threat during darkness. However, we also found that waterbirds flew higher at night than during the day and thus came into a zone of potential contact with the powerline much less often than during the day.
10.2307/1522075|Choice of daily flight routes by Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons) were related to the position of power lines over rice fields and in woodland adjacent to Lake Izunuma-Uchinuma, northern Japan, during October-February in 1996-97, 1997-98 and 1998-99. Two types of route were considered: flight lines over power lines standing in the rice fields and flight lines over power lines partially concealed in woodland. Although food availability (size of rice fields within 12 km of the lake beyond the rice fields) was similar for direct flight lines beyond the two positions of the power lines, the proportion of geese flying over the power lines standing in the woods was appreciably and significantly higher than those in rice fields. In some cases, the geese took an indirect flight route to avoid crossing the power lines in the rice fields. It is evident that the position and "exposure" of power lines affect the flight behavior of geese.
10.2307/1522076|The geographic and specific distribution of avian Haematozoa is poorly understood and much basic information is still needed. Studies of blood parasites in avian communities are scarce despite of their potential for disentangling the relative importance of host-specific and ecological factors shaping blood parasite distributions. Here we present the first study of blood parasites in a breeding community of seabirds by scanning blood smears obtained from 560 birds belonging to 13 species breeding in Patagonia, Argentina. Seven of these species have not been sampled previously for blood parasites. No blood parasites were detected. The scarcity of vectors due to the marine environment and the dry conditions around the colonies is the most plausible hypothesis for explaining the apparent absence of blood parasites in the Patagonian seabird community, although other hypotheses should be examined.
10.2307/1522077|High nest densities in colonial birds is assumed to favor the infection of individuals by parasites. Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) chicks (N = 187) were sampled before nest departure in six different colonies of the Camargue, southern France, to determine the prevalence of Haematozoa infection. The absence of blood parasites is discussed.
10.2307/1522078|Molting is a fundamental biological process common to all birds, and understanding molt strategies is an integral part of studying any species' life history. Molt of the monotypic Ivory Gull (Pagophila eburnea) has received variable and often contradictory treatment in the literature. Based upon examination of 152 museum specimens, the unique molt strategy of this species is clarified. Juveniles molt directly into definitive (= adult) basic plumage via a complete molt during April to August of their second calendar year. Adults have only a single molt per cycle, a strategy unique among gulls: their prebasic molt starts in March and April, progresses quickly, and is mostly completed before the pre-laying to hatching period (mid June to early August); adults typically suspend primary molt at this time and conclude molt of outermost primaries in late August or September. Thus molt and breeding overlap broadly in the Ivory Gull, presumably an adaptation to the constraints of its high-latitude winter range and the brief Arctic summer.
10.2307/1522079|The relationship between foraging effort and chick growth rate was investigated in two Chinstrap Penguins (Pygoscelis antarctica), fitted with time-depth recorders and whose diving behavior differed from each other. Foraging effort did not differ between the individuals, but the growth rates of their chicks differed. Although these birds bred at the same colony and at the same time, food available to the parents differed because of the depth at which they fed and this possibly was reflected in the growth of the chicks. Food availability depends on the abundance of potential food and also on the feeding behavior of individuals.
10.2307/1522080|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) wintering in the southeast delta of Arkansas were monitored via aerial surveys to determine their numbers and distribution. At least two surveys per month (December 1999-April 2000) were conducted. Each survey was comprised of two separate afternoon flights to cover the study area during the evening roosting period. Most of the two flights making up each survey were flown on consecutive days to reduce possible movement of cormorants between the two flight routes. December through February surveys all exceeded 15,000 individuals, except for early January, when there was an appreciable drop in numbers. The cormorant numbers peaked in early February at 26,822 individuals. During this study, cormorants utilized a total of ten night roosts within this catfish-producing region of Arkansas. This study area in southeast Arkansas encompasses the primary production acreage for the Arkansas catfish industry and is a likely attractant for the Double-crested Cormorant. This collection of baseline population data is important in researching the relation of the Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) industry to growing cormorant numbers. These data will also provide a valuable base line in assessing cormorant population changes that might occur due to any future management strategies adopted by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
10.2307/1522081|Adult Purple Herons (Ardea purpurea) were observed while foraging along rivers and rice fields during the breeding season. Proportion of foraging time was higher in rice fields than on rivers and the relationship between biomass ingested in relation to foraging time was greater on rivers. The success of feeding attempts was similar in both habitats. Most Purple Herons preferred to forage along rivers but rice fields may be a valuable option.
10.2307/1522082|In October 1999, approximately 110 King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis) were found on the ground in the middle of Baffin Island, indicating that these birds had been following an overland migration. The composition of the flock was mixed in both sex (44% female, 56% male) and age of birds (62% hatch year, 38% after hatch year). Approximately 40 birds flew off after resting for six days on the frozen ground. Of the remaining birds that died, predators ate about 15, and 55 were recovered by staff from a local radar site. All eider carcasses carried fat reserves, although there were differences in body mass related to age and sex. Most birds had injuries consistent with crashing into an object at high speed, but in the absence of any obvious vertical obstacles in this region, it appears that this flock flew into the ground during conditions of poor visibility, perhaps facilitated by the formation of cataracts in their eyes.
1522264|We compared the feeding patterns of Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus) and Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) in flowing and still aquatic habitats of coastal (New York City) and interior (Wichita, Kansas) locations. These included strike rate, prey capture rate, strike success, "idle time" and diet. We tested the hypothesis that widely-distributed species of wading birds that face different ecological conditions across their geographic range modify their feeding behavior to match local conditions. If this hypothesis is correct, then the feeding patterns of egrets at the coastal site will differ from those in the interior. Great Egrets in coastal habitats had higher capture rates and strike rates than interior birds, but strike success was similar in both areas. The diets of coastal and interior Great Egrets were broadly similar. Great Egrets also spent less "idle time"while foraging at coastal sites than at interior sites. Snowy Egrets had higher capture rates at interior sites, but strike rates did not differ between study areas. Snowy Egrets also had higher strike success at interior sites, but also more "idle time". Their diets also were similar in both areas.
1522265| The distribution and abundance of Red-legged Cormorants (Phalacrocorax gaimardi) were assessed by visiting 42 localities on the mainland and surveying most of the islands along Peru's 2,500 km coastline between October 1999 and December 2000. Cormorants were distributed in small discrete groups (Mode = 5 birds, range 1-69) from Isla Foca (512'S) to Morro Sama (180'S). The southern (56% of the total numbers) and central (34%) coast held a larger proportion of cormorants than did the northern region (10%). Birds were mainly located in unprotected areas, either on islands (6%) or on the mainland (51%). The remainder was found in protected areas, either guano bird islands (27%), guano bird headlands (3%) or within the Paracas Reserve (13%). We counted 658 birds (95% adults, 5% juveniles), but based on bird density, availability of suitable habitats and cliff lengths we predicted a total of 1,803  282 birds in Peru. Red-legged Cormorants built their nests on narrow ledges on vertical rocky walls falling sheer to the sea, located, on average, 17.8 m (range = 3-50, N = 56) above the sea level on open cliffs, high-up in sea cave entrances or on small islets. They have undergone a spectacular decline over the last 30 years. Between 1968 and 1999-2000, the numbers at ten localities in the northern and central coast decreased from 3,229 to 69 birds. It is likely that low numbers recorded in this study reflect the devastating effects of the strong El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) of 1997-98, as numbers prior and after this event at eight southern localities decreased by 73%. Because of the inaccessibility of their nesting and roosting sites and the lack of natural predators, Red-legged Cormorants are apparently not in danger at such sites. However, entanglement in fishing nets, competition for food in inshore waters, pollution, human disturbance and harvesting of kelp banks are potential threats at sea and could affect the population recovery. 
1522266| Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) is a common and widespread North American species for which there are few studies of residency patterns and movements. We quantified fidelity and movement patterns of 24 radio-tagged Killdeer in the Willamette Valley of Oregon during the winter of 1999-2000. Results from telemetry surveys and census efforts revealed that the group monitored was composed of winter residents (63%), winter transients (26%), and year-round residents (11%). Movements were localized with birds detected at an average distance of 5.15  0.91 (SE) km from the site of capture. Mean home range size (95% kernel) was 7.73 3.19 km
1522267|Count data for twelve species of seabird from Aride Island Nature Reserve, Seychelles were reviewed from 1988 to 2000. The numbers of six of the ten breeding species remained relatively stable during the period, while those of one species, the White-tailed Tropicbird (Phaethon lepturus) underwent a 60% decline. Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) numbers significantly declined between 1987 and 1993, followed by a significant increase between 1994 and 2000. Current count data for Audubon's Shearwater (Puffinus l'herminieri) and the Wedge-tailed Shearwater (P. pacificus) are insufficient to establish trends. The maximum annual count of roosting non-breeding frigatebirds (Fregrata spp.) increased steadily throughout the period. The island has internationally important numbers of breeding seabirds (330,000-720,000 pairs per annum), including the largest known colony of Audubon's Shearwater, the largest colony of the declining Roseate Tern in Seychelles, and the largest known colony of the nominate subspecies of Lesser Noddy (Anous tenuirostris).
1522268|Rubbish dumps provide an extra and constant food source for many birds. The White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) is one of the species that have taken advantage of these new foraging areas both during breeding season and during the winter. This study analyzes data collected in the Spanish province of Cordoba throughout five years between 1992 and 1998 on the biology and breeding success of the White Stork and the influence of rubbish dumps. Breeding success varied significantly between years and areas in two of the study years. A banding program from 1990 to 1998 resulted in 145 storks being marked as nestlings. Of these, 49 were resighted at least once by May 2001 (34% resighting rate) and 16 of these birds were resighted as breeders at a mean age of 2.87 years. 75% of them were breeding close to rubbish dumps. Fifteen birds were resighted during wintering time, of which twelve were at rubbish dumps.
1522269|Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) predation on Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) at commercial farms has been estimated to cost the Mississippi aquaculture industry approximately $5 million annually to replace consumed fingerlings. In 1997, catfish producers assumed responsibility for the dispersal of cormorants in night roosts in the eastern (interior) delta region of Mississippi, where catfish farms are concentrated. We documented movements of 50 cormorants marked with radio transmitters in the delta region from January through March 1997. We obtained 161 post-capture day locations and 176 post-capture night roost locations. Cormorants that were harassed at their night roost flew farther to their next day's location than birds that were not harassed the previous night. Of the cormorants for which we had more than one night roost location, only 11% of cormorants that were harassed returned to the same roost within 48 hours, compared with an 81% return of cormorants to a previously un-harassed night roost. Moreover, cormorants in the eastern portion of the delta (where all harassment was conducted) changed night roosts more frequently than cormorants in the western (non-harassed) delta. Since cormorants in our study foraged relatively close to their night roosts and only 11% of the birds that we observed roosting in the western delta traveled to the eastern delta to forage the following day, coordinated and intensive dispersal of cormorants from the interior delta may, temporarily, limit cormorant impacts to Mississippi aquaculture.
1522270|Nesting adult Seychelles Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) were banded in five colonies. Searches for banded birds were made annually during the incubation phase of the breeding cycle. Within the colonies on Bird Island (largely protected from human intrusion) and Desnoeufs Island (from half of which eggs are harvested annually), differences in the tendency to return to nest sites used in earlier years were attributed to the effects of human disturbance, especially egg collecting. On Bird Island, the only colony that was searched intensively for banded birds each year between 1994 and 2001. eighteen birds were found that had formerly nested in other colonies. These inter-colony movements of breeding adults were also attributed to human disturbance in source colonies, but changes in food distribution may have stimulated birds to move from a colony that was protected from human interference. The finding that breeding adult Sooty Terns sometimes switch colonies suggests that these Seychelles colonies should be regarded as units within a metapopulation, with genetic exchange between units. This must be taken into account when estimating the allowable harvest of eggs, for human consumption, undertaken in the Seychelles.
1522271| The distribution of the Whiskered Tern (Chlidonias hybridus) is scattered, numbers fluctuate and they are threatened in many regions. Its breeding ecology has only occasionally been studied so far. It is relatively common in some North African wetlands. This study was carried out on Lake Tonga, northern Algeria, south of El-Kala (3651'N; 0820'E) in 1996 and 1997, with 169 and 215 initiated clutches studied, respectively. Basic characteristics of the Whiskered Tern breeding ecology studied were: laying date, clutch size, hatchling number, nest size and shape and egg size. Hatching success differed significantly between 1996 and 1997, probably due to weather. Laying date did not influence breeding parameters. Clutch size and hatching success were correlated with size and shape of nests. Hatchability was also correlated with egg length (negatively) and mass (positively). Relationships between breeding characteristic in relation to weather are discussed. 
1522272| Post-hatch brood amalgamation is common in many waterfowl species and especially prevalent in the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima). Studies in the temperate region have shown that brood abandonment is influenced both by female body condition and brood size. In this study we tested how these two factors influenced the probability of brood desertion in eiders breeding under harsh conditions in the high Arctic (78N). We found that females in poor body condition were less likely to care for their young, but there was no effects of brood size. We speculate that the differences between southern and northern populations of eiders may be due to different environmental conditions. 
1522273| The breeding biology of the Slender-billed Gull (Larus genei) is poorly known. Several reproductive parameters have been recorded during ten years (from 1992 to 2001) at the Ebro Delta (northwestern Mediterranean), such as clutch size, egg size and breeding success, as well as the number of breeders during the study and their population dynamics. Average clutch size during the study was 2.57 eggs per nest, with three eggs being the modal size. Slender-billed Gulls can lay a second clutch after egg loss, although clutch size is decreased. Mean egg size for the period 1998-2001 was 38.50 ml (SE  0.11). Although breeding is highly synchronous, females laying first were probably those in best body condition. Average breeding success for the whole period was 0.71 chicks per nest (24% of eggs laid). Compared with other colonies, results suggest that on average, the site may be a high quality colony in terms of availability of food, nest sites and predation rates. However, most of the breeding parameters analyzed showed statistically significant differences between years, and also between breeding areas and sub-colonies within the delta. The number of breeding pairs increased slightly from 388 in 1992 to 468 in 2001 (mean annual growth rate was 1.02 per year), although the rate fluctuated greatly between years, these changes were probably related to emigration-immigration processes at a metapopulation level. 
1522274|The coastal states of western North America and Mexico are home to a population of Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) that are geographically disjunct and probably genetically isolated from other Caspian Terns in North America. About 74% of these birds nest at a single colony, East Sand Island, near the mouth of the Columbia River between Washington and Oregon. It is estimated by others that when the terns nested in 1998 on Rice Island, 26 km further east in the Columbia River estuary, they consumed Steelhead smolts (Oncorhynchus mykiss), Coho smolts (O. kisutch), and spring/summer Chinook smolts (O. tshawytscha) that reached the Columbia River estuary, thus involving species listed under the United States Endangered Species Act. In addition, because such a large percentage of the west coast population breeds at a single colony, there is concern that a natural or anthropogenic event at this colony may adversely impact the entire population. As a result, many federal, state, tribal and private natural resource managers are trying to develop a management plan to disperse a fraction of these terns from East Sand Island to other historic and/or newly created nesting sites throughout western North America. Among factors to be considered, managers must assess the potential impact that terns would have on fisheries, especially salmonids, at potential relocation sites before attempts are made to relocate the birds. This study documents the diet of terns in one prospective relocation area, Commencement Bay, Washington. Relative abundance of prey species, including salmonids, delivered to the colony by adults differed significantly from month to month during the breeding season, but overall terns brought an average of 52% juvenile salmonids back to the colony, a higher percentage of salmonids than are consumed by terns on East Sand Island. Therefore, we conclude that Commencement Bay may not be an appropriate relocation site for Caspian Terns.
1522275|The inclusion of Spain and Portugal within the European Community has brought about a change in the traditional farming practices in the dehesas of Iberia to intensive cereal and to irrigated crops. Here we use seven-year counts of Common Cranes in 38 wintering sites to evaluate whether habitat structure modified by farming practices in the Holm Oak (Quercus ilex) dehesas is an important determinant of variability in winter crane numbers. We extracted, from a set of nine variables that express different levels of human management in the Holm Oak dehesas, two factors that accounted for the 66% of the variance. The first factor was related to livestock utilization of the dehesas, while the second one reflected Holm Oak presence. We ran a general linear model to analyze the influence of farming practices (PC1 and PC2), landscape heterogeneity and roost site stability on inter- and intra-season variability in numbers of winter cranes. Livestock presence, Holm Oak presence, landscape heterogeneity and roost type stability did not explain intra- and inter-season variability in crane numbers wintering in the Holm Oak dehesas of Spain.
1522276|The present wintering range of the Pacific Golden Plover (Pluvialis fulva) includes the northeastern tip of Africa, southern Asia, to Australia and New Zealand and much of the Pacific Ocean. We summarize evidence from the oral history of "wilsternetters" (artisanal hunters using an ancient, specialized netting device to capture grassland-shorebirds in daytime), as well as written records, to suggest that, until quite recently the wintering range of the Pacific Golden Plover may even have included the southern North Sea coast, mainly in the north of The Netherlands. Near the Zuiderzee (a large Dutch estuary that was closed off from the sea in 1932 and is now known as Lake IJsselmeer), the birds came inland to roost during spring tides, often in the company of Dunlin (Calidris alpina). However, Pacific Golden Plover were usually captured much further inland after the onset of severe winter weather, apparently after the birds had started moving away from their normal coastal winter habitat. Uniquely, Pacific Golden Plover wintering so far west and north appeared to show adaptations to cold (a thick and rather downy plumage) and unpredictable feeding conditions (a large fat store in midwinter). These special life-history features may have made it a distinct subspecies. Whether Dutch engineering, i.e. the loss of the Zuiderzee, played a role in their disappearance is probably beyond investigation.
1522277|We measured offshore Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) abundance from April through October between 1989 and 1998, in northern California and southern Oregon and investigated its relationships with marine and terrestrial habitats. We found that higher murrelet abundance offshore was strongly related to the presence of large, clustered and unfragmented old-growth forests on nearby inland areas. Murrelets were most abundant offshore of contiguous old-growth forest adjacent to relatively abundant medium-sized, second-growth coniferous forests. Compared to the forest habitat, marine habitat was relatively unimportant in determining murrelet abundance offshore; high marine primary productivity and nutrients were not associated with high murrelet numbers. Tidal flat shorelines were weakly associated with more murrelets, independent of inland habitat. Our findings suggest management efforts to conserve the Marbled Murrelet should focus on protecting or creating large, contiguous blocks of old-growth habitat, features which currently are rare in the study area.
1522278| Data on the occurrence and frequency of adoption of chicks by adult Pied Avocets (Recurvirostra avosetta) were collected by monitoring individually color-banded chicks on alkaline lakes in the Kiskunsg National Park in central Hungary between 1998 and 2000. Fifty-three adoptions were observed, and 22% of the resighted broods (N = 244) contained on average 1.7 (range 1-6) adopted chicks. Ninety-two chicks, or 13% of the color-banded chicks (N = 697) were adopted. The frequency of adoption was similar among years and was positively related to the number of pairs within a colony. At least 60% of the adoptions occurred in the nesting colonies, whereas adoptions during brood movements or in the brood-rearing areas, as well as brood amalgamations, were rare. More than two-thirds (68%) of the adopted chicks in the colony left the natal brood and joined other broods voluntarily. The remaining adopted chicks were the last to hatch in their own brood and were adopted into another brood after being left behind by their parents. Adults did not behave aggressively toward young alien chicks and always accepted them. Adoption appears to be initiated by chicks in Pied Avocets, and it may be associated with small fitness costs, or may even provide benefits, for the adoptees or the adopting adults. 
1522279| Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) and Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus) partitioned feeding habitat based on wetland size at Peltier Lake rookery in east central Minnesota. Great Blue Herons preferred large waterbodies (350 ha), whereas Great Egrets fed most often at small ponds (<25 ha). Forty-nine percent of Great Blue Herons used wetlands 301 - 400 hectares in size and 83% of Great Egrets fed in wetlands <100 ha in size. Great Blue Herons selected large wetlands more often than expected both at the regional (30-km radius) and local (4-km radius) scales. Habitat use by Great Egrets was in proportion to availability at the regional scale, but they selected smaller wetlands for feeding more often than expected at a local scale. The median flight distance of Great Blue Herons was 2.7 km, similar to distances reported elsewhere. Great Egrets flew farther to feeding sites than Great Blue Herons, and flew farther (median = 13.5 km) than reported in other geographic areas. 
1522087| This study describes qualitatively and quantitatively the kleptoparasitic behavior of the Brown-hooded Gull (Larus maculipennis) and Grey-hooded Gull (Larus cirrocephalus) on the American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus), and considers the influence of environmental variables on the occurrence and success of the kleptoparasitism. Focal and scan samplings were performed, recording a total of 358 kleptoparasitic attempts. The overall occurrence rate was 1.2  1.3 attempts per 5 min., of which 42% of attempts were successful. All kleptoparasitic attempts were performed when oystercatchers were feeding on Stout Razor Clams (Tagellus plebeius). Gulls stole food from Oystercatchers by two kleptoparasitic tactics; running (used in 40% of cases) and flying (used in 60% of cases). A significant difference in the rate of success of kleptoparasitism and an increase in the use of flying kleptoparasitism were observed under windy conditions. Gulls showed limited ability to open clams by themselves, and never swallowed whole clams. Kleptoparasitic attacks occurred within three seconds of the clam being ingested by the host, indicating the accurate kleptoparasitic skills of hooded gulls. Possible factors that affected the decisions taken by gulls about when and how to start the robbing behavior are discussed. Features of the kleptoparasitic behavior performed by hooded gulls on oystercatchers provide some relevant questions regarding the "generalist" or "specialist" character of these parasites. 
1522088|The 
1522089|We studied the diet of the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) in several islands of the Azores during 1994, based on the analysis of 777 food pellets. The diet of Common Terns was based on a few species of small pelagic fish. Trumpet Fish (Macroramphosus spp.) dominated the diet in terms of both frequency of occurrence (84%) and numerical frequency (69%). This species, together with Boarfish (Capros aper), Blue Jack Mackerel (Trachurus picturatus) and lantern fish (Families Myctophidae, Sternoptychidae, Diretmidae), accounted for more than 96% of the prey taken by Common Terns on all the islands. Insects occurred in 10% of all pellets analyzed and were present in almost 15% of the pellets from Corvo. Lantern fish represented an important fraction of the diet of Common Terns in the Azores and included several species previously undescribed as prey of seabirds in the region. Comparisons with dietary data obtained in subsequent years showed little inter-annual variability in the frequency of abundance of the main prey species, except for the lantern fish, which exhibited a higher frequency of occurrence in 1995.
1522090|Social stimulation in concert with environmental factors may influence the degree of reproductive synchrony among colonial breeders. Synchronous breeding has been shown to enhance reproductive success by decreasing predation. Although Common Murres (Uria aalge) typically have a cyclic pre-lay attendance pattern, during one of four consecutive breeding seasons we observed one acyclic pre-lay period (1999). The present study investigated how differences in pre-lay attendance patterns may influence breeding synchrony and reproductive success in a Common Murre sub-colony on Great Island, Newfoundland. Compared to the cyclic pre-lay period (2000), the acyclic pre-lay period showed: i) less synchronous egg-laying, ii) pairs spent less time together at their site due to the overall lower attendance by both sexes, but particularly by females, and iii) higher predation during early and first half of peak egg-laying, although overall reproductive success did not differ between years due to high re-laying rates. These results suggest that cyclic attendance during the pre-lay period of Common Murres may influence breeding synchrony within a sub-colony, which may reduce predation during early incubation and late chick rearing.
1522091| We studied the way, timing and diurnal rhythm of young Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) leaving colonies in NW Norway and Faeroes. The colonies differed in nesting habitat and predatory pressure. Both adult and young Puffins from Bleiksy were significantly larger and heavier than those from Nlsoy. Young birds left the Bleiksy colony about ten days later in the season, but considerably earlier during the night (22.00-04.00 h; peak: 00.00-01.00 h) than those on Nlsoy (24.00-0600 h; peak: 02.00-03.00 h). The fledging period was more synchronized on Bleiksy, both within the season and on particular nights. Body mass and size of young puffins leaving the colony tended to decrease through the fledging period. Well-developed young birds from sloping parts of the Bleik colony flew down to the sea, while those from the lower-lying, flatter parts of the colony and those in poor condition walked to the sea. Fledglings which left on the wing reached the sea about one hour earlier and could fly beyond the inshore waters before daybreak, thus avoiding the risk of gull predation. They were more numerous during the first six days of the 10-day fledging period and were larger than those, which left on foot. The latter lost much time and energy overcoming dense vegetation, boulders and the tidal zone on their way to the open sea. As a result, they were still near the shore at dawn, in the zone intensively penetrated by predators. We suggest that predatory pressure of the big gulls, which are numerous on Bleiksy but almost absent from Nlsoy, could have a significant impact on timing of fledging of their prey. 
1522092| Global warming is expected to result in an acceleration in current rates of sea level rise, inundating many low-lying coastal and intertidal areas. This could have important implications for organisms that depend on these sites, including shorebirds that rely on them for feeding habitat during their migrations and in winter. We modeled the potential changes in the extent of intertidal foraging habitat for shorebirds at five sites in the United States that currently support internationally important numbers of migrating and wintering birds. Even assuming a conservative global warming scenario of 2C within the next century (the most recent projections range between 1.4C and 5.8C), we project major intertidal habitat loss at four of the sites (Willapa Bay, Humboldt Bay, San Francisco Bay, and Delaware Bay). Projected losses range between 20% and 70% of current intertidal habitat. Such losses might jeopardize the ability of these sites to continue to support their current shorebird numbers. The most severe losses are likely to occur at sites where the coastline is unable to move inland because of steep topography or seawalls. The effects of sea level rise may be exacerbated by additional anthropogenic factors. In southern San Francisco Bay, for example, sea level rise may interact with land subsidence due to aquifer depletion, and the constraints imposed by existing seawalls on the landward migration of habitat, resulting in the greatest habitat loss. At the fifth site (Bolivar Flats) we project smaller losses as the intertidal habitats are unconstrained by sea walls and will be able to migrate inland in response to rising sea level. Installation of additional coastal protection barriers at this site and others is likely to exacerbate the rate and extent of intertidal habitat loss. 
1522093|High levels of egg predation by numerous vertebrates has been implicated as a limiting factor in many avian populations. In response, ornithologists often attempt to control potential egg predators through lethal methods or large scale fencing of breeding habitat. More recently, individual nest exclosures have been employed to deter egg predators. During 1999 and 2000, we experimentally tested nest exclosure effectiveness at enhancing Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) nest success in the Great Basin, USA. We demonstrated that nests with exclosures had significantly lower daily mortality rates compared to nests without exclosures. Although nest exclosures increased Killdeer nest success in this study, it is necessary to identify predators impacting nest success prior to the exclosure design. Nest exclosures are unlikely to be equally successful among sites, and variation in exclosure design may be required across both the range of a species and/or breeding seasons at a single site. The exclosure design we used did not deter small mammals and birds, or reptiles; and we observed small mustelids killing incubating birds. However, these exclosures were effective at increasing hatching success by deterring larger predators (ravens, gulls, canids). Any benefit derived from the nest exclosure used may potentially be offset by increased predation on incubating adults. Nest exclosures are not a means of preserving biological diversity over geologic time, but rather a potential temporary site-specific tool that increases nest success while long-term conservation plans are developed.
1522094|Coordinated waterbird counts have been carried out in major Kenyan wetlands annually over the last decade. The lakes of Naivasha, Elmenteita, Nakuru (counted since 1991) and Bogoria are close to each other in the southern Rift Valley and hold the bulk of both resident and migrant waterbirds counted each year. Levels of the four lakes fluctuate substantially and all but Naivasha are saline. By contrast, Dandora Ponds near Nairobi is a site with stable water levels. We compared trends in numbers of birds, categorized by family and by migratory status, with an earlier analysis in 1996 and between the fluctuating Rift Valley lakes and Dandora Ponds. Flamingo numbers remained highly variable at all sites, showing no long-term trends. In 1996, significant declines were found in many piscivorous waterbird groups, including grebes, pelicans, cormorants, storks, terns and gulls, mainly associated with falling lake levels at Lake Nakuru; by 2000, numbers had recovered. Consistent declines in rallids, birds of prey and kingfishers were evident in 1996, mainly due to falling numbers at Lake Naivasha. By 2000, kingfisher numbers had fully, and raptor numbers had partially, recovered. Rallids, mainly Red-knobbed Coot (Fulica cristata), continued to decline sharply through 1998, but recovered slightly to 1996 levels by 2000. After notably high numbers in 1996-1999, Palaearctic ducks declined dramatically in 2000 to a ten-year low. With the exception of rallids, none of the groups that had declined from 1991-1996 showed any trend in numbers over the extended time period. At Dandora, numbers of most waterbird groups fluctuated substantially despite constant conditions. The fluctuations showed little synchrony with between species or with those at the southern Rift Valley lakes, suggesting waterbirds were responding to the availability of suitable wetlands over a large area. The declines from 1991-1996 in the southern Rift Valley were temporary; recoveries in waterbird numbers were not attributable to improved environmental management (human pressures on these wetlands intensified from 1997-2000), but to higher lake levels in 1997/98. The ten-year data set covers a full cycle of low and high lake levels, which the six-year dataset did not, and may now form an adequate baseline for monitoring.
1522095| We present the first detailed information on breeding marine birds from the southern Lagoon of New Caledonia, southwest Pacific. The area under consideration, 5,000 km
1522096|The nesting ecology of the Greater Adjutant Stork (Leptoptilos dubius), the rarest stork in the world, was studied in the Brahmaputra Valley, Assam, India during 1994-97. We made a study of nine colonies in the valley during the 1994-95 nesting season, followed by a more intensive study in two subsequent nesting seasons (1995-96 and 1996-97) of two colonies at Nagaon, in central Assam. We measured the dimensions of both nest and non-nest trees, nearest distance between nest trees, and nearest house, nearest forest, nearest road, nearest water source and nearest foraging ground from each colony. All of the colonies were near human settlements. The structure of nest trees differed significantly from non-nest trees in both the overall and the intensive studies. Number of nests was highly correlated with tree height, diameter at breast height (DBH) and canopy area. About 90% of nests were built on the top of the canopy. Storks preferred to nest in compact colonies on large, widely branched trees with thin foliage cover and nearby food sources.
1522097|We report on the breeding of several individuals of Atlantic Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea borealis) in a small colony of Mediterranean Cory's Shearwater (C. d. diomedea) in the western Mediterranean (Columbretes Islands, northeastern Spain). We briefly discuss the potential role of Atlantic Cory's Shearwaters in gene flow at small and declining Mediterranean colonies.
1522098|We describe the distribution and estimate the density of the Flightless Steamer Duck (Tachyeres pteneres) and the Kelp Goose (Chloephaga hybrida) along the Beagle Channel, Tierra del Fuego, during the summer season (February and March) 1997. Using a 10-min transects method from a vessel; we estimated density and evaluated its relation with different characteristics of habitats. The study area was divided a priori into six zones. Due to the scarcity of information about these species, we reviewed previous literature to evaluate seasonal movements and made comparisons with other regions of Tierra del Fuego. Differences in habitat distribution compared with the previous studies in the same area are reported. In the Beagle Channel, the Flightless Steamer Duck was more abundant than the Kelp Goose. The observed distribution seems to be a result of a preference for the inner waters of the Beagle Channel, at the western sector of the study area. In spite of the difference in the distribution of the two waterfowl, both preferred similar habitats. The preferred habitat was protected coasts such as small bays, inlets, or sectors of the islands sheltered from the prevailing winds and currents. The geese moved during autumn and winter from the Beagle Channel and Staten Island to the Atlantic coast. In terms of difference in density between areas, the Kelp Geese were twenty times more frequent in Staten Island than around the Beagle Channel, while Flightless Steamer Duck were twice as dense in Staten Island than the Beagle Channel.
1522099|In keeping with many species of waterbirds, there is little difference in the body size or external appearance of adult male and female Northern Gannets (Morus bassanus). Previous work has indicated that some morphological characteristics and behavioral patterns differ on average between sexes but there has yet to be a quantitative evaluation of the accuracy or applicability of these different criteria in determining sex. The aim of this study was to use DNA-based techniques to determine the sexes of adults and to use this information to evaluate a range of behavioral and morphological criteria for sex determination. Nape-biting behavior was frequently observed, was performed almost exclusively (>99% of observations) by males and was completely accurate in assigning sexes on the basis of multiple observations at each nest: this confirms previous results which indicated that napebiting is highly sex-specific. Collection of nest material was also performed primarily by males, but this seldom occurred and so despite over 500 h of observations at each nest, fewer than 30% of pairs were sexed correctly using this criterion. Only two-thirds of birds were sexed correctly from head plumage color and fewer than 30% from foot web-line color. Behavioral observations were as accurate as DNA-based sexing and more effective than morphology for sexing adult birds at all stages of chick rearing.
1522100|Nesting in association with species that aggressively attack predators may reduce nest predation in some birds. For example, nesting ducks sometimes benefit from aggressive defence by nesting Canada Geese (Branta canadensis). Although Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) commonly nest with gulls (Larus spp.), the costs and benefits for eiders of this association remain uncertain. Over two years, 32 instances of kleptoparasitism of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) by Canada Geese were recorded in arctic Canada. The Canada Geese nested amongst Common Eiders and interrupted Herring Gulls while taking eider eggs. The geese displaced Herring Gulls from approximately ten percent of all eider eggs taken from nests, and ate egg contents themselves. Kleptoparasitism may provide Canada Geese with an important exogenous food resource, but the small overall number of eggs stolen from gulls (less than five percent of all eider eggs laid) limits the potential consequences of additive compensatory predation pressure by gulls within the eider colony.
1522101|Between October 1999 and April 2000, we surveyed the waterbirds at Lake Lashihai, China. A total of 52 species were recorded, of which one species was a resident, 34 were winter visitors, and 17 were passage migrants. Species richness was highest in November. Passage migrants mainly occurred in October, November, and April, and they stayed longer at the lake during their autumn migration than during the spring migration. The seasonal distribution pattern of total numbers of all waterbirds was bimodal. One peak occurred between late December and early January, and the other in middle March. The seasonal distribution patterns of 15 common species have been classified as bimodal, unimodal, or irregular. The numbers of five common species were variable in middle winter, and their numerical change in contiguous weeks were more than 30%, suggesting that local movements might be frequent.
1522102|Early attempts to identify sex in sexually monomorphic birds were based on morphological or chromosomal characters but since avian W-specific DNA sequences were identified, their PCR amplification has become commonly used molecular sexing method. We report here a DNA technique that amplifies an intrinsic CHD region without a DNA extraction. This test was applied to twelve species belonging to three waterbird orders, Ciconiiformes, Pelecaniformes and Phoenicopteriformes. All birds were sexed successfully with high reproducibility. There was complete agreement between our results and sex diagnosis by parallel methods. Because the proposed method eliminates the DNA extraction step, this protocol is more efficient and simple. It demands only minute amounts of DNA and reduces both time and the quantities of reagents consumed.
1522103| We evaluated the basal metabolic rate (BMR), thermal conductance ( C
1522104|The "Incubatory Reserves Constancy" hypothesis asserts that incubation could be a departure from breeding stress that allows for the maintenance or recovery of body reserves after laying effort (females) or territory defense (males) in those species with bi-parental incubation such as gulls. The plasma composition and body mass of incubating Yellow-legged Gulls (Larus cachinnans) were analyzed and related to the number of days after egg-laying. Female gulls showed an increase in uric acid and cholesterol levels, whereas males showed only an increase in uric acid values throughout this period. Moreover, females increased while males maintained their body masses. These results could reflect a recovery process after the laying effort supporting the Incubatory Reserves Constancy hypothesis in females. Uric acid and urea levels are positively correlated to body condition in Yellow-legged Gulls, which could be the result of a change in diet composition. This disagrees with recent findings on body composition in incubating gulls and could be related to variations in food availability among populations or years, and could reflect flexibility in the investment devoted by each sex.
1521968|The response of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias), Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus), Wood Storks (Mycteria americana), and White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) to water level (index of depth) and vegetation in the northern Everglades of Florida was studied in two years, each with dissimilar water levels. A regression model was constructed for each species in an average year (1988) and a dry year (1989) to examine the relationship of bird abundance to water depth and area of eight vegetation classes. The analyses showed that bird abundance is related to both water level and the vegetation community, but water level generally had the greatest effect. Models showed that in the average year (1988), there was a water level threshold, above which bird abundance was predicted to decline. The level threshold varied among species and may have reflected species-specific foraging constraints. However, in the dry year (1989), the relationship between bird abundance and water level was positive and linear, indicating that few places had water deeper than the thresholds observed in the average year. Overall, the area of slough vegetation appeared to have the second greatest effect on bird abundance. Generally, all models had low coefficients of determination ( R
1521969|Nest defense theory interprets the behavior of animals faced with the threat of predation within an optimality framework in which risks to parents are balanced against risks to offspring. We conducted "flights" of a model Peregrine (Falco peregrinus) towards nesting Common Terns (Sterna hirundo). Nesting parameters such as laying date, clutch-size (one to four eggs), and offspring age (fresh eggs to newly-hatched chicks) were known for 57 individual parents, while egg mass (16.5-24.6 g) was known for 50 parents. Age (three to 23 yr) and sex were known for 27 and 41 parents, respectively. We defined nest attentiveness as the number of outflights performed by each bird in the first 15 min after the Peregrine flight. Multivariate analysis showed that high attentiveness was associated with early laying and large eggs, but not with sex of the parents, distance from the predator, nor with clutch-size. Age of parents and age of offspring were less strongly correlated with nest attentiveness, but could not be excluded as explanatory variables. Among existing hypotheses, our results are most consistent with the hypothesis that nest attentiveness should increase with increasing value or quality of offspring. Given that previous studies have shown early laying and large eggs to be indicators of high parental quality in terns, we propose a new hypothesis that the intensity of nest attentiveness also increases with parental quality.
1521970|This paper addresses the hypothesis that parental quality, expressed in terms of nest location, determines differences in breeding parameters between colonies and colony areas. I compared hatching date, egg size, egg shape, clutch size, breeding success and chick growth of Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) on the tropical Aride Island, Seychelles between: a) central pairs of an old colony, b) peripheral pairs of the same colony, c) pairs of old small sub-colonies and c) pairs of a recently formed colony. The breeding parameters at the small, old colonies were similar to those of the large, old colony and significantly different from those of the new colony, suggesting that parental quality is more closely related to sub-colony age than to sub-colony size. In 1998, a good breeding season, egg size was similar between all study areas, but clutch size in the new colony was significantly larger than that in the center of the old colony and the small sub-colonies. However, breeding success was significantly higher in the last two areas. In 1999, a poor breeding season, center-eggs were smaller than both edge-eggs and new-colony eggs. These patterns at the center of the old and the new colony are the opposite to those described for seabirds in temperate areas. The shape index of eggs in the new colony was lower than that of eggs in the old colony, suggesting that the new colony was formed mainly by young birds. Parameters of early growth and linear growth rate showed only minor differences between study colonies. The earliest breeding birds laid in the center of the old colony, so these results agree with a proposed hypothesis that tropical Roseate Terns trade egg and clutch size for earliness of laying. Therefore, the positive effect of larger egg size on the growth parameters of chicks from the new colony was probably annulled by the opposing effect of other factors such as low parental quality and declining foraging conditions.
1521971|Because migration routes and stopover sites of the endangered Palearctic migratory Great White Pelican (Pelecanus onocrotalus) are poorly known, satellite tracking was used to map spring and autumn migration routes, stopover sites and ranging areas in Europe, Israel and Africa. Four immature and one adult individual were equipped with transmitters in Israel. Three of these pelicans did not migrate from Israel during the tracking period. One immature male pelican accomplished two spring migrations to Europe and an autumn migration back to Israel, where it over-wintered. Its northward routes passed through Lebanon, Syria, Turkey and Bulgaria and it arrived at the River Danube after three weeks. This individual's vast ranging areas in Europe during two consecutive summers included the Aegean Sea, Bulgaria, Greece and Romania, but excluded the Danube River breeding colony. One individual continued its migration to Africa. It reached the Sudd area in southern Sudan after two stops at Lake Nasser and in Jebel Aulia Dam on the White Nile. Its range in Africa included the Sudd, Lake Roseires on the Blue Nile, the lakes of the Ethiopian Great Valley and Lake Rudolf in Kenya. Although this information was obtained from a small number of individuals it is an essential addition to the body of knowledge required in order to establish a protection policy for this migratory species.
1521972|The American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) is a predator on Yellowstone Cutthroat Trout (Oncorhynchus clarki bouvieri) in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. This two-year study examined the biotic and abiotic factors that influenced the spatial patterns and temporal trends in pelican foraging on the 25-km segment of the Yellowstone River, immediately downstream from Yellowstone Lake. During May-August, 1994 and 1995, 81% of the 1,581 pelicans counted during 62 searches were between the lake outlet and 6 km downstream. That river region may provide an efficient foraging site for pelicans because many Yellowstone Cutthroat Trout spawn there and the trout from the lake that spawn in river areas farther downstream pass through the region on both legs of their annual spawning migration. Most temporal variation (54-65%) in pelican abundance within years was explained by multiple linear regression models that had river discharge and the counts of trout or their redds (i.e., spawning "nests") at one or the other of two major spawning areas as predictor variables. This study indicated that American White Pelican foraging on the Yellowstone River was associated, both spatially and temporally, with the spawning-related abundance of Yellowstone Cutthroat Trout in the Yellowstone River.
1521973|We investigated the distribution and behavior of 21 species of diving birds wintering in tidally active nearshore ocean off southern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Using vessel surveys in one site and land-based observations at a second site, we found significant differences in the use of tidally affected water types among and within three foraging guilds (piscivores, plankton feeders and benthic invertebrate predators) and five families (Gaviidae, Podicipedidae, Phalacrocoracidae, Anatidae, Alcidae). The only abundant plankton feeder, Ancient Murrelets (Synthliboramphus antiquus), foraged more frequently than other birds in areas of deeper water (>10 m) with fast tidal flow and turbulence. Their abundance and diving activity were significantly higher at maximum tide flow than at slack tides. Piscivores used both slack water and moderate currents in a wide range of depths but, apart from alcids and Pelagic Cormorants (Phalacrocorax pelagicus), avoided areas of high current and turbulence. Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) had higher abundance at tide phases with maximum current, and within a channel with strong tidal flow they showed repetitive upstream flights interspersed with downstream diving bouts. Fish-eating mergansers and most diving ducks taking benthic invertebrates foraged in relatively shallow (<10 m) and slack water, and avoided turbulence. Six species representing all three guilds showed changes in the use of depth categories as tides changed between slack and maximum current, and four species changed their behavior in different depth categories. Although there was considerable overlap in foraging niches, the differences in distribution and behavior of guilds, families, and species of diving birds indicate a degree of resource partitioning within tidally-driven water categories during winter.
1521974|An aerial survey of post-breeding molting Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) was carried out in late July 1999 along the southern half of the West Greenland coast. About 3,500 birds were located, which at this time of the year almost exclusively are males. Based on this observation a total of 5,000-10,000 Harlequin Duck males were estimated to molt in West Greenland. About 98% of the surveyed birds were found in the southern half of the study area. This distribution pattern may be linked to the presence of Atlantic Canadian males, which probably account for an appreciable proportion of the molting males in Greenland.
1521975| Until recently, very little was known about the basic ecology of the Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) in eastern North America, including molting locations. A combination of aerial, ground and boat surveys were initiated in 1989 (Qubec) and 1994 (Newfoundland and Labrador), and continued through 1999, to locate their molting areas. Molting Harlequin Ducks were found in Labrador, Newfoundland and the Gasp Peninsula and Anticosti Island, Qubec. Coastal areas of southern Labrador, Grey Islands, northern Newfoundland, and Bonaventure and Anticosti Islands, southern Qubec, were the most important sites. The tip of northern Labrador and possibly sites along the Qubec North Shore and Greenland are the most likely sites where the rest of the eastern population molts. Molting chronology for the ducks in Qubec is similar to those on the east and west coast of North America. Now that these sites are known, monitoring and, if necessary, protection of these sites can be considered. 
1521976|In waterfowl, the male costs and female benefits hypothesis considers that the timing of pairing will depend on the balance between the costs and benefits for each sex. Females may benefit by increasing their access to food and social status, and by decreasing harassment from conspecifics, while maintaining a pair bond for a long period should be costly to males. To investigate costs and benefits of early pairing in the Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus), we compared time budgets and frequency of interactions (agonistic, courtship, and mate guarding behavior) from paired and unpaired males and females. A total of 400 thirty-minute focal-animal sampling sessions were used for the analysis. Overall, feeding time did not differ between paired and unpaired birds of both sexes. However, regardless of their reproductive status, females spent about 15% more time feeding than males throughout the winter. While diving, paired males spent 4% less time underwater than unpaired males, but no difference was found between paired and unpaired females. Males spent more time on the surface between dives than females, yet the differences between paired and unpaired birds were not significant. Paired males were engaged in more interactions (mainly mate guarding) than unpaired males. Interactions received by paired and unpaired females did not differ overall, however, from late October to early May, interactions with paired females decreased, while interactions directed to unpaired females increased. Thus the pair bond, though being apparently costly to males, did not obviously benefit females by increasing feeding time. Early pairing in the Harlequin Duck may result from other factors, such as the advantages that pair reunion may confer.
1521977|Nearshore counts of birds on the water and time-lapse photography were used to monitor seasonal activity patterns and interannual variation in numbers of Horned Puffins (Fratercula corniculata) and Parakeet Auklets (Aethia psittacula) at the Semidi Islands, Alaska. The best period for over-water counts was mid egg-laying through hatching in auklets and late prelaying through early hatching in puffins. Daily counts (07.00 h-09.30 h) varied widely, with peak numbers and days with few or no birds present occurring throughout the census period. Variation among annual means in four years amounted to 26% and 72% of total count variation in puffins and auklets, respectively. Time-lapse photography of nesting habitat in early incubation revealed a morning (08.00 h-12.00 h) peak in the number of puffins loitering on study plots. Birds recorded in time-lapse images never comprised more than a third of the estimated breeding population on a plot. Components of variance in the time-lapse study were 29% within hours, 9% among hours (08.00 h-12.00 h), and 62% among days (8-29 June). Variability of over-water and land-based counts is reduced by standardizing the time of day when counts are made, but weather conditions had little influence on either type of count. High interannual variation of population indices implies low power to detect numerical trends in crevice-nesting auklets and puffins.
1521978| Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis), Andean Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus andinus) and James' Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus jamesi) occur in the high Andes water bodies of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile and Per. The objectives of this study were to analyze seasonal variations in flamingo abundance and movements related to climatic conditions, and to identify the physical characteristics of water bodies determining the seasonal distribution and abundance. Flamingo numbers reached a peak in summer and diminished in winter. Within the high Andes region, the Andean Flamingo was mainly found in the Dry and Dry-cold climatic sub-regions during summer. This species moved into the Dry sub-region in winter. In summer, James' Flamingo primarily occurred in water bodies of the Dry-cold sub-region. During winter, some individuals remained in the Dry-cold sub-region, and others moved to the Wet, Dry and Desert sub-regions. In summer, Chilean Flamingo occurred principally in the Dry sub-region. In winter, few remained in the Dry sub-region, and most birds moved to the Wet sub-region. These seasonal changes in flamingo numbers within the high Andes show that in winter, these birds move from sub-regions with extreme climatic conditions (Desert and Dry-cold sub-regions) to those with more suitable conditions (Wet and Dry sub-regions). The seasonal fluctuation in abundance might be explained by intra- and inter-regional movements in response to adverse climatic conditions. The relationships between water body physical characteristics and flamingo species show that the Chilean Flamingo mainly used lakes, both in summer and winter. James' Flamingo usually used saline playa-lakes at high altitudes in summer and winter. Andean Flamingo selected salt-flats during summer and lakes in winter. It is suggested that Chilean and James' Flamingos are habitat-specialists and the Andean Flamingo is a habitat-generalist. 
1521979|The diet of the Sanderling (Calidris alba) was studied using 105 droppings, 34 pellets and direct observations of feeding behavior. This study was carried out during the non-reproductive seasons of 1996 to 2000 in Monte Hermoso, SW of Buenos Aires, Argentina. A total of eleven prey items were identified, with beetles (Coleoptera), Mussels (Brachydontes rodriguezi), clams (Corbula sp.), amphipods (Corophium sp.) and Diptera being the most frequent. The consumption of polychaetes, algae, ants and small fish was also recorded. Sanderlings followed foraging American Oystercatchers (Haematopus palliatus) and cleaned out the valves of mussels and clams (Mesodesma mactroides) left by them. Mussels and beetles were the most constant and dominant prey during the study period. The association of Sanderlings with sandy coasts with rocky patches or restingas is probably due to the rich and diverse invertebrate communities present in this kind of environment, which allow birds to change feeding techniques between different substrates.
1521980|During 20 years, numbers of Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons) wintering in Japan have increased 5.6 times (ca. 46,000 in 1999), with over 80% of the geese concentrated around Lake Izunuma-Uchinuma, in northern Japan. Detailed information on the wintering ecology of the geese had not been investigated in Japan and the daily activity pattern and habitat use of the geese were studied around the lake in three winters (October-February), 1996/97, 1997/98 and 1998/99. The daily activity pattern, i.e., flight timing and behavior relating to environmental factors (light intensity, snowfall, temperature and wind speed), was similar to that for several other geese species in temperate areas. The geese wintering in Japan depended exclusively on rice in fields; they foraged in stubble fields, where the density of rice grains was much higher than that in plowed fields. However, the area of stubble fields around the lake has decreased from 1980 to 2000, while combine harvesters replaced machinery, which only cut the rice plants (reapers). The amount of rice grains left in the fields by the combine harvesters was 8.7 times than the reapers. The replaced cropping machinery increased the abundance of food and might facilitate an increase in geese numbers.
1521981|The Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) breeds in North America and migrates to South America at the end of the northern summer. At Punta Rasa (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina) this species is present from November to April. Between December 1995 and March 1996, the peak numbers of 20,000 individuals were recorded in March. These numbers place Punta Rasa as one of the most important wintering sites in South America. The daily pattern of abundance was similar throughout the austral summer with a peak at dusk. Although tidal height did not alter this pattern, it determined the availability of roost sites, constraining the spatial distribution of terns.
1521982|Colony attendance by the Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) was examined to investigate daily and seasonal patterns of variation, and to determine the biological or environmental factors, if any, which serve as useful predictors of such variation. Observations were made during the pre-laying and incubation stages of the breeding season on a study plot at a colony on Gull Island, Witless Bay Seabird Ecological Reserve, Newfoundland, Canada. The number of birds on the surface of the colony increased through the day, but the peak number differed between consecutive days. Colony attendance showed a possible cyclical trend across days with a periodicity ranging from two to six days. Residency time of individual birds was associated with the extent of colony attendance, suggesting a positive feedback loop between individual short-term turnover and numbers present on the breeding slope. Neither weather nor presence of large gulls was related to puffin attendance. The correlation between residency time and colony attendance suggests that puffins may be more confident on land when surrounded by other conspecifics. With the high variability and no obvious factors that influence attendance, the use of colony surface counts of individuals to infer population parameters is likely limited in this species.
1521983| We report for the first breeding attempt of the Lesser Black-backed Gull (Larus fuscus) in the Macaronesic Archipelago, in Alegranza Island (north of Lanzarote, Canary Islands). A nest with three eggs was found on June 2001, and at least one fledgling was seen in August with two adults. Additional observations suggest that 5-6 pairs may breed on Alegranza Island and nearby Montaa Clara Island. This is the southernmost breeding record for the species, increasing its known breeding range by 2,000 km. 
1522521| The feeding and vigilance behavior of the Black-tailed Godwit (Limosa limosa) were studied in an intertidal area of the Ra de Huelva, Spain, during the autumn migration. During diurnal low-tide periods, feeding was the predominant activity (80-85% of birds sampled). No significant negative relationship was observed between conspecific density and vigilance variables, and this may be related to the increases observed with group size in the intraspecific aggression and probe rates. The godwits showed greater vigilance in the presence of Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus), possibly because of the kleptoparasitic activity of this species. The godwits ingested more worms during the period around low tide and fewer prey items when the air temperature was rising. The feeding rate did not decrease with the conspecific density. 
1522522| This study examines predatory threats to Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) nesting at Breezy Point, Gateway National Recreation Area, New York. Several methods used include: 1) an evaluation of reproductive success data with documentation of predation to eggs and chicks, 2) predator surveys, and 3) an artificial nest study. The range of breeding pairs nesting from 1988-1996 was 11-19, with an average of 15.8 (SE  0.79) pairs/season. The average number of eggs hatched and chicks fledged per year for pairs was 2.2  0.23 and 0.8  0.16 respectively. Reasons for egg losses often went undetected (68%) but known sources included: tidal flooding (2%), human disturbance (4%), and predation (26%). Reasons for chick loss were generally not detected (99%). For eggs in artificial nests, overall egg removal was 84% and the two main predators based on visible footprints in sand were avian: gulls and crows. Results suggested that gulls predated significantly fewer eggs at artificial nests than crows, although they were more numerous in the area. With artificial nests, the highest egg removal occurred at a gull colony (100%), although losses were similarly high on adjacent beaches and at interior locations (greater than 90%). During the nesting season, highest removal occurred early in the field season (April-93%) when nesting Common Terns (Sterna hirundo), which mob potential predators, had yet to arrive. Once terns arrived, rates of egg loss at artificial nests in their colony were significantly lower than that at other habitats. It is suggested that crow control, including nest removal, be added to the existing management plan that already involves gull control. 
1522523| Aerial surveys of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) were conducted over coastal Louisiana and the delta region of Mississippi on 1-2 days during December, February, and April each year from 1997 to 1999. Additional surveys were conducted in coastal Texas and Mexico during January 1998 and 1999. The numbers, location, and habitat of all pelicans observed were recorded. The coastal zone of Louisiana consistently had higher numbers of pelicans (18,000 to 35,000 birds) than other areas surveyed (3,000 to 8,000 birds), indicating that Louisiana may be the most important wintering area for American White Pelicans east of the Rocky Mountains. Among the four regions surveyed, the average size of pelican flocks was largest in Mississippi during January-February, particularly in 1999 (x = 245 birds/flock). Pelican numbers in Mississippi peaked in February but in Louisiana they were more variable. Pelicans in the delta region of Mississippi were found most often in fresh water and sand bar habitats during December, flooded field habitats during February, and catfish ponds in April. In Louisiana, pelicans used fresh, intermediate, and brackish marshes during December, but showed a preference for brackish and saline marshes in February and April. 
1522524|Prey taken by breeding White Storks (Ciconia ciconia) were studied using pellets collected from 1993 to 1995 within its breeding area in Greece. Prey consisted of orthopterans, coleopterans, other insects, mollusks and vertebrates. The difference in the proportions of these taxa was significant among major foraging habitats (lakes, rivers, deltas and dry habitats). With the exception of the rivers, major habitats tended to group together in clusters, suggesting that similar prey types were available to the storks in common habitat types.
1522525|The food of immature White Storks (Ciconia ciconia) feeding in meadows in Poland was studied by pellet analysis. The most important food items by numbers were insects, mainly beetles, which constituted 83% of all prey items (N = 5,958 items) and were found in all pellets (N = 163). However, by biomass, 58% of food consisted of small mammals, mainly voles Microtus sp. Insects (22%) and earthworms (11.5%) were secondary resources. Literature on White Stork diet in Europe also showed that voles, insects and earthworms were the dominant food of breeding White Storks. Their roles changed with latitude, habitat, time, as well as method of data analysis. Generally, the diet of non-breeding storks was similar to breeding birds, but more of the prey was obtained in dry habitats.
1522526|We documented roosting and foraging habitat use by Wood Storks during the post-breeding season in the coastal zone of Georgia from 1994-1998. Larger, more persistent aggregations of roosting storks typically occurred in enclosed wetlands on large estuarine islands. Smaller, more ephemeral aggregations tended to occur on salt marsh/upland ecotones, where storks appeared to be waiting for local conditions (tide levels) to become suitable for foraging. Examination of habitat types within a 2-km radius of the larger (mean > 10 storks/survey) vs. smaller (mean <10 storks/survey) roosts showed that surrounding habitat structure, including those used for foraging, were similar. Foraging storks typically fed in close proximity (median = 0.5 km) to large roosts, much closer than storks using coastal wetlands during the breeding season. Tidal creeks were used almost exclusively as foraging habitat (92%). Storks and other wading birds were almost always present when the study bird arrived. The foraging patterns of study birds and four storks carrying radios suggested that storks often used the same foraging sites and/or marsh systems in the non-breeding season. Coastal Wood Storks apparently selected roosting sites based on the presence of conspecifics, abundant local prey, or possibly as shelter from adverse weather conditions.
1522527|We describe the kleptoparasitic behavior of ten adult Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) breeding at a colony at Falkner Island, Connecticut, USA between 1995 and 1998. These birds were considered habitual kleptoparasites because they stole fish repeatedly from other terns in every year they were observed at the site. No other breeding individuals were observed attempting to steal fish during our study. Kleptoparasitic techniques included aerial piracy, ground-based attacks, and deceptive behavior, but with one exception, each individual used one method exclusively. Success varied among individuals, but overall, kleptoparasites obtained prey at a significantly higher rate than did "honest" foragers. Eight of the ten kleptoparasites were females, suggesting a sex-biased tendency in Roseate Terns to engage in this behavior. Our observations indicate that kleptoparasitism by Roseate Terns is a specialized behavior, used regularly by only a few individuals at this breeding colony. This conclusion is consistent with a recent theoretical prediction regarding kleptoparasitism in birds.
1522528|In the east Atlantic during the latter part of the 20th century, small colonies of Northern Gannets (Morus bassanus) grew at a faster rate than big ones. In this species, colony growth occurs largely at the perimeter. Hence, the relative growth rate of a colony should be inversely proportional to the square root of its size. Data from 34 colonies confirmed this expectation. Modelling based on observed population parameters suggested that small colonies could sustain their faster growth rate only by recruiting birds from other colonies. Conversely, while large colonies grew more slowly, they reared more young than they could recruit. This implied net movement of young birds from big colonies to small ones, and showed how a population of gannets could sustain fast growth by founding new colonies.
1522529|We developed a satellite transmitter attachment technique for adult Common Loons (Gavia immer) that would help in identifying important migration routes, staging areas, and the location of wintering grounds of birds that breed in the north central United States. During the autumn and winter of 1998, the migration of six adult loons that were radio marked in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota was monitored. The results of this work offer insight into autumn movement patterns of Common Loons. Timing of autumn staging and migration to wintering grounds appeared to be related to low pressure systems that delivered winter weather to the Upper Midwest. Most of the radiomarked birds staged on the Great Lakes and then followed one of two distinct migration routes to the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic coasts. Several of the birds used lakes and reservoirs in the southeastern United States during migration. This study provides a basis for more extensive studies of Common Loon migration.
1522530|We report the southernmost recoveries of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) banded in the Azores archipelago, North Atlantic. Two birds banded as chicks and one bird banded as an adult were recovered at Punta Rasa, Argentina, adding support to the hypothesis of a regular movement of Common Terns between the Azores and the South American coast rather than to the African coast.
1522531|Results of surveys in the last ten years have produced more information on the wintering of the Scalysided Merganser (Mergus squamatus), showing that the species is dispersed widely in mainland China, with the majority of the wintering flocks of birds along the lower branch of the Yangtze River.
1522532|The relationships between wetland water conditions and breeding numbers of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), Northern Pintail (A. acuta), Blue-winged Teal (A. discors), and Northern Shoveler (A. clypeata) during May of 1992-1995, were examined on twelve study areas in the eastern Prairie Pothole Region. Data were collected on water levels (by wetland class [temporary, seasonal, semipermanent]), pond density (density of wet basins), and numbers of indicated pairs for each species from weekly roadside transect surveys. Comparison of models relating duck numbers to wetlands using Akaike's Information Criterion indicated that measures of water condition generally were of similar value for explaining duck numbers. The model containing effects of semipermanent wetland water levels was among the best in explaining duck numbers for all species. Inclusion of temporary and seasonal wetland water levels in models for Mallard and Northern Pintail was not strongly supported by the data. Variation in duck numbers was much higher among areas than among years. Water conditions accounted for nearly all among-year variation for individual sites, but a large proportion of residual variation remained unexplained. Water condition measures (excluding spatial and temporal factors) explained 9-49% of variation in duck numbers, leaving 51-91% unexplained. Comparisons of these results to those of studies conducted at local or regional scale indicated that the relationship between duck numbers and pond numbers varied with scale, and suggested that other area-related factors should be considered at smaller landscape scales.
1522533|The Port of Long Beach is currently developing the former U.S. Naval Station Long Beach into a marine container terminal. When the Naval Station was operational, a large Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) colony (up to 500 pairs) occupied mature Indian Laurel (Ficus microcarpa) and Olive (Olea europaea) trees that lined the Station streets. Although Black-crowned Night Herons are abundant throughout southern California, a nesting colony of this size is unusual. As part of an agreement with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Port agreed to relocate the colony prior to construction of the terminal. In 1999, 50 mature Indian Laurel, Olive, and Paperbark (Melaleuca sp.) trees were boxed and transported to a location in the port approximately two km from the original site. The relocated trees supplemented approximately 70 trees and bushes already at the location, formerly a park. Black-crowned Night Heron decoys were placed in the trees, heron vocalizations recorded from the original colony site were played twice per day, and public access to the site was eliminated. Three years of monitoring have shown that nesting has been successful and has increased at the relocation site; in 2000, 1,128 young were produced from 423 nests. Three years remain in the monitoring plan. No other documented relocation of an entire Black-crowned Night Heron colony of this size is recorded.
1522534|Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) show little sexual dimorphism, and although males are usually larger than females, sexing by direct observation may be difficult, especially in the case of chicks. In this paper we evaluate the utility of four different PCR-based sex determination techniques using genomic DNA for sexing Magellanic Penguins. We found that the primer set designed for sex determination in Collared Flycatcher (Ficedula albicollis) also provided a reliable, simple and convenient sexing procedure for Magellanic Penguins. Additionally, we obtained discriminant functions for sexing adults and chicks, sampled at six colonies differing in size and other ecological characteristics. Discriminant function for adults used two variables, bill length and bill depth that correctly classified 97% of the birds. Discriminant function for chicks included bill length and flipper length and correctly classified 78% of the individuals. Although molecular and biometric approaches could be useful for sexing adult Magellanic Penguins, only molecular procedures proved appropriate for accurately sexing chicks.
1522535| Miniaturized temperature loggers placed in Red-necked Grebe (Podiceps grisegina) nests revealed that 16 of the 32 monitored pairs abandoned their nests for extended periods lasting 3-9 h during at least two of the three nights that they were monitored. When incubating pairs left their nests unattended, temperatures of the thermistored egg usually dropped precipitously to below 30C within 15-25 min. Duration of a pair's incubation period was positively associated with the number of minutes that the thermistored egg was below 30C in our 3-day samples, yet nesting success remained high. Embryos appeared to be tolerant of this cooling; 26 of the 32 monitored nests hatched young, and there was no detectable increase in the failure of eggs to hatch for pairs neglecting their clutches more than 3 h per night. We suggest Red-necked Grebes preemptively leave their nests at night to avoid predation on their eggs or themselves. 
1522536|The richness and abundance of waterbird species were compared in active and abandoned saltpans in southeastern Spain. The effects of traditional methods of salt extraction in Mediterranean wetlands on the avian community were evaluated, as well as the effects of the abandonment of coastal salinas in Europe due to their present low profitability. Major changes in the waterbird community were found in disused saltpans, which were mainly due to environmental changes after salt production ceased. The diversity of bird species and the abundance of the diving species increased following abandonment, but the number of Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber) and some shorebirds declined. Management measures required to improve the ornithological diversity in abandoned saltpans are proposed.
1522537| This study examines the survival of first and second hatched White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) nestlings from fledging until colony dispersal (age 8-42 days) in Lahontan Valley, Nevada, using the Kaplan-Meier method. Out of 81 radiomarked nestlings sampled from six colonies during a two-year period (1995 and 1997), 18 died before reaching the age of 42 days and eleven were excluded from consideration. No evidence was found to suggest that survival rates of first and second hatched nestlings were different within or among years. The overall nestling survival rate was 76%  0.05 SE. The primary mortality source was inclement weather exposure. Weekly conditional survival rates were highest during the first week (99%  0.01 SE), and lowest in the second (87%  0.04 SE) and fourth (93%  0.03 SE) weeks of life. 
1522538|Capture techniques were developed to study the American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus). Mirror traps, mist nets, landing nets, night capture, funnel traps and net gun techniques were evaluated. Mirror traps and mist nets were used with a tape recording of the pumping call of the male bittern. Mist nets were also used to capture females at nest sites. Long-handled fish landing nets were used to capture molting birds and females on nests. Funnel traps were set at feeding sites. Mirror traps had a 50% success rate and were the most efficient means of capturing males. Mist nets were versatile with success rates of 40% on males and 50% on females. Landing net success was 76% on males and 70% on females but restricted to specific situations. Night capture was successful 33% of the time and only on molting birds. Net guns had limited success (6%) due to lack of skill and difficult to get close to birds. Funnel traps were not fully tested.
1522328|In Alaska, hundreds of hours were flown by many survey crews during late summer in seven years to conduct a census of all occupied Trumpeter Swan (Cygnus buccinator) habitat (range 46,729 km
1522329|During the period 1970-2000, substantial efforts were made to document the distribution and number of Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) in western Canada. Breeding surveys have expanded from covering less than 20,000 km
1522330| Population trends and productivity of Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) were monitored by two annual aerial surveys (June and August) in the Kuparuk Oilfield and adjacent areas on the Arctic Coastal Plain of Alaska during 1989-2000. Tundra Swan numbers increased significantly at an annual rate of 4.8% based on June counts of adults, and at 2.9% based on August counts of adults. Individuals in pairs composed 81% and 72% of adults in June and August, respectively. Young swans composed 25% of all swans recorded in August. Numbers of nests varied substantially among years (x = 79, range = 44-116), and did not increase significantly over the study period. The density of nests was low (x = 0.04 nests km
1522331|Population indices from the Midwinter Waterfowl Survey show that the number of Eastern Population Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) has more than doubled since 1955 and currently exceeds 100,000. Numbers of swans wintering in Maryland, in the vicinity of Chesapeake Bay, continue to decline while numbers wintering further south along coastal North Carolina steadily increase. North Carolina winters an average of about 70% of the Eastern Population, while Maryland has 20%, Virginia 6%, New Jersey 3% and elsewhere 1%. No long term productivity trends are evident in the observed age-ratios and numbers of young per family. Currently, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Virginia issue up to a total of 9,600 swan hunting permits annually (one swan per permit). The percentage of the population harvested was lowered in 1996 from 10% to 5% to stimulate population growth. Presently, nearly 4,000 birds are taken by hunters annually (40% success rate). Although population growth has slowed since the initiation of hunting in 1984, the trend remains positive and appears to be increasing after lowering the harvest rate. Thus, at current population levels, we believe that the Eastern Population is capable of sustaining a limited harvest while still ensuring future growth, ecological integrity, and other recreational opportunities to benefit society.
1522332|The Icelandic-breeding Whooper Swan (Cygnus cygnus) population winters almost exclusively in Ireland, Britain and Iceland. A coordinated census of Whooper Swans in these countries was undertaken in January 2000, following previous coordinated censuses in 1986, 1991 and 1995. Of the 20,856 birds recorded, 43% were in the Republic of Ireland, 18% in Northern Ireland, 19% in England, 14% in Scotland and 6% Iceland, with the combined totals for Wales and the Isle of Man accounting for <1%. Age assessments revealed 16.8% cygnets, with a mean brood size of 2.3; cygnet distribution was highly consistent between countries and regions in Britain and Ireland, but the proportion of young was lower and more variable between regions in Iceland. The census total was the highest to date, and represents an increase in numbers of 32% since 1995. There is little evidence that immigration of birds from the population wintering in continental northwest Europe is sufficient to explain the increase. The increase of 32% in population size between 1995 and 2000, together with productivity levels of 18.1% cygnets per annum, suggests an average annual mortality rate of 11.8% over the period. The increase in numbers occurred mainly in Ireland and England. This resulted in an increase in the number of flocks, and also in flock size, in both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. In England, birds appear to have become concentrated at traditional sites, and particularly at the two principal sites, Martin Mere and the Ouse Washes. Most birds were found on grassland habitats (although the proportion varied between countries) and on permanent water. As in previous censuses, the proportion recorded on arable habitats was low and, although higher in Britain, is localized there.
1522333| The number of Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) molting at Lake Myvatn, Iceland, was monitored for 27 years, from 1974 to 2000. For most of this period, Lake Myvatn held the largest concentration of Whooper Swans molting on freshwater in Iceland, although larger numbers are found on coastal bays and brackish lagoons. Two lakes less than 50 km from Myvatn that also receive molting Whooper Swans have been monitored since 1989. The numbers of Whooper Swans molting in the general region (4,500 km
1522334|Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) and Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) in Sweden have been monitored as part of the International Waterbird Census (IWC) since 1967. For the Whooper Swan, midwinter indices show fluctuations around a slowly increasing trend. Country-wide surveys in 1971-72, 1988-89, 1995 and 2000, however found a more substantial increase in numbers, with national totals estimated at 2,000, 4,000, 8,000 and 8,000 individuals, respectively. The difference between the trends indices and the results of the country-wide surveys is attributable to the birds using more terrestrial habitats since the early 1980s, which are less well covered by the IWC. In 1995, 33% of the swans were found on land, compared to 43% in January 2000. For the Mute Swan, the midwinter indices showed a significantly increasing trend from 1970 to 2000, whereas autumn indices from September counts fluctuated around a more or less stable level, but with a decrease in the last few years. Country-wide midwinter counts recorded about 8,000 Mute Swans in 1973, 13,000 in 1988-89 and over 15,000 in January 1993.
1522335|A large proportion of the Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) that winter in continental northwest Europe stage in Estonia during migration. Spring staging areas often overlap with those of the Bewick's Swans (Cygnus columbianus bewickii) migrating to arctic Russia. Whooper Swans occur in internationally important numbers (>600 birds) at seven wetland sites in spring, and eight sites are of national importance (100-600 birds). During the 1990s, up to 5,700 and 3,900 swans were counted at the key staging sites of Matsalu Bay and Haapsalu Bay respectively. Flocks are smaller (often <50 birds) and more scattered during autumn migration but two wetlands, Haapsalu Bay and Matsalu Bay, again hold internationally important numbers, with up to 3,900 and 1,200 individuals at this time. The Whooper Swan is a regular but innumerous wintering species, occurring in low numbers in coastal areas. In hard winters up to 300 birds and in mild winters up to 1,000 birds have been recorded in Estonia. There is no clear trend in the number of swans present in winter. The first breeding attempt by Whooper Swans in Estonia was recorded in 1979, a steady increase in the number of breeding pairs was recorded during the 1990s and the number currently breeding is estimated at 30-40 pairs. Breeding habitats are natural and artificial pools (dyseutrophic lakes), raised bogs (43% of breeding attempts), eutrophic inland lakes (31%) and coastal lakes and bays (26%). Flocks of molting swans (mainly non-breeding birds) have been observed in western Estonia since 1993.
1522336| This article reviews current and historical literature, and also original data, with a view to describing changes in the southern limit for Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) breeding in northwest Russia. The swans were more numerous in the region, and their distribution more widespread, in the 19th century and first half of the 20th century than they are today. In the mid 20th century, increased human activity resulted in a substantial decline in numbers, with breeding pairs no longer occurring in parts of central Karelia, nor in the Leningrad region in southern Karelia. A gradual increase in numbers began in the 1980s, and their breeding distribution shifted southwards. The southernmost sites where Whooper Swans breed regularly are now at 6210N in west Karelia (on the Russian-Finnish border), much further north (at 6320N) in central Karelia, but further south again (at around 62N) where Karelia meets the Arkhangelsk region. Further east, regular breeding occurs across the Kargopol district of Arkhangelsk, from 6145N in the west to 6120N at its southeast border with the Vologda region (at Lake Lacha). Irregular breeding occurs across southern Karelia and the northern part of the Leningrad region. The change in the southern limit of the swans' breeding distribution cannot, however, be considered an expansion of the breeding range because the swans have not yet fully returned to the range occupied in the first half of the 20th century. 
1522337|The numbers of Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) and Bewick's Swans (Cygnus columbianus bewickii) wintering in Japan have increased in recent decades. Annual winter counts show a steady growth in the last twenty years. Swans arrive in Japan from mid-October onwards, and up to 32,000 Whooper Swans and 31,000 Bewick's Swans have been recorded in mid-winter in the late 1990s. This is more than 50% of the East Asian populations of these two species. In addition, 150 feral Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) reside in Japan throughout the year. There is a long tradition of providing rice and bread for swans in Japan, and the number of supplementary feeding sites has increased since 1980. Food for swans and other waterfowl is now distributed at nearly 300 locations; about 55% of the wintering swans are found at these sites. Unlike in Europe and North America, no conflicts with farming interests have been reported.
1522338|Aerial surveys of breeding and non-breeding Bewick's Swans (Cygnus columbianus bewickii) and Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) were made in north European Russia in 1980, 1981, 1991 and from 1996 to 2000. There was a significant increase in the density of territorial Whooper Swan pairs on the Pechora Delta over this period, whereas the density of Bewick's Swan pairs on open tundra on the Russkiy Zavorot Peninsula, some 50 km further north, was stable. Additional surveys of Whooper Swans breeding in forest tundra to the south of the main study areas showed that nesting density in this region was much lower than for the Pechora Delta. The proportion of territorial pairs with nests varied substantially between years for both species. In Whooper Swans, the ratio of territorial breeding pairs to non-breeding pairs also changed substantially between June and July, particularly in 1998 and 1999, but there was little seasonal variation in the proportion of territorial pairs breeding recorded for Bewick's Swans during the study. Extensive surveys conducted in 1980, 1981, 1991 and 1999-2000 indicated that 56%-73% of Whooper Swans and 54%-62% of Bewick's Swans in the region do not defend breeding territories in early summer, but congregate in non-breeding flocks.
1522339|The Lena Delta is one of the key areas for Bewick's Swans (Cygnus columbianus bewickii) breeding in northern Asia. Aerial censuses, carried out during the period 1963-1994, showed that swan abundance decreased from 4,200 to 700 individuals between 1963-1983, then increased again to 6,000 individuals. The negative correlation between swan abundance and Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) numbers over this period was not significant, but further monitoring of the possible effects of Reindeer numbers is warranted. During 1994-2000, swan distribution, numbers and breeding biology were studied on foot and by boat. The phenology of spring and autumn migration, seasonal distribution of breeding and non-breeding birds within the Lena Delta, breeding dates, features of nest biology and the potential relationship between breeding success and environmental factors are described. Mean brood size correlated with mean temperature during the pre-breeding period.
1522340|The distribution of swan species in the Siberian Arctic, from the Gydan Peninsula to Chukotka, was studied between 1988 and 2000. Bewick's Swan (Cygnus columbianus bewickii) numbers increased in all areas from the Yamal Peninsula to Chukotka, and its previously fragmented range is now continuous. A total of about 66,200 Bewick's Swans spend the summer on Eurasian tundra, of which about 60% are in Siberia. The Whooper Swan (Cygnus cygnus) has expanded its range northwards and eastwards during the last ten years. Breeding concentrations occur further north than 30-40 years ago, and the species now nests on open tundra as well as in forest-tundra and taiga zones. The Tundra Swan (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) has expanded its breeding range to both west and south in Asia. They now occupy an area extending along 500 km of the north coast of Chukotka, and total numbers in Russia are estimated at 600-1,000 birds.
1522341| Population trends of Black-necked Swans (Cygnus melancoryphus) at Ro Cruces Sanctuary are analyzed and discussed in light of annual and seasonal fluctuations at this Ramsar site. Aerial, boat or ground surveys of swans have been made every month since 1985. Pronounced annual and seasonal fluctuations in numbers, with lows during the wet autumn/winter and peaks during the dry spring/summer, characterize this population. Numbers of swans more than doubled during the La Nia periods of 1989-1991 and 1996-1997. These periods coincided with macro-regional droughts that forced swans to move nomadically in the southern cone of the Neotropic. Ro Cruces is a stable wetland and a likely demographic source for Black-necked Swans in the region, where their distribution and numbers have increased in the last decade. 
1522342| The El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon has frequently been associated with negative effects on bird populations. Here we analyze the effect of increased rainfall associated with an El Nio event on Black-necked Swans (Cygnus melancoryphus) at El Yali National Reserve, an important coastal wetland of the Mediterranean region of Chile. The Black-necked Swan is a regular winter visitor to the El Yali wetland but, during and after El Nio years, it increases markedly in number, stays longer (throughout the summer) and breeds. During and after El Nio years, El Yali has more swans and higher breeding productivity than at other known breeding sites in central Chile. Consequently, after El Nio events, the El Yali wetland may be a source from which swans colonize other wetlands in the Mediterranean and Austral regions of Chile. 
1522343|The Bewick's Swan's (Cygnus columbianus bewickii) spring migration route from Lake Nakaumi, southern Japan, was studied using satellite telemetry in 1994 and 1997. Of four birds tracked in 1994, one crossed the Sea of Japan and covered 900 km in 13 h on 31 March. It reached the mainland near Vladivostock, then headed north via Khanka Lake and the Sanjiang Plain in China to the mouth of the Amur River in northern Russia. The distance from the wintering site to its summer site was about 2,000 km. The three other swans, followed for shorter periods in 1994, were recorded at various points along the Japanese Islands. Of a further four swans fitted with satellite transmitters in 1997, two crossed the Sea of Japan. One of these then headed north to the mouth of the Amur River, following a very similar route to the bird tracked in 1994. The other two swans followed a route along the islands of Japan, heading north until mid April when their transmitters failed. These observations suggest that Bewick's Swans wintering at Lake Nakaumi follow at least two migration routes in spring, one along Japanese islands, and the other directly across the Sea of Japan.
1522344|This paper summarizes eleven years (1990-2001) of experiments to teach Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) and Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) pre-selected migration routes using ultralight aircraft. When Canada Geese were trained to follow an ultralight aircraft for southward autumn migrations of 680 or 1,320 km, 81% (83/103) returned on their own in the next spring to near their place of training. In contrast, none returned of 21 similarly raised geese that were transported south in a closed truck over a route of 680 km. Trumpeter Swans have proven more difficult to train. However, in two experiments in which Trumpeter Swans followed an ultralight for the entire pre-selected route, one of three and two of four returned close to their training area. A stage-by-stage method, in which swans were transported in trucks between stops, flown in the vicinity and penned with a view of the night sky, has shown some promise. So far an established migration route (north and south twice) has been confirmed in only two geese
1522345|During 1990-1996, Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) were translocated from high-risk wintering sites in the Greater Yellowstone Region of Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana to potential new wintering areas in Idaho, Wyoming, Oregon, and Utah in an attempt to broaden winter distribution and reduce the vulnerability of the Western Canada and Greater Yellowstone breeding populations, which winter primarily in Greater Yellowstone. Survival and movements of 1,127 neck-banded swans translocated in 1990-1995 were monitored to determine their use of new wintering areas in years after translocation. Survival estimates were hindered by uneven resighting effort and lack of data on neck-band loss, however, at least 683 swans, including 71% of adults and 50% of cygnets, survived at least one year after translocation. Of these 683 swans, 62% subsequently wintered away from the monitored Greater Yellowstone winter habitats. By 1997, persistent use by >50 wintering swans existed at only two of eight release sites. We conclude that Trumpeter Swans would establish greater use of new wintering sites if winter translocations, primarily of juveniles, were made to sites (1) that have adequate ice-free food and low human disturbance, (2) that are situated directly south of currently occupied winter habitat, and (3) at which obvious mortality factors, such as shooting and power lines, are minimized.
1522346|Long Point, Lake Erie, is an important spring and autumn staging area for Eastern Population Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus). Habitat use and trend in numbers of Tundra Swans at Long Point were assessed using data from twelve Tundra Swans fitted with satellite transmitters and tracked locally, aerial surveys of swans on water (1971-1999), and roadside surveys of swans in fields (1998-2000). Mean peak autumn aquatic counts at Long Point increased from 442 Tundra Swans in the 1970s to 7,177 in the 1990s. The proportion of the Eastern Population of Tundra Swans using Long Point during peak one-day autumn counts increased from <1% in the 1970s to nearly 8% in the 1990s. In contrast, there was no change in peak spring aquatic counts. Tundra Swans were located in agricultural fields more often in spring (74% of diurnal satellite locations) than in autumn (9%). During spring, most (65%) swans using terrestrial habitats were observed in corn (Zea mays) fields, whereas during autumn, most (67%) were in winter wheat (Triticum duriem) fields. Seasonal differences in use of fields appeared to influence wetland habitat use; during spring, when agricultural fields were used extensively. Tundra Swans were located in those aquatic habitats that were closest to fields. However, during autumn, when aquatic plants were their primary forage, swans tended to use aquatic habitats closer to the tip of Long Point. Given the potential for Tundra Swans to influence the structure of waterfowl communities and aquatic habitats, and the overall lack of information about staging Tundra Swans, further research into the ecological importance and use of spring and autumn stopover sites is warranted.
1522347|The Upper Mississippi River is an autumn stopover site for the Eastern Population of Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus). A total of 37 aerial surveys and ten video surveys were conducted along 180 km of this river in the autumn of 1998 and 1999 to estimate swan numbers, percentage of young and brood sizes. Numbers peaked during late November and swans were present on the river in substantial numbers (>5,000) for nearly two months. Calculations suggest that 52% of the Eastern Population cygnets and about 25% of all Eastern Population swans used the study area during autumn migration. Video surveys indicated that breeders arrived later than non-breeders in autumn migration and that average brood size was 1.9 in 1999. Based on 43 radio-marked swans tracked every two to three days, the average length of stay was 33.6 days. The turnover rate (swans using the study area/peak number recorded in the study area) was low, 1.29 in 1998 and 0.94 in 1999. These findings suggest that the Upper Mississippi River is an important autumn stopover site for the Eastern Population of Tundra Swans, and may be especially important for cygnets.
1522348|Mute Swan (Cygnus olor) movements were examined in relation to sex. Movement patterns differed between the sexes, with females making longer movements, on average during the study, than males (46.3 km compared to 40.1 km). Females also moved further from their place of banding than males (46.9 km compared to 39.8 km). Although males appeared to undertake more frequent movements, it is likely that the frequency of movements by females was under-estimated since females moved further and a higher percentage of females than males went missing at all ages. Collisions with fixed obstacles accounted for at least 30% of all recorded deaths and 57% of mortality where the cause of death was known.
1522349|Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) grazing on winter wheat (Triticum duriem) were studied using 61 sets of paired plots (one exclosure, one subject to grazing) in fields near a major wintering area in North Carolina during 1995-1996. Aboveground biomass, number of seed heads, and seed head mass were determined for each plot and used as measures of grain yield; plant height and leaf damage on each plot were used to assess grazing intensity. Tundra Swans reduced aboveground biomass by 12% and seed head mass by 11% in grazed plots compared to exclosure plots. More blades were grazed and plant height was reduced in grazed plots compared to exclosure plots in each month after plot deployment, with the greatest reduction in plant height (28%) occurring in February, and a final reduction of 6% at the time of harvest in June. However, these differences in crop yield and plant height occurred only in plots on sanctuary fields, in which swans can feed without disturbance from farmers or hunters, but not in plots on non-sanctuary fields.
1522350|The effects of grazing by Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) on agricultural grasslands in winter were investigated in northwest Ireland. Exclosure cages were used to compare aboveground biomass in ungrazed plots with those grazed by swans. Grazing intensity was measured by recording cumulative dropping densities in fixed plots. Measurements of aboveground biomass were made on three occasions: midwinter (January), early spring (late March) and late spring (late May) at two different study sites in different years. There were significant yield losses between grazed and ungrazed plots for each sampling period. These were highest in spring when losses of up to 65% were recorded. Swan grazing intensity was positively correlated with yield losses and aboveground biomass and the correlation was especially strong in late spring. Geese were also present in fields at one of the study sites and, while they also had a significant effect on biomass, swan grazing had a proportionately stronger effect. While the results illustrate the potential severity of grazing by swans, they should be interpreted with caution as previous studies have shown the interactive effects of a range of variables, including weather conditions, which make it difficult to predict the response of a sward to grazing.
1522351|Habitat availability and usage by Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) and Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) was studied in the valley of the River Tweed in Scotland from 1996-1999. Monthly surveys were undertaken to describe the seasonal variation in numbers of swans and their choice of habitat, with particular reference to potential factors affecting choice of individual agricultural fields. Mute Swans were present throughout the year, with highest numbers in winter, and lowest numbers during April-August. Whooper Swans were present from October-April. Both species fed on agricultural crops during winter, with Oilseed Rape (Brassica napus) fields the favored habitat from December-March. Whooper Swans also showed some preference for winter cereals when in single species flocks, while river vegetation was also important for Mute Swans. Analysis of field choice showed that, although crop type (Oilseed Rape) was the dominant factor, swans also chose larger fields and those closer to water. Neither boundary features nor potential sources of disturbance were significant in influencing field selection. Implications for the management of conflict between swans and farmers include the potential to reduce the likelihood of damage by swans through planting Oilseed Rape in smaller fields away from water. An alternative approach would be to set aside sacrificial fields, the location and size of which could be chosen to be the most attractive combination for grazing swans.
1522352| Seasonal variation in the numbers, distribution and behavior of Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) between two Danish brackish lagoons, Agger Fjord (a molting site) and Harbor Fjord (a wintering site), was investigated each year from 1994-1999 to determine factors influencing feeding activity and site selection. Water depth, water level fluctuations and biomass of aquatic macrophytes differed between sites, with macrophyte composition and food quality, measured as the proportion of carbohydrate and protein in the vegetation, also differing widely between sites. Rising water levels and declining food availability during autumn affected feeding intensity and foraging methods. Feeding depth on Harbor Fjord influenced spatial distribution of swans, whereas the distribution was influenced by distance to the shore on the shallower Agger Fjord. Distance to areas open to hunting had no influence on distribution. Several factors appeared to affect the swans' selection of Agger Fjord as a molting site. The macrophyte community was dominated by highly nutritious Stoneworts (Chara spp.) and average water depth was very low, making more food available within reach of the birds. Furthermore, human disturbance was low and undisturbed islands provided escape routes for flightless birds and refuges suitable for preening and roosting. During autumn, swans left the molting ground as the food stock was depleted, and moved to Harbor Fjord, which offered the best foraging opportunities in winter. Here the macrophyte community consisted of Spiral Tasselweed (Ruppia cirrhosa) and, although of low food quality, the food stock was abundant. It is suggested that water levels at Harbor Fjord be managed so that submerged macrophytes are more readily available for Mute Swans. 
1522353|This paper describes factors affecting the size of the Mute Swan (Cygnus olor) colony breeding at Abbotsbury, Dorset, a site free from most of the common causes of mortality encountered by swans occurring elsewhere in the UK. The greatest effect on breeding numbers is the survival rate of the breeding adults, which varies with year and has increased with time. The proportion of birds known to have bred, but which fail to breed in any year, varies from 2% to 28%. The number of new breeders in any year is dependent on cygnet survival in their first year, together with the age at which they start to breed. New breeders tend to start breeding at a younger age in years when conditions for breeding seem good (as judged by an increase in the breeding population over the previous year); the reasons for the differences between good and poor years are not known. Despite the site being apparently ideal for the swans, the overall survival and longevity does not differ greatly from Mute Swans studied elsewhere in the UK.
1522354|The occupancy of territories, and the breeding success of pairs on these territories, was recorded for Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) nesting at Skagafjordur, northern Iceland, from 1988 to 2000 inclusive. Complete information on occupancy was obtained for 83 (66%) of 125 territories located during the 13-year study. Territories were occupied (by one or more pairs) for an average of 7.4 years; 31% were occupied for three years or less and 31% for most of the study (12 or 13 years). The number of years that Whooper Swans occupied territories was influenced by the area of open water on the territory, but not by the proximity of the nearest nesting pair. There was also a positive correlation between the number of years in which a territory was occupied and annual breeding success (measured as clutch size) for pairs on the territories. Monitoring of individuals showed that only one territory was occupied by the same pair throughout the study, and that 35% of pairs were present for only one season. Territories occupied for most years not only received more pairs, but the average duration of occupancy (in years) by the same pair was also higher for these sites. Further information on habitat quality is needed to determine the reasons underlying variation in frequency of occupancy and breeding success.
1522355|The influence of breeding habitat on the growth and survival of Whooper Swan (Cygnus cygnus) cygnets was examined using data collected in central Finland in 1996. Breeding habitats were divided into three categories: peatlands, oligotrophic lakes and eutrophic lakes. Cygnets reared in peatlands and oligotrophic lakes were significantly lighter (35% and 20% respectively) and had shorter skull lengths (12% and 6% respectively) than cygnets from eutrophic lakes, when measurements were adjusted for differences due to age. The estimated age at fledging for cygnets from peatlands and oligotrophic lakes were, on average, 18 days and 10 days later respectively than for cygnets from eutrophic lakes. It is suggested that differences in growth rates and age at fledging can be explained by differences in the availability and nutritional quality of food in the three types of habitat. Survival differed significantly between habitats; 52% of cygnets from peatlands were recorded on the wintering grounds, compared with 77% and 76% from oligotrophic and eutrophic lakes. Cygnets resighted on the wintering grounds were, on average, 640 g heavier when banded in August than cygnets not resighted. This suggests that differences in the survival of cygnets from the three habitat categories were attributable to territory quality influencing the cygnets' growth, which in turn may affect their survival into the first winter.
1522356| The nesting ecology of Bewick's Swans (Cygnus columbianus bewickii) breeding on Vaygach Island (7015N, 5846E), Russia was studied in 1986-1988 and 1995-1997. In particular, the effects of spring weather conditions on the use of old nests, breeding density and clutch size were considered. A total of 127 nests were found over the six-year period. All nests were mapped, clutch size was recorded and the eggs were weighed and measured. Bewick's Swan nests occurred across the island in different types of habitat. Nest density varied from 0.12 to 0.36 nests km
1522357| Annual aerial surveys of nesting Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) were conducted during 1989-2000 on the Kuparuk and Milne Point oilfields and adjacent areas of the central Arctic Coastal Plain of northern Alaska. Spatial analysis indicated that swans selected nest sites close (100 m) to large lakes (20-33 ha) and that nests were clumped in distribution each year, although nests on average were greater than 2.5 km apart. The clumped distribution of nests suggests that suitable habitats for nesting swans are not randomly distributed in the study area. Mean distance of nests to the Beaufort Sea coastline ranged annually from 11.1-14.5 km. Waterbodies near nests had significantly higher shoreline complexity each year than the closest waterbodies to random locations. Complex shorelines (i.e., small coves or sheltered areas) provide areas suitable for emergent vegetation such as Pendant Grass (Arctophila fulva), a dominant species in preferred foraging habitat in northern Alaska. Photographs of Tundra Swan nests, taken over a seven-year period, were used to characterize nest-site habitats at both macrotype and microtype scales. Nests primarily were located on the driest microtypes and on macrosites associated with lakes, usually within 20 m of the lake shore. Nest sites afforded good visibility and early exposure during spring thaw. Among the 89 swan territories that had at least three years of use, swans used the same mound each year in 36% of territories and used a different mound each year in 12%; swans in remaining territories used the same mound in some years and new mounds in others. Studies such as ours may be useful for evaluating the impacts of oil development, and for planning and permitting future developments in new regions on the Arctic Coastal Plain of Alaska. 
1522358| Nesting ecology of Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) was studied along the Kashunuk River near Old Chevak (6126'N, 16527'W), on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta of western Alaska from 1988-2000. Annual variation in snow-melt chronology, nesting phenology, nesting density, clutch size and nest success was examined. The same area (approximately 23 km
1522359| Migratory behavior and abundance of Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) were studied from 1977 to 1996 at two adjacent sites on the lower Alaska Peninsula. Winter re-sightings of swans captured and neck banded during molt revealed that swans from one site (Pavlof) were consistently migratory while those from the other (Izembek) were essentially resident during 17 of 20 years when they wintered at nearby Unimak Island. Large emigrations occurred from Izembek in three consecutive years to winter sites in the U.S. Pacific Northwest where swans from Pavlof and elsewhere also wintered. There was no indication of mixing between swans from Izembek and Pavlof on the breeding grounds or Alaskan wintering grounds. The average number of swans on Izembek and Pavlof breeding grounds was 212  34 (0.20  0.03 swans per km
1522360|This study describes variation of egg size in Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) nesting on fishponds in the Barycz valley, Poland, determines repeatability in mean egg volume of the same females nesting in consecutive breeding seasons, and determines if egg size influences hatchability, chick body size, mass and survival. Within a clutch, the smallest egg was laid first or last in the laying sequence. Differences in volume between eggs within a clutch were significant for all categories of clutch size. Mean egg volume in a clutch did not vary significantly between years for the same females nesting in consecutive breeding seasons, and was not related to female body size. Repeatability of mean egg dimensions in the next breeding seasons was 0.69-0.75. Later onset of laying was correlated with laying smaller eggs. On average, a delay in laying the first egg corresponded with a reduction in mean egg size of 1.8% per each 10 days. Unhatched eggs were not significantly smaller than eggs that produced chicks. Large eggs produced larger and heavier cygnets. Egg volume explained about 70% of the variation in cygnet body mass and 18-38% of the variation in body size measured at one day of age. Mean egg volume in a clutch influenced cygnet survival to age 100 days.
1522361|Non-energetic and energetic constraints have been used to explain asynchronous molt in breeding pairs of waterfowl. This study of Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) in the Barycz valley of Poland during 1990-1995 describes the timing of female molt in relation to timing of hatch, clutch size, body weight and condition at the end of incubation, and the timing of her mate's molt. Females (N = 89) initiated molt from 20 June to mid-August. Female date of molt initiation was significantly related to hatch date and body condition at the end of incubation. Females started molt on average 46 days after the hatching of her eggs. The hatch-to-molt interval was positively related to body condition at hatch. Males (N = 102) initiated molt from mid-July to the first of September. Males in poorer body condition initiated molt later. There was a positive correlation between female and male molt dates within a pair. Males began molt on average 28 days later than their mates (N = 52). In addition to energetic constraints of reproduction and molt, the delay of molt by breeding females is likely to be influenced by the need to brood cygnets and protect them from predators. The delay of molt by breeding males is likely to be influenced by the need to protect cygnets from predators and the need to protect mates and territories from conspecifics.
1522362|Among studies that have quantified the care of precocial young, few have investigated forms of parental care other than vigilance. During the pre-fledging period, Tundra Swan (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) parents provided simultaneous biparental care by foraging near each other and their cygnets, and cygnets spent more time foraging during bouts in which both parents were foraging nearby than when only one parent was foraging nearby. Parents spent nearly twice as much foraging time on land than did non-parents, a habitat in which cygnets foraged more intensely than parents (i.e., spent more time foraging during foraging bouts) and could graze on protein-rich sedges rather than use more difficult below-water foraging methods. Parents also spent more than twice as much time being vigilant and more than three times as much time defending their territory than non-parents, behaviors that presumably benefited cygents by decreasing predation risk and indirect foraging competition, respectively. Parents therefore incurred the costs of foraging less intensely during foraging bouts, spending more time interacting, more time in vigilance, and less time sleeping/preening than non-parents.
1522363|The behavior of individuals in twelve Coscoroba Swan (Coscoroba cosoroba) families was observed from 24 October to 13 November 2000 and 6-18 January 2001 at four locations in the El Yali wetland, located about 200 km south of Santiago, Chile. In all families, both parents were vigilant and aggressive toward conspecifics and, in one location, territories were defended throughout the season. In most cases, both parents still accompanied their first broods until the end of the study period, when the oldest broods were four to five months old and flying. Males spent less time feeding than cygnets, and spent more time in aggressive activities than females. Two females began incubating a second clutch 40-50 days after hatching broods of eight and seven cygnets, with second broods containing seven and three cygnets, respectively. In both of these families, the male accompanied the first brood while the female incubated the second clutch. In the first case, both parents were aggressive towards the first brood and preferentially accompanied the second brood, whereas in the other case, the first and second broods formed one large family accompanied by both parents. These two families, especially the male parents, differed in the percentage of time spent in a number of activities. The overall activity pattern of one pair differed depending on whether they were attending one or two broods. Further study is needed to document the frequency of double-brooding, the ecological and social factors that favor it, and parental care of first broods.
1522364|Activity budgets of wild Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) nesting in interior Alaska were recorded in 1982 and 1983. Analysis of these time budgets were used to quantify and compare the behavior of females, males and broods during incubation, hatching and brood-rearing. Male behavior changed little during the breeding season; however, they fed less and were alert more during hatching than during either incubation or brood-rearing. Females interrupted incubation sessions only to feed and occasionally to assist males in chasing intruding swans. Females initiated recesses during incubation usually when males were near the nest. Males attended nests during their mates' absence, but were never observed to sit on the eggs. During brood-rearing, behavior of females and males was similar, but cygnets spent more time feeding and resting, and less time preening and being alert, than did parents. Activity budgets are compared to those from other studies of wild Trumpeter Swans and Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) in Alaska.
1522365|Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) do not develop a brood patch as do most other species of waterfowl. Observations of three pairs of captive breeding Trumpeter Swans, which were uncharacteristically non-aggressive, showed that they incubated with their feet on top of the eggs. In addition, two instances of egg-laying were witnessed at close range and are described here. First view of the egg in the cloaca to final emergence took just over two minutes. Trumpeter Swans lay very small eggs in proportion to their body size, and their large feet can theoretically cover 5.7 eggs. It is suggested that Trumpeter Swans are able to regulate blood flow to their feet and provide effective incubation.
1522366|By the beginning of the 20th Century, North America's once widespread and abundant populations of Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) had been devastated by overharvest and were nearing extinction. By the close of the century, due to growth of remnant populations and restoration efforts, over 23,000 Trumpeter Swans existed in the wild. Large portions of vacant historic breeding habitats in Canada and the United States remain suitable for future reoccupation, however, traditional migration patterns to southerly wintering areas have been disrupted, winter habitat has been reduced in quantity and quality, and some populations that depend upon marginal winter habitat are vulnerable to high winter mortality. To maintain current populations and allow for growth, we recommend protecting and improving current winter habitat, creating new wintering sites, and developing methods to establish use of these areas. Particular emphasis should be placed on using the National Wildlife Refuge System to provide secure focus areas for expansion of migration and winter distribution and exploring ways to create additional wintering habitat in partnership with agricultural interests.
1522367| Restoration of Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) to their former range in Ontario has involved many techniques, some more successful than others. Rearing methods included cross-fostering on wild Mute Swans (Cygnus olor), artificial incubation, and incubation and rearing by their own Trumpeter Swan parents. Egg hatchability was low (x = 56%) for eggs laid by captive pairs and was suspected to be due to inbreeding. Few toxic contaminants were found in unhatched eggs, but 15-17% of unhatched eggs that had been artificially incubated were infertile. Eggs cross-fostered under wild Mute Swans had lower hatchability than those incubated by Trumpeter Swans, and cygnets raised by Mute Swans survived less well to fledging. Time budgets revealed that rearing methods significantly influenced behavior but differences disappeared by 26 weeks of age. However, wild-hatched swans, when adults, bred somewhat but not significantly more frequently than those hatched by their own, captive parents. Translocating adult wild-caught Trumpeter Swans did not prove to be an effective reintroduction technique; none of the six translocated adults were resighted after the first year. Annual survival rate of wild-hatched males and females more than 2 years old was 0.831; survival rates did not differ between captive- and wild-hatched swans in any age or sex category. The most common cause of death was lead poisoning. Released Trumpeter Swans bred for the first time at two to eight years of age. Four adults were taught to follow an ultralight aircraft to a predetermined wintering site. They returned on their own in the spring but did not migrate back to the wintering site during the next autumn. 
1522368|A decision support system for the management of the Rocky Mountain Population of Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) is being developed. As part of this, three expert systems are also in development: one for assessing the quality of Trumpeter Swan breeding habitat; one for making water level recommendations in montane, palustrine wetlands; and one for assessing the contribution a particular site can make towards meeting objectives from a flyway perspective. The focus of this paper is the development of the breeding habitat expert system, which currently consists of 157 rules. Our purpose is to provide decision support for issues that appear to be beyond the capability of single persons to conceptualize and solve. We propose that by involving multiple experts in the development and use of the system, management will be significantly improved. The knowledge base for the expert system has been developed using standard knowledge engineering techniques with a small team of ecological experts. Knowledge was then coded using production rules organized in decision trees using a commercial expert system development shell. The final system has been deployed on the world wide web.
1522369|A Bayesian time series analysis technique, the dynamic linear model, was used to analyze counts of Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) summering in Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming from 1931 to 2000. For the Yellowstone National Park segment of white birds (sub-adults and adults combined) the estimated probability of a positive growth rate is 0.01. The estimated probability of achieving the Subcommittee on Rocky Mountain Trumpeter Swans 2002 population goal of 40 white birds for the Yellowstone segment is less than 0.01. Outside of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming white birds are estimated to have a 0.79 probability of a positive growth rate with a 0.05 probability of achieving the 2002 objective of 120 white birds. In the Centennial Valley in southwest Montana, results indicate a probability of 0.87 that the white bird population is growing at a positive rate with considerable uncertainty. The estimated probability of achieving the 2002 Centennial Valley objective of 160 white birds is 0.14 but under an alternative model falls to 0.04. The estimated probability that the Targhee National Forest segment of white birds has a positive growth rate is 0.03. In Idaho outside of the Targhee National Forest, white birds are estimated to have a 0.97 probability of a positive growth rate with a 0.18 probability of attaining the 2002 goal of 150 white birds.
1522370|Morning and evening flights of Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) wintering near Overgaard, in eastern Jutland, Denmark, were studied to assess the potential risk of collisions with medium sized or with large turbines, should a proposed wind park be developed in the area. The birds could be particularly prone to collisions during evening flights, as these took place in rather poor light conditions. Recorded heights of swan flights indicated that a park consisting of medium sized wind turbines would be more critical in terms of collision risk than one with large turbines, with 38% of observed individuals flying within height range of the rotors in the former, only 13% in the latter.
1522371|This paper presents the most recent information on threats to Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) in Xinjiang, northwest China. Xinjiang holds the largest breeding and wintering numbers of Whooper Swans in the country. There are many illegal activities which affect the wildlife in the area, including hunting, fishing with explosives, poisoning, trapping, collecting eggs, and destroying nests. Moreover, over-population of domesticated animals causes serious degradation of the grassland.
1522372|Between 1986 and 2000, biometrics data were recorded for 108 Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus) caught and banded while wintering at Hokkaido, Japan. Sex was determined by cloacal examination and also, in later years, by molecular analysis. A comparison of the two methods found a discrepancy in classification for 20% of the sexed individuals. Adult males were heavier than adult females, and had longer wing lengths, but there were no significant sex differences between the adult swans for the other body size measurements. Juvenile swans showed greater size dimorphism, with males proving larger than females for four of the six measurements tested.
1522373|Biometrics data for Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) taken during the months of July, August and September, are presented for two discrete study areas in England, separated by approximately 320 km. Males in northeast England were significantly larger than those in central England, whereas females were of similar size. Birds in central England were in better condition than those in northeast England. Sexual dimorphism was demonstrated in both areas, males being significantly larger and in better body condition than females, but there was an overlap of 87.6% in the radius measurements of males and females within the two areas. In both sexes, breeding birds were in better condition than non-breeding birds. While breeding males were larger than their non-breeding counterparts, breeding females were smaller than non-breeding females in both areas.
1522374|The Mute Swan (Cygnus olor) flock at Berwick-upon-Tweed, northeast England, was studied intensively for a twelve-month period in 1994. An influx of birds occurred during May and June as birds came to the site from the surrounding area to molt. The origin of molting birds was restricted by local geography; ground higher than 200 m above sea level appeared to reduce movement to the site. The sex ratio and age ratio of the flock did not vary significantly throughout the year. Primary feathers grew at a rate of 6.1 mm per day, and age, sex and body condition did not influence the rate of feather growth. Status had an impact on the timing of molt, with resident birds molting earlier than migrants. Body condition varied throughout the year. Age, sex and month were all significant factors in explaining variation in body condition.
1522375|Cloacal examination is a long-established method of sexing Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) yet its accuracy has not been considered in detail. This technique was used for 708 cygnets fledged and banded in the Lothians, UK between 1982 and 1995. Of the 681 where sex was determined, the numbers of males and females differed significantly (57% were male). Behavioral observations of 113 of the banded cygnets subsequently recorded while breeding indicated that 89% had been sexed correctly. Although a higher proportion of females than males were sexed correctly, the bias in accuracy was not significant.
1522376|Reintroduction efforts have established small, scattered flocks of Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) in the Midwestern United States. Management of these flocks as distinct population units is debated among wildlife managers. The purpose of this study was to quantify genetic differences among three recognized populations of Trumpeter Swans. Blood and tissue samples were collected during 1999 and 2000 and analyzed using horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis. Trumpeter Swans from the High Plains Flock and the Greater Yellowstone Population, from which the High Plains Flock was derived, were genetically indistinguishable. However, both flocks differed from the Pacific Coast Population in allele frequencies at the adenosine deaminase (ADA) locus. Founder effects may have influenced both the High Plains Flock and the Greater Yellowstone Population. Results also suggest unidirectional gene flow from the Pacific Coast Population into the other populations. The High Plains Flock may be a suitable source of individuals to increase the size of the Greater Yellowstone Population while maintaining similar allele frequencies. Additional higher resolution genetic surveys are warranted.
1522377| Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) and Tundra Swans (C. columbianus columbianus) in captivity produce hybrid offspring that are visually similar to their parent species. In this study, call note vocalizations of Trumpeter Swans, Tundra Swans, and their hybrid offspring were analyzed for differences in call duration and initial low frequency. Sixty-five locator vocalizations were digitally recorded from four Trumpeter Swans, four Tundra Swans, and seven known Trumpeter--Tundra Swan hybrids. Call duration did not differ significantly among swan types (x = 200.5 mS  53.3 [SD], N = 65). However, the initial frequency of the locator call was significantly lower in the Trumpeter Swan (x = 303 Hz  73 [SD]) than in the Tundra Swan (x = 479 Hz  89 [SD]). Initial low frequency of hybrid swan locator calls was intermediate (x = 398 Hz  58 [SD]) and did not differ significantly from either parent species. This suggests that the duration of the locator call does not vary among these swan species or their hybrids. However, the initial low frequency of the locator call differs in the two species and their hybrids demonstrate intermediate values. 
1522378| Lead from spent gunshot and discarded anglers' weights continues to pose a threat to Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) in Europe. In many parts of the world, lead is still widely used in fishing and hunting, and in areas where it is banned previous losses still pose a threat. We collected 590 blood samples from ringed Mute Swans between October and January over six winters: 1983-84 to 1986-87 inclusive, 1994-95 and 1999-2000. Most samples were collected from swans wintering at Cork Lough, Ireland, an urban site where coarse fishing is popular, while a smaller number were collected from swans at rural sites within a 50 km radius of Cork Lough. The median blood lead levels in swans at Cork Lough declined from 36.2 g/100 ml in 1983-84 to 12.1 g/100 ml in 1999-2000. There was also a significant decline in the proportion of birds suffering from acute lead poisoning (>40 g/100 ml of whole blood), from 60% in the winter of 1985-86 to 2% in the winter of 1994-95. A significant decline in the median blood lead level of Mute Swans in rural areas, from 49.7 g/100 ml in 1984-85 to 7.7 g/100 ml in 1999-2000, was also noted. The decline in the median blood lead level and in the proportion of birds suffering from acute lead poisoning is most likely explained by a combination of factors, including the provision of grit at Cork Lough. 
1522379| During the peak of the Trumpeter Swan (Cygnus buccinator) restoration programs in Minnesota and Wisconsin, in 1988-1990, many swans developed lead poisoning. Drought conditions allowed the birds access to spent lead shot in lakes and refuges. At least 94 swans developed lead poisoning, 63 were treated, of which 29 were successfully treated and released. The birds that were successfully treated were normal on physical examination, had blood lead levels in the normal range and no longer had radiographic evidence of lead shot in their gastrointestinal tract. In all, 23% of free-flying birds were successfully treated for lead poisoning compared to 67% of captive (previously pinioned or wing-clipped) birds. Six of 29 swans successfully treated for lead poisoning were confirmed to reproduce two to 10.5 years after treatment. Males and females were equally likely to reproduce after treatment for lead poisoning. Only one of 20 cygnets successfully treated was confirmed to reproduce compared to five of nine birds treated as subadult/adults (1-2 years or 2 years of age). 
1522380|Results from hematology and clinical chemistry tests are presented for healthy captive-raised Trumpeter Swans (Cygnus buccinator) to help establish baseline data. Blood samples were obtained from 14 cygnets between the ages of three to four and seven to eight months that were the subjects of a study to teach migration routes to swans. Males and females differed significantly in asparatate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and total protein. Age categories differed significantly in hematocrit, white blood cell counts, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, glucose, cholesterol and uric acid. There were no significant differences among age categories in values of alanine aminotransferase, calcium, triglycerides and total protein.
1522447|Integrated waterbird management over the past few decades has implicitly referred to methods for managing wetlands that usually attempt to enhance habitat for taxonomic groups such as shorebirds and wading birds, in addition to waterfowl, the traditional focus group. Here I describe five elements of integration in management: taxonomic, spatial, temporal, population and habitat, and multiple-use management objectives. Spatial integration simply expands the scale of management concern. Rather than emphasizing management on a very limited number of impoundments or wetlands in small refuges or wildlife management areas, the vision is beginning to shift to connectivity within larger landscapes on the order of many square kilometers as telemetry data on daily and seasonal movements for many species become available. Temporal integration refers to the potential for either simultaneous management for waterbirds and commercial "crops" (e.g., crayfish and rice) or for temporally-staggered management such as row crop production in spring-summer growing seasons and waterbird management on fallow fields in the non-growing (winter) season. Integrating population dynamics with habitats has become a major research focus over the past decade. Identifying which wetlands are "sources" or "sinks" for specific populations provides managers with critical information about effective management. Further, the applications of spatially explicit population models place heavy demands on researchers to identify use patterns for breeding and dispersing individuals by age, sex, and reproductive class. Population viability analysis models require much the same information. Finally, multiple-use management integration refers to trying to optimize the uses of wetlands, when only one (perhaps secondary) use may include waterbird management. Depending upon the ownership and primary land use of a particular parcel of land containing wetlands and/or water bodies, managing for waterbirds may be an "easy sell" (e.g., public natural resource lands) or a very contentious one, where wetlands are created for industrial, aquaculture or urban uses. In the latter case, careful planning and implementation require broad stakeholder participation and education.
1522448|We examined the relationship between water levels and accessible habitat, and how accessible habitat influenced Dunlin (Calidris alpina) and Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla) numbers in managed wetlands at Pea Island (North Carolina) and Merritt Island (Florida) National Wildlife Refuges in 1998 and 1999. At Pea Island we experimentally manipulated water levels, which also allowed us to examine the effects of water level fluctuations on prey base. We examined these relationships because access to foraging habitat by shorebirds is positively related to the length of their tarsometatarsus, and in the southeastern United States, small calidrids are a numerically important component of the two million migrants using inland and managed wetlands. We confirmed the importance of shallow waters for Dunlin and Semipalmated Sandpiper-numbers increased with increasing availability of 0-4 cm habitat. At Merritt Island, Dunlin use was inversely related to variability in water depth of 0-4 cm. Minimizing the frequency and amplitude of water level fluctuations associated with single-capped culverts is necessary to improve habitat quality. After adjusting for accessibility, spring habitat requirements for Dunlin and Semipalmated Sandpiper at Pea Island were met under nearly all abundance scenarios. We identified water level targets that maximize accessible habitat at Pea Island. In contrast, winter habitat requirements for Dunlin at Merritt Island were not met except in one scenario. Seasonally low prey density contributed to the shortfall, suggesting that allocating more habitat is the primary management option. Manipulating water levels at Pea Island did not adversely affect the density of eight shorebird prey species. Estimates of accessible habitat and other parameters (e.g., turnover rates, prey biomass) are essential to set and implement realistic shorebird habitat conservation goals.
1522449|Most streams in the upper Delaware Bay U.S.A. drainage have been impounded either historically or at present to accommodate a variety of wetland management objectives. Long-term impoundment has resulted in loss of wetland function and biodiversity. Nevertheless, extensive wetlands in Salem County, New Jersey and New Castle County, Delaware provide habitat for many important waterbirds, including breeding wading birds, migratory shorebirds, and waterfowl. Public and private agencies in both states have initiated wetland restoration programs to improve habitat values for multiple waterbird groups. I conducted wetland studies in nine streams to examine patterns of waterbird use to 1) identify water level management practices that promote waterbird utilization, and 2) develop guidelines for resource managers to meet integrated wetland management objectives. A total of 62 species (32,100 individuals) of wading birds, waterfowl, shorebirds, seabirds, marshbirds, and raptors was recorded April-July, 1993-1996 and 2000 during weekly observations. Most waterbird groups were more abundant at impounded sites than at tidal sites in streams. In addition, the use of streams within the region varied for all waterbird groups indicating that some streams were highly utilized while at others, relatively few waterbirds were present. Water level management regime was an important factor in determining waterbird use. Wading birds were most abundant at wetlands undergoing a mid-season drawdown at which time many locally-breeding species were meeting adult and nestling food requirements. Waterfowl were more abundant at wetlands with relatively high water levels in early spring compared to levels later in the season, which coincided with duck migration. Migratory shorebirds were most abundant on wetlands with relatively low water levels during May. Results 1) confirm the need for variably-managed wetland mosaics which provide habitat at a variety of water levels and 2) identify the importance of timing of drawdown in meeting the foraging needs of multiple waterbird groups.
1522450|Wetland and grassland habitats of the northern Great Plains are a primary breeding ground for waterbirds in North America. Native mixed grass prairies that were historically used for cattle grazing have met with changing social and economic pressures that put the remaining 40% of this resource at high risk of tillage. In this paper, we describe the current state of our waning rural societies, characterize impacts of land use change on waterbird habitats, and discuss conservation actions to benefit waterbirds. Recent population statistics indicate that a record number of farmers facing low commodity prices are selling their farms and moving to urban centers for employment. Other farmers are shifting from diversified agriculture to monoculture grain farming to take advantage of farm programs that provide incentives to bring marginal land into production. Additional data indicate that concurrent changes in crop types have decreased quality of farmland wildlife habitat while bigger and faster farm equipment and genetically modified crops continue to make farming marginal land less risky. Legislators and administrators should be advised that waterbird habitat loss continues to expand westward. The last chance to sustain the unique grassland-wetland character of the northern Great Plains is to accelerate grassland conservation with short- and long-term stewardship programs and incentives to family ranchers. This philosophy is of vital importance because it also protects wetland habitats that otherwise are vulnerable to drainage when native prairie is converted to cropland. Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, this would conserve our prairie heritage for future generations while preserving the private property rights of landowners.
1522451|Tillage agriculture is expanding into western prairie landscapes without knowledge of the effects of land use change on habitats used by nongame wetland birds. In 1999-2000, we surveyed 196 stock ponds within grassland (>95% grass) and cropland (>75% tillage) landscapes to evaluate effects of land use on nongame wetland bird densities in western South Dakota. Land use and wetlands were delineated from Landsat TM imagery and National Wetlands Inventory maps. Sixteen nongame wetland bird species used stock ponds in western South Dakota, of which nine species were obligate wetland-nesting species. Although densities of seven nongame obligate wetland bird species were similar between landscape types, abundance of Wilson's Phalarope (Phalaropus tricolor) was greater in grassland study areas where cattle grazing limited growth of thick-stemmed emergent vegetation and reduced overall vegetative cover in stock ponds. In contrast, the Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) and Yellow-headed Blackbird (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) were more abundant in cropland landscapes where stock ponds provide abundant over-water nesting habitat (e.g., cattail). If grasslands continue to be converted to cropland, Wilson's Phalarope numbers will likely decrease as blackbird densities increase in stock ponds dominated by monotypic stands of cattail. To circumvent such changes, we recommend that resource managers conserve large tracts of grassland through aggressive easement programs in landscapes at highest risk of agricultural tillage.
1522452|Waterbird use of agricultural wetlands has increased as natural wetlands continue to decline worldwide. Little information exists on waterbird use of wetland crops such as taro, hasu, and wild rice. Several reports exist on waterbird use of cranberry bog systems. Information exists on waterbird use of rice fields, especially by herons and egrets. Rice fields encompass over 1.5 million km
1522453|Rice and/or crawfish are cultivated in over 225,000 ha of shallow earthen impoundments within 160 km of the Gulf of Mexico along the coast of Louisiana. The region includes both the Gulf Coastal Plain and Prairie and the Lower Mississippi River Valley. Annual loss of 4,475 ha of coastal wetlands in Louisiana due to subsidence, erosion, and rising sea level has significantly reduced desirable freshwater habitat in the region. The suite of resident, migrant, breeding, and wintering waterbirds depending on this region includes grebes, pelicans, cormorants, anhingas, wading birds, waterfowl, coots, rails, gallinules, shorebirds, gulls, terns, and kingfishers. These taxa utilize the artificial freshwater wetland habitat provided by the agricultural wetlands. Numerous other birds utilize riparian areas associated with these artificial wetlands. Crawfish ponds are especially valuable cool season habitat for predaceous waterbirds because they provide shallow water systems rich in invertebrate and small vertebrate prey during the period from mid-autumn through mid-spring when most rice fields are drained. Because most crawfish ponds are not drained until late spring or early summer, predictable, food-rich, shallow water waterbird habitat is available throughout the region when rice fields are being cultivated for rice production. Incorporation of crawfish management into government-sponsored land conservation programs should encourage land owners to sustain standing water habitat outside of program mandated fill/drain requirements. Farmers could adjust the times when their impoundments are filled or drained to maximize benefits to many species, especially migrating shorebirds.
1522454|Throughout the world, coastal salt ponds provide habitat for large numbers and diversities of waterbirds. San Francisco Bay contains the most important coastal salt pond complexes for waterbirds in the United States, supporting more than a million waterbirds through the year. As an initial step in attempting to understand how the anticipated conversion of salt ponds to tidal marsh might affect the Bay's bird populations, the number of birds using salt ponds on high and low tides was counted during the winter months of 1999/00 and 2000/01. Behavior and habitat use of birds in these ponds were assessed, and the effects of tide cycle, pond salinity, and pond area on bird use were examined. We recorded 75 species of waterbirds in surveys of salt ponds in the South Bay from September 1999 to February 2001, totaling over a million bird use days on high tide. Shorebirds and dabbling ducks were the most abundant groups of birds using the salt ponds. Waterbird numbers and diversity were significantly affected by the salinity of ponds in a non-linear fashion with lower numbers and diversity on the highest salinity ponds. With the exception of ducks and Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis), tide height at the Bay significantly affected bird numbers in the salt ponds with ponds at high tides having higher numbers of birds than the same ponds on low tides. Considerable numbers of birds fed in the salt ponds on high and low tides, although this varied greatly by species. Habitat use varied by tide. Management recommendations include maintaining ponds of varying salinities and depths. Restoring salt ponds to tidal marsh should proceed with caution to avoid loss of waterbird diversity and numbers in San Francisco Bay.
1522455| The San Francisco Bay estuary is a migration and wintering area for more than 1.5 million waterbirds on the west coast of North America. Because the estuary is located in a metropolitan area, development and diking of baylands (the region between the edge of the bay and the historical high tide line) have greatly altered the wetland landscape. Recently, conservation interests have promoted restoration of diked baylands to tidal salt marshes for the benefit of endangered native species. However, effects of tidal marsh conversion on the existing community of waterbirds in the baylands are largely unknown, especially in muted tidal marshes with restricted inflows and in artificial salt evaporation ponds where high waterbird densities are found. The first radio-marking study of the Long-billed Dowitcher (Limnodromus scolopaceus) was conducted in November-December 2000 to examine their use of baylands. We captured 32 birds by rocket netting in a muted tidal marsh on the North Bay and radio-marked them with 1.2 g transmitters affixed with glue. Individuals were tracked for an average of 20.3 d (8.5 SD) and obtained 217 high tide and 195 low tide locations. Movements between tides (x = 1.291.48 SD km) and home range sizes (x = 17.716.0 SD km
1522456|The North American Wetlands Conservation Act (NAWCA) supports the conservation of significant amounts of wetland in the Northern Atlantic region. The Atlantic Coast Joint Venture, which uses Act funds to implement wetland habitat protection in the region, has expanded its goals to include conservation of all wetland birds. We conducted field surveys at all 30 completed NAWCA project sites between Virginia and Maine, as well as at comparable wetland sites on other publicly owned land, to determine the waterbird species using the sites during the spring migration and breeding season. We compared species diversity and abundance at NAWCA sites and comparable reference wetlands. In addition, we compared the species found on each NAWCA site to the list of species predicted for the site in the project application, corrected for the season of the survey. In general, NAWCA sites had comparable numbers of species and individuals relative to the reference sites, although some species occurred more frequently at NAWCA sites. Lists of species predicted to occur on the sites had very low similarity with species actually recorded, so additional approaches are needed to predict which potential future projects would make the highest contribution to waterbird diversity. However, most waterbird species identified as high priority in bird conservation plans for the region did not occur at either the NAWCA or reference sites. Inclusion of additional habitat types that were uncommon at NAWCA sites, particularly including shallow mudflat and coastal shoreline, would likely improve the success of the program in providing habitat for high-priority waterbird species.
1522457|Conversion and loss of coastal, riverine, and palustrine wetlands to agricultural, urban, and industrial developments have had significant impacts on waterbirds. Degradation of wetlands and associated upland habitats, and associated impacts on several duck and rail species are well documented. Wetland restoration and management are essential for wildlife diversity because of the magnitude of wetland destruction and hydrological modification that has occurred in most of the United States. Half of threatened and endangered species rely upon wetlands for some portion of their life cycle, underscoring the importance of wetlands to all wildlife. Ducks Unlimited, during its 65-year history of conservation programs, has restored, protected, and enhanced nearly 4.05 million hectares of wetlands and associated uplands in North America. Despite the accomplishments of Ducks Unlimited and its private, state, provincial and federal partners, the perception remains that our efforts benefit only waterfowl. However, wildlife inventories on Ducks Unlimited projects indicate benefits to more than 900 species. Herein, we promote an integrated, habitat-based landscape approach to wetland restoration and management, rather than individual species management, to achieve biodiversity and sustainable ecosystem objectives. We discuss the development of wetland restoration and management strategies for quality wetland complexes needed for waterbirds during their annual life cycles. Further, we underscore the importance of wetland management by our state, federal and private land partners to manage wetland complexes to provide high quality habitat for a wide array of wetland wildlife.
1522458|Strategic efforts to conserve migratory and resident birds in North America have made unprecedented progress in the last 15 years. Integrated bird conservation is a process that maximizes effectiveness and efficiency of conservation delivery for all migratory and resident birds. Beginning with the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918, the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service has a history of supporting geographic integration of management programs. Modern Northern American perspectives must broaden to include larger geographic scales, novel private-public partnerships, stronger inter-governmental relationships, greater development of a conservation culture, and consideration of all resident and migratory bird species. The North American Bird Conservation Initiative provides a mechanism for developing new resources and optimizing existing resources. Full integration of bird conservation efforts in North America, and beyond, is our best hope of achieving conservation of migratory bird resources in future decades.
1522461|Many birds with colored dorsal plumage have white underparts and among waterbirds extensive white plumage is common. Feathers are made of keratin, which is naturally transparent and colorless. They appear white because keratin foam or fibers scatter all frequencies of the visible spectrum. Colored feathers have keratin structures that reflect light selectively or mechanisms for depositing pigment within feathers. Color is not essential for flight, streamlining, insulation or waterproofing; some of the largest birds fly and breed successfully with allwhite plumage. Adaptive scenarios concerned with camouflage, communication and thermoregulation have been based upon the visual properties of white feathers. These are discussed, but few examples are convincing enough to falsify the hypothesis that feathers may be white by default. Arctic land birds provide evidence for cryptic white plumage, but some white feathers are retained after they cease to be cryptic. White plumage also occurs in some tropical land birds.
1522462|We surveyed the shoreline of a large terminal lake in southern Saskatchewan (Old Wives Lake) for sick or dead birds and estimated shorebird numbers during avian botulism outbreaks. Nearly double the number of shorebirds were present in 1999 compared with 1998. The most commonly observed shorebirds in both years were the Short-billed Dowitcher (Limnodromus griseus) and Long-billed Dowitcher (L. scolopaceus). Water levels were monitored, revealing a greater drawdown effect in 1998. Small species (e.g. Least Sandpiper (Calidris minutilla), Semipalmated Sandpiper (C. pusilla), and Sanderling (C. alba)) were much more common in 1998. Much of the data that exist on shorebird mortality during botulism kills is in the form of unpublished annual agency clean-up reports. These reports suggest that the American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana), yellowlegs (Tringa melanoleuca and T. flavipes), and the small Calidris sandpipers are the most commonly affected species. We suggest some biases inherent in these cleanup efforts that may unintentionally underestimate mortality due to botulism in some species of shorebirds. At Old Wives Lake, the most frequently affected shorebird was the Semipalmated Sandpiper (14) in 1998, and the American Avocet (5) in 1999. This study suggests that feeding habits may influence a species' susceptibility to botulism, namely those species that feed near the surface of the substrate are more prone to ingesting the botulinal toxin than those species which probe deeply in the sediment. There is also evidence suggesting that the intensity of the avian botulism outbreak affecting waterfowl may dictate the intensity of the shorebird botulism dieoff.
1522463|Social foraging in waterbirds in Ghanaian coastal lagoons was studied during October and November 1994. Two types of foraging were social: directionally synchronized flocks (often involving distinctive feeding methods used in unison) and dense pecking aggregations. Social flocks were typically larger and denser than non-social flocks, and primarily involved piscivorous birds, especially the longer-legged shorebirds and egrets. It is probable that the flocks concentrate fish into temporarily high densities through herding or confusing escape reactions. We suggest that these flocks, rather than simply forming in areas of existing high prey density, may actively enhance their foraging success. There may be a true social element to either the initiation or persistence of waterbird social foraging flocks in coastal Ghana.
1522464| The reproductive ecology of the Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) was examined at four nesting colonies along the Lower Mississippi River during the 1995-1997 breeding seasons. Nest success, hatching success, and reproductive success were calculated in order to estimate productivity and evaluate reproductive status. Nesting colonies varied in size from 172 to 550 nests, with average clutch sizes ranging from 1.9-2.7 eggs/nest. Both nest success, the proportion of nests from which at minimum one egg hatched, and hatching success, the proportion of eggs that hatched, were significantly higher in 1995 (97% and 94% respectively) as compared to 1996 and 1997 (40%). Reproductive success averaged between 0.28-1.27 fledglings/clutch. Predation and untimely flooding were the largest negative impacts upon successful tern reproduction. 
1522465|During 1987-2000, the numbers of Swift Terns (Sterna bergii) breeding in South Africa's Western Cape varied between 1,449 and 5,668 pairs, distributed at 13 localities. Numbers were significantly related to the combined biomass of Anchovy (Engraulis capensis) and Sardine (Sardinops sagax), two of the main food items. In years when food was scarce, numbers breeding decreased by up to 67%. The sizes of breeding aggregations of Swift Terns were significantly related to the combined biomass of Anchovy and Sardine. Numbers of Swift Terns breeding at a locality ranged from 1-4,192 pairs, with an average of 750. Numbers breeding in discrete colonies ranged from 1-3,000 pairs, with an average of 513. Swift Terns showed low fidelity to breeding areas, 61% of which were used just once. This is attributed to their requirement to breed near to fish prey, and its variable distribution from year to year. Breeding by other seabirds probably often indicated safe sites for nesting. Swift Terns bred by themselves in 17%, with Hartlaub's Gulls (Larus hartlaubii) in 77%, and with Crowned Cormorants (Phalacrocorax coronatus) in 18% of breeding attempts.
1522466|Wintering roosts of Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) on Lake Como, northern Italy, are often inaccessible. We describe an easy-to-build, cheap and efficient technique to collect pellets at inaccessible roosts, which enabled us to study the diet of cormorants without causing disturbance, or killing birds. A floating platform was built using iron bars, sea-plywood panels and plastic tanks which was placed on the lake's surface, to collect pellets ejected by cormorants using a roost on the eastern shore of the western basin of Lake Como. During two winter periods (February 2001-March 2001 and December 2001-March 2002) 106 samples were retrieved from the platform, measuring 17.5 m
1522467|We assessed reliability of plumage as an indicator of age class in the Surf Scoter (Melanitta perspicillata) for demographic and behavioral studies. Three age classes were distinguished among male Surf Scoters, based on the degree of concordance between plumage characteristics and known age-related features (bursal depth and tail feather notching). Males in their first year (1Y) were distinguishable from older males (>1Y) with nearly total accuracy. Discriminating between second year (2Y) and after second year (>2Y) males had an error rate of 11%. Female Surf Scoters could not be reliably aged using plumage characteristics. Field observations suggested the timing of feather changes is an important variable affecting accurate age class determination. First year male Surf Scoter plumage is brown and female-like at the time of fledging, and gradually becomes more adult male-like during the first year. Observations of pulmage changes throughout the annual cycle on wild birds suggested that females and 1Y males may be confused in early autumn, and that 1Y males and 2Y males may be misidentified during late spring and summer. Further, variation in timing and speed of pre- and post-breeding molt among 2Y and older males is uncertain. Therefore, mid-January until the end of March is the period when age class determinations based on plumage are most reliable.
1522468|We studied nightly movement rates, behavior, flight directions, and flight altitudes of Hawaiian Petrel (Pterodroma sandwichensis) and possibly Newell's Shearwater (Puffinus auricularis) at 15 sites on Maui, Hawaiian Islands, in June 2001. We observed no Newell's Shearwaters visually, but saw Hawaiian Petrels at all of the nine sites around eastern Maui and at two of the six sites around western Maui. Mean nightly movement rates on radar generally were higher in eastern Maui than western Maui, although movement rates in the northeastern part of western Maui were comparable to those at several sites in eastern Maui. The highest movement rates occurred at the Ke'anae Valley, Mokuia Point, Nu'u Bay, and Kaupo sites, all of which are located on the northeastern or southeastern slopes of Haleakala in eastern Maui. Hawaiian Petrels (identified visually) flew inland primarily between 10 min after sunset and the point of complete darkness (about 30 min after sunset), with no movements observed beyond 50 min after sunset. Radar movements peaked just before the point of complete darkness, but a substantial number of radar targets also flew inland at 30-50 min after sunset, with some movement occurring even after that period. These later movements suggest that small numbers of Newell's Shearwaters are flying inland at several locations. Further, there was a higher proportion of these late flights in western Maui than in eastern Maui, suggesting that Newell's Shearwaters, if present, form a higher proportion of the two species in western Maui than in eastern Maui. Mean flight directions at all sites were in an inland direction, with little variation in flight directions at most sites. Mean flight altitudes of the Hawaiian Petrel were 190 m above ground level, similar to those at Kaua'i Island. The data suggest that the number of Hawaiian Petrels on Maui may be higher than the current estimate of 1,800 birds.
1522469|We evaluate sexual adult size dimorphism and provide a sex-discriminating function for the Balearic Shearwater (Puffinus mauretanicus). Blood samples taken from adults were used to sex birds by the amplification of the CHD gene. Linear discriminant analysis was applied to eight morphometric characters to determine whether any single variable or combination of them could provide reliable sex determination. Females were significantly smaller than males for most tested variables. Analysis indicated that head plus bill length and minimum bill depth were the most accurate variables in a discriminant function model, predicting sex with about 90% accuracy.
1522470|A voluntary waterfowl avoidance area (VWAA) was established on Lake Onalaska in Navigation Pool 7 of the Upper Mississippi River, Wisconsin, USA, in 1986, to reduce boating disturbance to migratory waterfowl. We monitored boater compliance with the VWAA program in 1993 and 1997. Of 1,664 "boating events" observed on Lake Onalaska, boats intruded into the VWAA on 127 occasions. Boating events have increased from 1.82 boating events/h in 1986-88 to 1.97 in 1993 and 2.58 in 1997. Despite a 60% increase in boating traffic, the lake-wide disturbance rates in 1997 were comparable to that in 1981. We attribute this to a significant reduction in the proportion of lake-wide boating events that resulted in disturbance, a direct consequence of the VWAA program. Rate of intrusion into the VWAA was 0.11 per boating event in 1997 compared to 0.18 per boating event in 1986-88. Boating disturbances to waterfowl within the VWAA occurred at about half the rate (0.24 to 0.28 disturbances hr
1522471|We document timing and location of wing molt in the Horned Grebe (Podiceps auritus), Red-necked Grebe (Podiceps grisegena), and Western Grebe (Aechmophorus occidentalis). Horned Grebes left breeding ponds in late May to August and were observed on large ponds and lakes (near breeding locations) where they replaced remiges before progressing to wintering areas in September and October. Red-necked Grebes moved to much larger bodies of water such as the Great Lakes and the coast following breeding and prior to molt. On the Pacific Coast, Boundary Bay, British Columbia was identified as a major molt site. Freshwater molting areas were identified around Manitoulin Island in northern Lake Huron. On the Atlantic coast, molt sites were located in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Western Grebes were found in wing molt at both large freshwater lakes and coastal locations (including Boundary Bay, British Columbia). Like the Great Crested Grebe (P. cristatus) and Eared Grebe (P. nigricollis), Horned, Red-necked and Western Grebes move to special molt locations following breeding.
1522472|The Red-necked Grebe (Podiceps grisegena) is a species in which breeding pairs use both overt aggression and ritualistic behavior to defend territories for breeding and feeding. However in some areas, they also breed in colonial groups. The behavior of grebes breeding on a single large lake (2,537 ha), where some breed solitarily and others breed in colonies, was examined. Specifically, I compared the frequency and spatial distribution of behavioral interactions between pairs that had dispersed nests with those breeding in close proximity. Grebes breeding in a colony engaged in more overt behavioral interactions and spent more time conducting platform behavior during pre-nesting than their solitary counterparts. In addition, the locations of ritualized and overt interactions from the nest were greater for solitary breeders. However, grebes breeding in the colony tolerated conspecifics at closer distances which, suggests that those breeding in higher aggregations may expend more energy when dealing with conspecifics.
1522473|In 1998 and 1999, the costs of experimentally extending incubation among female Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) were examined in relation to changes in female body mass. Clutches were switched between nests to extend incubation by an average of five days to compare with control clutches. In the four days prior to hatch, females with manipulated clutches incubated less per day, and lost more body mass than control females. The probability of nest failure was similar for control and manipulated females. Manipulated females who lost their clutches to predation or abandonment appeared to have greater body mass than those who hatched their eggs successfully. Manipulated females who were unsuccessful also took more frequent incubation recesses than those who hatched eggs successfully. The probability of return to the colony in the following year did not differ significantly between control (66%) and manipulated females (57%). These results suggest that some female Common Eiders breeding in the arctic can physically increase their incubation effort and decrease their body condition at the end of the breeding season with no major consequences to long-term survival.
1522474|The assumption that brood patches identify incubating birds is a pervasive one in avian literature, and as a result, brood patches are often used to infer breeding status. Although the developmental stages of the brood patch with specific reproductive stages in passerines have been described, this information for seabirds is not often reported. Thus, for birds whose breeding activities are not easily observed, it is difficult to confirm (1) that it is valid to assume that a bird which has some stage of brood patch is a nester or putative nester, and (2) whether specific stages of brood patch development reflect specific stages of the breeding cycle. We tested the utility of brood patch scores to infer breeding status in a non-colonial seabird, the Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus), a species always captured away from the nest site. We confirmed the breeding status of murrelets with brood patches, and assessed the specific stages of brood patch development to the timing of egg-production (using a physiological analysis) and the onset of incubation (using radio telemetry). Murrelets with brood patches were not always nesters or putative nesters (58% of birds with brood patches were producing eggs, and 56% of radio-tagged birds with brood patches began incubation), and brood patch score did not predict which birds were more likely to become egg-producers or incubators. Specific brood patch stages did not always correlate with specific breeding stages (e.g., the brood patch of egg-producers ranged from absent to fully-developed). Birds with fully developed brood patches took from 3-30 days to start incubation. Brood patch development accurately depicted the average population incubation time, but we caution against using brood patches to predict the timing of an individual breeding attempt, and suggest that when possible, researchers should try to confirm breeding activities using other methods.
1522475|The impact of anthropogenically-caused salinization on wildlife is a conservation issue of global concern. Increasing salinization of inland wetlands is especially problematic for breeding and migrating birds. In the arid American west, inland wetlands are centers of avian biodiversity, providing habitat for millions of birds. We experimentally examined the effects of different salinity levels on the growth, health and behavior of American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) chicks. Birds raised in highly saline conditions exhibited significant changes in behavior, including increased activity and decreased feeding and preening. High salinity resulted in significant weight loss of 4.4 g by day 3. Blood measures of chick health indicated that hypersaline-raised chicks suffered from dehydration (e.g., osmolality of chicks reared in brackish water was 305, compared with 381 among chicks reared in hypersaline water). Results of this study, and similar studies on ducks, geese and egrets, indicate that waterbirds in general suffer adverse effects when living in highly saline environments, without access to freshwater. We recommend that water managers ensure the maintenance of freshwater inflows to wetlands throughout the breeding season.
1522542| The status of the Humboldt Penguin (Spheniscus humboldti) was investigated in Peru after the 1997-98 El Nio event, the strongest of the last century. Penguin numbers along the southern and central coast of Peru (97% of the total) did not differ significantly between 1999 and 2000; the average number was 4,425 individuals. In 1999, the proportion of juveniles (one-year-old birds) was only 0.2% compared with 7% in 2000, probably as a result of the 1997-98 El Nio. Penguins were found from La Foca Island (512S) to Punta Coles (1742S). However, the majority (78%) were clustered in five localities, Punta San Juan (36%), San Juanito Islet (11%), Hornillos Island (10%), Pachacamac Island (12%) and Tres Puertas (9%). The size and distribution of penguin colonies have changed over the last 15 years. Penguins have abandoned sites at Punta Corio, Sombrerillo and Morro Sama, and have decreased significantly in numbers in Punta San Fernando and Punta La Chira, where human disturbance has increased, mainly due to local fisheries activities. Penguins have increased at Punta San Juan, San Juanito Islet and San Gallan Island, all of which are partially protected. Half of the penguins were located in guano bird reserves, primarily at Punta San Juan. Guano bird reserves provide some protection against terrestrial predators and human disturbance; however, periodical guano extraction decreases their breeding success. Most penguin sites were found in inaccessible and marginal areas, which were vulnerable to occasional and unpredictable flooding from ocean swells. The methodology recommended by the Population and Habitat Viability Assessment workshop for a consistent census of penguins in Peru and Chile during the molting period was validated at the Punta San Juan Reserve. Continued monitoring of Humboldt Penguin numbers is recommended in order to more fully understand patterns of fluctuation and to be able to detect changes of conservation concern as early as possible. Collaborative efforts between local authorities and conservation biologists are needed to monitor and protect this vulnerable species. 
1522543|In South Africa's Western Cape, the main breeding season of Hartlaub's Gull (Larus hartlaubii) is from January or February until May. At southern localities, there may be a second peak in breeding in August and September. Primary molt of adults mostly starts between August and December and lasts on average 115 days. In each of nine body measurements, averages were higher for males than for females, but values overlapped. In Western Cape during 1990-2001, the species bred at nine localities where breeding had not previously been reported. The maximum number recorded breeding at all localities in this region in any one year was about 5,500 pairs in 1995, less than the 10,000-11,000 pairs estimated for the region in the 1980s. Because the timing of the peak in breeding varies from year to year, it is considered that the 5,500 pairs represent an under-estimate, but it is likely that numbers did decrease after the 1980s. There are substantial inter-annual fluctuations in numbers of birds breeding, suggesting that in some years an appreciable proportion of the adults do not breed.
1522544|To boost productivity in the Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) breeding in the northern Great Plains, predator exclosure "cages" constructed of wire mesh fence were placed over 1,355 plover nests on alkali lake beaches in Alberta, Saskatchewan, North Dakota, and Montana during 1993-2002. Nesting plovers were killed, apparently by raptors, near cages at 68 (5%) of the nests. In contrast, no losses of adult plovers were detected at 420 nests that were not covered by cages. The predation was greatest (up to 48% of applications) when small (1-1.7 m) diameter cages with wire mesh tops were used at sites with low (mean, 4%) or moderate (15%) tree cover within two km. In areas with low tree cover, predation decreased to 0.7% of applications/year when large (3-4 m) diameter cages with soft netting tops replaced other designs. No predation was recorded in 393 applications of small cages at plover nests along the relatively treeless North Dakota-Montana border. Predator exclosure cages should be used cautiously for protecting eggs of endangered shorebirds. In some situations, enhanced productivity from use of the cages is outweighed by risks to adult birds.
1522545|Reproductive success of shorebirds can be improved by placement of predator exclosure fences along beaches or wire-mesh exclosure "cages" over nests. We predicted that these two types of exclosures used simultaneously might further improve reproductive success over that when cages alone are used. Field experiments were carried out on Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) on prairie alkali lakes in North Dakota and Montana. During 1996 and 1997, we compared success of nesting plover pairs provided with: (1) no protection, (2) cages that protected eggs in individual nests from both mammalian and avian predators, and (3) a combination of cages plus a temporary electric fence that excluded mammalian predators from the entire nesting beach where chicks were being reared. In 20 replicated trials, fledgling production rates were: no protection, 0.72 chicks/pair (95% CI: 0.29-1.15, N = 43 pairs); cage only, 1.73 (1.30-2.16, N = 46); fence plus cage, 2.06 (1.63-2.49, N = 50). Production by protected pairs was significantly greater than for unprotected pairs. However, no significant difference in production was detected between the two protection types. Temporary electric fences were relatively expensive to apply and added little to the effectiveness of cages, but may be appropriate in situations where cages cannot be used or where mammalian predation on chicks is a greater threat.
1522546| Acts of aggression by Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) adults on conspecific chicks were examined on Aride Island, Seychelles, from 13 June-10 July 1998. Data were used to examine two hypotheses to explain adult aggression towards chicks: (1) the adoption avoidance hypothesis, and (2) the feeding unfamiliar chicks hypothesis. Throughout the entire nestling development, adults pecked mostly unattended chicks (96%). The intensity of pecking was higher on b-chicks than on a-chicks and 72% of the pecking acts were on chicks that were on their own nests. During each pecking act, young chicks (0-6 days) were pecked by a greater number of adults than were old chicks (>6 days). When pecked, young chicks moved significantly greater distances away from nests than did old chicks (1.41  1.92 m vs. 0.18  0.42 m). Of the 23 chicks killed by adults, 11 were a-chicks, representing 8.5% of the a-chicks in the study area. Parents sometimes rescued a-chicks, but did not attempt to rescue b-chicks from adult attacks. Chicks that died had moved significantly greater distances away from nests than chicks that survived (2.8  2.5 m vs. 0.3  0.67 m). This study presents evidence that both hypotheses may be important in explaining intraspecific adult aggression by Roseate Terns on chicks. In particular, the feeding unfamiliar chicks hypothesis may be invoked to explain the significant negative correlation between daily intensity of adult aggression and the amount of food delivered to chicks. The adoption avoidance hypothesis may explain why b-chicks were disproportionately involved in pecking in relation to a-chicks. Adult aggression is an additive factor of chick mortality, operating mostly on days of food shortage. 
1522547|The White-rumped Sandpiper (Calidris fuscicollis) breeds in Alaska and Canada, and during the nonbreeding season migrates to South America. The reported diet of this sandpiper is principally invertebrates; seeds are a very rare item. This species was studied at Guamini Pond, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, in December 1997. The stomach contents of 23 adults were investigated. The analysis showed that during the sampling period the only food eaten by the White-rumped Sandpiper were seeds. Them were represented by the following families: Caryophylaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Fabaceae, Malvaceae, Polygonaceae, Ulmaceae, Cyperaceae and Poaceae. The seeds ranged between 0.83 and 2.25 mm in length. Stones and fragments of algae were found in all samples, the algae possibly ingested accidentally during feeding. Our findings indicate that the White-rumped Sandpiper forages on different items depending on the area, season and availability, and may be an opportunistic feeder.
1522548|Over the past 70 years, three counts have been conducted on the Rockhopper Penguin (Eudyptes chrysocome) population on the Falkland Islands during the 1932/33, 1995/96 and 2000/01 breeding seasons. The results indicated a population decrease of more than 90% during this period, from more than three million breeding pairs in 1932/33 to less than 300,000 breeding pairs in the mid-1990s. However, a re-evaluation of these data revealed that the original population was substantially overestimated and the 1930s numbers were probably closer to 1.5 million breeding pairs. Modifications to the mid-1990s data produce a revised population estimate of about 263,000, rather than 297,000 breeding pairs. Based on these revised values, the overall decrease in the Rockhopper Penguin at the Falkland Islands between 1932 and 1995 still exceeded 80%, at a rate of ca. 2.75% per annum. In the most recent census, the population was estimated to be 272,000 breeding pairs, suggesting a stable population since the mid 1990s. These re-calculations of historical Rockhopper Penguin population trends in the Falkland Islands have important implications for the assessment of the global population size and long-term trends of this species.
1522549| We studied the habitat requirements and nest site characteristics of Imperial Cormorants (Phalacrocorax atriceps) and Rock Shags (P. magellanicus) in northern Golfo San Jorge, Argentina. Colonies of both species were only located on islands. We characterized nesting habitat at 15 and 31 islands with and without Imperial Cormorant colonies, and 19 and 27 islands with and without Rock Shag colonies, respectively. The probability of finding nesting cormorants and shags was independent of island size. Both cormorants and shags nested on only 18% of islands or islets closer than one km to the mainland, but nested in between 35% and 52% of islands located further offshore. All Imperial Cormorant and Rock Shag colonies were located on bare, rocky substrate. All colonies of both species were located more than 50 m from shrubs. The mean slope of the substrate where colonies were located was significantly greater for Rock Shags than for Imperial Cormorants (73 vs. 3). Orientation of cliffs and steep slopes where Rock Shags nested was mostly to the east. Over 86% of Imperial Cormorant colonies were located on the side of the island facing the open sea. Both height and depth of the nest were significantly larger for the Rock Shag, while internal diameter was significantly larger for Imperial Cormorant nests. The distribution patterns of cormorants and shags at the northern sector of Golfo San Jorge appears to be largely determined by the presence of islands, with availability of open rocky substrate and low shrub vegetation cover. 
1522550| Although there have been several studies of the foraging behavior of the Imperial Cormorant (Phalacrocorax atriceps) and the Rock Shag (Phalacrocorax magellanicus), none document the feeding performance and the use of feeding areas by these birds breeding in mixed or adjacent colonies. We studied birds nesting sympatrically in two colonies at Malaspina Inlet, Patagonia, Argentina. Both colonies were located on islands separated by 2.2 km: Vernacci Oeste, inside Malaspina Inlet and Vernacci Este at the mouth of the inlet. Rock Shags from both islands and Imperial Cormorants from Vernacci Oeste fed inside the inlet, and showed similar dive duration, surface interval and foraging range. Imperial Cormorants from Vernacci Este foraged outside the inlet and showed longer dive duration, surface interval and foraging range. Imperial Cormorants made longer foraging trips than Rock Shags (4.9  1.9 vs. 1.9  0.7 h) regardless of its colony. There was no overlap between the foraging areas used by Imperial Cormorants from the two colonies. Despite Rock Shags from both islands feeding inside the inlet, there was a little overlap in their foraging locations (3-22%). Rock Shags and Imperial Cormorants breeding in the same colony showed an overlap in their foraging areas, being lower at Vernacci Este than at Vernacci Oeste. Although both species are usually described as having different diving capacities, we found that their diving behavior was similar when feeding in areas of similar environmental conditions. 
1522551|Nocturnal behavior of 113 American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) was observed in playa wetlands on the Southern High Plains of Texas, USA, during April and May 2000. Nocturnal time activity budgets consisted primarily of foraging (62%) and resting (20%). Nocturnal time activity budgets were compared to diurnal time activity budgets. Differences in behavior existed between diurnal and nocturnal periods. Greater percentages of time were devoted to foraging and aggression during the night, but less time was spent resting during the night. Time spent in locomotion, maintenance, and alert behavior was comparable among diurnal and nocturnal periods.
1522552|Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) numbers are increasing throughout eastern North America. We compared variation for five portions of mtDNA to determine if genetic differences existed among portions of the breeding range that would need to be considered when formulating management programs. Sequences for four mtDNA regions were identical across sample locations; frequencies of two haplotypes of the mitochondrial Control Region were similar across sampling locations. There is no evidence of restricted gene flow among breeding areas, or between subspecies with different migratory patterns.
1522553|Food intake (fish biomass), during the winters of 1997-98 and 1998-99, by Great Crested Grebes (Podiceps cristatus) on a 47 km
1522554|Wetland use was studied in the Pied-billed Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps) and Horned Grebe (Podiceps auritus) in southwestern Manitoba during April to August of 1997. Of the 180 wetlands surveyed, 74 had no grebe use, six were sporadically used by either grebe species, 19 were consistently used by Horned Grebe, nine switched from Horned Grebe to Pied-billed Grebe use, none switched from Pied-billed Grebe to Horned Grebe use, 68 were consistently used by Pied-billed Grebe, one was regularly used by both species but at different times, and three were concurrently used by both species throughout the breeding season. Wetlands used by grebes were larger, deeper, and had more vegetated area than wetlands not used by grebes, wetlands where occupancy changed were larger, deeper, and had more vegetated area than wetlands consistently used by one species, and wetlands that were concurrently used by both species were larger, deeper, and had more vegetated area than wetlands used by only one species at a time. Five logistic regression models were used to model the probability of observing a grebe brood as a function of the habitat characteristics of the wetland, grebe species, and their interaction. The three best models all contained a parameter describing the habitat characteristics of the wetlands. In two of the three best models, the probability of observing a grebe brood increased with increased wetland size, depth, and vegetated area. These results indicate that habitat characteristics influence breeding quality of a wetland and that grebes may be competing for high quality wetlands in this study area.
1522555|We studied the basic biology of the Red Fox (Vulpes vulpes) and its interactions with the waterbird colonies in the Ebro Delta natural park, Spain. Dens (earths) were found in areas characterized by sandy dune vegetation, a few buildings, areas where human entry was prohibited, and areas where hunting of waterfowl was banned. Regression associated the presence of dens to the abundance of dunes, halophytic vegetation and prohibited entry. Birds constituted 96% of the prey found at dens, mainly waterfowl (68%), gulls (16%) and rails (10%), but this differed markedly between areas. During the breeding season, foxes obtained their food from a reduced number of sources in the area surrounding their dens, and impacted the nearest breeding birds. We propose changes in the management of foxes in the natural park to safeguard internationally threatened bird species and to prevent them from decreasing, or even disappearing, as a result of fox predation.
1522556|Urban areas are increasingly occupying the margins of estuarine wetlands. Consequently, it becomes important to understand how the presence of these urban areas influences the use of adjacent intertidal habitats by waterbirds. Wintering waterbirds were regularly counted on 28 mudflat sectors along the northern margin of the river Tagus estuary, Portugal, which includes large urbanized extensions. Sectors were characterized using 16 variables related to its physical characteristics and human influence and related to bird density and diversity using multiple linear regression. Species richness was positively influenced by wider mudflats and a margin covered with saltmarsh. The individual response of seven of the most abundant bird species to these variables differed between species, but the abundance of half of these species was significantly influenced by variables potentially related to the presence of urban areas.
1522557|We examined the relationship between number of wetlands and occurrence of five waterbird and one waterfowl species in the Prairie Pothole Region of North Dakota, USA, from 1980-2000. Data from 13 Breeding Bird Survey routes provided an index to regional density and distribution of Pied-billed Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps), Black Tern (Chlidonias niger), American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), Northern Pintail (Anas acuta), Sora (Porzana carolina), and American Coot (Fulica americana), while 69 segments from annual Waterfowl Breeding Ground Population and Habitat Surveys provided an index to regional wetland availability. Numbers of wetlands and birds varied among years, and density and distribution of all six species showed a strong positive correlation with number of wetlands. Correlations were weaker when the number of wetlands was lagged one year, suggesting that waterbird distributions shift in response to water availability rather than respond locally. Spatial and temporal variation of waterbird habitat and numbers should be considered in monitoring and management of waterbirds in the Prairie Pothole Region.
1522558|Wading bird nesting colonies were surveyed in the Upper St. Johns River Basin, east central Florida, USA in 1993-1995 and 1998-2000 using aerial survey methods. A total of 62 colony locations were found over six years, with a maximum of 35 sites active in each of two years. Borrow pits and managed impoundments were the most important nesting locations based on size and persistence. Most of these sites were in or adjacent to the Upper St. Johns River Basin Project, a wetland restoration project. Higher numbers of nests were counted during nesting seasons preceded by above average rainfall than during seasons characterized by drought. Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) were the most common nesting species in all years, however, the proportion of the total nests that were Cattle Egrets decreased over the study period. Wood Storks (Mycteria americana), a federally endangered species, nested in increasing numbers within three borrow pits adjacent to the Upper St. Johns River Basin Project. This study reveals the importance of borrow pits, most of which are on private land where sites are unprotected, to wading bird nesting in east central Florida.
1522405|Studies of vigilant behavior in an urban flock of Swan Geese (Anser cygnoides) and their hybrids in Heidelberg in southwest Germany were carried out between 31 May and 22 July 2002. The habitat is characterized by a high rate of human disturbance and by artificial feeding. The following hypotheses were tested: (i) vigilance is increased due to disturbances on many occasions, (ii) vigilance should follow general patterns found in natural populations, e.g., the many-eyes hypothesis and (iii) vigilance may or may not differ between hybrids and true Swan Geese. Time spent vigilant during a 2-minute-bout of grazing averaged 15.5 s, which made up 13% of the time budget. This amount is not high compared to studies of other geese species in natural environments. There was no difference between Swan Geese and their hybrids in the duration. Vigilance was not dependent upon the number of birds present as predicted by the many-eyes hypothesis, and did not depend on the distance to water line nor position of the bird (center versus edge of the flock). Therefore, vigilance may serve other functions such as stealing food from others, detecting human passers-by with food or avoid interference between conspecifics.
1522406|Unlike other alcids, laying of replacement eggs has not been well documented in Brachyramphus murrelets. Observations of two radio-marked Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) in northern California during 2001 and 2002 suggested that they can re-lay in the same breeding season. In 2001, aircraft telemetry first detected a male Marbled Murrelet at a forested inland location on 17 May. This bird alternated 24h incubation bouts with 24h at sea periods until 29 May, when data logger recordings indicated that the bird arrived at the nest at 05.17 h (PDT), but left at 05.32 h. This nesting effort had apparently failed. Sixteen days later, on 14 June this murrelet arrived in the vicinity of the first nest site at 05.19 h and remained there until 18.57 h that same evening and then left. We suspected that this event represented a second breeding effort that also failed, either near or at the site of the first effort. In 2002 a female Marbled Murrelet, first detected inland on 13 June by aircraft telemetry, alternated on the nest one day and at sea the next until 23 June when the breeding effort is presumed to have failed. This bird was again detected inland on 21 July, and alternated on the nest one day and at sea the following day until 3 August, when the radio-transmitter fell off the bird. Video recordings at the nest site indicated this second nesting attempt continued until 1 September, when the chick died of unknown causes. As in other alcids, re-laying apparently occurred 2-4 weeks after failure of the first eggs, either near or at the site of first eggs. Re-nesting may be frequent in murrelets, given the high rates of breeding failure reported.
1522407|We surveyed Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) daily from small boats in Auke Bay and Fritz Cove, Alaska, from May through August 1992 and 1993. Differences in numbers of juveniles and in the timing of their presence in the study area between the two years indicated that breeding phenology was late and productivity was low in 1992 compared to 1993. This difference was consistent with variability in the physical environment. Of 99 fish identified in the bills of fish-holding adult murrelets, 81 (82%) were Pacific Sand Lance (Ammodytes hexapterus). Counts of fish-holding adult murrelets were significantly higher in the evening than at any other time of day. Time of day had no significant effects on counts of fledglings, indicating that juveniles were moving into and out of the study area during the day. Murrelets were predominantly found in groups of two or more, even during incubation, suggesting that murrelets incur an appreciable benefit, such as increased foraging efficiency, from foraging in groups. For both summers, there was no correlation between counts of murrelets on the water and numbers of murrelet detections in the adjacent forest. We suggest that many behavior patterns of the Marbled Murrelet (displaying, choosing of mates, and pair-bonding, finding of nest sites and successful foraging of juveniles) may be socially facilitated.
1522408| Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) encounter a variety of climatic regimes in their annual cycle. The most dramatic occur while on staging areas in autumn. We investigated the thermoregulatory abilities of the Eared Grebe to determine how they coped with these climate changes during staging. The basal metabolic rate (BMR) was higher than predicted. Mass-specific BMR was 1.212 mL O
1522409|Avoidance of predators has long been regarded as a major benefit in colonial breeding. Nevertheless, field and comparative studies have not shown a clear relationship between predation and coloniality. In the present study, we examine the association between aerial egg predation on the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo), and sub-colony size, nest aggregation and reproductive synchrony. Fieldwork was carried out at the Ebro Delta colony (north-western Mediterranean), where Common Terns breed syntopically with potential predators. Sub-colonies placed in a small area were used instead of distant colonies in an attempt to minimize site effects, e.g., the abundance of predators. We used logistic regression with random effect (i.e., sub-colony) to test simultaneously the effect of the studied factors on the risk of predation. In addition, the random effect allowed us to account for the extra-binomial variability due to the potential non-independence of nests of the same sub-colony (clustered observations). Our results support the contention that both breeding in large colonies and in aggregated territories confers protection against aerial predators. In addition, synchrony in relation to the whole colony had no effect on the risk of egg predation. However, birds breeding asynchronously earlier in the season than the average in their own sub-colony were more likely to suffer egg predation than eggs from late asynchronous nesters.
1522410|The need to understand how wildlife responds to the broad-ranging impacts of development is becoming increasingly important as human populations around the globe continue to increase and urbanize. We studied waterbird behavioral associations with developed and undeveloped shorelines on four partially developed urban lakes in central Florida. Summer observations revealed that wading birds foraged significantly more along developed shoreline, and that ducks rested and tended young significantly more along developed shoreline. Winter observations revealed that marsh birds foraged significantly more along undeveloped shoreline but displayed active/swimming behavior significantly more along developed shoreline. Summer ducks and winter wading birds showed significantly greater alert/flee behavior along undeveloped shoreline. Ducks in both seasons showed significantly greater alert/flee behavior than other guilds. For all guilds, alert/flee behavior was seen 1.6 times more often in the winter. Winter migrants did not show greater alert/flee behavior than resident birds. Results show that a wide range of waterbirds can use urban lakes during the breeding and non-breeding seasons, and that many birds appear to favor developed shorelines for a variety of behavioral patterns. However, dense stands of tall emergent vegetation along undeveloped shoreline may limit waterbird behavior along this shoreline. The heightened alert/flee behavior observed along undeveloped shorelines may warrant the use of buffer zones to protect birds using these shorelines from undue human disturbance.
1522411|A comprehensive wading bird nesting database for the Everglades watershed in south Florida was compiled for the time period of 1903 through 2001. The limitations and applications of this database were assessed with the purpose of ultimately strengthening wading bird performance measures used as an index of ecosystem integrity for the Everglades restoration effort. The database is limited for some inferences, such as comparing between individual years, because of a lack of standardization in sampling methodology. As such, it should be used as an index of wading bird numbers rather than as an absolute population measure. However, the database is adequate to understand long-term, system-wide trends and the range of variability in nesting effort by the wading birds. Results from the analyses indicate that trends in numbers of nesting wading birds differ among species. It is estimated that the number of White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) and Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) nests have decreased by 87% and 78%, respectively, in the Everglades since the 1930s. There has also been a significant increase in the time interval between large nesting events for White Ibis and Wood Stork and a decrease in the magnitude of large nesting events for White Ibis over the past 70 years. The number of Great Egret (Ardea alba) nests has increased, the magnitude of large nesting events has increased, and the interval between large nesting events has decreased. There has also been a 61% decrease in the percentage of wading bird nests located in the southern Everglades and a 46% increase in the percentage of nests located in the central northern Everglades since the 1980s. These types of quantitative comparisons can be used to refine and strengthen the proposed wading bird performance measures used to gauge the health of the Everglades for the Everglades restoration effort. The time interval between large nesting events may be appropriate as an additional performance measure because it may capture the variable nature of wading bird numbers in response to hydrologic fluctuations in the Everglades.
1522412|Attempts at intraspecific kleptoparasitism by Lesser Black-backed Gulls (Larus fuscus) feeding at a rubbish dump in southwest Spain during the winter 2001-2002 were studied to measure differences in the frequency of attacks between the age classes, the success of the attacks and the existence of possible density-dependent kleptoparasitism. Significant age differences in the frequency of attacks initiated were not found, although first year birds received a higher number of attacks. The success of the attacks increased with the age of the kleptoparasite and decreased with the age of the victim. The gulls selected victims of an equal or younger age to their own. A correlation was found between density and number of attacks on most dates. The possibility exists that kleptoparasitism could influence the success of the recent expansion of the species in the Iberian Peninsula.
1522413|Many birds feed on bivalve molluscs, but only oystercatchers (Haematopus spp.) are known to prise open the shells. Brown Teal (Anas chlorotis), a dabbling duck endemic to New Zealand, were observed opening Common Cockles (Austrovenus stutchburyi) on Great Barrier Island. The teal jackhammered into the open shells of feeding cockles and quickly scooped out the flesh. Despite having the bill morphology of a typical dabbling duck, they were adept at this feeding method.
1522414|The effect of distance between members of pairs of the Ruddy Shelduck (Tadorna ferruginea) during vigilance behavior was studied during winter at Lijiang Lashihai Lake Reserve, southwest China. The distance between the paired birds while feeding was grouped into three categories: <1 m, 1-3 m and >3 m. Nearly 90% of the distances recorded between paired males and females were within three meters. The degree of vigilance increased with distance apart for females, but not for males. The scanning rate of males was significantly higher than that of females at <1 m and at 1-3 m respectively, but no significant difference occurred when the distance between them was >3 m. These results are discussed in relation to mate competition and wintering strategy; it is suggested that staying close together is the optimal strategy for members of Ruddy Shelduck pairs.
1522415|Recent taxonomic revisions of the Wandering Albatross sensu lato has resulted in four separate species, the rarest of which is the Tristan Albatross (Diomedea dabbenena). We present the first detailed morphometric measurements of the male and female of the Tristan Albatross. The results are used to separate this species from the more common nominate taxon of Wandering Albatross (Diomedea exulans) from South Georgia. The Tristan Albatross is smaller than the Wandering Albatross in all measured variables, and males are larger than females in both species. A combination of bill measurements discriminated 97-98% of individuals of the two species, and tarsus and bill measurements allowed the sex of birds from both species to be determined. If the sex of the bird is known, then bill length should identify all individuals to species. This result is useful to allow fishery observers to correctly identify albatrosses killed on longlines in the Atlantic Ocean. However, care has to be taken outside this region, because the Tristan Albatross is very similar in size to published measurements of Gibson's Albatross (Diomedea gibsoni) and the Antipodes Albatross (Diomedea antipodensis), both of which breed off New Zealand and are thought to range across the South Pacific Ocean.
1522416| From 1995 through 1999, 2,240 individuals of 28 species of waterbirds were examined in the United States for ingested lead fishing weights. A combination of radiography and visual examination of stomachs was used to search for lead weights and blood and liver samples from live birds and carcasses, respectively, were collected for lead analysis. Ingested lead weights were found most frequently in the Common Loon (Gavia immer) (11 of 313 = 3.5%) and Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) (10 of 365 = 2.7%), but also in one of 81 (1.2%) Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) and one of 11 (9.1%) Black-crowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax). Birds with ingested lead fishing weights (including split shot, jig heads, and egg, bell, and pyramid sinkers) were found in California, Florida, Maine, New Hampshire, North Carolina, and Wisconsin. The size and mass of ingested lead weights ranged from split shot of 7 mm in the longest dimension, weighing less than 2 g, to a 22  39 mm pyramid sinker that weighed 78.2 g. Six ingested lead weights were more than 25.4 mm in the longest dimension. Lead concentrations in the blood and liver of birds with lead fishing weights in their stomachs ranged up to 13.9 ppm and 26.0 ppm (wet weight basis), respectively. During the study, we also noted the presence of ingested or entangled fishing tackle, with no associated lead weights, in eight species. 
1522417|Within the Murray-Darling Basin of eastern Australia there has been a general decline in the abundance of wading birds. Loss of wetlands caused by river regulation and irrigated agriculture is considered to be the main cause. We assessed the adequacy of irrigated rice fields as substitutes for natural wetlands for foraging egrets during the breeding season in one study area around a mixed colony of egrets in southeast Australia. For aerially sown rice crops, which represented 85% of all rice in the general area, the densities of foraging Intermediate Egret (Egretta intermedia) and Great Egret (Ardea alba) tended to reach a maximum four to six weeks after sowing of the rice crop, and declined thereafter. The decline phase was correlated with decreasing prey capture rates and a shift from vertebrate prey to less profitable invertebrate prey, and coincided with the start of the egrets' main chick rearing period when food demands would have been high. Even at maximum densities it was estimated that only 5-13% of the Intermediate Egrets and Great Egrets that were available to feed actually did so in the rice growing areas within 6.5 km of the colony. In contrast, Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) densities in rice fields did not decline until after their young fledged. They fed almost exclusively on insects and their prey capture rates showed no seasonal decrease. Up to 60% of the available Cattle Egrets were found feeding in the rice fields within 6.5 km of the colony. It is concluded that rice fields provide a good foraging habitat for the Cattle Egret and may be contributing to the spread of this invasive species, but that they are probably not a preferred foraging habitat for the Intermediate Egret and the Great Egret.
1522418|According to habitat selection theory, individuals selecting among habitat patches should either avoid or be attracted to conspecifics. This study examined Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) foraging around two grazing horses (Equus caballus), which represented two distinct habitat patches. The numbers of Cattle Egrets in the two patches were not significantly different, and the egrets were regularly distributed between the two patches. When settling in the two patches, 66% of the egrets selected the patch occupied by fewer conspecifics. All egrets choosing the patch occupied by more conspecifics did so only when the numbers of egrets in the two patches differed by one egret. When the numbers of egrets in the two patches differed by two or more egrets, newly arriving birds always chose the patch occupied by fewer conspecifics. As the number of egrets within a patch increased, nearest-neighbor distances decreased, and rates of aggression increased. Thus, these results indicate that the Cattle Egrets avoided conspecifics when selecting among habitat patches and that this distribution was achieved through individual patch selection decisions and density-dependent aggression.
1522419|We report on the food of breeding Great White Egrets (Ardea alba) in an agricultural ecosystem in southern Chile, South America. Analysis of diet was based on prey remains and pellets collected under the nesting trees during the reproductive season. Pellets indicated that insects were the most numerous prey items (78%), followed by the Southern Crayfish (Samastacus spinifrons) (21%). The Southern Crayfish accounted for 92% of the biomass. In terms of prey remains, the Southern Crayfish was the primary prey item accounting for 97% in frequency and 98% of the biomass. When pellets and prey remains were combined, the Southern Crayfish remained the most numerous prey item (67%), followed by insects (32%). The other prey items constituted less than 1%. Significant differences were found between the diets estimated by the two methods. We suggest that results of pellets and prey remains should be combined to evaluate the diet of the Great White Egret. Significantly, more crustaceans and fewer insects were consumed during the late part compared with the early part of the breeding period, and differences were found amongst the orders of insects taken in the same periods. The food of the Great White Egrets is influenced both by spatial availability patterns and profitability of prey type.
1522420|We examined the stomach contents of 64 male and 43 female Common Murres (Uria aalge) caught in gillnets during late chick rearing/early chick departure period in August 2002 near breeding colonies in Witless Bay, Newfoundland, Canada. Twenty-six percent of stomachs contained no food. All others contained exclusively fish, and Capelin (Mallotus villosus) was the only fish positively identified. Gravid female Capelin were found in 82% of murre stomachs with contents. The number of fish ingested by murres differed between the sexes, with a mean of 2.7 fish in male stomachs and 1.6 fish in female stomachs. Mean mass of stomach contents did not differ between the sexes (males: 27.0 g; females: 22.6 g). Overall, results were similar to Common Murre diets recorded in the 1980s, despite changes in Capelin distribution and biology. The sample of Common Murres collected as gillnet bycatch was male-biased (59%). Males may have been more vulnerable to being caught in gillnets, perhaps because they were engaged in different activities at this late stage of chick rearing.
1522421|Winter breeding by Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) in l'Albufera de Valencia, Spain, during three consecutive years is described. Winter presence in the area was recorded since 1995 and winter breeding was first confirmed in February 2001. Nests were built at roosts in wooded areas on a barrier beach, using tall pine trees (Pinus halepensis). The number of birds attending the roosts ranged 100-200 individuals, but only nine to eleven nests were built each year and only a few chicks survived to fledging. We suggest that the abundance of the introduced Red Swamp Crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) increased food availability when rice field were ploughed in early winter, and mild temperatures may have encouraged Black-crowned Night Herons to extend their presence into the winter season and to permit egg laying into the winter months. Nevertheless, the extra food supplied during rice field operations declined markedly in March and may have forced nest desertions that month.
1522290|We report evidence of likely nesting of the Ashy Storm-petrel (Oceanodroma homochroa) on islets adjacent to Vandenberg Air Force Base in northern Santa Barbara County, California, USA. Ten storm-petrels, along with extensive suitable habitat in the area, suggest a small colony of breeding birds. Other offshore islets along California's central coast might hold small numbers of storm-petrels. In addition, there are possibly breeding storm-petrels in suitable remote mainland areas, such as at Vandenberg Air Force Base.
1522291|During the austral summer of 2000/01 a census of breeding King Penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus), Gentoo Penguins (Pygoscelis papua) and Rockhopper Penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome) was carried out in the Falkland Islands. Results from this census were compared with those from the previous census of 1995/96. The number of King Penguin chicks decreased by 19% from 339 to 275, which is probably a reflection of variable breeding success, rather than a decline in breeding pairs. The number of Gentoo Penguins increased by 79%, from 64,426 breeding pairs in 1995/96 to 115,327 breeding pairs in 2000/01. The Rockhopper Penguin numbers appeared to be stable, with 286,964 breeding pairs in 2000/01 compared to 263,590 breeding pairs in 1995/96 (the difference being within the error margin).
1522292|Data on the diving activity of the Little Penguin (Eudyptula minor) as recorded by data loggers are few. We monitored the foraging parameters of free-ranging Little Penguins, breeding at Penguin Island, Western Australia, using a small, hydrodynamically shaped time-depth recorder. Data were obtained for one, two and three consecutive foraging trips of three, one and two birds, respectively. These data showed that individual Little Penguins presented distinct diving depths that are consistent from one trip to the next. Four birds exploited shallow depths, around 1-5 m, but two other birds always chose to dive deeper, to around 8-10 m. No trends could be established between the adult mass or the chick mass and the preferred diving depths. The causes and consequences of these individual diving strategies are discussed.
1522293| For most birds, it is difficult to study what life would be like without nest sites. In penguins, however, nesting and non-nesting species can be compared. We contrasted the King Penguin (Aptenodytes patagonicus), which has no nest and carries its chick on its feet, with the Macaroni Penguin (Eudyptes chrysolophus), which has a nest similar to other birds. We investigated the use of the nest site when it ceased to be necessary, that is, after chick emancipation during the crche period. When adults return to their crowded colony from foraging at sea, both penguin species exhibit individual recognition between parents and chicks via calls. Observations were made on how parents find and feed large chicks. We examined whether the use of the empty nest as a geographical meeting place was advantageous to Macaroni Penguin parents looking for their chicks, and whether the more sophisticated recognition of calls aided King Penguin parents in searching for their chicks. Macaroni Penguin parents found their chicks in about half a minute, giving two or three calls to bring chicks to the site of their previous nest. In contrast, King Penguin parents took longer (about three minutes) to find their chicks, and gave four or five calls to attract chicks. In addition, about a quarter of King Penguin parents had to walk an average of 11-12 m through the crche in order to find a chick to feed. For Macaroni chicks and their parents, the nest was used as a "rendezvous" location that facilitated reunion. 
1522294|The problem of waterfowl becoming entangled and killed in netting suspended over fishponds, and the effectiveness of this technique in excluding birds from fishponds, was studied at two fish farms in Israel. A variety of physical and environmental factors of 101 netted fishponds with 20 net types were recorded, as were the number and species of dead birds entangled in the netting, and those observed alive under the netting. Numbers of dead birds were mainly a function of the net's visibility: with fewer dead birds in small mesh size, and also in thick or dark-colored netting. Large numbers of dead birds occurred in netting made of thin monofilament even though it had small mesh size. The number of live birds at netted ponds was mainly a function of poor net maintenance, rather than net type. The results were used to formulate guidelines for using netting over fishponds in Israel, that include: fishpond netting should be made of thick, dark-colored material with small size (<5 cm), and a total ban should be imposed on the use of thin monofilament nets. These guidelines will allow for better bird conservation, while reducing conflict between fish-farm managers and piscivorous birds.
1522295|Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) have been extirpated from some islands in the Seychelles through habitat modification, introduction of exotic predators and over-exploitation of their eggs. Recently, removal of exotic predators and habitat restoration have made some islands available for the re-introduction of or re-colonization by former breeding birds. Attempts will be made to encourage Sooty Terns to re-colonize formerly occupied islands that are now deemed suitable to support colonies, using decoy models and broadcasts of recorded vocalizations. As a prelude to these attempts, this study measured the sound levels produced within a Sooty Tern colony at different times of day and season, in order that broadcasts can reasonably well simulate the sounds produced naturally. Statistically significant diurnal and seasonal differences in sound levels were recorded, related to differing activities of the adult birds during the breeding season. Our results suggested that broadcasting equipment should be capable of producing Sooty Tern colony vocalizations at sound levels at least 85-90 dB, at a distance of about three m from the speakers, in the intended nesting area. Potential human health risks of prolonged exposure to vocalizations within Sooty tern colonies are highlighted.
1522296|Protected lands contain a large proportion of existing critical habitat for many wading bird species, but human activities in these areas have the potential to adversely effect these species. The effects of passing vehicles on the foraging behavior of wading birds was studied using observational and experimental methods at the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge near Titusville, Florida. Foraging wading birds were more likely to be disturbed when vehicles slowed or stopped adjacent to them, than when vehicles continued driving by. In an area with a high rate of human visitation, some individual wading birds responded more strongly to passing vehicles than did others, suggesting that some were habituated to disturbance. Experimental disturbance by a vehicle caused a significant depression in the foraging rates of the Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) and the Great Egret (Ardea alba) and non-significant reductions in foraging rates in the Tricolored Heron (E. tricolor). Nineteen percent of the birds flushed following disturbance. The proximity of the disturbance vehicle influenced the probability of flushing in a species-specific manner with the Tricolored Heron being the most sensitive, the Great Egret intermediate, and the Snowy Egret the least sensitive. Recommendations to managers include concentrating ecotourism in certain areas and educating ecotourists about the effects of their behavior on wading birds.
1522297|We exposed 13 species of waterbirds (Pelecaniformes, Ciconiiformes, Falconiformes) to the direct approach of an airboat to determine their flush distances. Five lakes with different levels of airboat activity were visited in central Florida during April-August 1999 to 2001. We detected considerable variation in flush distances among individuals within the same species and significant differences among species in response to an airboat. Average flush distances among all species ranged from 49 m for the Snail Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) to 172 m for the Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus). Average flush distances among herons ranged from 65 m for the Tricolored Heron (Egretta tricolor) to 113 m for the Great Egret (Ardea alba). Larger species generally exhibited greater average flush distances. A comparison of the flush distances elicited by a fast moving outboard-powered boat and an airboat indicated that all nine species exhibited significantly greater flush distances to the approach of an airboat. Recommended buffer zones that would minimize disturbance of waterbirds while foraging and loafing ranged from about 130 m (Snail Kite) to 365 m (Bald Eagle) for raptors and 165 m (Tricolored Heron) to 255 m (Great Egret) for wading birds.
1522298| The breeding success of the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) and Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) was studied in relation to nest site selection. Average nest abundance for the Cattle Egret was 0.045  0.041 (95% CI) nests.m
1522299|Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) may winter in northern areas if they have access to adequate food and open water. We compared individual body size (indexed by first principal component scores from three morphometric measurements) and body condition (body mass adjusted for body size) of male Mallard wintering in North Dakota, USA during 1996-99 with a baseline reference group of Mallard from Ontario, Canada measured during late summer. Size and condition of Mallard wintering in North Dakota was also compared, using a sample from a traditional wintering area in Arkansas, USA. Male Mallard body size and condition in North Dakota relative to weather severity during mid-winter was assessed. Body size of adult males in North Dakota was significantly greater than that of birds from Ontario, but similar to those from Arkansas. Adult males remaining in North Dakota during the coldest winter were not larger than those remaining in North Dakota during milder winters. Immature males in North Dakota were significantly smaller than those from Arkansas, and the former were not larger during the coldest winter. Body condition of adult males in North Dakota was greater than that of those from Ontario and Arkansas and mean body mass of adult males in North Dakota during winter was greater than that of those wintering elsewhere. Further, adult males in North Dakota were in the best condition during the coldest winter. Mean body condition of immature males in North Dakota was similar to that of those from Arkansas. Body mass of immatures in North Dakota was similar to that of immatures wintering elsewhere. These findings indicate that maintenance of high fat reserves, not large body size, is the primary factor allowing adult males to winter in the extremely cold conditions of North Dakota. The small size of immature males in North Dakota, combined with the lack of evidence of their superior condition as compared to those wintering elsewhere, suggests that immatures wintering in North Dakota are mainly late-hatched individuals that may not have been able to store sufficient fat reserves to migrate before freeze-up.
1522300|Terns of the genus Chlidonias may be exceptional among the larids in laying the ultimate egg in the clutch-sequence that is not smaller than the earlier eggs. To investigate this, we analyzed data on egg length, breadth, volume and shape in three-egg clutches of the White-winged Tern (Chlidonias leucopterus) breeding in NE Poland. Both length and volume of the c-egg was larger than mean values the a- and b-eggs in the clutch. They also differed in shape. Egg breadth did not differ in such a comparison. Two species of Chlidonias terns do not conform to the typical pattern of larids, in which the last-laid egg is the smallest in the clutch; this may be related to their being insectivorous rather than piscivorous. Chlidonias terns lay eggs of the size expected from the regression of mean egg size on mean female body size in all the Western Palearctic terns.
1522301|A census of the Grand Manan Archipelago, New Brunswick, Canada, found nine seabird species nesting at 22 sites. Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) and Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) were the most widely distributed species, with a combined 89% of all breeding seabirds in the region. Although fewer, the Great Black-backed Gull (Larus marinus) and Black Guillemot (Cepphus grylle) were widely distributed. Other seabirds had more limited distributions; one Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) colony, three Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) colonies and one mixed colony of Razorbill (Alca torda) and Common Murre (Uria aalge). Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) numbers were not determined, but were found nesting on three islands and were suspected to be nesting on two others. Comparisons with historical data showed increases in gulls, Razorbill and Common Murre, whereas eiders had remained relatively stable over the past two decades, but had decreased in recent years. Insufficient data are available to assess trends of other seabird species nesting around Grand Manan. Fluctuations in cormorant numbers may be a result of moving breeding sites. The recent decrease in eider numbers may be a consequence of low survival rates of young and increasing numbers of predatory gulls. Considerable discrepancies were observed between recent and historical gull numbers which may have resulted from 1) differences in survey methodology, and 2) survey timing. This study provides estimates of breeding seabirds, which can be used as baseline data for future monitoring in the Grand Manan Archipelago.
1522302| The European Shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) breeds in a wide range of nest-sited depending on the locality, such as crevices under fallen rocks, open ground caves and open ledges on craggy cliffs. In this paper the habitat selection of shags breeding in cavities on the coastal slopes of Islas Ces (Galicia, Northwest Iberian Peninsula) are examined. Shags selected sites with more lateral and overhead cover, with better drainage and with average visibility. In addition, sites where breeding was successful differed from unsuccessful sites. Nest-site characteristics especially affected the hatching success. In this colony, shags showed adaptive responses to site-quality variability. Thus, nest-site quality declined with density and with seasonal occupancy. Shag colonies seem to follow an ideal despotic distribution, where some individuals monopolize high quality sites and prevented other individuals from settling in the good sites. Further studies are required to assess the proximal mechanisms used for nest-site selection in this species. 
1522303|In coastal environs during the non-breeding season, many shorebirds (suborder Charadrii) congregate at roosts, long considered to be traditional sites where flocks of individuals coalesce when high tides inundate feeding areas. Humboldt Bay, California was surveyed (9.5 months at roughly 10-d intervals) to assess temporal variation in incidence (proportion of 28 surveys birds used a roost), proportional abundance, concentrations, and repeatability (of seasonal average proportional abundances) of shorebird use of diurnal, high-tide roosts. Two hundred and forty roosting locations were identified and observations were made of 30 species. Fourteen species accounted for over 99% of observations. Shorebirds occurred at most roosts infrequently (<20% of surveys) and only 4% of roosts had roosting birds present on more than 80% of occasions. Abundant species occurred at more roosts (20-141 roosts per species) compared with less common species. Even at the most-used roosts, abundances at the species level varied greatly. Repeatability of roost use among seasons was high. At Humboldt Bay, roost use formed a continuum from ephemeral locations used by a few birds to sites used consistently by large numbers of individuals.
1522304|We identified environmental variables and grassland characteristics that affect the use of natural grasslands by four migratory shorebird species (Patagonian: Rufous-chested Dotterel (Charadrius modestus) and Tawny-throated Dotterel (Oreopholus ruficollis); Nearctic: American Golden Plover (Pluvialis dominica) and Buff-breasted Sandpiper (Tryngites subruficollis) during the non-breeding season in the flooding pampa region of Argentina. Birds were recorded using fixed-radius point count method, every 15 days between April 1999 and January 2000. A stepwise forward logistic regression was used to examine the relationship between the presence of shore-birds and grassland characteristics and environmental variables. All species correlated positively with the variable "previous use" suggesting strong site fidelity within years to a wintering site. All species correlated negatively with the percentage of high grass cover, and the American Golden Plover and Buff-breasted Sandpiper both correlated negatively with soil water content. Tawny-throated Dotterel correlated positively with the presence of Stipa neesiana. Previous studies have identified the coastal grasslands of Buenos Aires province as important sites for wintering nearctic and Patagonian grassland shorebirds. This study confirms the importance of this area, and highlights the important role that sheep management plays in maintaining suitable habitat conditions (short grass) for grassland shorebirds.
1522479|A study of the diet of nestlings and the overlap of trophic and spatial niches of sympatric Scarlet Ibis (Eudocimus ruber) and Yellow-crowned Night Heron (Nyctanassa violacea) in a northern Brazilian mangrove swamp was made from 1993 to 1997. A collection of regurgitates from nestlings was taken and stratified samples were taken at foraging areas. Both species fed mainly on saltwater ocypodid crabs, the night heron being more stenophagous than the ibis. About 90% of the prey of the night heron were Mangrove Land Crabs (Ucides cordatus) in the range 11-100 g, while fiddler crabs (Uca spp.) were 64% of the diet of ibises, being mostly in the range 1.1-10 g. The niche of the ibis was broader than that of the night heron, both in trophic and spatial dimensions. The distribution in foraging areas of the Yellow-crowned Night Heron showed a significant, positive spatial correlation with its main prey. The land crab formed a significantly greater proportion in the bird's diet than its relative abundance in the field. Scarlet Ibis distribution showed no significant spatial correlation with its prey. The niche overlap of the two birds was only moderate, and they seemed to use adjacent regions of the ecological space. As Mangrove Land Crabs and fiddler crabs are similar, the main factor of prey segregation between the two bird species seemed to be prey size. In relation to other geographical areas, both Yellow-crowned Night Heron and Scarlet Ibis occupied more restricted trophic niches, which may be related to the high availability of prey in northern Brazilian mangroves. Prey availability is more stable in saltwater ecosystems than in freshwater ones, so the high levels of niche overlap should not be attributed to seasonally relaxed competition. Competition does not seem to play a significant role in defining guild structure. It is not clear if the Scarlet Ibis in Brazil suffers physiological constraints from dietary salt, as has been reported from North America.
1522480| Radio-telemetry was used to continuously monitor the at-sea activity of an adult Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) nesting in Santa Cruz County, California. From 05.39 h on 28 May 1997, to 05.14 h on 29 May 1997, the murrelet was followed by tracking teams at Ao Nuevo Bay. Between 05.44 h and 20.19 h on 28 May, the bird engaged in eleven dive bouts, with a mean duration of 18.8  5.4 min. Mean dive duration was 24.8  15.7 s; mean surface between dives was 15.2  12.7 s. No dives were initiated after 20.19 h. The bird spent 12.3% of the at-sea period and 23.4% of daylight hours engaged in diving bouts. This relatively small amount of time spent diving allows for considerable flexibility in activity budget. 
1522481|Fourteen male Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) of known age (3-21 yr) were handicapped by shortening their wings early in the incubation period, and were then followed through chick-raising. The study was conducted at Bird Island, Massachusetts, USA, in 1996, a year when chick growth and survival appeared to be limited by food availability. Chick growth and survival were used as indirect measures of allocation of resources to current reproduction. Rates of change of body-mass and feather re-growth (ptilochronology) were used as indirect measures of allocation of resources to self-maintenance. The birds' mates were studied similarly, but were not handicapped. Experimental birds and pairs were compared to controls matched for laying date and clutch-size. Handicapped males re-grew tail-feathers pulled for ptilochronology significantly more slowly than controls. They and their mates raised significantly more young than controls. Older handicapped males lost more body-mass during chick-raising than their matched controls, whereas younger males lost less. These results conflict with the prediction of life-history theory that long-lived birds faced with increased costs of reproduction should allocate these costs to their offspring rather than to themselves. However, we point out several problems in using handicapping to test such predictions. The assumed effects of handicapping on the cost of flight and on foraging ability have not been verified or measured. Changes in reproductive effort are not measured directly, and the end points that have been investigated are often ambiguous. The assumption that older individuals consistently have lower residual reproductive value than younger individuals may be incorrect if there is selective survival of high-quality individuals within the study population.
1522482|Colony-site tenacity commonly reflects the stability of nesting habitats. The match between nesting substrate and coloration pattern of the eggs in two reproductive groups of the Gull-billed Tern (Gelochelidon nilotica) in the south of Iberian Peninsula was investigated to tests the adaptiveness of colony-site tenacity. The terns showing high colony-site tenacity had 1) a closer match in color between the eggs and the nesting substrate and 2) a lower richness and diversity of egg colors and 3) a lower rate of egg loss from predation than the low colony-site tenacity ones. These results appear to be adaptive, resulting from a long-standing renesting in the same colony-site. However, such mimicry would be difficult to achieve for terns with low site-tenacity, where breeding occur in unstable habitats. These birds were frequently obliged to move from one location to another due to weather irregularity and water level in the reservoirs they bred. In addition, the occasional high predation pressures on both adults and chicks, manifested by the low-tenacity tern group studied, was also involved. The attainment of such egg-crypsis could be an important adaptive advantage favoring colony-site tenacity. In unstable habitats, however, there would be a trade-off between the benefits linked to colony-site tenacity and the negative effects of suboptimal reproduction. Additional experimental design and studies are, however, necessary to confirm these results and predictions.
1522483|The first case of cooperative polyandry in the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) is reported. During the breeding season of 2000 two males, originating from the same brood, bred together with a female, who was paired in the previous season with one of the males. Both males copulated with the female. All three terns incubated the eggs, brooded and fed the chicks, but in different proportions. Despite poor food supply and bad weather conditions during the breeding season 2000, this polyandrous trio reared two fledglings, one of which has returned to the native colony in 2002. In another case, a two-year old, unrelated male incubated a clutch belonging to a pair of terns for a few days. Possible reasons for this deviation from the common monogamous mating system are discussed.
1522484|We examined the movements of flightless Long-tailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) during the wing molt in the near-shore lagoons of the Beaufort Sea in Alaska. Estimates of site fidelity during the 21-day flightless period ranged from 1-100%, with considerable variation among locations and within locations among years. There was no effect of low-level experimental disturbance or an underwater seismic survey on site fidelity of molting Long-tailed Ducks. Birds molting along a relatively consistent habitat gradient were more likely to move than those molting in a fragmented habitat. While flocks of birds are consistently observed in the same locations, these data suggest considerable turnover within these aggregations. These results, in conjunction with other studies, suggest that forage is relatively uniformly distributed within lagoons. We conclude that habitat selection by molting Long-tailed Ducks is likely influenced by protection from wind and associated waves.
1522485|From 1989-1998, in Canada's Atlantic Provinces and eastern sub-arctic region, migrant Canada Geese (Branta canadensis), wintering American Black Duck (Anas rubripes), Mallard (A. platyrhynchos) and incubating Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) were captured and examined with a fluoroscope to determine if shotgun pellets were embedded in their tissues. Of 1,624 birds examined, 25% carried embedded shotgun pellets. The highest proportion of birds carrying pellets was recorded in the sample of female Common Eider captured on nests in Labrador, followed by female eiders nesting in Newfoundland, Quebec and Nova Scotia and migrant Canada Geese in spring in Prince Edward Island.
1522486|This study measured the summer mortality rate of breeding waterbirds during a period of three years (1998-2000) in the El Hondo wetland, Spain, an ecosystem of international importance for ornithological diversity. On average, 874 birds died each summer in the study period, but varied from 199 birds in 1998, to 1,690 in 1999. When the observed mortality was expressed as a percentage of the initial breeding populations, the death rates ranged from 1.6% per month in 1998 to 7.7% in 1999. Many of the dead birds gave positive results for the presence of different enterocolic bacteria (30% to 60%) and for the presence of lead shot in their gizzards (30%). These results cannot be however interpreted as percentages causing the ultimate death because many individuals could be only carriers of enterocolic infections and, in addition, many of our positive results for the presence of lead correspond to sub-lethal values. Nevertheless, our results suggest that a significant decrease in the summer mortality rate of waterbirds could be probably achived by improving the water quality of the ponds in periods of low water levels and by extracting the sources of lead either manually or mechanically.
1522487|Stiff-tailed ducks (Oxyurini) are reputed to be unique among waterfowl in having two complete wing and tail molts annually. We examined molt patterns in wild Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) and in captives of known age. Adults of both groups underwent a complete wing molt in early autumn. A spring wing molt was very rare in wild Ruddy Ducks, but occurred more often in captives, especially in adult females. Ruddy Ducks replace rectrices twice annually. These molts are complete but unusual in that feathers are typically replaced in two waves, in which (1) every other rectrix is lost and largely re-grown before (2) the intervening feathers are molted. As a result, the molt is protracted and the tail plumage, at times, includes feathers of two generations. The pattern ensures that a functional tail is maintained at all times.
1522488| We investigated the incidence of injuries caused by lost or discarded fishing tackle on the Mute Swan (Cygnus olor) admitted to a wildlife hospital in the English Midlands between January 2000 and December 2002. Injuries caused by lost or discarded fishing tackle was the largest single attributable cause of admission over this period, accounting for 17% of a total of 1,491 swans admitted over the three year period. Treatment success was high with 87% subsequently released, although the majority of these birds would probably have died without treatment. We also conducted a survey of blood lead levels in 921 swans over the same period and 74% were found to have elevated blood lead levels over 1.21 mol/1. Over three-quarters of swans with elevated blood lead levels (>1.21 mol/1) were successfully treated with the chelating agent EDTA and were subsequently released following treatment. 
1522489|A 28-year (1974-2002) study of the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) was conducted on Bird Island and Telfair Island at Cedar Creek Reservoir in northeast Texas to determine trends and dynamics of clutch/brood sizes, hatching success, chick mortality, and nest-site vegetation. For the breeding colonies on these islands, annual mean clutch size ranged from 2.71-3.73 (overall mean = 2.98) and from 2.56-4.18 (overall mean = 3.33); annual mean brood sizes ranged from 2.20-3.08 (overall mean = 2.60) and from 2.38-3.67 (overall mean = 2.87). Annual mean hatching success on the islands was high throughout the study (78%-94% [overall mean = 88%] and 71%-96% [overall mean = 86%]). Annual mean chick mortality was low (0.5%-13% [overall mean = 4.5%] and 0%-10% [overall mean = 2.1%]). Among marked broods on both islands, only 6.5% lost chicks, for which the mean loss was 1.16 chicks/brood. Generally, within these broods, there was higher mortality of the younger chicks. In broods of more than two chicks, the mortality ratio between 1st- and 2nd-hatched chicks was lower than other combinations of sibling rank. Decline of nest density coincided with the cumulative adverse effects of guanotrophication on nest-site vegetation. The original native nest-site vegetation was replaced by Chinaberry (Melia azedarach), an exotic tree that provided optimal nest sites until it too became intolerant to guanotrophy, which resulted in a continued decline in nest-site vegetation. During the time of declining availability of nest-site vegetation, the egrets began ground nesting; by 2002, 48% of nests were on the ground.
1522490|In 2001, predator exclosures were used to protect nests of the Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri) in western Alaska. During the exclosure experiment, nest contents in exclosures had significantly higher daily survival rates than control nests, however, late in the study predators began to cue in on exclosures and predate the nest contents. An Arctic Fox (Alopex lagopus) dug under one exclosure and took the newly hatched chicks, and Long-tailed Jaegers (Stercorarius longicaudus) learned to associate exclosures with active nests and repeatedly visited them. The jaegers attempted to gain access to exclosed nests and pursued adult sandpipers as they emerged from the exclosures. The exclosures were removed to reduce potential mortality to adult and young sandpipers, but subsequently, post-exclosure nests had lower daily survival rates than controls during the same time period. Predation of post-exclosure eggs and chicks highlighted the lasting influence of the exclosure treatment on offspring survival because predators probably remembered nest locations. Researchers are urged to use caution when considering use of predator exclosures in areas where jaegers occur.
1522491|South Carolina winters a large proportion (over 1/3) of the eastern race of the American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus), a declining species. During December of 1999-2002 ground surveys were conducted to provide baseline data on the abundance, age class partitioning and distribution of wintering American Oystercatchers in South Carolina. The number of oystercatchers in South Carolina was stable during this study (3,536, 95% CI: 3,030, 4,042). A single comprehensive survey can estimate the number of oystercatchers with enough precision to detect changes in the population of 13% and greater, but location of flocks and the range of tidal heights needed to concentrate flocks must be known prior to conducting the survey. About 89% of the birds in 2002 roosted on washed shell rakes and 9% had immature bill coloration. Winter surveys of the proportion of immature oystercatchers may provide an index of regional reproductive success, an important parameter for conservation plans. Because South Carolina winters a large number of oystercatchers, future surveys could be used to verify suspected declines on a regional scale.
1522492|We studied aspects of the reproduction of Kittlitz's Murrelet (Brachyramphus brevirostris) in Prince William Sound, Alaska, in 1996-1998. Productivity in all bays was extremely low in all years: only one fledgling in 1996, none in 1997, and evidence of breeding (but no fledglings seen) in 1998. Other evidence suggested that these birds spent such short periods in two of the bays that they could not have bred successfully. We also observed what appeared to be mixed-species "pairs" of Kittlitz's and Marbled Murrelets (B. marmoratus) in early summer 1997 and on all late-summer cruises. Although breeding failures may not be uncommon in Kittlitz's Murrelet, the low reproductive output in all three years and the occurrence of mixed-species pairs are sources of conservation concern and suggest that this species may be experiencing problems reproducing successfully in Prince William Sound.
1522493|The Yellow-eyed Penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) is monomorphic but exhibits subtle sexual morphometric dimorphism. Information on the sexes of these birds is needed for informed management of the species and the construction of accurate population models. Using DNA analysis and Discriminant Function Analysis on head and foot measurements, we tested whether adults and fledglings of Yellow-eyed Penguin can be sexed using morphometry. We found that head and foot measurements can be used to correctly sex up to 93% of adults. Using only foot length, 88% of fledglings can be sexed accurately. As age until fledging was found to have an effect on morphometric variables, sexing should be conducted as synchronized as possible when chicks are over 90 days of age. We recommend that error rates inherent in sexing fledglings be taken into account when publishing sex-ratio data and subsequent analyses, particularly when age of fledglings could not be determined. The use of whole-skull measurements for sexing may be useful in other species in which bill measurements between the sexes are only slightly dimorphic or contains large degrees of overlap.
1522494|In eastern Canada during the early 1990s, a shift in the distribution of Capelin (Mallotus villosus) resulted in a prolonged absence (at least 8 years) of the preferred prey for the Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) breeding at Gannet Islands, Labrador. It has been documented that there is no suitable alternative prey to Capelin in the northwest Atlantic for seabirds, thus these extreme changes in food supply may have negative effects on reproduction and adult survivorship. In this study, foraging behavior, chick growth and productivity of Atlantic Puffins at the Gannet Islands, Labrador during 1996-1998 were compared to data in a study undertaken in 1981-1983, prior to the decline in Capelin abundance. It was confirmed that the dramatic change in Capelin abundance was reflected in chick diet as Atlantic Puffin chicks received 50-70% (by mass) less Capelin in 1996-1998 than in 1981-1983. Hatch dates did not differ among decades and breeding success, chick wing growth and fledge mass were unaffected. The only breeding parameter significantly affected by the change in food supply was chick growth (mass gain). Taken together, our data indicated that following a decline in Capelin abundance, the Atlantic Puffin did not experience breeding failure and effectively reared young utilizing suitable alternative prey which included post-larval sandlance and other small fish and invertebrates.
1522495|Nesting chronology, habitat use, subcolony use, and hatchability were documented for the Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) nesting at Alcatraz Island, San Francisco Bay, California during 1990-2002. Reproductive success was estimated using the Mayfield method and compared among years. Totals of monitored nests per year ranged from 68 in 2001 to 341 in 1996, with a trend of declining numbers since 1996. An increase in numbers of the Western Gull (Larus occidentalis), the Black-crowned Night Heron's primary competitor, occurred during the same period. Overall reproductive success of the Black-crowned Night Heron at Alcatraz Island was below the 13-year average of 56.4% since 1996. During the study, the average number of chicks fledged per nest each year ranged from 0.46 to 1.27, which is less than the two chicks per nest suggested as a requirement for a sustained population. Embryos in five of 187 failed Black-crowned Night Heron eggs were deformed. In 1990 and 1991, eggs were analyzed for a wide range of contaminants, but none appeared to be sufficiently elevated to have caused the observed deformities. Based on these relatively low levels of contaminants, a high hatchability rate (94.5%), and relatively low levels of embryotoxicity, contaminants did not appear to significantly affect Black-crowned Night Heron reproduction at Alcatraz Island. However, predation by the Common Raven (Corvus corax) and Western Gull, interspecific competition with the Western Gull, habitat deterioration, and possible human disturbance are likely factors contributing to the decline in Black-crowned Night Heron reproductive success on Alcatraz Island in recent years.
1522496|We counted the heronries at two study areas in China, where important but unknown numbers breed. At Poyang Lake, within a 1,800 km
1522425| The Black-faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor) uses habitats that are intertidal or within 2-3 km from tidal areas for feeding and loafing. Habitats used for feeding are water bodies containing fish and shrimps and a relatively wide zone of shallow water with a depth ranging between 6 and 21 cm. The bottom consisted of fine sediments with no or little vegetation or other obstructions such as stones, twigs, branches and roots of trees, wide and deep channels, or debris. They have a preference for highly turbid water, but seemed indifferent to salinity, which was varied between 0 and 48. Such sites are found on flooded intertidal mudflats, and also in tidal lagoons, brackish pools, fishponds, and gei wai (traditional ponds for shrimp farming in mangrove areas). Feeding habitats have to contain suitable food and also be relatively safe. In contrast with the requirements for their feeding habitats, the choice of loafing areas is extensive, and includes places of relative safety: undisturbed, with an open view for early discovery of predators in time and the possibility of easy escape. Shallow (<15 cm) water is necessary for bathing. They loaf in water of a depth of 0-15 cm and also on land, in trees and on human-made structures. Habitat characters, other than water, are subordinate to those of safety. The difference in requirements is evident in narrow channels between high and dense vegetation where Black-faced Spoonbills feed, but where they never loaf. 
1522426|The Black-faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor) has often been considered to be a mainly nocturnal feeder. The present study shows that this species is better classified as crepuscular, being predominantly active around sunrise and sunset, but they may also feed during the day and at night. The periods of twilight and the tides interact in the timing of feeding. On average, just over 4 hours per day (17%) is spent for feeding, about 19.5 h (81%) loafing and less than a half hour (1.6%) flying.
1522427|Selected sites of Gujarat State, India, were surveyed for the flamingo count, from 11 to 26 January 2003. A total of 28,333 Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) and 369,901 Lesser Flamingo (Phoeniconaias minor) were counted, which is the highest number recorded from India. Highest concentrations of flamingos were recorded in the Gulf of Khambhat (305,664), followed by other coastal sites of Gujarat state (50,317) and the Gulf of Kachchh (42,137). Greater Flamingos were equally distributed on Gulf of Khambhat (29%), Gulf of Kachchh (38%) and other coastal sites (32%). Lesser Flamingos were concentrated in the Gulf of Khambhat (80%). 99.6% of the Greater Flamingos were found in wetlands near the coast, with only 0.4% on inland freshwater wetlands. The Lesser Flamingos were exclusively found on the coastal wetlands. In coastal wetlands, both species showed clear habitat preference: 82% of Greater Flamingos were distributed in saltpans and 77% of Lesser Flamingos were on coastal mudflats.
1522428| Concomitant with increasing numbers of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus), catfish producers in eastern Mississippi and western Alabama have reported damage caused by cormorant predation. VHF telemetry was used to document movements of 25 cormorants from all known night roosts in the aquaculture producing areas of eastern Mississippi and western Alabama, January-April 1998. A total of 193 day locations and 396 night roost locations of the cormorants were obtained. Each cormorant was found in the study area for 57  4 (SE) days. Each cormorant averaged three night roosts (range: 1-8) and spent 20 (2) days at each night roost site. Over 95% of cormorant day locations were within 19 km of their night roosts. Catfish pond use by cormorants varied between roost sites. Cormorants from five of eleven night roosts had 30% of subsequent daytime locations on catfish ponds and birds from five of the six remaining night roosts did not visit catfish ponds on the following day. Foraging distance and frequency of night roost interchange was less for birds in this study than those reported from other aquaculture regions. We suggest roost harassment efforts should be focused on specific roost sites and some roost sites should serve as unharrassed refugia from which cormorants are less likely to cause damage to aquaculture. 
1522429|The breeding colony of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) on East Sand Island in the Columbia River estuary has grown dramatically over the last 13 years, in contrast to declines at other colonies along the coast of the Pacific Northwest. Immigration from other colonies has occurred and the East Sand Island colony is now the largest for the species on the Pacific coast of North America. Despite substantial increases in the size of the East Sand Island colony, overall numbers of the West Coast subspecies (P. a. albociliatus) appear to be slowly increasing relative to the interior population (P. a. auritus). Based on the most recent regional population data available, a conservative estimate indicates that the colony on East Sand Island represents over 30% of P. a. albociliatus breeding adults. We advocate that the subspecies P. a. albociliatus be considered a distinct population segment and managed according to overall population size and trends for this subspecies.
1522430|Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) diet was studied during three years (2001-2003) in an area where Arctic Kelp (Laminaria hyperborea) is extensively distributed off the central Norwegian coast. A total of 608 diet samples, 378 (62.2%) chick regurgitations, 22 (3.6%) whole fish, and 208 (34.2%) pellets were collected from the colonies at regular intervals during the chick-rearing period. From these samples a total of 1,013 food items (after pairing the otoliths) were isolated, representing 18 fish species. Gadoids, mainly Cod (Gadus morhua) and Saithe (Pollachius virens) dominated the diet (75% numerically, 86% by biomass). During the first year of the study, Cod represented nearly 50% of the diet, but decreased to 13% in 2003. At the same time, the occurrence of Saithe in the diet increased from 23% to 65%. For Saithe age II-group fish dominated the diet in 2001, and I- and II- group dominated in 2002 and 2003. For Cod 0-group fish dominated the diet in 2001 and 0- and I-group fish dominated in 2002 and 2003. The decrease in Cod in the diet of the Great Cormorant most probably reflected the decrease in the Norwegian coastal Cod population, and that the increase in Saithe in the diet is related to the relative increase in the abundance of this fish prey as the abundance of Cod decreased.
1522431|Diets were examined and analyzed for 418 wintering Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) collected from January to mid-April 2001 and October to December 2001 at an oxbow lake in southeast Arkansas. The fish community was also sampled to examine prey availability. Gizzard Shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) and Yellow Bass (Morone mississippiensis) were the most important species in cormorant diet. Other, less important, cormorant prey species included Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus), cyprinids (minnows), and sunfishes (Lepomis spp.). Diet varied by season and sex. Cormorants consumed higher proportions of cyprinids and Channel Catfish in the autumn than the remainder of the over-wintering period. In general, females consumed Gizzard Shad more than males, while males consumed Channel Catfish more than females. Neither genders consumed notable amounts of sport fish. Prey size did not differ between the sexes, but did vary by season. These data demonstrate the relative importance of forage and rough fish and the lesser relative importance of sport fish in the diet of cormorants over-wintering on an oxbow lake in southeast Arkansas.
1522432|Little is known about wetland selection by Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) during any phase of the breeding cycle, particularly in the northern boreal forest region, where most of the North American population of scaup breeds. We used survey data (1989-98) for 402 wetlands near Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada to assess frequency of scaup brood occurrence. In 1999, features of 80 randomly selected wetlands (21 used and 59 not used by scaup broods) and 27 wetlands used repeatedly by brood-rearing scaup were evaluated (N = 107 total). Discriminant function analysis using all wetland measurements was used to classify scaup use of 77 randomly selected wetlands; classification criteria were subsequently used to predict brood use of the remaining 30 hold-out wetlands. This randomization procedure was repeated 100 times, producing an average classification success of 88% (95% CI = 77% to 97%). Broods occurred more often on larger, deeper wetlands with water lilies and amphipod crustaceans, the latter being an important food for adults and ducklings. Wetlands created during road construction were used less often, possibly because these tended to be smaller, shallow, less likely to have amphipods, and had a different vegetation regime than natural wetlands.
1522433| The 24- hour habitat use and home range of the Laysan Teal (Anas laysanensis), an endemic dabbling duck in Hawaii, was studied using radio telemetry during 1998-2000. Radios were retained for a mean of 40 days (0- 123 d; 73 adult birds radio- tagged). Comparisons of daily habitat use were made for birds in the morning, day, evening, and night. Most birds showed strong evidence of selective habitat use. Adults preferred the terrestrial vegetation (88%), and avoided the lake and wetlands during the day. At night, 63% of the birds selected the lake and wetlands. Nocturnal habitat use differed significantly between the non-breeding and breeding seasons, while the lake and wetland habitats were used more frequently during the non-breeding season. Most individuals showed strong site fidelity during the study, but habitat selection varied between individuals. Mean home range size was 9.78 ha (SE  2.6) using the fixed kernel estimator (95% kernel; 15 birds, each with >25 locations). The average minimum convex polygon size was 24 ha (SE  5.6). The mean distance traveled between tracking locations was 178 m (SE  30.5), with travel distances between points ranging up to 1,649 m. Tracking duration varied from 31-121 days per bird (mean tracking duration 75 days). 
1522434| The spatial distribution and use of feeding areas by Olrog's Gull (Larus atlanticus) breeding within a 34 km
1522435|Numbers of Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) and Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) along coastal New England have changed dramatically during the last century. In recent years, Great Black-backed Gulls have displaced Herring Gulls from optimal breeding sites, thus potentially contributing to the recent decline of the Herring Gull. Although the quality of foraging habitat is also a strong determinate of reproductive success, potential for competition and interactions between these two species in natural foraging habitats have been largely ignored. In this study, the diet and prey preference of the two species were compared. In addition, the spatial and temporal patterns in foraging activities were examined and interspecific interactions in the rocky intertidal zones were also described. Diet and prey preference of the two species greatly overlapped, with both species consuming a large percentage of marine invertebrates (30-60%), especially crabs. Foraging differed, and the Great Black-backed Gull consumed more crabs from the shallow subtidal zone than the Herring Gull. In regions where numbers of gulls were relatively high, Great Black-backed Gulls initiated all aggressive interspecific interactions. In September, when some Great Black-backed Gulls had moved from breeding to overwintering grounds, 1) the size of Jonah Crab (Cancer borealis) carapaces increased in Herring Gull prey, and 2) the numbers of Herring Gulls consuming crabs increased. These findings suggest that during the breeding season, aggression by the Great Black-backed Gull, especially in areas of high numbers, may suppress the ability of the Herring Gull to forage and obtain larger crabs from the shallow subtidal zone at our study site.
1522436|Leach's Storm Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) is a difficult species to census because the birds nest in burrows, are noctural, and spend most of their life at sea, only coming ashore to breed. Simply locating a suspected petrel burrow is inadequate for management and conservation purposes because it is not known if the burrow is in use. The traditional method, of "grubbing", or reaching into suspected burrows to determine occupancy, is invasive, and of limited accuracy. Playback of specific calls during the nesting period may be used to check for burrow occupancy. I conducted a test of grubbing in comparison with vocal playbacks and use of a portable video camera to determine which methodology was most accurate, least invasive and most efficient in time and cost investment. The use of playbacks showed the most promise as a quick, low cost method for surveying these burrowing petrels. The camera method, though as thorough as the playbacks, was more expensive and time consuming, while the traditional method of grubbing proved to be highly inaccurate and invasive.
1522437|A questionnaire on ardeid nesting colony distribution and nesting numbers in Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan, South China was sent to academics, forestry officials and nature reserve staff in 2001. A total of 44 colonies was reported, of which a third was found in Pearl River Delta, the most important ardeid nesting area in south China according to this study. Although data were missing from over half of the known colonies, 2,300 nests of seven species were reported in Guangdong. In Guangxi, there were 2,365 nests of at least seven species, but little information was available for Hainan. Field counting of nests, and strengthening the protection of colonies against egg and chick collection, are recommended.
1522438|Habitat selection by the Tundra Swan (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) was evaluated on the Colville River Delta prior to oil field development (1982-1989). Tundra Swan territories comprised a lake, used for refuge and foraging, and terrestrial habitats and ponds near the lake's perimeter used for foraging and nesting. Tundra swan sightings from early and late summer aerial surveys were used to investigate habitat selection at the territory and within-territory scale. At the territory or lake scale, swan sightings/lake increased with lake size, and increased from discrete to tapped (i.e., connected to a river channel) to drained lakes within size categories. Overall, 49% of the variation in swan sightings/lake was explained by lake size and type, a size-x-type interaction term, and the proportion of lake perimeter comprised of Halophytic Ponds and Halophytic Wet Meadows. At the within-territory or within-lake scale, foraging swans significantly selected Halophytic Ponds, Halophytic Wet Meadows, and Fresh Ponds relative to Uplands; nesting swans significantly selected Halophytic Ponds and significantly avoided Fresh Wet Meadows relative to Uplands. Vegetation sampling indicated that sites used by Tundra Swans on river channels and tapped lakes were significantly more likely to have Sheathed Pondweed (Potamogeton vaginatus) than control sites. The three major components of Tundra Swan diet were Carex sedges, Sheathed Pondweed, and algae, together comprising 85% of identifiable plant fragments in feces.
1522439| We present the first detailed study of the diet of Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus) in Europe, from an expanding breeding colony in Doana, southwest Spain. In 2000, fecal samples, mainly from adults, were collected from 15 nests. In 2001, 36 regurgitates were collected, mainly from large chicks. Fecal contents were dominated by aquatic beetles (Coleoptera) and dragonfly (Odonata) larvae, which were present in 100% and 93% of samples respectively. Regurgitates contained mainly aquatic beetles (41% by aggregate percent, mainly Cybister spp.), dragonfly larvae (29%, mainly Sympetrum fonscolombei, Aeshna mixta and Anax imperator), Sharp-ribbed Salamanders (Pleurodeles waltl, 12%) and Carp (Cyprinus carpio, 7%). The absence of vertebrate and other hard remains from feces was presumably due to their excretion in pellets. Thus fecal analysis is not a suitable method to investigate the food of the Glossy Ibis. The results suggest that there may be no major difference in the diet of breeding adults and their chicks, and that the recent increase in numbers of this ibis in Doana is not explained by the abundance of introduced Red-swamp Crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) in the breeding area. 
1522440|In Heidelberg, Germany, a flock of feral Swan Geese (Anser cygnoides) and Eurasian Coots (Fulica atra) feed together on a lawn during winter. It was investigated whether the presence of geese provided benefits to coots in terms of reduced vigilance and whether the association incurs costs, e.g., by reduced foraging success. Further, the hypothesis was tested whether a decrease in vigilance rate is mirrored by an increase in feeding rate. A digital video camera was used to record behavior of the same individual. Head-up movements were considered to have vigilant function when the bill was raised up from the foraging position to a position nearly parallel with the horizontal line, or when raised to a position higher than the body ("high-cost vigilance"). Coot feeding in the presence of geese showed a significantly lower scan rate. Steps per minute did not differ between the coot with and without geese, but the time taken for 30 pecks was significantly shorter in the presence of geese. There was a significant negative correlation between feeding and scan rate, suggesting that scanning decreased peck rate. Further, scan rate was inversely correlated with total flock size (number of coot and geese), suggesting that coot recognized the geese as flock mates. Coot benefited from feeding in the proximity to geese by a lower scan rate and a higher peck rate, but they did not encounter costs in terms of reduced food quality as measured by step rate.
1522441|Island-wide surveys for the endangered Mariana subspecies of the Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus guami) were conducted on Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands from May through September 2001. Based on these counts, the total adult moorhen population is estimated to be 287, with 154, 41, 2, and 90 adult moorhens on Saipan, Tinian, Rota, and Guam, respectively. Results suggest an overall increase in birds on Saipan and Tinian, although moorhen numbers on Guam may be declining. High counts of moorhens on Lake Hagoi, Tinian, during the wet season suggested movement from Saipan to Tinian occurs at the onset of the wet season each year. Conservation efforts need to consider Saipan and Tinian moorhens as a single demographic unit. Further, monitoring of moorhens, invasive vegetation management, and predator and ungulate control on wetlands are critical for this small population.
1522499|The reproductive success of the Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus) nesting on beaches in central Monterey Bay, California, was monitored before (1984 to 1990) and during (1991 to 1999) predator management. From 1984 to 1990, hatching success of the Snowy Plover declined from 66% to 26% and most nest loss was attributed to Red Fox (Vulpes vulpes) predation. From 1991 to 1999, exclusures were used to protect some nests and after 1993, mammalian nest predators were removed. Predator management increased hatching success and the number of chicks hatched per male, but not fledging success or the number of chicks fledged per male. Predation of chicks by avian predators probably limited fledging success. The number of breeding adults did not increase and incubating adults were subject to greater mortality when nesting in exclosures. Our results indicate that exclosures are useful for increasing hatching success, but we caution that widespread use of exclosures may increase adult mortality rates and contribute to a decline in breeding numbers.
1522500| The intertidal area of Fracasso beach at Peninsula Valds, Argentina is used as a regular stop-over site by the Two-Banded Plover (Charadrius falklandicus), a neotropical Patagonian species. We analyzed the feeding patterns and diet choice of the Two-banded Plover at Fracasso beach based on fecal analyses and measurements of the intertidal invertebrate community. The intertidal area was divided in six zones related to the tide height. Two-banded Plovers are visual foragers that use stop-run-stop as strategy to capture their prey, and invested the bulk of their foraging time in the medium to high shore zones. The most frequent prey found in the droppings was the bivalve mollusk Darina solenoides, the only clam eaten, but when frequency was converted to biomass, the contribution to the diet of the polychaete Glycera americana, one of the three polychaete species eaten, was 15 times higher than the contribution of bivalve mollusk Darina solenoides. Two-banded Plovers selected very small clams compared with the large polychaetes consumed. 
1522501|The conditions that determine habitat suitability for waterbirds on temporary wetlands in Australia are poorly understood. This study describes the foraging behavior of the Black-fronted Plover (Elseyornis melanops) on two shallow saline lagoons with variable water depths. When water levels were receding, areas were left exposed around the periphery of the lagoons, which formed a succession from substrates still covered by water, to wet mud with a surface layer of water, to moist firm mud and eventually to dry, hard mud. The plovers showed a strong preference for feeding in areas of moist, firm mud and their prey capture rates were highest in this substrate type. When water levels rose following rainfall, previously exposed areas were partially flooded and the birds' prey capture rates fell significantly. Most abandoned the lagoon. The species was thus highly dependent on receding water levels to provide suitable foraging conditions.
1522502|We compared detection rates of passive and playback breeding bird survey techniques on elusive marsh birds-Pied-billed Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps), American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis), Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola), and Sora (Porzana carolina)-during a two-year study at Lacreek National Wildlife Refuge, in southwestern South Dakota. We conducted 151 passive point counts followed by playback-response surveys at the same points in marsh-bird habitat on the refuge. Playback surveys detected secretive water birds more frequently than our passive surveys, increasing rates for each species by factors of 2.4 to 7.0. The distance a bird was detected from a point varied with the species and the survey technique.
1522503|We surveyed Yellow Rails (Coturnicops noveboracensis) in three marshes located in southeastern James Bay, Canada, in order to document the status and distribution of this species at risk. Night-surveys of calling males were made along 75 km of line transect on 21-25 July 2002, and 186 individual Yellow Rails were recorded: 80 in Cabbage Willows Bay, 77 in Boatswain Bay, and 29 in Hall Cove. Daytime surveys yielded 19 additional calling males, giving a total of 205 male rails. Transects were distributed in plant communities dominated by Slimstem Reedgrass (Calamagrostis stricta), Chaffy Sedge (Carex paleacea), Buckbean (Menyanthes trifoliata), or by Red Fescue (Festuca rubra). There was an overall density of 0.05 calling rails per ha with maximum densities in Boatswain Bay (0.08 male/ha) and Hall Cove (0.06 males/ha). Densities calculated for specific plant communities permitted an estimate of 397 male Yellow Rail inhabiting the marshes: 216 in Boatswain Bay, 132 in Cabbage Willows Bay, and 49 in Hall Cove. The highest densities were in Chaffy Sedge stands, Slimstem Reedgrass stands, and fens dominated by Buck-bean. This study indicates that the Yellow Rail is a common bird in coastal high-marshes of the southeastern James Bay, and revealed the highest densities ever reported for the species. The extensive estuarine tidal marshes found in southern James Bay may be home of a thousand or more adult male Yellow Rails and thus represents a key area for this species.
1522504| Surveys were conducted at 35 Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) colonies in urban and rural landscapes of south-coastal British Columbia, Canada, to investigate low nesting productivity during 1998 and 1999 compared to a decade ago. Nesting failure was common (59% of 1,247 nests) and widespread (in 90% of 31 colonies) and accounted for 96% of the variation in nesting productivity among colonies in 1999. Nesting failure was more frequent in small colonies (<50 nests) than in large colonies (50 nests). Human disturbance has probably increased due to growth in the human population in the region, and direct disturbance from the Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was more frequent in 1999 than a decade earlier. Eagles predated eggs, nestlings, and fledglings and were probably responsible for most of the observed nesting failure. Direct disturbance by humans was infrequent, but heron nesting productivity was negatively correlated with the frequency of human pedestrians near colonies. We suggest that Great Blue Heron breeding failure was more frequent in 1998 and 1999 compared to a decade ago because of the combined effects of human disturbance from land development and an increased frequency of eagle predation. 
1522505| Aggressive behavior of Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) nestlings was observed in approximately 25% of the nests at two of three heronries (Kiersity and Kty Rybackie; north Poland) studied in 2000-2002. Pecking (mostly at the youngest chick) was the commonest type of aggressive behavior (over 60% of cases). The chick mortality rate was higher in nests with sibling aggression than in other nests, however significant differences were found only at Kty Rybackie. Foraging of parent birds nearby, in an area with abundant high quality and easily caught prey, could have caused the lack of sibling aggression in the colony at Mosty. At Kty Rybackie, many chicks died in nests where aggressive behavior had been noted. It appears that siblicide, not predation, is the most important factor affecting Grey Heron breeding success in these colonies. 
1522506|The fish community of the Gulf of Puck in the Baltic Sea has changed in recent years following the successful introduction of the Round Goby (Neogobius melanostomus). The first specimen of Round Goby was caught in 1990 and now is estimated in millions of individuals. The Round Goby was a main component of the Grey Heron diet in the colony at Mosty and made up 95% of regurgitated prey items. During chick rearing period, herons mostly flew to the coast to forage in shallow waters and feed on the Round Goby. The numbers of Grey Herons at Mosty have increased recently, especially since 1999 (from 238 in 1999 to 493 nests in 2003; an increase of 107%). The indirect evidence suggests that the rapid expansion of the Round Goby has influenced the Grey Heron and affected both the diet and the numbers of birds feeding and breeding in the vicinity of the Puck Gulf.
1522507|The Agami Heron (Agamia agami) is one of the least known species of herons. We report observations on an exceptionally large colony in French Guiana. The estimate of approximately 900 nests exceeds by ten fold the largest colony previously reported. Herons arrived at and departed from the colony and fed young only at night. The characteristic "Gr" call, which was recorded and analyzed, was used a contact-call, which ceased on disturbance. Timing of nesting was highly asynchronous. Nests were over water and in deep shade. Adults shaded young from the sun. Birds appeared to forage individually, possibly at long distances from the colony site.
1522509|We examined sexual size dimorphism of Arctic Terns (Sterna paradisaea) from a breeding colony in northeastern North America. Each bird was sexed using DNA extracted from feather pulp. Body morphometrics recorded included mass, natural wing chord, head-bill, tail fork, culmen, depth of bill at the gonys, and tarsus. Two discriminant functions identified head-bill and bill depth as the best measurements to identify the sexes. The first function included head-bill only and correctly classified 73% of our sample. The second function included both head-bill and bill depth, correctly classified 74% of our sample and increased the ability to correctly sex individuals within a pair. We provide a method for researchers to calculate the probability of sexing Arctic Terns. This is done by fitting a non-linear equation through a plot of the probability of classifying an individual and the discriminant scores. Male Arctic Terns were generally larger in head-bill and bill depth than female Arctic Terns; however, we did not find evidence for assortative mating. With some species, morphometrics alone can be used to distinguish the sexes but for species such as Arctic Terns, which have a high degree of overlap between the sexes, it is recommended that a combination of morphometrics and genetic analysis is used to obtain the highest accuracy in sexing individuals correctly. Comparison of the morphometrics of northeastern North American and British populations of Arctic Terns suggests that these discriminant functions can be applied to both.
1522510|In 1999, we compared demographic and biological parameters in Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) among three colonies located 10-26 km apart in Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts, USA. The three colony sites differed primarily in size, number of pairs, and length of occupancy by terns: Penikese Island (8 ha, 132 pairs, 3 yr), Ram Island (1.1 ha, 1,900 pairs, 8 yr), Bird Island (0.6 ha, 1,800 pairs, >65 yr). This study compared parental ages and origins, nesting phenology, clutch-size, chick growth rates, productivity, chick diets, feeding rates and foraging trip times among the three colonies. Common Terns breeding at the new colony on Penikese Island were significantly younger (mean age 6.8 yr) and laid later (mean laying date 25 May), had higher productivity (2.2 fledged chicks/pair) and higher chick growth rates than those at the old colony on Bird Island (means 11.7 yr, 20 May, 0.8 chicks/pair, respectively. Feeding rates were highest and foraging trip times for all types of prey were shortest at Penikese Island. Birds at Ram Island were intermediate in all these respects. Although productivity of Common Terns at Bird Island was relatively low during the period in which the other two colonies were established (1992-1999), both breeding adults at Bird Island and chicks raised there have been very slow to move to the other colonies, which were colonized mainly by immigrants from outside the region.
1522511|We studied relationships among sediment variables (carbon content, C:N, hardness, oxygen penetration, silt-clay fraction), hydrologic variables (dissolved oxygen, salinity, temperature, transparency, water depth), sizes and biomass of common invertebrate classes, and densities of 15 common waterbird species in ponds of impounded freshwater, oligohaline, mesohaline, and unimpounded mesohaline marshes during winters 1997-98 to 1999-2000 on Rockefeller State Wildlife Refuge, Louisiana, USA. Canonical correspondence analysis and forward selection was used to analyze the above variables. Water depth and oxygen penetration were the variables that best segregated habitat characteristics that resulted in maximum densities of common waterbird species. Most common waterbird species were associated with specific marsh types, except Green-winged Teal (Anas crecca) and Northern Shoveler (Anas clypeata). We concluded that hydrologic manipulation of marsh ponds is the best way to manage habitats for these birds, if the hydrology can be controlled adequately.
1522512| There is little information on the status and trends of the Black-legged Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla) colonies in Greenland. This study analyses and evaluates historical counts from 1920-1999 of kittiwake colonies that have had 1,000 breeding pairs and have been counted at least twice. Fifty colonies fulfilled these criteria. Thirty-four of these colonies declined by between 50-100%. Data suggest that the decline has occurred throughout most of the country. Only five colonies had increased and eleven had remained stable or fluctuated with no clear trend. The increasing colonies do not compensate for the overall decline. Despite the heterogeneity of the count years and varying degree of count quality, the data suggest a dramatic decline within the last century. Data analysis does not suggest that local hunting, egg collecting or disturbance at the breeding colonies have been major causes for the decline and other causes should be considered. Causes of the decline remain unknown. 
1522513|We examined several morphological characters of adult Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) breeding in Brittany, France, near the southern limit of the species' range. Males were significantly larger than females in body mass, head length, wing and tarsus, and the French population differed highly significantly in size from previously studied populations in England and Alaska. There was a strong pattern of assortative mating on tarsus length ( r
1522514|Bird use of three created salt marsh islands, constructed from dredged material near the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge, Texas, USA, was compared with that of natural marsh to provide feedback prior to additional marsh construction. Habitat associations of four bird groups (shorebirds, perching birds, wading birds, and gulls and terns) were similar in all sites, but relative contributions of each group to total avian abundance differed. Differences in site-use by birds were largely explained by differences in ratios of available habitat types, which were products of their geomorphic designs. Created marsh designs differed substantially from the natural marsh, where the unvegetated exposed-substrate and shallow-water habitats preferred by waterbirds were prominent features. The oldest created site (four years old) differed most from the natural marsh. Intertidal areas in the site were almost completely overgrown by vegetation, resulting in dominance of the avian assemblage by perching birds (especially grackles, Quiscalus spp.) rather than waterbirds. In the newer created sites (two years old), where vegetation had not completely overgrown the intertidal areas, avian assemblages were more typical of the natural marsh. However, vegetation cover was expanding in these sites, causing a reduction in waterbird habitat area. Efforts to ensure availability of unvegetated habitat in created sites will improve their structural similarity to natural marsh in the study area, and will likely increase their functional similarity for avian species.
1522515|Within-season nest persistence of large wading bird (Ciconiiformes) rookeries in the Atchafalaya Delta, Louisiana was examined during 1994 and 1995. A sample of rookery trees was permanently marked, and the status of 7,864 nests of ten species was followed through time. Nest construction began in early March, and some rookeries were still active into September during both seasons. Uniform nest persistence rates were calculated for each 28-day time period throughout the nesting season. Nest persistence rates per 28 days ranged from 0.00-0.96. During both years the rates tended to be lowest during the early season and increased into the late season. In 1994, nest persistence rates were significantly different, caused by the interaction of season and late nesting of White Ibis. In 1995, nest persistence rates differed significantly by season. The results call into question the value of nest counts obtained by one visit to a rookery complex, as these may greatly underestimate the numbers of breeding birds.
1522516| While Isla Chaaral (2902'S) in Chile has long been recognized as one of the most important breeding islands for the Humboldt Penguin, the reported numbers of birds there never exceeded 3,500 breeding individuals in the last two decades. However, in 2002, a one-day survey found considerably more penguins present on Isla Chaaral, which exceed the world population estimate for the species (3,300-12,000 birds). Between 9 and 14 February 2003 we conducted a census of the Humboldt Penguin on Isla Chaaral. Two different survey methods were combined to assess the number of penguins. Terrestrial or surface counts were used to survey penguins on open plains or beaches. Small area surveys of randomly established quadrats were conducted to assess the density of penguins in nests and the total number of nest sites. Results from small area surveys were extrapolated using surface size ratios of counting quadrats vs. entire nesting sectors. We determined that approximately 22,000 adult Humboldt Penguins, 3,600 chicks and 117 juveniles were present on the island during the survey. The results were much higher than any previously published estimate. Natural processes alone cannot account for an increase, and penguin numbers on Isla Chaaral previously have been underestimated. The results correspond well with recent publications that suggest that Humboldt Penguin numbers in Chile have been underestimated in the past due to inappropriate or inconsistent census methods. There are concerns about the current protection status of the island in light of its fragility and importance as the premier breeding location of the Humboldt Penguin along its entire distributional range. 
1522387|Agonistic interactions between Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) in a roost have been studied to detect possible social dominance causing spatial segregation in relation to age. Adults tended to dominate first-and second-winter birds, and were found relatively higher in the roost, where they are probably the safer from human intruders. Because of the high proportion of adults, attacks frequently involved two adults. No differences were found between the frequency and success of attacks in relation to the age of the birds arriving to the roost, perhaps indicating that pre-attack display represented an efficient form of agonistic communication. The number of attacks was not correlated with the number of cormorants in the roost, probably due to a constant density of birds, unaffected by the size of the roost.
1522388|The diving patterns of the Antarctic Shag (Phalacrocorax bransfieldensis) were studied by direct observation on individuals foraging at Harmony Cove, Nelson Island, South Shetland Islands, during the 1995/96 and 1996/97 breeding seasons. The individuals observed foraged in shallow waters, mainly solitarily and presumably dived aerobically. The shags displayed relatively short diving bouts composed of few dives. During the 1995/96 breeding season, the duration of the dives decreased with the increase in the number of dives per bout and increased with the diving depth. These relationships were not statistically significant in 1996/97. In both seasons, the duration of the dives was positively related with both the surface resting time preceding and succeeding the dive, which may indicate that these birds display anticipatory or reactive dives probably according to the foraging conditions. Shags at the surface were seen swallowing fish longer than 15 cm; smaller fish as well as invertebrates may have been ingested underwater. The mean diving efficiencies of the bouts fall within the range reported for phalacrocoracids, but values of diving efficiency below unity were observed.
1522389|During 1980-2002, the distribution of nesting and brood-rearing Snow Geese of the subspecies (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) in the Sagavanirktok River delta study area, Alaska, were documented during monitoring programs for the Endicott oilfield. Densities for Snow Goose nests on Howe Island were estimated based on midto late-June aerial photographic surveys. Brood-rearing flocks and total geese were based on late-July to early-August aerial survey or banding locations. The highest nesting density was mid-island; Snow Geese shifted their nesting distribution away from a den site when Arctic Foxes (Alopex lagopus) were present on the island. Most Snow Geese that rear broods in the Sagavanirktok River delta study area nested on Howe Island. Brood-rearing Snow Geese expanded their dispersal range with increasing numbers of total adult geese. The movement of brood-rearing Snow Geese to coastal salt marsh sites up to 35 km from Howe Island and movements into non-saline habitats along the west channel of the Sagavanirktok River suggest that the salt marsh resources in the Sagavanirktok River delta may not be able to support more than 500 Snow Geese.
1522390|The breeding biology of the Magellanic Penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus), including the timing of laying, brooding and fledging, foraging trip lengths during incubation and brooding and diet in relation to breeding success, was investigated at Volunteer Beach in the north east of the Falkland Islands during the 2001/02 breeding season. Egg-laying dates were between 12 October and 1 November, with an overall hatching success of 65%. The length of foraging trips during incubation ranged from 2-15 days. Chicks were provisioned daily during the 23 day brood period, and then at a mean interval of two days during the unattended period, until fledging occurred in late January and early February. Successful pairs laid significantly earlier and undertook shorter foraging trips during incubation and brooding compared to unsuccessful pairs. The mean breeding success of 0.2 chicks/pair was low compared to the ten year mean at the study site and was possibly due to a lower abundance of squid, which is the preferred food for Magellanic penguin chicks in the Falkland Islands. The results obtained are discussed with regard to the breeding biology of the Magellanic Penguin on the mainland of South America. However, further research in subsequent seasons is required to determine whether the observed differences in breeding biology compared to elsewhere in the species range is typical behavior or the result of the changed prey availability.
1522391| The Red Phalarope (Phalaropus fulicarius) is a rare species in west Greenland, where it generally breeds on islands in association with the Arctic Tern (Sterna paradisaea). The strength of this association was confirmed on the archipelago of Grnne Ejland, the largest tern colony in Greenland, where Arctic Terns inhabited all four major islands until 15 years ago, but now have abandoned two of them; the Red Phalarope left the same two islands after a few years, but not the islands still inhabited by terns. The terns apparently disappeared from the two islands due to the presence of Arctic Foxes (Alopex lagopus) over several years. The disappearance of the Red Phalarope could have been a response to the absence of breeding terns, or could have happened as a direct result of predation and disturbance from foxes. The Red-necked Phalarope (P. lobatus), however, still breeds on the islands abandoned by the terns. It might be that the Red Phalarope is more vulnerable to fox predation than the Red-necked Phalarope, which may partly explain why the former of the two species in west Greenland breeds only in tern colonies on islands, whereas the latter is widely distributed, including inland areas. 
1522392|We analyzed data on numbers and annual trends of breeding terns and gulls based on censuses of all colonies of the Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia), Forster's Tern (S. forsteri) and California Gull (Larus californicus) in the San Francisco Bay estuary from 1982 to 2003. All species used nesting substrates that were flat, largely non-vegetated, had a wide view in all directions, and were composed of sand, gravel, or earth. The estuary supported 17, 13, and seven colonies of each species, respectively. Nesting terns were primarily on salt evaporation pond islands and tidal islands. The largest colony of California Gulls was on a deactivated salt pond. Total numbers of each species in 2003 were about 2,300, 2,450 and 21,200 breeding birds, respectively. Numbers of Forster's Terns declined significantly during the study, while California Gulls increased, and the number of Caspian Terns was stable. Numbers of each species at each colony site have shown considerable annual variation. We attribute the lack of colony site fidelity of each species, and the decline among Forster's Terns, primarily to mammalian predation, human disturbance, and possibly annual variation in food availability. Flat, minimally vegetated islands, which are few in the estuary, are critical for maintaining nesting terns and California Gulls. Yet, the planned restoration of 65% (9,050 ha) of the salt pond complex of the San Francisco Bay estuary will likely remove some of the salt pond islands and levees where 20% of the Caspian Terns (438 birds), 80% of Forster's Terns (1,958) and 96% of California Gulls (20,210) were nesting in 2003. We recommend that restoration plans should include the creation of sizeable tracts of islands specifically designed to provide nesting habitat for these larids. These replacement sites should be in place soon after the restoration has been implemented; i.e., well before scheduled completion. This is especially important because severe habitat limitation would lead to competition for nesting space among the three species, a situation expected to result in exclusion of the terns by the gull, which nests earlier, are larger, more abundant, and more aggressive.
1522393|We compared the reproductive performance of the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) from 1991-2002 at four restored colonies in Maine that differ in location (inshore, nearshore and offshore sites), colony age and size and predation. Specifically, phenology, clutch size, survival, growth, provisioning rates and predation intensity and frequency were compared between sites. Common Terns nesting on the two inshore islands laid larger clutches, hatched chicks earlier that grew faster, reached a greater asymptotic mass, and had a greater chance of fledging than conspecifics on a nearshore and an offshore colony, despite greater predation pressure. Individuals nesting at the offshore site suffered reduced reproductive performance, which may be due to colony location with respect to foraging areas. Clutch size, chick provisioning rates and first hatch dates (earlier) declined as colony size increased. Although inshore nesting terns produced more chicks on average, extensive predation in some years caused high breeding failure, resulting in a "boom or bust" productivity situation for these islands. Differences in predation and performance between inshore, nearshore and offshore islands have important implications for the restoration, conservation and management of terns in this region. Nearshore sites offer the best restoration potential and should be strongly considered when available.
1522394| Aspects of the biology of the Little Tern (Sterna albifrons) were studied at the Ebro Delta (northwestern Mediterranean) during 1996-1997, including colony site selection, clutch size and egg size. Using a single visit to avoid disturbances, average number of eggs was 2.62 eggs per nest, and was significantly larger in 1996 than in 1997, when the modal clutch size was only two eggs. Mean egg volume was 8.88 cm
1522395| The establishment of regular wintering of the White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) in southern France has been documented by regular census data and individual identification of banded birds. The number of wintering storks rose from eight in 1996-1997 to 172 in 2003-2004. Most records (87%) came from the Montpellier region (4334'N, 354'E). The birds mainly originated from western Germany, eastern France and western Switzerland and about half were probably immature. Compared to storks observed on autumn and spring migration, first-winter birds were under-represented. We discuss the factors likely to explain the settlement of this new wintering area: its location on the migration route of the increasing northwest European stork population, the presence of a rubbish dump and adverse effects of wintering in Africa. 
1522396|The effects of the environmental and species' characteristics were analyzed for the richness and distribution of the dabbling and diving waterbirds in a wetland complex with 26 ponds (0.1-88.6 ha) in southeast Spain. These environments are being lost on a global scale through human activity. Morphological, geographical, hydrochemical, vegetative and temporal parameters of the ponds (11 in total), as well as characteristics of the species, were sampled to identify those variables with the capacity to predict the effects provoked by the habitat configuration. The function of the size and the isolation, as variables related to the habitat patchiness, as well as the development of the emergent vegetation of the wetlands were discriminated as forecasters of number of species. The avian abundance had an important role in the capacity of the birds to occupy ponds (sampling hypothesis). The differences in the abundance of species probably favored their orderly loss from the wetland complex at the same rate as the ponds diminished in size ("nested" pattern). The results obtained imply the need for the conservation or restoration of numbers of wetlands, paying special attention to the largest, with peripheral vegetation cover around large, open water bodies in complexes with more than one pond, to preserve the greatest number of species against the loss of wetlands which is occurring worldwide and is a cause of biodiversity decline.
1522397|The Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) and Great Egret (Ardea alba) nested in eight colonies along the Upper Mississippi River, USA, and individual birds were followed by airplane to feeding sites during the nesting seasons in 1995-1998. Both species used braided channel/backwater habitats for feeding more than expected, based on availability, and open pool and main navigation channel less than expected. Most individuals of both species fed <5 km from their breeding colony and avoided sites >10 km away. Habitat and distance need to be considered simultaneously when assessing habitat quality for herons and egrets. The Great Blue Heron flew farther to feeding sites during the care-of-young period than during incubation and the Great Egret showed the opposite pattern. The Great Blue Heron tended to feed solitarily; only 10% of the feeding flights ended at a location where another heron was already present. About one-third of Great Egret feeding flights ended at a location with another egret already present. Colony placement on the landscape seemed to be a function of the feeding radius of each colony.
1522398|Commercial harvests of the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) and King Eider (S. spectabilis) was studied at the local market in Nuuk (southwest Greenland) during the hunting season (Oct-May) in 2000 and 2001. The goal was to quantify composition (species, sex and age), sources (hunting or bycatch), and spatio-temporal distribution of the harvest. Hunting within 30 km of the city was the source of 98% of all eiders sent to market from October until March. In contrast, bycatch in gillnets accounted for 52% of the eiders brought to the market in March and April. In April, most bycatch were from remote fjord habitats, which seem to hold a high proportion of adult Common Eiders. As measured by the removal of potential reproductive eiders, the spring harvest (April and May) was critical for the Common Eider, while the impact of harvest was highest during midwinter (January and February) for the King Eider. Sympatric distributions within hunting areas complicate management of both species. Spring hunting and gillnet bycatch are of high management concern.
1522399| When studying breeding dispersal with marked individuals, manipulation-induced disturbance should not affect movement patterns. As part of a study on the Little Egret (Egretta garzetta), we tested whether the capture of breeding adults at their nest and handling (i.e., disturbance) increased their probability to move to a new colony in the subsequent breeding season (i.e., breeding dispersal). The proportion of adults disturbed in a given year that had changed colony in the subsequent breeding season was compared with the dispersal of adults observed during at least two consecutive years at colonies and not disturbed on the previous year: (1) birds marked as chicks and (2) birds marked as adults and observed  two years after capture at the nest. Disturbed birds were not found to have an increased propensity to disperse. We conclude that, for this species, capture did not increase the subsequent breeding dispersal. 
1522400|We studied the predation of the Western Gull (Larus occidentalis) on the Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis) from December 2002 to June 2003 at a solar saltworks. Mechanisms of predatory behavior, such as use of perching site, attack maneuvers and killing and catching grebes, as well as behavior of the grebes as a response to the presence and attacks by gulls, were recorded. In all 35 cases where a gull attempt to feed was seen, it was successful in every case. This is the first report about predation by the Western Gull on the Eared Grebe.
1522401| The Ivory Gull (Pagophila eburnea) has a circumpolar breeding distribution and spends the entire year at high latitudes in the Arctic and North Atlantic oceans. Due to its remote breeding locations and nomadic wintering habits, little detailed information on the ecology of this species exists, and no estimates of survival rate are available. Recent surveys have shown a dramatic decline, with an estimated 250-350 pairs now breeding in Canada. Across its range, the Ivory Gull was traditionally harvested by northern communities, and, although now protected, it is still shot in some regions. Ivory Gulls were banded in the Canadian Arctic (N = 1,526) in the 1970s and early 1980s. Most recoveries (N = 17) came from birds shot in northwest Greenland, while five birds were shot in Canada. As yet, no birds banded at more southerly locations have been recovered. Annual adult survival rate of 0.86  0.04 and reporting rate of 0.03  0.009 were calculated for birds banded at Grise Fjord and Seymour Island. The higher recovery rates of Ivory Gulls banded in northern areas suggests that hunting could have an impact on their already small population. Education programs to prevent further hunting of the species are recommended. 
1522402| This paper describes the diet of the Red Knot (Calidris canutus) at Punta Rasa; the southern extreme of the Ramsar Site at Baha Samborombn, in the Buenos Aires province, Argentina. Data presented here are mostly based on fecal analysis. We also used gizzard content analyses of four casualties that occurred during the catching operations. Remains of prey occurred in all droppings and consisted entirely of shell fragments of the Mud Snail (Littoridina australis, Hydrobiidae: Mesogasteropoda). A total of 295 droppings were analyzed containing Mud Snail fragments from which the size distribution of ingested L. australis could be estimated using a regression equation derived from a reference collection. In both study years (1995 and 2000), the size distribution of ingested Mud Snails differed significantly from size distribution present in the habitat; however, average length of ingested Mud Snails was similar in both periods. Three of the four gizzards analyzed contained Mud Snails. The fourth contained a common Scarabaeidae beetle (Dyscinetus sp., Coleoptera) present in the area in autumn. Results support the hypothesis that the Red Knot has a specialized diet and select medium-large size food items. 
1522308|The applicability of color infrared photography to indirectly predict prey abundance for shorebirds was tested by measuring the chlorophyll concentrations of primary producers on the mudflat surface at eleven migratory stopover sites of shorebirds in Georgia Strait, British Columbia during southward migration in July and August 2002. Many shorebirds are associated with regions of high coastal zone productivity, which may contribute to high prey abundance. Chlorophyll levels of primary producers contribute to the red tones of an infrared photograph. The hue of an infrared photograph was positively related to the chlorophyll concentration of the sediment surface across all sites. However, invertebrate density was not strongly related to surficial sediment chlorophyll concentration or photograph hue. The color infrared photography method is useful to quickly assess the surficial sediment concentration of the phytobenthos, but of low value to estimate invertebrate prey densities.
1522309|A monthly shorebird census in Mondego estuary, Portugal was made during ten years (1993-2002) and the information adds to the midwinter census carried out at international level. It is shown that higher variability in shorebird community occurred during the breeding and migrating periods, while the winter assemblage was very similar among years. The study provides precise information of the importance of the Mondego estuary, and the trends and phenology of its shorebird community. Six species are responsible for a large proportion of the total abundance throughout the year. Dunlin (Calidris alpina) is the most abundant species, followed by the Avocet (Recurvirostra avosetta). Over the study period, there was a significant increase in the total number of shorebirds that occur in some months. This was mainly due to the increase of the main species, the Dunlin. Only the Avocet showed a significant decrease in abundance. These trends were not explained by changes in overall flyway population or the Portuguese totals. Therefore, local explanations need to be considered (e.g., changes on habitat quality).
1522310|Feeding Black-faced Spoonbills (Platalea minor) were studied in four main areas along the coasts of South Korea, Taiwan, China and Vietnam. They fed on nekton, mainly fish and shrimps, varying in length between 2-21 cm that were caught by sweeping the bill in the water. The feeding behavior of a spoonbill is a chain of feeding and inter-feeding bouts. Each feeding bout started by putting the bill into the water and ended when the bill was taken out and any prey captured was swallowed. The times between feeding bouts were short and no or few steps were made. In a complete feeding bout, up to three functional phases were distinguished. These were successively (1) the attempt to locate a prey, (2) the attempt to catch the located prey, (3) the handling and swallowing of the prey. A feeding bout could end in any phase. A total of 1,684 feeding bouts were recorded of which 65% ended with swallowing prey. The mean outcome was 45.4 small (<5 cm long) and 1.3 large (>5 cm long) prey per 10 min. Tentative measurements indicated that a feeding spoonbill walked on average 3.87 m per 10 s, during which time the bill made 15.7 sweeps with a bill velocity of 5.8 km. h
1522311|The foraging behavior of adult and recently fledged juvenile Squacco Herons (Ardeola ralloides) was studied during the breeding season at the Axios Delta, northern Greece. Adults were more efficient foragers than young birds and they had a 37% higher success per peck rate. The majority of adults captured some large prey items, while most juveniles caught only small prey. A comparison between the two age classes, as well as seasonal trends in adult data, indicated a negative association between prey size and foraging rates. Adult and juvenile foraging behavior did not vary significantly between morning and evening. Herons that moved faster also had higher pecking and capture rates, but a lower success ratio. Moving rate did not appear to be correlated with prey size. Herons moved at a slower rate along the edge of dense reed beds, probably in response to this habitat's physical structure. Adults caught a greater proportion large prey items in open-water areas than in areas with more vegetation.
1522312|The food composition, prey size, quantity of prey, feeding frequency and diurnal pattern in the feeding frequency of chicks of Black Stork (Ciconia nigra) were studied in six nests in the Czech Republic during the breeding seasons 1998-2003. Video cameras were used to record prey brought to the nests. Regurgitations and pellets were also analyzed. In total, 474 prey items were collected. Aquatic animals, mainly fish, prevailed in the nestlings' diet. Six species of fish, undetermined frogs and snakes, two mammal species and eight insect species were found. Adults provisioned their young nestlings with smaller fish. The length of fish and total mass of consumed prey significantly increased with nestling age. No relationship between chick age and feeding rate was found. In total, each chick consumed 14-20 kg of food up to fledging.
1522313| The foraging behavior and feeding locations of the Red-legged Cormorant (Phalacrocorax gaimardi) were studied at Ria Deseado, Argentina during the last week of the incubation period in 1999. VHF radio-transmitters were deployed on six nesting adult cormorants. Red-legged Cormorants fed during the daylight hours and made 4.0  0.8 trips per day, with a mean duration of 1.2  0.8 h. Birds spent 27% of daylight hours away from the colony on feeding trips, diving for 96% of the foraging trip, and made a mean of 78 dives per trip. Mean foraging range was 1.9  0.9 km, being the shortest of any of the Patagonian cormorant species. Red-legged Cormorants fed mainly in shallow waters <5 m deep and within one km from the shore. Most of the feeding trips were undertaken during falling tide, when the birds performed the shortest feeding trips with maximum diving rates and, probably minimized transit times and maximized searching time on the seafloor. Our results show that foraging behavior is mainly influenced by environmental factors such as the direction of the tide. Red-legged Cormorants seems able to forage by selecting the appropriated tidal conditions to minimize foraging effort. 
1522314|A comparative study was made of Yellow-legged Gull (Larus michahellis) chick diet at six colonies on rocky islands off the southeast coast of France, and which had marked differences in their accessibility to landfills. We determined the type of foraging habitat used (landfill, other terrestrial habitats, marine habitat) and the number of foraging habitats that supplied the food in each regurgitate (one, two or three). Landfills were consistently used by gulls from the six colonies, but not always as the main foraging habitat (38% to 83% of regurgitates). For the four colonies off Marseilles (high landfill accessibility), the majority of regurgitates contained food from only one foraging habitat while, at two colonies with low landfill accessibility, the majority of regurgitates each contained food obtained from two foraging habitats. Moreover, the Principal Component Analysis performed on diet features and landfill accessibility parameters demonstrate a significant inverse correlation between landfill accessibility and foraging on terrestrial habitats. The results underlined the influence of landfill accessibility on the characteristics of the chick's diet. Moreover, they also suggest that during chick rearing, adult gulls shift their diet from a high specialization on landfill foraging (brooding period), towards a more diversified diet, feeding their chicks by increasing the use of terrestrial habitats.
1522315| A double-observer approach was used during colony surveys of large gulls to estimate nest detection probabilities and unbiased estimates of abundance. Several models were developed that incorporate different assumptions about the sources of variation in detection probabilities (observer, colony, vegetation height). Nine colonies were surveyed in which a total of 137 transects were conducted. Although the most likely model was a one with a constant nest detection probability, a constrained model with observer dependent nest detection probability had substantial support. Overall detection probability (probability that a nest was detected by at least one of the two observers) was 0.943 (SE  0.008). Detection probability for a single observer was lower (0.761, SE  0.016). These estimates indicate a relatively high underestimation of the population sizes of large gull species when not taking into account nest detectability. 
1522316|Regular counts of Greylag Geese (Anser anser) on the islands of Tiree and Coll, Argyll, Scotland have taken place since 1982. In the last 20 years, there has been a ten-fold increase with numbers leveling out since 2000 at ca. 4,000 geese. Breeding productivity, measured as percentage young in August flocks and brood sizes, was comparable to Greylag Geese on other Hebridean islands. Sightings of 1,002 individuals banded since 1998 were largely restricted to the islands, although six birds were recorded in other parts of northwest Scotland where re-sighting probability was low, indicating dispersal to new areas. The large difference between annual productivity and estimated mortality rates, coupled with the leveling-off of counts, suggested that moderate numbers might be emigrating. Greylag Geese fed primarily on silage fields and improved permanent pastures throughout the winter. Goslings remained with their parents until early April, when the adults moved to relatively remote, uncultivated land to breed. During the non-breeding season, the average flock size decreased from 70 to 22 birds. Winter home ranges of breeding adults and goslings were smaller than those of non-breeding adults and geese in their second winter, suggesting that social groups within flocks were out-competed from the preferred feeding areas and, as a result, may be more likely to disperse and colonize new areas. Geese showed individual and specific preferences for restricted parts of potential feeding areas. These basic elements of flock dynamics need to be understood when selecting management options. Current management, involving wide-scale shooting and scaring, requires provision of adequate feeding refuges to prevent dispersion of the grazing conflict to other areas, both within and beyond the two islands.
1522317| Radio telemetry and diurnal time activity budgets were used to show that wintering Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) used different habitats for comfort and feeding activities at Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge (Merritt Island), Florida and adjacent estuarine areas. Management should take this spatial consideration into account. The same data were used to determine if habitat use differed between sexes. Data on movements and home range were used to evaluate habitat quality and potential effects of human disturbance. Scaup foraged more in impounded wetlands and rested more in open estuarine regions. Mean distance between diurnal and nocturnal sites was 2.7 km (SE  0.3), and was similar between sexes and from mid to late winter. Male and female fixed kernel home ranges and core use areas did not differ. Mean fixed kernel 95% home range and 50% core use areas were 15.1 km
1522318|A mark-recapture study was conducted on color-banded Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) breeding in southwestern Puerto Rico from 1991 to 1994. The initial estimate of apparent annual survival of adults was 62%. After accounting for the annual rates of color-band loss (11%) and permanent emigration (2-13%), the adjusted annual survival rate estimate for adults ranged from 71-80%. The estimate of pre-breeding survival from fledging to age three was 31% for a cohort of chicks banded in 1991. The adult survival estimate is low compared to other seabird species, but similar to estimates derived from Roseate Terns breeding in the western North Atlantic. Considered together, these survival estimates support the hypothesis that Roseate Terns experience high mortality during the non-breeding season, when the ranges of the North American and Caribbean populations overlap. If so, management of this species only during the breeding season may do little to aid its recovery.
1522319|Several hypotheses predict that nest defense should increase as the nesting cycle progresses, but the predicted pattern of increase differs. Previous studies of nest defense in gulls and terns have given conflicting results. Most of these have treated colonies as a unit, thus breeding asynchrony may have obscured temporal patterns. Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) nest defense against Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) was observed during two years, and responses of individuals or pairs of known nesting stage were recorded. Responses of terns to observers were also recorded. Mobbing of gulls did not increase as incubation progressed, contradicting parental investment models, but did increase as chicks aged. Chicks were defended more strongly by parents than were eggs. Responses to Great Black-backed Gulls were more frequent during the second wave of nesting, when the potential for re-nesting would be very low. There was no association between clutch size and nest defense. Aggression by terns to observers was rare during incubation, but became common immediately after hatching and remained frequent until the chicks fledged. The temporal pattern of mobbing in the semi-precocial Common Tern most closely resembles that predicted for species with altricial young. However, interpretation is complicated by the fact that gulls prey more frequently on chicks than eggs.
1522320|We investigated factors affecting chick provisioning by radio-tagged Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) nesting in a large colony on East Sand Island in the Columbia River estuary during 2001. Caspian Tern predation on juvenile salmonids (Oncorhynchus spp.) in the estuary prompted resource managers to relocate ca. 9,000 pairs of terns nesting on Rice Island (river km 34) to East Sand Island (river km 8), where terns were expected to consume fewer salmonids in favor of marine forage fishes. This study investigated factors influencing foraging success, diet composition, and overall reproductive success at the managed Caspian Tern colony. Our results indicated that daytime colony attendance by nesting terns averaged 64% and decreased throughout the chick-rearing period, while duration of foraging trips averaged 47 min and increased during the same period; these seasonal changes were more strongly related to date than chick age. Average meal delivery rates to 2-chick broods (0.88 meals h
1522321|The prey displayed to mates and delivered to chicks by nesting Gull-billed Tern (Sterna nilotica) was studied in a colony on a coastal lagoon in eastern Spain during 2003. During 31 hours of observations, 1,091 prey items were observed. The trophic resources exploited by the species and seasonal differences in prey composition within the same breeding season were examined. Red Swamp Crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) was the main prey species (64% of prey items), followed by insects (17%) and fish (6%). The proportion of terrestrial prey taken was low. Proportionately more aquatic prey was brought to the colony during courtship-period and chicks were fed proportionately more aquatic prey earlier in the season. The proportion of vertebrate and invertebrate prey did not change significantly during the season. The prey observed in the study suggests that the Gull-billed Terms foraged mostly in rice fields.
1522322|Censuses of six tern species were carried out in the inlet of Lagoa dos Patos, southern Brazil, and on the beaches just north (along 50 km) and south (60 km) from this site. The Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) was the commonest species between October and March, with maximum abundance in January (14,100 individuals). Abundance peak for the South American Tern (Sterna hirundinacea) took place in the austral winter, with maximum values of 1,500 birds. Trudeau's Tern (Sterna trudeaui) and Amazon Tern (Sterna superciliaris) had similar seasonal patterns occurring during all months, with abundance peak in the non-breeding period, between January and July. The maximum number of Trudeau's Tern was estimated to be 440 birds in April and 400 in June, and that of Amazon Tern was 210 birds in April and 230 in May. A maximum of 300 Royal Terns (Sterna maxima) were recorded in September, 280 in June and 280 in July, but the species was found in every month. The Cayenne Tern (Sterna eurygnatha) was also found every month, and the maximum number occurred in October (61 terns). All six species used the southern Brazilian coast, predominantly during the non-breeding season. Common, South American, Cayenne, and Royal Terns find their breed far north and south of the study area. Trudeau's Tern and the Amazon Tern breed inland in southern Brazil. Only the Amazon and Royal Terns showed preference for particular beach subareas, and both were found in large flocks near the Lagoa dos Patos inlet, the former nearer to freshwater, and the latter associated with discharges from the artisanal fishery. Beaches are used by Common Terns as roosting sites during daylight hours, and the Lagoa dos Patos inlet is used mostly for night roosting.
4132517|Wetlands in the Playa Lakes Region of Texas are important habitats for North American wintering waterfowl and migrant shorebirds. However, shorebird breeding biology has been overlooked in characterizing the region's ecological importance. In 1998 and 1999, American Avocet (Recuruirostra americana), Black-necked Stilt (Himantopus mexicanus), Killdeer (Charadrius vociferous), and Snowy Plover (C. alexandrinus) breeding ecology were studied in playas, saline lakes, and riparian wetlands in the Playa Lakes Region of Texas. Chronology of nest initiation, clutch sizes, and hatching success for 298 Snowy Plover, 111 American Avocet, 43 Killdeer, and 26 Black-necked Stilt clutches were measured. All four species nested in saline lakes, American Avocet and Killdeer also nested in playas, and Snowy Plover nested on riparian wetlands. American Avocet had higher hatching success in 1999 (52%) than 1998 (8%), because of more suitable hydrological conditions and lower predation. Hatching success was higher in 1998 than 1999 for Killdeer (1998, 63%; 1999, 21%) and Snowy Plover (1998, 47%; 1999, 33%) due to failures caused by flooding and hail in 1999. In other regions, clutch predation limits shorebird productivity, but hatching success in the Playa Lakes Region appears to be limited by unpredictable precipitation patterns and wetland hydroperiod. As such, breeding shorebird conservation and management should focus upon maintaining wetland hydrological integrity.
4132518|In 1995, parental activities of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) were monitored in three coastal colonies during a series of 24-h long observation periods to document attendance, foraging, and other activities in relation to time of day, tide level, and breeding stage. During 5,400 nest-hours of observations, nest attendance declined and feeding rates increased with nestling developmental stage. Although some feeding arrivals occurred during darkness, the great majority of arrivals (including feeding) occurred during daylight periods. Mean times of return from feeding trips varied significantly among colonies and nestling developmental stages. Feeding arrivals were linked to tides, suggesting that most foraging occurred during the preceding low tide period. Inter-colony variation in foraging arrival times and interactions with tides were likely associated with differences in proximity to foraging sites and availability of both tidal and non-tidal (freshwater) foraging habitats.
4132519| The Caribbean Coot (Fulica caribaea) is endemic to the Caribbean region where it is uncommon to rare. Little is known about its breeding biology. From museum specimens, archives and correspondence, we document 134 records for Aruba, Curaao and Bonaire, Netherlands Antilles, from the years 1955-2004, and map their distribution. The islands are arid and rainfall can be unpredictable but with the establishment of permanent fresh water ponds since the 1970s, the Caribbean Coot appears to have become more common. We recorded 68 cases of breeding for the three islands. Although breeding can occur in almost any month, there is a clear preponderance for birds to breed in the first few calendar months of the year, approximately three months after the annual peak in rainfall. 
4132520| American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) numbers along the east coast of the United States are declining in some areas and expanding in others. Researchers have suggested that movement from traditional barrier beach habitats to novel inland habitats and coastal marshes may explain some of these changes, but few studies have documented oystercatcher reproductive success in non-traditional habitats. This study compares the reproductive success of the American Oystercatcher on three river islands in the lower Cape Fear River of North Carolina with that of birds nesting on barrier island beach habitat of Cape Lookout National Seashore. There were 17.6 times more oystercatcher breeding pairs per kilometer on the river island habitat than barrier beach habitat. The Mayfield estimate of daily nest content survival was 0.97 (S.E.  0.0039) on river islands, significantly higher than 0.92 (S.E.  0.0059) on barrier islands. The primary identifiable cause of nest failure on the river islands was flooding while the main cause of nest failure on the barrier islands was mammalian predation. Fledging success was equally low at both study sites. Only 0.19 chicks fledged per pair in 2002, and 0.21 chicks fledged per pair in 2003 on the river islands and 0.14 chicks fledged per pair in 2002 and 0.20 chicks fledged per pair in 2003 on the barrier islands. Many questions are still unanswered and more research is needed to fully understand the causes of chick mortality and the functional significance of non-traditional nesting habitats for the American Oystercatcher in the eastern United States. 
4132521| Most studies of the kleptoparasitic behavior of gulls have involved intermediate-sized species. This study examined the kleptoparasitic relationships between the Pied Oystercatcher (Haematopus longirostris) feeding on Surf Clams (Mactra rufescens) and a large gull species, the Pacific Gull (Larus pacificus) in the swash zone of an ocean beach in Tasmania, Australia. Oystercatchers caught Surf Clams buried in sand using visual cues when the clams were covered by shallow water at low tide. There was no selection for clam size, possibly because they were unable to assess size before capture. Shells were not broken by hammering, but by forcing the bill into and between the valves. Handling time was prolonged and was significantly related to shell length. The profitability of clams (ash-free dry mass of flesh ingested per second of handling time) was independent of shell length. Pacific Gulls stole 8% of all clams taken by the oystercatchers. The mean length and ash-free dry mass of clams stolen (54.3  0.64 mm; 8.14  1.5 mg, N = 51) were significantly greater than that of all clams (46.8  0.65 mm; 5.10  0.3 mg, N = 98) caught by the oystercatchers. The oystercatchers had frequent rest periods between bouts of foraging, suggesting they were able to capture and ingest clams faster than they could digest them and experienced a digestive bottleneck. Losses to Pacific Gulls probably had no significant effect on the oystercatchers as they had adequate feeding time available to compensate. 
4132522|Although storm petrels are regarded as surface feeders, there is evidence that some species can dive. However, their diving performances and the importance of diving in their foraging tactics have never been accurately assessed. This study aimed to determine the occurrence of diving behavior and the diving ability of the Madeiran Storm Petrel (Oceanodroma castro) using maximum depth gauges. Out of 29 gauges deployed, 18 were recovered and 16 were readable. All the birds had dived, the maximum depths recorded averaging 0.85 m, and diving is part of the typical foraging behavior of the Madeiran Storm Petrel. This study provides a new insight on storm petrel foraging strategies.
4132523|We report on the incidence of kleptoparasites and the host avoidance responses in a colony of the Sandwich Tern (Sterna sandvicensis) at l'Albufera de Valencia, eastern Spain, in 2004. Apart from conspecifics, five species were kleptoparasites of breeding Sandwich Terns, particularly Black-headed Gull (Larus ridibundus) and Slender-billed Gull (L. genei). Avian kleptoparasites attacked 24% of the Sandwich Terns returning to the colony with fish (N = 659) and robbed 5.3% of them. Most terns (85%) delivered their prey to a mate or chick. Fish carried by terns were mainly Clupeiformes species (96%). Prey size declined significantly as the season progressed. The probability of attack increased significantly with fish size and declined significantly as the season progressed. Most attacks were on terns as they landed to deliver their prey. Overall success rate of attacks was 12.5% and were mostly performed by single birds. The time that the terns spent flying before landing to deliver prey increased with the size of carried fish.
4132524|During 1995, the relationship between the nesting chronology of the Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) and the near-shore abundance of fish was examined at La Purinera, Sonora, the site of one of the largest known Least Tern colonies in northwest Mexico. Fish abundance was measured adjacent to the shoreline during early mornings using a beach seine net, and the sampling periods corresponded to different phases of the Least Tern's annual cycle. During this year, the nesting season (April to July) coincided with peak prey fish abundance, and peak hatching of tern eggs (early July) coincided with the greatest abundance of fish of adequate size for chicks. Departure of the terns from the area coincided with a marked reduction in suitable food in September. Collections of fish dropped and left uneaten by Least Terns in the colony contained five species, which were also present in the fish samples obtained with the beach seine net. The observations on foraging adult Least Terns and the collections of fish dropped in the colony suggested that the terns were preying mainly upon silversides (Leuresthes sardina, Colpichthys regis) and anchovies (Anchoa spp.). Terns foraged mainly on the bay side of the barrier beach where fish were more abundant. The results support the idea that seabird breeding and food abundance or availability coincide at the time of maximum need, when parents feed rapidly growing chicks.
4132525|The Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) nests in freshwater wetlands that are prone to water level fluctuations, and nest losses to flooding are common. We examined temporal patterns in water levels at six sites with Black Tern colonies in Maine and determined probabilities of flood events and associated nest loss at Douglas Pond, the location of the largest breeding colony. Daily precipitation data from weather stations and water flow data from a flow gauge below Douglas Pond were obtained for 1960-1999. Information on nest losses from three floods at Douglas Pond in 1997-1999 were used to characterize small (6% nest loss), medium (56% nest loss) and large (94% nest loss) flood events, and we calculated probabilities of these three levels of flooding occurring at Douglas Pond using historic water levels data. Water levels generally decreased gradually during the nesting season at colony sites, except at Douglas Pond where water levels fluctuated substantially in response to rain events. Annual probabilities of small, medium, and large flood events were 68%, 35%, and 13% for nests initiated during 23 May-12 July, with similar probabilities for early (23 May-12 June) and late (13June-12July) periods. An index of potential nest loss indicated hat medium floods at Douglas Pond had the greatest potential effect on nest success because they occurred relatively frequently and inundated large proportions of nests. Nest losses at other colonies were estimated to be approximately 30% of those at Douglas Pond. Nest losses to flooding appear to be common for the Black Tern in Maine and related to spring precipitation patterns, but ultimate effects on breeding productivity are uncertain.
4132526|Nocturnal incubating and brooding behavior of the Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) was studied at two colonies in successive years in The Netherlands. In late evening and early morning, nests were checked regularly for female or male nest attendance until or from complete darkness. During daytime females incubated eggs 60% of the time. At night, males took over completely, while females spent the night at a communal roost more than three km away from the breeding colonies. Few females stayed with their downy young at night and more females brooded young, as chicks became older. The total parental breeding investment (day and night) was equal (51% for males), but with higher nocturnal investment by males (79%). From six days after hatching, chicks were left unattended at night. The difference between male and female nocturnal investment might be explained by the preference for self-survival instead of clutch and brood survival. Males probably have greater interest in clutch survival than females, as they are not certain to maintain the pair bond after egg loss within or between seasons. Due to increased human disturbance in Dutch wetlands, chicks now leave their nests permanently more often. This may lead to more frequent cases of chick starvation, as sometimes the young cannot find alternative resting sites.
4132527|A number of factors were identified as causes of mortality in 254 (59%) of 431 sea ducks submitted for necropsy at the USGS-National Wildlife Health Center, Madison, Wisconsin from 1975 until 2003. Bacteria causing large outbreaks of mortality were Pasteurella multocida and Clostridium botulinum Type E. Starvation was responsible for large mortality events as well as sporadic deaths of individuals. Lead toxicity, gunshot and exposure to petroleum were important anthropogenic factors. Other factors that caused mortality were avian pox virus, bacteria (Clostridium botulinum Type C, Riemerella anatipestifer and Clostridium perfringens), fungi (Aspergillus fumigatus and an unidentified fungus), protozoans (unidentified coccidia), nematodes (Eustrongylides spp.), trematodes (Sphaeridiotrema globulus and Schistosoma spp.), acanthocephalans (Polymorphous spp.), predation, cyanide and trauma (probably due to collisions). There were also a number of novel infectious organisms in free-living sea ducks in North America, which were incidental to the death, including avipoxvirus and reovirus, bacteria Mycobacterium avium, protozoans Sarcocystis sp. and nematodes Streptocara sp. Apart from anthropogenic factors, the other important mortality factors listed here have not been studied as possible causes for the decline of sea ducks in North America.
4132528|Ducks are unusual in that males of many species acquire brightly pigmented plumages in autumn rather than in spring. This has led to confusion in defining molts and plumages, using both traditional European terminology and that proposed by Humphrey and Parkes (1959). To investigate molt patterns in waterfowl relative to molt and plumage nomenclature, 2,227 specimens of ducks and geese were examined. Both the "first prebasic" ("post-juvenile" using traditional European terminology) and the "definitive prebasic" ("adult post-breeding") body molts in most ducks, the latter producing the cryptic spring (female) and summer (male) plumages preceding the wing molt, are considerably more variable and less extensive than reported. By contrast, the "definitive prealternate" ("adult pre-breeding") body molt of most ducks, which follows the wing molt and produces the brightly colored plumages of males, is complete or virtually so. Based upon presumed homologies with the molts of geese, the wing molt and ensuing complete body molt of ducks are better considered the prebasic rather than the prealternate molt and, thus, the bright feathering of male ducks should be considered the basic plumage. The incomplete and ephemeral cryptic plumages, attained by some ducks in spring and summer, may have evolved more recently in species that benefit from camouflage at this time, and should be considered alternate plumages. The molts and plumages of the adult Ruddy Duck (Oxyura jamaicensis) appear to be homologous with those of other Anatine ducks, with a slight temporal shift in the hormonal cycles that control pigment deposition (as opposed to differences in molt patterns) explaining the differences in plumage-coloration patterns in males. Because feather pigment-deposition patterns are controlled by various factors related to seasonal and reproductive phenomena, which differ considerably both among and within taxa, plumage color should not be a critical factor in attempts to define homologous molts and plumages.
4132529|Models of the Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), that use the tendency of wild birds to join foraging aggregations, were used in manipulative experiments to test the ability of wild individuals to use environmental and social information indicative of patch quality, including pool depth, prey accessibility, prey density, and prey exploitation, when choosing foraging patches. Snowy Egrets, but not some other aggregation species, preferred shallow (<20 cm) compared to deep (>40 cm) pools, perhaps because they could wade throughout the shallow pools, disturbing fish prey and making them more accessible for capture. Snowy Egrets responded to an artificial increase in fish density by visiting prey-enhanced pools more than pools with most fish removed or unmanipulated pools. Snowy Egrets also responded to a decrease in prey density resulting from recent exploitation by aggregations by visiting these pools less than unmanipulated pools. These results indicate that, in addition to the presence of other individuals, Snowy Egrets used discernible pool characteristics such as depth, as well as the availability and density of prey when choosing patches in which to forage.
4132530|Foraging by Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea) on fish regurgitated by Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) was investigated in large mixed colony (ca. 10,000 pairs of cormorants and 700 pairs of herons) at Katy Rybackie (north Poland). Experiments with displaying fish in different parts of the mixed and monospecific colonies were carried out. Herons took fish only within the area of mixed nests. Herons foraged on regurgitated fish during the whole breeding season but most intensively (up to 18% of all birds) in the fledging period. The main foraging area of herons (the Vistula Lagoon) has abundant food and is situated close to the colony. The fish regurgitated by cormorants constituted an important source of food for fledglings in the critical period after leaving the nest and was an alternative or supplementary food for adult birds during a period of bad weather. Extra food available in the colony could be responsible for high breeding success of the herons in the mixed colony at Katy Rybackie.
4132531|Ground-truthing surveys were conducted in conjunction with a statewide aerial survey of Florida wading bird colonies to evaluate the efficacy of the aerial technique. Five species, Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis), Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus), Anhinga (Anhinga anhinga), Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), and Wood Stork (Mycteria americana), were most often detected during the aerial survey. Most of these species are large birds that tend to nest higher in the canopy or are white-plumaged, and therefore would be expected to be more visible from the air. Five other species, Tricolored Heron (Egretta tricolor), Reddish Egret (E. rufescens), Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), Yellow-crowned Night Heron (Nyctanassa violaceus), and Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus), were not detected during the aerial survey, presumably because these dark-plumaged species typically nest beneath the tree canopy. Disagreement between aerial and ground survey results also was caused by the inability of the aerial survey to detect some species when they were present in larger colonies or distinguish resting birds from breeding birds. The aerial detection rate of 45 previously unknown colonies was about 71%. Recommendations for improving future aerial surveys of colonial waterbirds include more use of ground surveys for smaller species of day herons and night herons to augment aerial information and smaller width of flight corridors.
4132532|The coastal grasslands of eastern Buenos Aires Province (Argentina) are used by Rufous-chested Dotterel (Charadrius modestus), Tawny-throated Dotterel (Oreopholus ruficollis), American Golden Plover (Pluvialis dominica) and Buff-breasted Sandpiper (Tryngites subruficollis). These species differ in size but all use visual pecking when feeding. The diet of each species was studied, measuring temporal variation in the abundance of invertebrates and dietary preferences of invertebrates. From March 1996 to January 1999, feces were collected of shorebirds on Medaland Ranch grasslands (Villa Gesell District, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina). Pitfall traps were used to capture surface-active invertebrates (from June 1996 until March 1998). All four bird species ate animal and plant items. In all cases, plant fragments rather than seeds dominated the plant fraction. Beetles comprised the dominant item in all four species of shorebirds. Earthworms were important for Patagonian shorebirds, but they were less frequent in the diets of Nearctic shorebirds. Relative use (proportion in the diet) of items differed by site and date. Numbers of captures were high in spring-summer and low in autumn-winter. All shorebird species preferred adult beetles. Rufous-chested Dotterel and Nearctic shorebirds also showed a preference for beetle larvae. In contrast, spiders and ants were avoided by all shorebird species. Diet information from Nearctic shorebirds at other sites in the Northern Hemisphere and in South America, confirmed that co-occurring species within a given region typically ad similar diets, but that the same species in different regions showed low similarity. Dietary flexibility allows exploitation of variable resources and, as a consequence, is highly advantageous to shorebirds that migrate over long distances and use a variety of habitats.
4132533|Nest-site selection and nesting habitat use by the Sooty Gull (Larus hemprichii) was studied on Jarnein Island in the United Arab Emirates during the 2002 breeding season. Sooty Gull nests were located mainly on the north and northeast sides of the island. Birds showed definite preference for rocky substrates.
4132534|The efficacy of long-term predator removal in urbanized areas is poorly understood. The impact of predation on ground-nesting waterbirds, as well as predator abundance and composition in predator removal versus non-removal or reference sites were examined at South San Francisco Bay. The success of natural nests and predator activity was monitored using track plates, trip cameras, wire haircatchers and simulated nests. Removal sites had higher nest densities, but lower hatching success than reference sites. Predator composition and abundance were not different at the removal and reference sites for any predator other than feral Cat (Felis domesticus). Striped Skunk (Mephitis mephitis) comprised the majority (84%) of predators removed, yet remained the most abundant predators in removal and reference sites. Urban environments provide supplemental food that may influence skunks and other nest predators to immigrate into vacancies created by predator removal. Based on the findings from this study, predator removal should be applied intensively over a larger geographic area in order to be a viable management strategy for some mammalian species in urbanized areas.
4132535|A case of intra-specific infanticide is recorded in the Great Egret (Ardea alba) and two cases of internest infanticide are reported for the Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax).
4132539|Understanding the composition and abundance pattern of species across sites is a central question in community ecology. However, the structure of waterbird assemblages in fragmented wetlands has been poorly documented. We carried out twelve monthly censuses to describe the composition and abundance patterns in 42 wetland fragments and two lagoons in the coastal zone of Rio Grande do Sul, South Brazil. A total of 142,000 birds from 66 species, 18 families and 18 orders were recorded. Most species were either resident (29) or partial migrants (19). All migrant species (8 nearctic, 4 austral and 5 summer breeders) were recorded in small numbers and most of them were restricted to lagoons. The lagoons had more species (60) than the wetland fragments (55), even though the total fragment area (1,426 ha) was about twice the censed area in the lagoons (743 ha). Principal Coordinate Analysis revealed strong temporal and spatial gradients of abundance and composition that were similar in fragments and lagoons. The number of species varied among sites and showed no seasonal pattern. Abundances were higher in the wintering period (min. of 2,500 birds in March and max. of 23,000 in July) due to the increased abundance of Gruiformes and Anseriformes. The White-faced Whistling-duck (Dendrocygna viduata) and the Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus) were the most abundant and frequent species over the year, comprising together 69% of the total. The census captured 76% and 60% of the waterbird species listed for the region and the Rio Grande do Sul State, respectively. The study area shared more than 90% of the species with the nearby States and 76% with the Pantanal region. The beta-diversity among sites was 94% when only fragments are considered, and 38% when the lagoons are included in the calculation, showing that a great proportion of the waterbird richness at the landscape scale is accommodated as a beta component. The local abundance and composition of waterbird assemblages seemed to be affected by the interplay of several factors, including the rich regional pool of species, their wide range, the fragment area, the surrounding matrix and the presence of core refuges. A landscape perspective is essential on building sound conservation programs for waterbird assemblages.
4132540|Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) nests were monitored at Falkner Island, Connecticut, USA between 1998 and 2002. A total of 586 chicks were sexed and their growth measured during the first three days. These data were used to derive growth parameters and predict survival to fledging with high confidence. In contrast to a previous study in Massachusetts, we found no sex-ratio bias at hatching in any single year or in all years combined, nor was there a bias at fledging in all years combined, or in any single year. This difference is interesting because both colonies exhibit a female-biased sex ratio at breeding. After controlling for other factors, there was no difference in early growth or survival between male and female chicks, consistent with our previous studies and with the hypothesis that differences in growth and survival between males and females observed in other species are due to sexual size dimorphism.
4132541|Comparisons were made of the foraging ecology of Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) nesting on two islands in the Columbia River estuary using radio telemetry and observations of prey fed to chicks and mates at each colony. Early in the chick-rearing period, radio-tagged terns nesting at Rice Island (river km 34) foraged mostly in the freshwater zone of the estuary close to the colony, while terns nesting on East Sand Island (river km 8) foraged in the marine or estuarine mixing zones close to that colony. Late in the chick-rearing period, Rice Island terns moved more of their foraging to the two zones lower in the estuary, while East Sand Island terns continued to forage in these areas. Tern diets at each colony corresponded to the primary foraging zone (freshwater vs. marine/mixing) of radio-tagged individuals: Early in chick-rearing, Rice Island terns relied heavily on juvenile salmonids (Oncorhyn-chus spp., 71% of identified prey), but this declined late in chick-rearing (46%). East Sand Island terns relied less on salmonids (42% and 16%, early and late in chick-rearing), and instead utilized marine fishes such as Anchovy (Engraulis mordax) and Herring (Clupea pallasi). Throughout chick-rearing, Rice Island terns foraged farther from their colony (median distance: 12.3 km during early chick-rearing and 16.9 km during late chick-rearing) than did East Sand Island terns (9.6 and 7.7 km, respectively). The study leads to the conclusion that Caspian Terns are generalist foragers and make use of the most proximate available forage fish resources when raising young.
4132542|The largest and most productive colony of Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) in Alaska for two decades (1980-1999) was on Howe Island in the outer Sagavanirktok River Delta. Petroleum development began in this area during the mid-1980s, and studies of Snow Geese on Howe Island were conducted annually since 1980. Annual gosling production remained high and the colony expanded during 1980-1993; thereafter both gosling production and colony size declined. During 1980-1993, gosling production was highly and positively correlated with mean daily air temperature during the 1-25 June incubation period, and predation at the colony was insignificant. After 1993, there was an increase in predation on Snow Goose eggs at Howe Island by Grizzly Bears (Ursus arctos) and other mammalian and avian predators, which resulted in the decline of the Howe Island colony. New Snow Goose colonies east of the oil fields expanded during the decline on Howe Island. Evidence suggests that this eastward expansion likely resulted from dispersal or displacement of geese from Howe Island. After 1993, the effects of predation confounded the known effects of spring temperatures, and predation became the significant factor influencing gosling production. Increased predators in the Prudhoe Bay area and at Howe Island were suspected to be linked to the availability of human food waste and refuse and to the cessation of hunting and trapping in the area. Recently imposed mitigation measures have included better refuse and waste management and removal of problem bears. These measures should result in reduced predation and increased productivity at the Howe Island Snow Goose colony.
4132543|Searches for color-banded Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) were carried out during 2002-2004 at an inland roost in Spain in order to determine the origin of the birds, to measure the length of stay and within- and between-seasons site fidelity in relation to age. Contrary to expectations, neither the stay duration at the roost nor the site fidelity depended on age. The low stay duration (the majority of the birds were sighted only once) and return rates suggest nomadic behavior of the wintering cormorants. The cormorants that stayed longer at the roost also returned there more times during one season, suggesting that site fidelity may have an adaptive value for wintering cormorants.
4132544|Surveys of the American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) were conducted in all suitable nesting habitat in coastal Virginia, USA during the 2003 breeding season. The total of 588 pairs more than doubles previous estimates for the state, and provides a benchmark for the comparison of future surveys. These results suggest that Virginia supports the largest number of oystercatchers in the breeding season relative to other east coast states. Previous surveys in Virginia focused only on one coastal area, the barrier islands. Over two hundred pairs recorded in the seaside lagoon system of the Delmarva Peninsula in 2003 accounted for the large discrepancy between previous estimates for the state and the results of this survey. Over 89% of the total number of pairs was observed on the islands and in the lagoon system of the Delmarva Peninsula. Approximately 87% of the pairs were on land that is managed or regulated to some degree for the conservation of nesting birds by federal, state, municipal and nongovernmental organizations, including 20% that occurred on land closed to public use during the bird-breeding season. Only 13% of the pairs were on land that affords no protection to breeding birds.
4132545|Diurnal activities and foraging methods of juvenile, parent (adults with young), and non-parent (adults without young) Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus) were measured during autumn and spring migration at Long Point, Ontario, to evaluate: 1) age-related differences in activities and feeding methods of family members, 2) potential short-term behavioral costs and benefits of prolonged parent-offspring association, and 3) several predictions based on predation risk and swan social structure. Vigilance of inactive parents and juveniles declined as flock size increased at observation sites. However, other evaluations of vigilance in active (and inactive parent/nonparent) swans and use of risk-prone foraging methods did not support the hypothesis that swans respond to reduced risk of predation resulting from membership in larger flocks. These results may be due to their use of inaccessible aquatic habitats and their large relative size, both of which relate to their lack of natural predators, at staging areas. Both parents and young used sub-surface feeding methods to the same amount, but parents "treadled" more than did juveniles and juveniles "dabbled" more on the surface than did parents. These findings suggest that some degree of resource partitioning exists between parents and young or possibly parents indirectly facilitate feeding activities of their young. Parents were more vigilant and interacted with other social groups more than did juveniles, but their feeding activity was unaffected as both parents and juveniles spent similar time foraging. Time spent vigilant, in intraspecific interactions, and feeding was similar between parents and non-parents. Based on this evidence, parents did not appear to incur short-term behavioral or energetic costs of prolonged association with young. However, both parents and juveniles likely benefited from higher social standing associated with family status or larger family size.
4132546|The commensal association of waterfowl with foraging swans (Cygnus spp.) was studied in southernmost Sweden. Among more than 1,500 Mute Swans (C. olor) only 2.6% had attending waterfowl whereas 41% of Whooper Swans (C. cygnus) and 51% of Tundra Swans (C. columbianus bewicki) had associated commensals, no doubt because of the species' different feeding techniques. Four species of commensals occurred at the main study site, Eurasian Wigeon (Anas penelope), Mallard (A. platyrhynchos), Pochard (Aythya ferina) and Common Coot (Fulica atra), wigeon making up about a third of the individuals. A mean of 3.4 waterfowl attended each Whooper Swan. Aggression was common among the commensals, with intraspecific aggression being more common than interspecific aggression in both wigeon and Pochard, and apparently influenced the size and composition of the groups and also the individuals' positions relative to the swan. The preferred position just behind the swan was defended by threats and attacks. Although wigeon in this position did not have higher pecking rates they obtained significantly more large items than wigeon farther behind the swan.
4132547| We retrospectively conducted a survey of blood lead levels in Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) admitted to a Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals wildlife centre with injuries caused by collision with power lines or other overhead cables. Of 72 birds admitted over a three-year period, four birds were dead on arrival and 14 were euthanased on arrival due to severe injuries or burns. Of the surviving 54 birds, 43 were sampled to determine blood lead levels and 63% of these had elevated lead levels (>1.21mol/l). We also blood sampled 260 swans admitted with symptoms consistent with exposure to lead that had not been involved in collisions and 620 birds admitted for all other reasons that had also not been in collisions. There was no significant difference in the proportion of collision birds with low (<1.21mol/l) or intermediate (>2<5mol/l) lead levels compared to non-collision birds. However, a significantly larger proportion of birds admitted following collision with power lines had moderately elevated blood lead levels (1.21-2mol/l) compared to non-collision birds and a significantly smaller proportion had high blood lead levels (>5mol/l). Adults accounted for 72% of admissions following collision and there was no significant difference between the proportion of collision and non-collision birds that were adults. Our data suggest that birds with elevated but moderate blood lead levels suffer an increase risk of collision, while those with intermediate to high levels have a much reduced risk of collision, possibly because they are too weak to fly. Inexperience does not appear to be a significant factor in determining the risk of collision. 
4132548| The highly herbivorous Gadwall (Anas strepera) is the most salt-tolerant of the North America dabbling ducks and typically breeds in wetlands where salinity does not exceed 15. Small numbers also breed at hypersaline (80-90) Mono Lake, California, which lacks vascular plants. There, Gadwall raise young on the open lake, feed nearly exclusively on alkali flies (Ephydra hians), and minimize osmotic challenges by concentrating activities in areas with access to fresh water. Fledging success is high as a result of abundant food and low predation, but is evidently offset by poor survivorship among postbreeding adults. Failure to complete wing molt and, perhaps, foot disease are implicated. Food in the lake remains abundant well into the autumn. Nevertheless, local birds leave as soon as the young fledge. Many move to nearby freshwater lakes before eventually before continuing to wintering locations in the Central Valley of California. Migrants avoid Mono Lake at this season in favor of nearby freshwater lakes. Overall, Mono Lake's value for breeding and migrating ducks is low, because of harsh water chemistry, limited fresh water for drinking and marshes for feeding, and apparent low survival among adults. 
4132549|Distributional and dietary responses of wintering Steller's Eiders (Polysticta stelleri) to spring spawning of Baltic Herring (Clupea harengus) were studied along the Lithuanian coast of the Baltic Sea. Herring spawn is patchy, but is abundant and energy-rich when present. The objective of this study was to determine whether Steller's Eiders modified their foraging sites and food habits to take advantage of spawn, or whether they were inflexible foragers as suggested by earlier studies. Steller's Eiders altered their habitat use during herring spawn, moving to habitats where fish spawning occurred. Also, diet analysis demonstrated that herring eggs became an important food when available. Although the importance of herring spawn for Steller's Eiders remains speculative, this study indicates that spawning sites could be important as a source of nutrients and energy for subsequent migration or reproduction, and should receive conservation consideration.
4132550|Some species in the family of grebes (Podicipedidae) are gregarious and nest in extensive colonies, others are solitary breeders aggressively defending their territories. Others, including the Great Crested Grebe (Podiceps cristatus), can breed in colonies or as solitary pairs, suggesting that individuals are able to change from a solitary strategy to a more social pattern. This paper concentrates on observations during colony establishment and nesting in a colony of Great Crested Grebes near Lake Ijssel in the Netherlands. The arrival of the grebes at the colony and their egg laying was spread over a long period. From the start, the breeding birds tended to use the entire area of the vegetation available for building nest platforms and this led to a progressive reduction in the distances between neighboring pairs. The final nesting density was extremely high, with 14.3 nest platforms per 100 m
4132551|The feeding ecology of the Kelp Gull (Larus dominicanus) was studied during the 2002-03 breeding season at Coquimbo, northern Chile. Food composition was studied by analyzing pellets regurgitated by Kelp Gulls living in different habitats. Birds breeding or resting near fishing ports used these as their main feeding grounds. Birds breeding on offshore islands fed mainly on intertidal organisms and olives. A comparison between the food of breeders and non-breeding birds during the breeding season showed a difference in diet composition of breeders, who fed more on fish of high energy density while non-breeding birds continued feeding on a wide range of organisms and waste. Observations in a fishing harbor and at sea demonstrated that fisheries waste was an important food source for the birds. The inshore distribution at sea was related to the location of fishing ports and breeding colonies.
4132552| During 1999-2002, we studied the abundance of fish-eating birds, primarily Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) and California Gulls (L. californicus), and estimated their consumption of fish at Horn Rapids Dam and the Chandler Irrigation Canal return pipe on the Yakima River in eastern Washington. Earlier observations of gulls at these structures suggested a high level of predation of juvenile salmonids. The relationship between river flow, gull use at the sites and fish taken was also examined. Numbers of gulls (instantaneous counts of foraging and non-foraging individuals) at the structures varied daily between their arrival in late March-early April and departure in late June. Daily averages across the four years were 9.8 (SE  1.5) and 19.1 (SE  2.5) gulls at Horn Rapids and Chandler, respectively. Gull numbers at Horn Rapids peaked dramatically during the last two weeks in May, reaching maxima of 37 (SE  2.2) to 133 (SE  4.2) gulls/day. This increase appeared to be associated with the hatchery release of one to two million juvenile autumn Chinook (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) above the dam. A comparable peak in gull abundance was not observed at Chandler. Diurnal patterns of gull abundance differed between sites and among years. Relationships between fish take and water flow also varied within and among years at the two sites. Low seasonal flows were associated with increased predation at Chandler, whereas high seasonal flows were associated with increased predation at Horn Rapids. Assuming all fish taken were salmonids, consumption at both sites combined was estimated to be 10.3% of the juvenile salmonids passing the two sites. 
4132553| We studied numbers and productivity of the European White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) during 1968-2002 at Kopot village colony (in the Odra River valley, Poland) and their response to water level and livestock farming. The number of nesting pairs (range 19-33) fluctuated independently of the April and June water level, but correlated with the presence of a local livestock farm. The average number of chicks fledged per pair was negatively correlated with the water level in April, when White Storks choose the breeding area. The White Stork appears to use farming activity rather than water level in making a decision as to where to a settle. This result suggests that changes in management practices, which are relatively easily made, may improve demographic parameters of local breeding White Storks. 
4132554|The importance of the lower Rahway River, New Jersey, to wading birds was investigated, and foraging patterns and interspecific differences in wading bird microhabitat use are described. Foraging decisions by wading birds are complex and occur at several levels. In order to examine foraging decisions at the habitat and microhabitat levels, 79 censuses were conducted by boat along a 5-km tidal section of this river in 1988, 1998, 1999, and 2002. The locations of 1,148 birds were recorded on maps, and patterns of microhabitat use were determined. Overall, year, date, and tide level were important predictors for the numbers of wading birds that were recorded. However, each species responded to a different combination of variables: for Great Egret it was year and date; for Snowy Egret date and tide level; and for Glossy Ibis year, date, and tide level. Tide flow direction was not important for any species. For all three species, spatial distributions long the river were clumped rather than uniform, which were associated with physical characteristics along this section of the river. All three species used the mouths of narrow tidal creeks more frequently than expected, but species differed in the use of mudflats and areas of slow-moving water. There was little overlap among species in spatial distribution along the river, but the overall use of microhabitats was broadly similar. This study suggests that the lower Rahway River estuary in New Jersey is valuable to local wildlife and should be considered in future development plans.
4132555|Available information on the breeding biology of the Great Bittern (Botaurus stellaris) is poor. New data are presented on nest description and distribution, breeding phenology, clutch and brood sizes, egg biometrics and breeding success, based on 27 nests at one French and three Italian sites. Nest shape and breeding phenology appeared at least partially linked to environmental factors. Breeding success was studied for the first time to the fledging stage using radio-tagging young. About 30% of eggs produced fledging young, and it is suggested that starvation was the main cause of chick death. Young moved away from the nest when about 15-days old and extensive dispersal occurred within 2-3 weeks from independence. A survey of the literature indicates variability in several breeding parameters and suggests that the Great Bittern is an adaptable bird.
4132556|On islands in the Gulf of California in 2003 and 2004, we recorded three Blue-footed Booby (Sula nebouxii) and one Brown Booby (S. leucogaster) nests that were actively used by two females and one male. Although our data are limited, and cooperation cannot be completely ruled out, we suggest that these nests were the result of bigamous behavior.
4132557|Common Murre (Uria aalge) breeding success has been monitored in 1996-2004 at Devil's Slide Rock, California as part of a restoration project related to the Apex Houston oil spill. During the 2001 breeding season, two separate cases of egg recovery by parent murres were observed. During the first event an egg was secured and incubated 60 cm from the original nesting site, while in the second case an egg was retrieved after rolling 85 cm. The first egg was lost within 24 hours, and the second disappeared within a day of its expected hatching date. We describe the circumstances surrounding these events, including the behavior of the parent murres during the egg recovery attempts, the subsequent fate of the recovered eggs, the microhabitat features associated with egg loss and other factors affecting the egg recovery ability of adult murres.
4132620| Nine years (1989/90-2002) of data on a asynchronous pelagic seabird, the White-tailed Tropicbird (Phaethon lepturus), breeding on Aride Island, Seychelles, were used to examine: (1) annual variation in productivity and, (2) the importance of large scale (El Nio Southern Oscillation) factors in explaining productivity levels. In 2001 and 2002, we examined the influence of local scale factors (parasitism by hard ticks Amblyomma loculosum and intra- and inter-specific competition for nest-sites) on productivity. Productivity between years only ranged from 0.21 to 0.37 chicks/breeding pair, but it was nevertheless significantly and inversely correlated with the El Nio index. No influence on productivity was caused by local factors. The frequency distribution of chick deaths varied significantly with chick age in 2001 but not in 2002. Most of the chick deaths were from starvation, in particular for chicks older than 20 days. As opposed to synchronous seabird species, there were no years with total breeding failure in the White-tailed Tropicbird. This may be partly explained by their dispersed feeding in the open ocean. 
4132621|Visits were made to the Xisha Archipelago, northern South China Sea, from 13 March to 9 April 2003 and 2 April to 7 September 2004, to determine the status of the Red-footed Booby (Sula sula). The Red-footed Booby was found to breed only on Dong Island, (area of
4132622| The Black-faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor), breeding on Xing-Ren Tuo, arrived from late March to April and left from mid-July to August. The summer group included breeding pairs, non-breeding adults and sub-adults, while some transient individuals were observed irregularly. After arrival, the birds slept and rested on bare rock on the seashore or cliff top. They departed before dusk to feed, returning in the early morning. Pairs formed 15 days before the first egg was laid. The copulation frequency averaged 0.38  0.18 times per hour after pairs formed, and the highest frequency occurred in the early morning. The clutch size was two or three eggs, and the incubation period lasted 26.2  1.5 days (range 25-29, N = 6). Juveniles left their nest after 30 days and could fly freely after 36 days. From 1999 to 2003, the hatching rate of 29 eggs was 86% and the survival rate to fledging of nestlings amounted to 84% of 25 hatched chicks. 
4132623|Butt-end and lock-on aluminum band loss and wear were studied in the White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) banded in Spain. The risk of loss of butt-end bands increased from 0% to 85% in bands of 0 to 12 years. However, no loss occurred when storks were banded on the tibia rather than in the tarsus. Lock-on metal bands showed a low band loss rate throughout. The results indicated that band loss was mainly caused by the band opening, probably because of frequent contact with mud and water on the tarsus. Aluminum bands should be completely discarded to avoid important biases in analyses of population dynamics, dispersal and survival of storks and other groups. This is currently already done in many banding schemes, but should be applied more generally worldwide.
4132624|The impact of Glaucous Gull (Larus hyperboreus) predation on the Little Auk (Alle alle) during breeding season at the Ariekammen slopes in Hornsund was compared between 1983 and 2003-04. During the nestling period, gulls killed more young Little Auks in 1983 than in 2003. During the period of the colony departure in 2003, there were more Glaucous Gulls present and they killed more Little Auks than 20 years previous. Changes were found in the strategy of the colony departure by the Little Auk. In 2004, the rate of fledglings departed from the colony during "day" hours was higher than in 1983 and a higher proportion of fledglings left the colony escorted by more than one adult bird. This could be a consequence of general increase in the Glaucous Gull numbers or a year-to-year fluctuation and needs further investigations.
4132625|The Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) is known for insectivory in their breeding range, but they are piscivorous in winter and feed some fish to chicks. Fish have potentially high value for chick provisioning because of their larger mass, but the relative value of fish and insect diets for chick growth is unknown. In 1999-2000, we documented use of fish and insects for provisioning chicks at four Black Tern colonies in Maine and examined chick growth rates at two colonies (Douglas Pond and Carlton Pond) that differed in fish and insect use. Deliveries of fish and insects to broods were documented using video cameras and observations from blinds, while concurrently measuring chick growth in nest enclosures. Fish use was substantial (>25% of deliveries) at three of four colonies. Fish comprised 29% of items and 56% of metabolizable energy delivered to chicks at Douglas Pond compared to 13% of items and 22% of metabolizeable energy at Carlton Pond. Food delivery rate was inversely related to the proportion of large fish in brood diets at Douglas and Carlton Ponds and increased with brood age at Carlton Pond only, apparently due to high insect use. Chick growth rate did not vary with respect to fish and insect composition of diets. It is concluded that adults were able to raise chicks through age 12 d at comparable growth rates with insect- or fish-dominated diets. Use of fish may be more energy efficient for adults, and the capability to use both fish and insects may reduce potential variability in food availability during the breeding season.
4132626|Nest predators commonly limit productivity of Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) breeding colonies in both natural and artificial habitats. In 2003 and 2004 we used remote still cameras aimed at model nests and remote video cameras aimed at occupied Least Tern nests to identify predators of Least Terns breeding at Gibson Lake, an artificial breeding area in southwestern Indiana, USA. At the primary breeding site, a narrow gravel dike that bisects Gibson Lake (center dike), Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) were responsible for 100% and 75% of known predation events on model nests in 2003 and 2004, respectively. Throughout the 2004 breeding season, the proportion of model nests disturbed by Ring-billed Gulls on the center dike was strongly correlated with their numbers roosting on the center dike. We recorded predation by Ring-billed Gulls on six Least Tern chicks and two eggs in 2004 with remote video cameras. Our evaluation of the predator community at Gibson Lake strongly implicated Ring-billed Gulls as a major source of mortality for breeding Least Terns.
4132627|The aim of this study was to analyze the variability observed in the food and feeding biology of the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) in relation with environmental factors operating in nonbreeding season in Argentina at different spatial and temporal scales. Fish constituted more than 60% of the diet of the Common Tern in terms of biomass in all years, while insects never exceed 40%. A total of 25 fish species and nine insect species (Orders Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, Odonata and Hemiptera) were found in the diet. In four of six years, terns preyed more on marine fish (68%) while in 2001-02 terns foraged mostly on freshwater species (60%). Estuarine fish species were eaten in all years (>10%). Freshwater prey were found only in seasons with high local rainfall. Local wind-speed had a significant effect on the daily proportion of insects and fish prey found in the diet, with more insects (hence less fish) consumed on days with high winds. La Plata River overflow seasons were correlated with negatives values of the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI). We found less estuarine fish (e.g., Whitemouth Croacker, Pejerrey Silverside) after a month with a low SOI value. A positive trend was also observed between La Plata river outflow and more marine fish in the Common Tern diet. The observed environmental variability in winter quarters and the fluctuation in the use of different food sources may affect the individual quality of terns and not only the survival of individuals during the nonbreeding season but also the timing of migration or breeding performance of adults during the following reproductive season.
4132628|The Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) rarely produces more than one brood per breeding cycle. In 1996, 18 of 365 pairs (5%) of Common Terns nesting at a Lake Ontario colony laid second clutches while caring for first-brood nestlings; no second clutches were recorded during four previous breeding seasons at this location. Second clutches were smaller than first clutches of the same pairs (2 versus 3 eggs), and were initiated when first broods contained 1-3 nestlings that ranged in age from 12-22 d. Success of second clutches was low. Only two nestlings, from one second clutch, survived for >18 d; all remaining second clutches were abandoned or predated prior to (N = 16) or just after (N = 1) hatching. Three proximate factors were examined, within and among years, related to the production of second clutches: 1) earlier initiation of first broods, 2) reduced parental effort toward first broods, and 3) foraging conditions during rearing of first broods. Second clutches were not related to earlier breeding or reduced parental effort: clutch initiation dates, clutch sizes, and egg volumes of first clutches were similar among years, and first-clutch size and initiation date did not differ between pairs producing one versus two clutches. Conversely, parental care patterns in 1996 had several unusual characteristics compared to other years, including: (1) shorter provisioning trips, (2) higher provisioning rates, and (3) reduced rates of kleptoparasitism. These characteristics suggest that an abundant food supply close to the colony in 1996 was the likely proximate explanation for second-clutching.
4132629|Fourteen Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) were radio-tagged on their wintering grounds at Lagoa do Peixe, Rio Grande do Sul state, southern Brazil. Aerial radio-tracking was made along 850 km from northern Rio Grande do Sul state to Montevideo, Uruguay. During 23.6 h of tracking in February 2003, we recorded 100 locations of 12 radio-tagged terns. Birds were located within a range of 165 km from the tagging area, and most locations were at sea (74 at sea vs. 26 roosting on the beach), due to frequent movement of the birds when feeding and most tracking during feeding periods. Each bird was located 4-14 times (mean = 8.3 locations/bird). Common Terns fed predominantly between 15-20 m isobaths (56% of at sea locations), and 10-15 m isobaths (32%), which corresponded to a maximum of 8 km offshore. Minimum distance traveled in five days of intensive tracking was 46 km, and maximum distance was 167 km. Daily movement was 19 km on average (minimum
4132630|Despite current anthropogenic alterations to riparian areas and littoral zones of lakes, little information is available on how human-induced alterations affect lacustrine habitat use by many piscivorous birds in northern Wisconsin, USA. The influence of lake characteristics and human disturbance on species richness and the presence of seven species of piscivorous birds was determined on 98 lakes located primarily in Vilas and Oneida counties, Wisconsin. Lakes were surveyed for species presence using shoreline perimeter surveys with total searching time standardized to two, one-hour surveys per lake. Piscivorous bird species richness was highest on large lakes with high pH levels. Using logistic regression, many species were found to be present on lakes possessing characteristics associated with high abundances of fish, including lake surface area, pH, and water clarity. At least one of these variables was included in the final models for species richness and presence of the Common Merganser (Mergus merganser), Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), and Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis). Three species avoided lakes possessing characteristics associated with high levels of human disturbance; the Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) was not found on lakes with low percentages of macrophytes, the Common Merganser was absent on lakes with low water clarity, and the Common Loon (Gavia immer) was not present on lakes with many cottages. Many species of piscivorous birds were widespread regardless of the degree of human development, indicating that habituation to humans may have occurred. In addition, density-dependent factors may have precluded identification of optimal lake characteristics for some species due to habitat saturation.
4132631|Large colonies of nesting ciconiiform birds have recently become an important tourist attraction in the Brazilian Pantanal. Visits to these colonies are uncontrolled and there is growing concern about disturbance to the breeding birds. In 1998, an experiment was conducted using different treatments within a single, large, heavily visited colony to assess the effects of different kinds of tourist viewing on the breeding behavior and nesting success of the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana). Pedestrian viewing, when more than 75 m from the nearest active nest, produced no detectable change in breeding success or behavior. However, boats passing within 20 m of nests were associated with significant changes in the time budgets of incubating adult storks. Most breeding failure occurred prior to hatching and was significantly higher in the boat-treatments in comparison with controls. It is suggested that the elevated level of nest failure observed in the boat-treatment group is evidence of biologically significant disturbance. These conclusions are supported by observations taken in 2000 when boats were excluded from the colony. Behavioral responses at the time of disturbance are typically used as indicators of effects when determining safe approach distances for birds. However, in this study, behavior during disturbances was unrelated to the eventual effect of disturbance. These findings have been incorporated into suggestions for the measurement of disturbance and management of tourist visits to bird colonies.
4132632| We studied the foraging behavior of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) on Oneida Lake, New York, by monitoring the activities of 27 radio-tagged birds in July and August of 1999 and 2000. A total of 224 locations were obtained of cormorants actively diving, and presumed foraging, at the time of detection. A geographic information system was used to examine foraging distances from the nesting island, the water depth and type of substrate at preferred foraging sites, and to estimate kernel home ranges for analysis of individual foraging site fidelity. An explanatory model was developed to determine parameters affecting the distance to cormorant foraging sites. The mean distance to foraging locations of tagged cormorants from the colony site was 2,920 m (SE  180 m, max = 14,190 m), and 52% of the locations were within 2,000 m of the nesting island. No cormorant was observed making daily foraging trips to outside water bodies. Mean foraging distance was greater during morning than in the afternoon, and there was a significant effect of the time of day on distance. There was no significant effect of sex date, a seasonal measure on distance to foraging location. Individual cormorants exhibited fidelity to specific foraging sites. Most cormorants foraged in close proximity to the nesting island much of the time, while those detected further from the island tended to return repeatedly to the same locations. Ninety percent of the foraging locations were in water depths 7.5 m, and most were in water 2.5-5 m deep. Compositional analysis of habitat use revealed a preference for these depths, along with substrates of cobble with rubble, and silt with clay. 
4132633|The diet of the Great Cormorant (Phalacrororax carbo) was studied on the Finnish side of Gulf of Finland, Baltic Sea, by collecting regurgitated fish in a colony. Most abundant species of fish were Viviparous Blenny (Zoarces viviparus), Roach (Rutilus rutilus) and Perch (Perca fluviatilis), most of which are economically unimportant. Cormorants switched their diet during the breeding season. Before young were hatched, cormorants ate mainly Roach and Perch; when young were less than 25 days, old they ate mainly small Viviparous Blennies. Later, adults provided larger Roach and Perch for their young. The results suggest that several fish-sampling visits are needed to record the food captured by cormorants during the breeding season. Few samples restricted in time may bias the composition of fish species and size of the fish in diet.
4132635|One possible explanation for the evolution of white plumage in herons is an adaptive advantage for foraging. Under this hypothesis, white plumage is cryptic to aquatic prey; thus white-plumaged birds may be more prone to forage in deep water habitats, where they would be cryptic, using passive foraging tactics. Dark-plumaged birds foraging in shallow water habitats, where they are presumably more visible, use active tactics. These hypotheses were tested by investigating choice of water depth and choice of foraging tactics by conducting paired foraging observations between color morphs within the plumage dimorphic Reddish Egret (Egretta rufescens). Water was divided into four depths classes: deep (>15 cm), intermediate (5-15 cm), shallow (1-5 cm), and mudflat (<1 cm). There was no difference in time spent in different water depth classes between the two color morphs of the Reddish Egret. However, there was a significant interaction between color morph and depth of water for time spent actively foraging. The white morph of the Reddish Egret was more active in intermediate depths of water than the dark morph while the dark morph was more active in shallow depths of water. These results support the hypothesis that Reddish Egrets may alter foraging tactics based on their degree of crypsis to prey.
4132636|We report the northernmost breeding record of the Reddish Egret (Egretta rufescens) along the North American Atlantic Coast. Nesting activity was first seen in late May 2004, and on 6 July 2004 a nest was discovered with two young chicks on Marsh Island, a barrier island located within Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge, South Carolina, USA. Reddish Egret nestlings were last observed within 1 m of the nest on 30 July 2004. This represents a northward extension of ca. 450 km in the breeding range of this species and, for the U.S. Atlantic Coast, the only recorded instance of nesting north of Florida.
4132637|The Chinese Egret (Egretta eulophotes) is a globally threatened species with little quantitative data on its breeding biology. Observations conducted in 2003 at Xing-Ren Tuo in Liaoning Province indicated that the species had a low within-pair copulation frequency and a relatively high extra-pair copulation frequency. The occurrence of extra-pair copulations depended upon the absence of the cuckolder's mate and the cuckolded male. There was an asynchronous fading in bill color between sexes after laying, which probably accounted for the male's preference for an egg-laying female as extra-pair mate. Ground nesting induced a modified tactic: the male approached another nest by walking covertly, which led successful mounting of the female.
4132638|The first case of juvenile White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) intraspecific predation is reported from the Florida Everglades.
4132643|Comments on the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) in North America languished until Peter Ogden reported trapping one during his 1825 expedition to Utah. Brief accounts of the American White Pelican by ornithologists continued through the 1940s. In subsequent decades, scientific studies uncovered greater details of the species' biology and natural history, although documenting numbers has been difficult and tentative. Estimates of numbers of adults began at 30,000 in 1933, increased to over 100,000 by 1985, and by 1995 the total number of birds, then also including non-breeders, was estimated to be around 400,000. Beginning in the 1880s, their feeding and nesting sites were degraded by engineered water diversions and drainage of wetlands for agriculture. At the same time, pelicans were shot and clubbed, and eggs and young were intentionally destroyed largely because the birds were thought to compete with humans for fish. After the 1960s, hundreds of pelicans died yearly due to the ingestion of insecticides such as toxaphene, endrin, and dieldrin. As recently as winter 1998-99, 800 American White Pelicans died in Florida from poisoning by insecticides that were resuspended from flooded agricultural soils. In 1996 a disease pandemic at Salton Sea, California, killed over 7,500 pelicans in just several months. American White Pelicans have adapted to much persecution by simply moving. Overall, I do not believe that unusual mortalities have threatened their abundance.
4132644|The only breeding colony of the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) in British Columbia is located at Stum Lake. The species in British Columbia, is designated "Endangered" and it is also included on the provincial "Red List." As such, the Stum Lake colony has been monitored regularly since 1994, and older records of nest counts and pre-fledgling numbers date back as far as 1953. A marking program for pre-fledging American White Pelicans was conducted from 1968 to 1993. During recent surveys, censuses of nest depressions were obtained late in the breeding season; pre-fledged young were also enumerated. Based on nest counts, numbers at Stum Lake declined in the 1960s and remained more or less stationary throughout the 1970s and early 1980s. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the number of nesting pairs increased dramatically; and in the past decade, numbers of breeding birds at Stum Lake has stabilized at the highest since monitoring began (1953). The mean number of pre-fledged young also shows an increasing trend from 1963 through 2002. The mean productivity at the breeding colony, however, was highest in the decade showing the largest growth, from 1983 to 1992; but it decreased in the past decade as total numbers of breeding birds continued to increase. The mean productivity of the breeding colony since monitoring began has been
4132645|The American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) has been breeding at Medicine Lake National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) in northeastern Montana since 1939. We compiled information on the history and ecology of this breeding colony from U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) reports and narratives filed at Medicine Lake NWR. Nesting by American White Pelicans first occurred in 1939, and the recent 10-yr average size (1993-2002) is about 4,000 breeding pairs. Since 1990, the mean number of young fledged pair
4132646|Chase Lake National Wildlife Refuge currently supports the largest breeding colony of the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) in North America. The first written account of the colony's status was in 1905, when approximately 500 pelicans nested on two islands in Chase Lake. The colony grew to nearly 34,000 breeding birds by 2002. Surveys of breeding pelicans in the colony were sporadic from 1905 until 1972. Because the availability of foraging areas affects recruitment, pond counts from south-central North Dakota were used as an index of the relative availability of foraging areas. Pond counts varied widely in the 1970s and 1980s. In 1993, pond numbers increased dramatically, reached a peak in 1997, then declined but remained relatively high through 2002. Pelican numbers also increased in the mid- to late-1990s, possibly in response to increased and stable foraging opportunities. Because rising water in Chase Lake inundated the original nesting islands during that period, pelicans were forced to relocate nesting areas. Relocation provided more nesting space than the original islands, and nesting pelicans seemed to be gradually filling these areas. Threats to the Chase Lake breeding colony include disease, predation, and human disturbance. Research is needed to better understand the mechanisms that underlie the dynamics of AWPE metapopulations and their sub-units, including factors that influence nest-site selection, productivity, and survival of adults and young in large colonies.
4132647|The American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) formerly bred the length of California on interior lakes and marshes of the Klamath Basin, Modoc Plateau and Great Basin desert of northeastern California, overflow lands of the Sacramento Valley, terminal lakes in the Tulare Basin of the San Joaquin Valley and at the Salton Sea in the Colorado desert. Historic data are sketchy but nesting is well documented for at least eleven sites. Though unknown, the number of pelicans breeding in the late 1800s and early 1900s may have exceeded 20,000 pairs. Decades of declining numbers and range retraction have left the American White Pelican breeding regularly in California at only two sites in the Klamath Basin (Sheepy Lake on Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge and Clear Lake National Wildlife Refuge), where very vulnerable to catastrophic losses. Variably obtained counts at these two sites combined appeared to decrease from about 4,500 nests in 1912 to reach an equilibrium, which fluctuated around 1,600-1,700 nests from the 1950s to present. Annual variation is presumably a response in part to prey availability mediated by water levels. Several high nest counts of 2,300-2,500 at Clear Lake since the early 1970s may partly reflect greater accuracy from aerial photo counts. Declines were caused by shooting, human disturbance and, particularly, habitat loss from water diversions and land reclamation for agriculture. The American White Pelican is currently limited in California by the availability of remote, undisturbed nesting sites and rich foraging habitats. Contaminant effects on breeding pelicans have lessened, but large numbers of pelicans have recently died from type C avian botulism outbreaks at the Salton Sea. Management and research should serve the protection and enhancement of breeding conditions in the Klamath Basin.
4132648|Breeding bird surveys were conducted at most American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) colonies in North America from 1979-81 and the number of American White Pelicans was estimated at >109,000 breeding individuals in 55 colonies. Although many pelican colonies have not been surveyed since the early 1980s, we present the most current survey numbers available for North American colonies. Using available data (1998-2001) and the North American Continental Divide to delineate eastern from western metapopulations, 27 colonies and 48,240 nests in the East and 15 colonies and 18,790 nests in the West were documented, giving a total of about 134,000 breeding pelicans in North America. The nest numbers of 20 eastern and western colonies that were surveyed during 1979-81 and again in 1998-2001 were also compared to determine if pelican numbers are changing. The number of AWPE nests in those colonies has more than doubled since the 1979-81 surveys. Because current data for colonies in part of the United States and much of Canada are lacking and about 20 years have passed since more complete surveys were done, we propose that regular and coordinated North American pelican surveys should be initiated.
4132649|A total of 3,859 band-recovery records of the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) banded between 1922 and 1981 at 77 sites in the U.S. and Canada was analyzed using a Geographic Information System (GIS). Returns showed a clear pattern of two major migratory routes, with birds from California, Oregon and Nevada breeding colonies dispersing south to the coasts of the Gulf of California and the Pacific coast of Mexico, and birds from central Canada, the Dakotas, Colorado, Minnesota and Montana following the Missouri and Mississippi River drainages to the Gulf of Mexico coasts, Florida and Central America. Pelicans banded at breeding colonies in Utah and Wyoming were recovered along both routes, with some evidence of a third pathway suggested for these birds along the western slope of the Rockies. The only region of substantial overlap in returns between birds banded in the western breeding colonies and those from mid-western breeding colonies (east of the North American Continental Divide) was in southern Mexico and Texas. Returns from Central America consisted almost exclusively of American White Pelicans banded in the eastern portion of the breeding range.
4132650|Anaho Island, Pyramid Lake, Nevada supports the largest colony of the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) in western North America. Counts of adults, nests and chicks, from 1903 to the present, are positively correlated with flow volumes of the Truckee River in spring near Nixon, Nevada, 15 km from the lake. Upriver diversions of water have markedly reduced flows of the lower Truckee River and have likely depressed pelican production; for example, the Derby Dam, completed in 1906, diverts water from the Truckee River into the Truckee Canal and out of the Truckee River basin. American White Pelican production was negatively correlated with flows in the Truckee Canal. If water had remained in the river instead of being diverted, it is estimated that annual colony production would have averaged 8% higher. A more complete model, accounting for seasonal diversions of water from the river between the gage upriver at Farad and the gage near Nixon, predicted that colony production would have averaged as much as 58% higher if natural flow regimes had persisted in the Truckee River downriver from Farad. Human removals of water from the Truckee River, and thus simulated reductions on pelican colony production, were highest in drought years. Despite the likely reductions in production throughout the last century, particularly in drought years, numbers of adults and nests at this breeding colony demonstrated no long-term directional trends. Therefore, reductions in production apparently have been offset by higher survival or immigration from other colonies. Even so, higher production could be an important buffer against high mortality events, such as the disease die-offs of large numbers of American White Pelicans at Salton Sea, California, and even natural disasters described by other authors in this symposium.
4132651|Digital Hydrographic Maps were developed by means of a geographic information system in order to predict how nesting islands for the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) are likely to become land-bridged under variable water levels on Clear Lake Reservoir, California. As a management tool, the maps can be matched to water surface elevation changes forecasted by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation every year. This graphic method has allowed Klamath Basin National Wildlife Refuge managers to set up electrified fences at Clear Lake Reservoir in advance of the nesting season, successfully protecting nesting colonies on two recent occasions. Digital Hydrographic Maps were also used to match historic hydrographic records for Clear Lake Reservoir to examine past lake conditions and changes in nesting island locations, particularly when nesting failures had occurred. Modifications to existing nesting islands are suggested, so as to create more stable nesting habitat.
4132652|The eastern metapopulation of the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) breeds mainly in the Northern Great Plains, migrates through the Great Plains and along the Mississippi River and winters in the lower Mississippi River Valley and along the Gulf of Mexico. The production of farm-raised Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) in the southeastern United States has increased dramatically in the last 25 years. In 1990, U.S. Department of Agriculture Wildlife Services offices in Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi began receiving complaints concerning the foraging of pelicans in commercial Channel Catfish ponds. Because of the relatively shallow depth and high fish-stocking rates used by most catfish producers, these ponds provide an ideal foraging environment for the American White Pelican. Although the impact of foraging pelicans can be economically significant, the potential for pelicans to transmit trematode infections and other diseases to aquaculture facilities can be more destructive. Damage abatement recommendations have consisted of harassment measures similar to those used for other piscivorous birds, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Depredation Permits, and harassing the birds at their loafing sites.
4132653|Records of reported die-offs of the American White Pelican (Pelicanus erythrorhynchos) held by the U.S. Geological Survey National Wildlife Health Center from 1978 through 2003 indicate that type C botulism (caused by Clostridium botulinum) was the major cause of mortality. In 1996, over 15,000 birds, including 8,500 American White Pelicans, were estimated to have died from type C botulism at the Salton Sea in California. This was the largest documented die-off of any pelican species and was estimated to represent 15-20% of the western metapopulation. This event was also notable in that it was the first time that fish, specifically Tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus), were implicated as the source of type C botulinum toxin for birds. Type C botulism has recurred in both North American species of pelicans at the Salton Sea every year since, although the magnitude of mortality is much lower. West Nile virus caused mortality in both adult and immature American White Pelicans, but may have a more significant impact on nestlings. Emaciation and mortality is common in pelican nesting colonies. Further clarification of the cause of nestling mortality and the ability to differentiate background mortality from mortality due to infectious disease agents such as West Nile virus and Newcastle disease virus would be important in determining the impact of disease in pelicans. Although definitive conclusions cannot be drawn, the number of die-offs and the estimated losses of American White Pelicans appears to have increased along with declines in number in western U.S.
4132654| Reproductive success of the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) was monitored at a breeding colony on Anaho Island, Pyramid Lake, Nevada in 1996. Eggs were collected in 1988 and 1996 and analyzed for organochlorine pesticides (OCs) and total polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Muscle from adults found dead or debilitated and euthanized, fishes from representative feeding areas and regurgitated fish samples from nestlings were also analyzed for OCs and PCBs. Reproductive success at the breeding colony was normal in 1996 based on hatching rates of eggs (79% in undisturbed areas) and survival of nestlings. Organochlorine pesticide and PCB concentrations in eggs were below known effect levels on reproduction. DDE concentrations in eggs from Anaho Island declined between 1988 and 1996. Eggshell thickness for the Anaho colony was significantly lower (6%) than the pre-OC norm, but the level of thinning was less than that associated with population declines. OCs and PCBs were seldom detected in fish. 
4132655| Culmen length has been suggested as being diagnostic for sex in the American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos). However, the literature on the use of culmen length to determine sex is inconsistent, with reported overlap in culmen lengths for males and females ranging from 1 mm to >120 mm. Morphological measurements from 188 American White Pelicans collected in Mississippi and Louisiana whose sex was determined by dissection and gonadal inspection were measured. The use of culmen length alone was used to determine gender for this sample by establishing the minimum observed culmen length for males and the maximum observed culmen length for females that provided the fewest incorrect determinations for each gender. A multivariate discriminant function model was developed to determine sex from our data and compared the diagnostic accuracy of the model with the accuracy based on culmen length alone. Both methods were validated using an independently collected sample of 22 pelicans from Florida. A culmen length of 310 mm for males and 309 mm for females from our data correctly classified sex for 99% of American White Pelicans from our Mississippi and Louisiana samples and 95% of AWPE for the Florida sample. Culmen length and wingcord length were significant variables in the discriminant function model. The resulting model correctly classified sex of 97% of the birds and 94% of the independent Florida sample. The culmen length alone predicted the sex of American White Pelicans as well as multivariate methods and provides an accurate simple, non-lethal method for sexing the species. 
4132656|The goals of this symposium were to foster exchange of information and to identify priorities for future research. The workshop, oral presentations, and poster session that comprised the symposium provided a broad overview of our knowledge of the biology and present status of the American White Pelican. Here, the workshop, the contributed papers at the symposium, and articles in this volume are summarized as they relate to the goals of the symposium.
4132601|Systematic observations of staging dabbling ducks through 24 autumns (1978 to 2001) in a Danish wetland show that the numbers of the numerous species Eurasian Wigeon (Anas penelope), Eurasian Teal (Anas crecca) and Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) were positively and only correlated and with the water level. For the less numerous species, Northern Shoveler (Anas clypeata) and Northern Pintail (Anas acuta), the correlation with the water level was less evident, and an effect of the overall size of the flyway population was demonstrated. The increasing numbers recorded with rising water level may have two explanations or probably a combination. One is redistribution of birds migrating through the region, reflecting that the available habitat limits the numbers of ducks recorded, and the other is prolonged stay for individual birds when conditions are favorable. The relationship between average seasonal water level and average number of ducks were modelled to estimate a minimum favorable water level to be maintained throughout the autumn, a tool proposed for optimizing the site for staging dabbling ducks.
4132602|In North America, the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) is currently abundant, widely distributed across five broad geographic regions, and often perceived as overabundant. In many U.S. states and Canadian provinces, policy makers are pressured to significantly reduce cormorant numbers, primarily to minimize conflicts between cormorants and fish resources. Concurrently, large-scale conservation plans recently developed for birds in the Americas depart from the traditional narrow focus on threatened and endangered species to encompass broader and more representative goals (e.g., Partners in Flight's objective to "keep common birds common"). In recent waterbird conservation initiatives, historic distribution and abundance provide the basis for conservation focus; these initiatives advocate conservation of birds in natural numbers and natural habitats. To provide a context in which current populations of Double-crested Cormorants can be understood, we reviewed historic and current breeding and wintering records to determine historic distribution (pre-1900), current distribution (1970-1999), and extent of range expansion across North America. Early records suggest Double-crested Cormorants were present in large numbers throughout much of their current range; colonies and flocks much larger than any known in the 1990s are well documented. However, numbers sharply declined through the late 1800s as cormorants were greatly reduced and/or extirpated in many areas. The population partially recovered through at least the mid-1900s, but experienced a second major decline during the 1950s-1970s. In the late 1970s, a second rebound began across much of the continent; the largest breeding populations (Canadian/U.S. interior, Atlantic Coast >80% of total) increased from approximately 32,000 pairs in the early 1970s to >226,000 pairs in the late 1990s. Comparison of historic and current records challenges the opinion that cormorants are currently overabundant, and suggests that perception of overabundance rests on socio-political rather than biological or ecological factors. For this species, and others that are seen as competitors with humans, limits of human tolerance (i.e. "social carrying capacity") are far narrower than those of biological carrying capacity. Because large numbers have been typical for cormorants historically, population targets based on fishery or other objectives derived from human values will likely be readily surpassed, require intensive management, and significantly depart from the concept of conserving birds in natural numbers and natural habitats. Although managing fish-eating birds to benefit fishery yields may increase some fish populations, this approach does not resolve or address the underlying problems causing current fish population declines across the continent, and is in direct conflict with current broad scale conservation initiatives. To ensure inclusion of cormorants and other fish-eating birds in these conservation plans, the avian conservation community must continue to press for programs based on ecosystem health and process that recognize humans, fish and cormorants as three components of a complex system driven by many species and dynamic interactions.
4132603|Once an abundant and conspicuous presence in wetlands across much of north-central North America, Trumpeter Swan (Cygnus buccinator) populations were decimated in the mid- to late 1800s by a combination of market hunting, subsistence hunting, and habitat loss. Since then, restoration has focused primarily on reintroduction efforts in which captive-reared birds are released and then monitored. From 1991 to 1993, 44 birds were released into Seney National Wildlife Refuge (Schoolcraft County, Michigan) in a multi-agency attempt to enhance the breeding population of this species in the Upper Great Lakes region. To provide information useful to swan restoration efforts elsewhere, this paper summarizes 14 years of Trumpeter Swan occupancy and productivity at Seney. In doing so, we document the first substantial inter-annual decline in swans on the Refuge and provide evidence that suggests birds may now be dispersing onto other lakes and wetlands in the eastern Upper Peninsula of Michigan. We also present information from which we infer processes regulating swan numbers and rates of productivity and discuss both the continued need for monitoring and the need for research to examine the effects swans might have on other components of aquatic ecosystems at the Refuge.
4132604|We monitored the movement, distribution and site affinities of radio-marked Tule Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons elgasi) during spring and summer in Alaska, 1994-1997 and 2004. Our assessment of summer movements was comprehensive, as locations were obtained during prenesting, nesting, and molt for over 90% of geese with active radios captured during winter or the previous summer in Alaska. Geese arrived to coastal and interior marshes in the Cook Inlet Basin (CIB) from mid April to early May, after which they moved to nesting areas in the upper CIB. Nesting birds used coastal staging areas in close proximity to eventual nest site location. Molting sites included a sub-glacial lake system in the upper CIB, although up to 50% of geese underwent a molt migration to wetlands across the Alaska Range, 400-600 km west of the CIB. Geese that molted at distant sites returned to the CIB before autumn migration. Length of stay in the CIB varied among years from 108-119 days, and averaged 116 days. Summer home-range sizes, exclusive of molting areas, averaged >273,000 ha, and were substantially larger than reported for other northern-nesting waterfowl. No radio-marked geese were found nesting in the vicinity of Redoubt Bay on the west side of Cook Inlet, and few nested near the Susitna Flats, the only other previously known nesting areas. The absence of nesting geese from Redoubt Bay corroborates aerial survey data showing a precipitous decline in the use of the west side of Cook Inlet between the early 1980s and early 1990s. The change in distribution of geese is likely related to a major eruption of Redoubt Volcano in 1989 that significantly altered landscapes used by nesting, brood rearing, and molting geese in the vicinity of Redoubt Bay. High inter-site movements of Greater White-fronted Geese throughout summer in south central Alaska likely increases exposure to predation, but also promotes social interactions and facilitates pioneering of distant, and diverse habitats in a vast, patchy, and often unpredictable landscape.
4132605|The island of Selvagem Grande holds one of the most important colonies of Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea) in the Atlantic. Historical records suggest a stable population well in excess of 100,000 pairs. A succession of massacres in 1975 and 1976 dramatically reduced this population to less than 10% of the original numbers. Since 1977 strict protection was enforced and the population started a steady recovery. However, between 1995 and 1998 an alarming decline, of more than 13% of the birds, was reported and concurrently the monitoring work was interrupted. Data from other colonies in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean also indicated significant regional declines, some of which appear to be driven by unsustainable levels of accidental mortality in fishing gear. In order to investigate the persistence of the regressive trend at Selvagem Grande, we carried out a global census of the colony in June 2005. We counted 20,555 occupied nests and estimated the total breeding population at 29,540 pairs. The population still appears to be recovering from the massacres of 1975-1976, at an average rate of about 4.6% per year over the past 25 years. Our data reveal that Selvagem Grande now harbors the largest known Cory's Shearwater colony in the World. Results from this study suggest that this population is not, as yet, suffering from unsustainable fisheries-related mortality, which would be reflected in a decline in numbers. This situation contrasts with that of the Mediterranean, where significant mortality in fishing gear has been linked to shearwater population declines.
4132606| This study reports on the number of nests and colonies of Great Egret (Ardea alba), Little Egret (Egretta garzetta), Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), Chinese Pond Heron (Ardeola bacchus) and Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) in Hong Kong between 1989 and 2004. Little Egret, Chinese Pond Heron and Black-crowned Night Heron were the dominant local breeding ardeids. Regression analysis of the number of nests and colonies with year revealed that the number of nests of Great Egret, and the number of colonies of all ardeids, except the Black-crowned Night Heron, showed a significant increase. The number of nests of Great Egret increased from no nests in 1989 to 85 in 2004. The other species fluctuated from 100 to 300 nests each, except for Cattle Egret which stayed steady at about 100 nests. Regression analysis of the relationship between climate variables and residuals, after removing the effect of any long-term trend, shows that there was a significant positive association of the number of nests of Cattle Egret with total rainfall during breeding. The increase in numbers of colonies, but not the number of nests, indicated that previously large colonies had split into smaller ones, presumably due to loss of feeding and nesting habitats. The El Nio events in 1991 and 1997, but not in 1994, coincided with declines in nests. The magnitude of El Nio may be related to the impact on nesting ardeids, but other local confounding variables, in particular feeding habitat availability, should also be considered. The number of Great Egret nests in Hong Kong is of regional importance, as it is about half the known nests in southern China. It is recommended that monitoring of breeding success should be initiated in major colonies, as well as an integrated wetland monitoring for Deep Bay and Starling Inlet. 
4132607|A survey of ardeid nesting colonies in Hainan Province, China, was made between May and August 2004 and recorded 5,287 nests of four species (Little Egret Egretta garzetta, Cattle Egret Bubulcus ibis, Chinese Pond Heron Ardeola bacchus and Black-crowned Night Heron Nycticorax nycticorax), in 18 colonies in the northern area. Chinese Pond Heron was the dominant nesting species (62% of the total nests), while the Black-crowned Night Heron was the least abundant (4%). Numbers of the Chinese Pond Heron in Hainan is probably related to the presence of extensive ricefields in this area. Fewer numbers of nests of all species in the field were recorded compared with expected obtained from nest densities over a ricefield-dominated landscape in a previous study of ardeid nest abundance in central China. This suggests that nest density in central China could not be applied in Hainan and the assumption of 5 million nests in China requires further study. Based on available information for south China, numbers of nesting Cattle Egret and Chinese Pond Heron in Hainan (75% of total nests of each species), Black-crowned Night Heron in Guangdong and Guangxi, and Great Egret in Hong Kong (80%) are of regional importance. Using media to invite readers to report nesting colonies is recommended for similar surveys in a large area as it provides a cost effective approach to minimize sampling effort.
4132608|The International Waterbird Census (IWC) is one of the longest-running bird monitoring schemes in the Western Palearctic. Most of its data are collected with land-based counts, the reliability of which is largely unknown. This study compared estimates of land-based vs. aerial counts, and the relative conservation values of coastal sites obtained with the two methods. The data were collected in the West-Estonian archipelago of the Baltic Sea in 1993, and analyzed at two spatial scales (mean area of plots 9 and 36 km
4132609|Two different types of food samples from the Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger) were collected during the non-breeding season: spontaneous regurgitations and pellets. These two samples were analyzed and differed in the number of taxonomic categories represented, the number of fish prey species found and in the estimated size of fish prey. However, key prey were the same and well represented in both types of samples, suggesting that both sources gave accurate information, at least for the main items. Given that collecting pellets involves little effort and low disturbance to the birds, the value of the analysis of pellets to monitor long-term dietary changes in the Black Skimmer and other seabird species of similar size and diet is considerable. Correction factors are proposed to overcome underestimation of the total length and mass of some fish prey species remains found in pellets.
4132610|The role of food abundance and vegetation structure in selection of foraging habitat by the Snail Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) was explored. Selection of available foraging patches of either dense or sparse habitat structure within two prairie habitat types used extensively by foraging kites, Eleocharis flats and Panicum flats were examined. Estimated Apple Snail (Pomacea paludosa) densities on our study site ranged from 0.33 to
4132611| Similar to other bird species, Coots (Fulica atra) usually interrupt feeding to look up and to scan their environment for predators. Predation risk may differ among feeding methods. Coots may suffer from aerial predators both in the water and on land, and additionally from terrestrial predators when feeding on land. Samples were obtained from 10 different study sites where Coots fed both on water and on land (N = 139 feeding-bouts). Flock structure differed significantly between feeding methods, and nearest-neighbor distance was lower on land (water: 5.2  0.3 Coot length, land: 2.8  0.2 Coot length). Mean feeding-bout length-defined as the time of uninterrupted feeding-was significantly different (water: 12.2  0.8 s, land: 9.4  0.8 s). When using the study sites as samples, aquatic feeding-bouts were also significantly longer. In a general linear mixed model a significant influence of feeding method on feeding-bout length was found, again with a higher bout length in the water. Feeding-bout lengths were positively correlated between aquatic and terrestrial feeding within the same study site. These results suggest that Coots perceived more safety during aquatic feeding which was reflected in longer feeding-bouts. 
4132612| Survival of Semipalmated Plover (Charadrius semipalmatus) nests was compared in areas with and without nesting Arctic Terns (Sterna paradisaea) to determine whether the protection provided to plovers by association with this colonial species is passive or aggressive. Artificial and natural nests placed 100 m from terns had similar rates of survival (<10% of all nests lost to predators), and benefited substantially from protection against predators through aggressive behavior of nesting terns. Natural nests had much higher survival than artificial nests when positioned >100 m from nesting terns, suggesting that the presence of incubating adult plovers reduces the probability of nest predation. Nesting in association with Arctic Terns may represent an alternate form of habitat selection by Semipalmated Plovers and suggests that plovers can employ alternate nest defense strategies when opportunities are present. 
4132613|Great Crested Grebes (Podiceps cristatus) wintering on prealpine lakes of north Italy are considered to cause economic damage to fish, reducing the stock of native Bleak (Alburnus alburnus). We experimentally investigated the effectiveness of three deterring actions (gas-cannon, crackers and shooting) in four study sites at Lake Como, by comparing the time-budget and space-use of wintering grebes in absence and presence of disturbance. All dissuasion methods affected grebe behavior and position on the lake, but some resulted more effective than others. The gas-cannon detonations had little effect, but, crackers and shooting caused significant changes in grebe behavior. Grebes spent less time feeding, resting and preening, but more time moving/swimming during dissuasion than in the control situation. Moreover, birds also moved away from the areas with bleak shoals, resulting in a significant decrease in grebe numbers with either dissuasion methods. Although dissuasion reduced feeding of grebes in areas with shoals of Bleak (Alburnus alburnus), and probably reduced grebe predation on immature fish at localized areas, it involves intensive effort, in terms of man-days.
4132614| We compared time-budgets and return rates of breeding female Barrow's Goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica) fitted, or not, with transmitters attached with backpack harnesses in 2001-2004 in southern Qubec. We compared the mean proportion of time devoted to feeding, locomotion, alert, resting, preening, and maintenance (i.e., resting plus preening) by females observed 200 min. Females with backpacks (N = 5) spent significantly less time feeding (x  SE: 25  5% versus 43  3%) and more time in maintenance activities (51  6% versus 31  4%) than females without transmitters (N = 6). Mean time devoted to other behavior did not differ significantly. Upon release, females appeared disturbed with the backpack, actively bathing, preening and/or flapping wings. Of the females with transmitters observed 200 min, three spent 4%, 8%, and 57% of their preening time at their transmitter, antennae or harness. None of the 16 females harnessed in 2001-2003 were recaptured in nest boxes or seen again on the study area in 2002-2004. For comparison, 66% of adult female Barrow's Goldeneyes captured in nest boxes and marked with leg bands in 2000-2002 were recaptured or seen again in subsequent years. We do not recommend the use of harnesses on diving ducks and sea ducks as it may affect their behavior and survival, at least for birds wintering in areas where conditions are severe. 
4132560|We used satellite transmitters (platform transmitting terminals or PTTs) during 2002 and 2003 to document spring migration timing, routes, stopover sites, and nesting sites of adult female Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) from major wintering areas of the Gulf Coast (N = 20) and Playa Lakes Regions (PLR, N = 20) in Texas, and the Middle Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico (MRGV, N = 15). Some Pintails tagged in the MRGV continued movements into Mexico. Poor winter survival or PTT failure reduced sample size to 15 for PLR Pintails, 5 for Gulf Coast Pintails, and 11 for MRGV Pintails. Apparent winter survival was 66% lower for Texas Gulf Coast PTT-tagged Pintails than for those from the PLR and MRGV. Pintails from each area used different routes to their respective breeding grounds. PTT-tagged Pintails from the MRGV followed the Rio Grande Valley north to southern Colorado, before traveling on to the Dakotas and Canada or traveled northeast and joined the migration of PLR Pintails in Texas or Kansas. The latter made initial stops in Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado, or the Dakotas. Gulf Coast Pintails traveled through north-central Oklahoma or central Kansas. Pintails that had stopped first in Kansas or Nebraska tended to settle to nest in the United States. Wetland availability in the Prairie Pothole Region of the Northern Great Plains influenced nesting destinations of PTT-tagged Pintails, but individuals settled across a wide swath of northern North America. We did not detect any consistently-used spring staging areas. Therefore, negative impacts to any of the marked populations, or their wetland habitats, may have continental implications.
4132561| Assignment and quantification of breeding production areas of migratory birds is a crucial step in understanding their population dynamics and informing conservation and management decisions, especially for game birds. Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis) breed throughout the North American boreal, taiga, and non-forested regions of the Arctic and Siberia. Birds harvested in North America originate from these remote northern regions but conventional mark-recapture techniques cannot readily be used to answer key questions of proportionate take due to the logistical impossibility of marking young birds in an unbiased way. We used stable-hydrogen isotope analyses (D) of feathers from 242 hatch-year (HY) and 628 after-hatch year (AHY) cranes harvested during the 2002 and 2003 hunting seasons in Saskatchewan, North Dakota, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas in order to provide new quantitative information regarding their geographical origins. While adult cranes originated from throughout the breeding range, south of the tree line, most birds were produced in the southeast boreal of western Ontario and/or central Manitoba and/or western Alaska. Adult birds taken in Saskatchewan, at the northern portion of the collection area, showed more northwesterly origins than birds taken at the southernmost extreme in Texas. Isotopic analysis of claws and feathers from individuals showed good correlation suggesting that claws could also be used to delineate latitude of origin, especially for AHY birds that may retain some flight feathers for more than one year. Future studies need to consider more carefully the potential contributions of southern boreal populations and if possible to develop means to distinguish isotopically those birds originating in western Alaska. 
4132562| Fidelity of King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis) to breeding and wing molt sites was examined using satellite telemetry data obtained opportunistically when battery life of transmitters provided locations in a second year. Consecutive breeding locations were obtained for eleven female and 23 male King Eiders. All females exhibited breeding site fidelity by returning to sites within 15 km of first year breeding areas on the North Slope of Alaska. Breeding locations of males in a subsequent year were located on average >1000 km from their prior breeding sites and were primarily outside Alaska, on the coasts of Russia and Canada. Second-year wing molt locations were obtained for two female and six male King Eiders. Wing molt sites of males were located 6.2 3.1 km apart on average in successive years, while female wing molt locations averaged almost 50 km apart. Our results demonstrate site fidelity of female King Eiders to a breeding area on the North Slope of Alaska, document the dispersal of male King Eiders between breeding seasons, and present the first evidence for wing molt site fidelity in males. 
4132563|In the Camargue of southern France, declining nest success of the Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) in mixed colonies over the past three decades has been suggested to be, at least partially, explained by exclusion from high-quality nest sites by the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis). The Cattle Egret has been rapidly increasing over the same time period and are well known to be aggressive at the nest. Previous studies have also shown that the success of the Little Egret is highest in the centers of colonies. The behavioral interactions and spatial patterns of nest establishment were studied within colonies of the two species. Our data suggest that the Cattle Egret was more successful at displacing the Little Egret at nest sites than the reverse. Three indicators of nest-site quality (i.e., laying date, nest density and position within the colony) were also used to test whether the proportion of Little Egret nests within different sections of a given colony was less than that of Cattle Egret nests at higher quality sites. Our results indicated that the proportion of Little Egret nests at a given site decreased with increasing site quality. Thus, the data are consistent with the hypothesis that the Cattle Egret may exclude the Little Egret from using high-quality nest sites at least in some colonies during some years.
4132564| Apparent survival of adult Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) occupying two distinct breeding habitats within the East Bay Migratory Bird Sanctuary, on Southampton Island, Nunavut was estimated. The first group occurred on a small island where 30 pairs bred at relatively high densities sympatrically with Common Eider (Somateria mollissima), on whose eggs they feed. The larger group occurred at lower densities on a wet coastal plain on the surrounding Southampton Island mainland, where nesting birds were sparsely distributed. Program Mark was used to analyze capture-mark-resight (CMR) data obtained over six years from 62 adults captured between 1998 and 2002; 47 and 15 nesting on the island and mainland respectively. Factors in models included group and time effects on survival and reduced time effects on encounter probabilities; additional factors and interactions were not tested due to sparse data. High model selection uncertainty and wide 95% confidence intervals around model effect sizes precluded ability to draw inferences concerning the importance of group and time factors in survival. Given these results, focus was placed mainly on an estimate of annual survival (0.870.03 SE) from the time- and group-independent model. This is the only known survival estimate produced for Herring Gull adults at the northern limit of their North American breeding range and falls within the wide range of values reported elsewhere. 
4132565|Studies of the Common Loon (Gavia immer) during its breeding season on northern freshwater lakes in North America have suggested that water quality has an influence on breeding and foraging success. Less is known, however, about the effects of water quality on loon behavior during the winter, which is spent in estuarine and marine environments. In this study, we investigated the effects of water clarity and tidal stage on loon diving behavior at seven sites along a Maryland estuary. At each site, the total number of loons observed and mean dive durations of individuals were measured and compared to various measurements of water clarity, including Secchi depth and turbidity, and to tidal stage. Dive durations were positively associated with Secchi depth, which indicates that birds dove for longer periods in areas with higher water clarity. Dives were also longer during low tide in comparison to other tidal stages. No relationship was found between aspects of water clarity and the distribution of wintering loons.
4132566|DNA sequence variation from two nuclear introns and part of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene were used to evaluate population structure among three subspecies of Least Tern that nest in the United States (California [Sterna antillarum browni], Interior [S. a. athalassos], Eastern [S. a. antillarum]). Sequence variation was highest for nuclear intron XI (Gadp) within the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene. The second nuclear intron was fixed for the same allele in all subspecies. Fixation indices, F
4132567|The Black-faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor) is a critically endangered species. Over 50% of individuals winter regularly in Chiku Wetland on the southwestern coast of Taiwan. This study investigated the stomach contents of the Black-faced Spoonbills killed by avian botulism between December 2002 and January 2003 to identify diet of this species at the wintering site. Fourteen fish species belonging to eight families and one species of prawn were retrieved from 43 stomachs. The Shannon-Weiner index for the diet was 1.90. Estimated mean total dry weight of contents per stomach containing animal items was 23.3 g (0.1-111.7 g). Dogtooth-toxic Goby (Yongeichthys caninus) was the most abundant diet species comprising 39% of the total diet items but contributed only 2% of the estimated total dry weight. Large-scale Mullet (Liza macrolepis), comprising only 17% of the total diet items but contributed 54% of the estimated total dry weight, was the most important diet species. Our results suggest that conservation of the Large-scale Mullet in the habitats is important to this endangered wader.
4132568|Seasonal composition and sexual differences in the diet of the White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) were investigated in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. A total of 88 stomach contents were analyzed, from White-faced Ibis feeding on riparian pastures and grasslands in the Magdalena district, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Samples were obtained between 1992 and 1996, covering each season of the year. The trophic spectrum was determined based on the identification of 59 items, mainly belonging to animal taxa. Diet was composed of Insecta (43 items), Arachnida (3 items), Crustacea (5 items), Gastropoda (3 items), Hirudinea (3 items), Amphibia (1 item) and vegetable (1 item). Dietary composition was analyzed in terms of number, frequency of occurrence and volume, for each season and between sexes. Significant differences between sexes were found in the volume of the ingestion consumed.
4132569|We conducted an observer-based diet study of Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) incorporating digiscoping to collect digital photographic vouchers of fish. Observer-based diet studies pose several problems, ranging from differential experience and abilities of observers to the lack of vouchers for confirming identification. One solution to these problems is to recover fish either directly from birds (i.e., trapping, shooting) or ones dropped on the colony. This may not, however, be desirable or achieve adequate sample sizes. Some species are difficult to capture or methods may cause significant disturbance and/or nest abandonment. To overcome these problems, we used a relatively inexpensive new photographic technique known as digiscoping. By holding a high-resolution point-and-shoot digital camera up to the eyepiece of a spotting scope or pair of binoculars, we could take digital photographic vouchers of fish as terns brought them into the colony. During the study, we made 16,423 observations, identifying 92% of the fish to the family (3%), genus (15%), or species (74%) level. We supported these observations with over 2,500 digital photograph vouchers. Vouchers confirmed identification of all fish taxa and allowed for later identification, by us or qualified fisheries biologists, of several species unidentifiable in the field. The ability to have independent experts confirm observations and identify previously unidentifiable observations greatly expanded our understanding of the range of fish taken by Caspian Terns.
4132570|Estimating the size of breeding populations of colonial nesting wading birds is a priority for water-bird management but locating colonies can be difficult. Existing methodologies to locate wading bird colonies require use of airplanes and/or a systematic search of likely colony locations on the landscape. This study describes the use of vanishing bearings of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) as they depart coastal foraging sites to determine the number and location of associated breeding colonies. In 2002, frequency analysis of the vanishing bearings identified 23 modes at ten sites while in 2003, 29 modes at 15 sites were identified. Of these modes, about one-half (twelve in 2002 and 15 in 2003) were associated with a known colony. Groupings of vanishing bearings unassociated with known colonies prompted searches for unknown colonies. Searches in 2002 and 2003 found three colonies missed during routine colony inventories using information from the public. Intensive searches in 2004 and 2005 at foraging sites where large colonies had previously abandoned located four previously unknown colonies. These results give confidence that all colonies associated with known foraging sites can be located using this method.
4132571|An experimental procedure was set up to test if Carrion Crow (Corvus corone) predation on Little Tern (Sterna albifrons) eggs could be decreased by conditioned taste aversion. The experiment started with a control period, during which 30 artificial Little Tern nests were maintained with quail eggs for 6 days at two study sites. The rate of egg predation was assessed through daily visits and observations of crow behavior. During the treatment period (following 6 days), 15 nests were supplied with eggs pre-treated with methiocarb, an ill-inducing compound, while the other 15 nests were maintained with non-treated eggs. The treatment period was extended by a further period of eight days, during which only treated eggs were deployed at 15 nests. Carrion Crows did not develop any aversive response to the eggs. All treated and untreated eggs were taken by crows from the nests and broken in less than 24 h after delivery. However, treated eggs were apparently not consumed by crows, which suggests that they were able to identify the egg content prior to consumption. The lack of success of our study calls into question the general applicability and effectiveness of this method.
4132572|Although the Abdim's Stork (Ciconia abdimii) is a common breeder in the Sahel zone across Africa, its diet during the breeding season has never been studied. Chick meals were sampled in stork nests in West and Central Niger during early July and late August, representing early and mid rainy seasons in the area. The diet consisted of amphibians (Bufo sp.) and a range of insects with grasshoppers (Orthoptera) as the dominant (23 species) group making up 30% and 59% of prey biomass in July and August, respectively. In terms of frequency of occurrence, the important Sahelian pest species Oedaleus senegalensis was the most common grasshopper in the stork chick diet. There was a marked seasonal difference in the relative importance of insects and vertebrates: in July amphibians made up 61% of diet by wet weight, and insects 38%, while in August insects made up 92% of prey wet weight, and amphibians only 6%. The high dependency on amphibians in July was a surprise, but suggests that toads may be the key prey for the adult storks during the incubation period when toads become active while major new insect generations have not yet emerged. The increased importance of insects later in the rainy season reflects the emergence of new generations of grasshoppers, where, in particular, the locally (too) abundant Oedaleus senegalensis becomes the main prey.
4132573|The role of spatial, temporal and weather factors on the foraging behavior of migrating Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla L.) was explored during fall staging in the upper Bay of Fundy (Canada) over two years. Factors that influence foraging benefits during migration stopover may influence fitness in a migratory species. The number of captures and success rate peaked during the middle of day regardless of temperature. Pecking rate decreased with increasing temperature while the number of captures and success rate increased suggesting that foraging benefits are lower at low temperatures. The number of captures and success rate did not change as a function of tide stage or time of year despite presumed changes in prey availability and/or density. Running and flying activities were also influenced by time of day and weather factors. Difficulties in locating prey or detecting predators may explain the effect of time of day and increased thermoregulation costs and changes in prey activity are probably involved in explaining how weather factors influence foraging behavior in this species.
4132574| Grey Herons foraged in a high number only in one of three preferred foraging areas in the Dobczyce Reservoir, S. Poland: (1) the backwater area at the main tributary inlet (MTI), (2) the shore of the near-dam pool (NDP), and (3) shallow lateral bay (SLB). Median value of the fraction of herons foraging in MTI was 64% of all counted in the reservoir in 2001-2002 despite the smallest fish density there (2 times smaller than in NDP, and by one order of magnitude than in SLB). Roach (Rutilus rutilus) was the most abundant both in the heron diet (13 species) and in littoral fish communities (8 species). Total length of prey ranged within 4.2-26.5 cm. The individual size range of littoral fish was similar (4.6-31.5 cm). However, the size distributions in three foraging areas and in heron diet were different. Fish longer than the median total length of heron prey, i.e. 8 cm in total length constituted 51.9% of heron diet, 34.7% of the fish community in MTI, 8.5% in the psammolittoral of NDP, and only 5.2% in the phytolittoral of SLB. The strategy of selective choice of longer fish from those occurring at foraging sites allowed greater reward with roughly unchanged foraging cost. This may explain why Grey Heron foraged mainly in the habitat with the lowest fish abundance and highest water turbidity but with the largest prey size. 
4132575|An adult Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) was observed baiting Goldfish (Carassius auratus) with pieces of bread. Active bait-fishing is mostly known from herons, and a similar behavior was reported in captivity for a Lesser Black-backed Gull (L. fuscus). To our knowledge, we report the first record of bait-fishing, and second record of complex tool-use, for the superorder Charadrii under natural conditions.
4132576|Many Palearctic shorebirds spend the northern winter in the islands of the western Indian Ocean. However, only in Madagascar is sufficient wetland habitat available for large numbers but to date these birds have been largely unstudied. Surveys of all wetlands and selected points in the coastal mangrove of southern Melaky and Menabe in western Madagascar in September-November 2004 found 5,485 shorebirds of 14 species. Repeat counts were made at several sites in December 2004 and March-May 2005.
4132580|Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) type A of the subtype H5N1 has recently spread widely and rapidly across Eurasia, and even to Africa, with deaths of both wild and domestic birds recorded. There are fears that it may soon spread to the Americas. Media accounts, communications from international bodies and national governments, and even some of the professional research literature attributes the spread, in part, to movements of HP strains by migratory birds. The origin of highly pathogenic strains is attributed to mutations, or to reassortment of virus genes from different host species. In this paper we review these hypotheses in light of knowledge about the ecology and evolution of avian influenza, looked at from the viewpoint of its natural reservoir - waterbirds. Our purpose here is to alert waterbird biologists that they have much to contribute to the science of this globally-important issue. New technologies have revealed that the genome of avian influenza contains much variation beyond that recognizable by classical antibody techniques, and have established avian influenza as a rapidly evolving and diversifying lineage. The extensive genetic variability in the viral genome and extensive reassortment within host species suggests that high pathogenicity could repeatedly and independently evolve from low pathogenic ancestors under appropriate selection pressures, such as those in poultry production systems. This makes infection of wild birds by HPAI lineages evolved in poultry a more likely occurrence than the reverse. The available evidence largely fits this model. We make recommendations that will help reduce the incursion of domestically-evolved avian influenza strains into wild populations of birds.
4132581|We evaluated the influence of stream geomorphology and habitat quality on brood weight, offspring growth rate, and territory length of Belted Kingfishers (Ceryle alcyon) in northwestern Vermont, USA. We gathered measurements of habitat use, fish abundance and biomass, and reproductive success at breeding territories in stream reaches of differing geomorphic and habitat conditions during spring and early summer 2002. We used model selection based on AIC
4132582|The Gull-billed Tern (Gelochelidon nilotica) has until recently received little conservation and management attention within North America despite a relatively low overall population size and significant declines in parts of the breeding range. This lack of attention may stem in part from the wide distribution of the species, encompassing parts of six continents, and from its tendency to nest in relatively small, scattered and often ephemeral colonies. Populations of North American subspecies are alarmingly small. The current population of the eastern subspecies aranea in the U.S. is unlikely to exceed 3,600 pairs, with over 60% of these birds occurring in Texas. The Texas population has remained generally stable, but declines of populations in Maryland (where probably extirpated), Virginia, North Carolina, Florida, and possibly Georgia give cause for concern for this subspecies. For the western subspecies vanrossemi, as few as 250 pairs nest at only two locations in the U.S., both in California. When populations in western Mexico are considered, the entire vanrossemi population numbers only 600-800 pairs. Currently the Gull-billed Tern is listed as "endangered" or "threatened" in four states, and is considered to be of management concern in five others. The breeding range of the species has contracted and shifted slightly from its known historic range in the middle Atlantic states, but otherwise occupies its historic range in the United States and has expanded slightly to coastal southern California. Some range contraction in Mexico (e.g., in Sonora) may have occurred. In eastern Mexico, historical information is almost non-existent and knowledge of current distribution and abundance is incomplete. Main threats to populations in North America include loss of natural nesting islands through beach erosion or perturbations to estuarine functions, development or modification of upland habitats near breeding areas that may be important for foraging, and disturbances to colonies by humans and feral or human-subsidized predators. This species often nests on man-made substrates suggesting it could be responsive to management of breeding sites. Key research needs include more frequent and refined population monitoring, a better understanding of demographics, metapopulation dynamics and factors limiting populations as well as refinement of subspecies' breeding distributions and wintering ranges.
4132583|Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) were observed and/or netted on the coast of Bahia, Brazil in January and/or February from 1996 through 2003 as well as in November 2005. The breasts of almost all netted Roseate Terns examined were washed with pink. Analysis of breast feathers taken from birds during the breeding season indicates the pink color is carotenoid-based, with astaxanthin as a major component. Pigment concentration was low, measured in micrograms of carotenoids per gram of feather (maximum recorded
4132584|The Atlantic coast population of the American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliates) has seen mixed success in its recovery from historic lows at the turn of the 20th century. During the mid-1980s, breeding numbers in Maryland were estimated at 50-75 pairs based on incidental observations and the results of the state's first breeding bird atlas project. With growing national and regional concern for the species and a need for current information on its status in Maryland, the state's first comprehensive survey of nesting oystercatchers was conducted during the 2003 breeding season. Both hatching success and fledging success were relatively high, with some breeding birds nesting in areas where they were not previously found in the state. Most oystercatchers nested on salt marsh islands, as opposed to the extensive barrier island found along Maryland's coast. Although a similar number of birds nested in the Chesapeake Bay and Coastal Bays, nest success was significantly greater in the Chesapeake Bay. Landscape type proved to be the only variable that was significantly associated with statewide nest success, though it did not explain the differences in success between Chesapeake Bay and Coastal Bay birds. Several existing and potential threats require consideration in future studies and management of this species.
4132585|The American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) is listed as a species of high priority by the U.S. Shorebird Conservation Plan and is state-listed as rare in Georgia; however, biologists have not focused on identifying the causes of egg and hatchling losses. In 2003 and 2004, continuous video monitoring was used to document reproductive success of American Oystercatchers and identify causes of nest failure at Cumberland Island National Seashore, Georgia. The modified Mayfield method and program CONTRAST were used to determine and compare survival of eggs and nestlings. Eleven pairs made 32 nest attempts during two seasons. Nine attempts were successful, fledging 15 chicks. Daily survival of clutches was 0.973 (95% CI = 0.960-0.987) for 2003, 0.985 (95% CI = 0.974-0.995) for 2004, and 0.979 (95% CI = 0.970-0.987) for combined years. Daily survival was greater on the North End, than on the South End of the island (
4132586|A previous study of begging in Cory's Shearwaters (Calonectris diomedea) found that chicks convey information about their body condition through the number and rate of begging calls uttered during a feeding session. Parents delivered larger meals when chicks begged more intensely. Here we test whether acoustic properties of begging calls of Cory's Shearwaters are related to body condition of chicks, and whether parents are responsive to changes in acoustic parameters. Acoustic parameters, which were analyzed using semi-automatic call contour analysis, included the duration of calls and silent intervals, the minimum, mean and maximum frequency in a call and the number of frequency peaks within a call. We found that, in contrast to the number and rate of begging calls, acoustic parameters did not reflect chick body condition, and were not correlated with the meal size delivered by the attending adults.
4132587|The literature indicates that predation of seabirds by ciconiiform birds is limited to terns and is generally of little impact. We monitored predation of the eggs and chicks of Cape Cormorants (Phalacrocorax capensis) by Sacred Ibises (Threskiornis aethiopicus), and Gray Herons (Ardea cinerea) for 46 days over three breeding seasons at Penguin Island, Lambert's Bay, South Africa. The ibises were observed to take at least 152 cormorant eggs and chicks and 37 heron chicks. Extrapolation of the results to the full season of availability indicates that these ciconiiform predators may take as many as 960 cormorant eggs or chicks in a season. If so, they would be the third most serious cause of mortality among the 4,800 pairs of Cape Cormorants at Penguin Island. The observed combined effect of ciconiiform predation was greater than that of the local, predatory, Khoisan Gulls (Larus (dominicanus) vetula). We document the seasonality and diel timing of predation, behavior of the predators, and the cormorants' responses. To place our observations in context we review the global literature concerning the incidence of ciconiiform predation upon seabirds, which we consider to be under-reported, and factors affecting it. Finally we consider the effects of ciconiiform predation on seabirds at Penguin Island relative to a broader, five-year, study of the causes of seabird mortality there, and make recommendations for conservation management.
4132588|Habitat use by Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis), Andean Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus andinus) and James Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus jamesi) in single-species and mixed-species flocks were studied at Laguna de Pozuelos, Argentina, by comparing the foraging pattern of each species in the presence and absence of the others. Spatial segregation among species within a flock was found. James Flamingo used the edge and the shallow foraging depth both in single-species and mixed-species flocks. Chilean Flamingo did not use the edge or the shallow depth either in single-species or mixed-species flocks, and used moderate and deep foraging depths. Andean Flamingo exhibited the most flexible foraging pattern, grouping either with Chilean Flamingo or with James Flamingo depending on which of these species predominated in the flock. Spatial difference in the feeding behavior among the three flamingo species may be principally attributed to the habitat of prey organisms. Chilean Flamingo feeds on planktonic organisms present mainly in the upper portion of the water column, and therefore this species can access a wider range of food items if foraging at deeper depths both in single-species or mixed-species flocks. The foraging pattern of James Flamingo was indicated by its main prey, benthic and aerophilic diatoms, largely found in shallow waters near the edge of the lake. Andean Flamingo feed on benthic diatoms common in the water-sediment interface of shallow and deep waters, thus favoring its grouping behavior with James or Chilean Flamingos in mixed-species flocks.
4132589|We studied the diet of Black Skimmers (Rhynchops niger) through analysis of pellets and faeces collected at Patos Lagoon estuary, southern Brazil, where non-breeding birds gather from December to August. We identified 23 prey types from twelve families of fishes, two of crustaceans, and one of squid (N = 1797 prey items). Silversides (Odonthestes argentinensis and Atherinella brasiliensis), anchovies (mainly Lycengraulis grossidens and Engraulis anchoita), and mullets (Mugil spp.) were the main components of the diet, representing 83% of number and 81% of mass of prey. Prey size ranged 9.7-212.1 mm total length and 0.01-78.1 g, with mean at 51.6 mm and 2.81 g. Considering frequency of occurrence and the relative contribution in number and mass, the Argentinean Silverside (O. argentinensis) was the most important prey in three seasons of the year. Anchovies represented 41% of ingested mass in summer. Small-sized mullets represented 30% of prey number; but showed low mass contribution (maximum of 13% in winter). Sciaenids were only important in autumn (18% of ingested mass). Otoliths were found in 53% of pellets and 55% of faeces samples, suggesting that the relative contribution of smaller-sized prey to the diet was underestimated. Composition of diet and size distribution of prey suggest that Black Skimmers fed mainly in the lower estuary, but also on the adjacent ocean beach.
4132590| The reproductive performance of a large Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) colony was documented and the potential effects of weather on reproductive performance was investigated. Annual surveys were conducted during the last week of May or the first week of June between 1992 and 2004 and were designed to count all fledglings and nests in and around the heronry. Mean number of fledglings per nesting attempt during the 13-year interval was 1.57  0.22 fledglings (range: 1.14 to 1.87). Mean number of fledglings per successful nest during the study was 1.80 +0.18 fledglings (range: 1.44 to 2.06). The number of fledglings per nesting attempt was similar to other long-term studies for the species, but the productivity based on fledglings per successful nest was typically lower. Stepwise regression analysis indicated that both fledglings per nesting attempt (active nest) and fledglings per successful nest were significantly influenced by weather patterns (number of days with greater than 0.30 inches of rain and average monthly wind speed) during the month of May prior to fledgling. 
4132591|The spatial distribution of avifauna was documented in Magdalena Bay, the largest coastal wetland on the Pacific coast of the Baja California peninsula. An inventory of waterbirds in the three wetland zones of Magdalena Bay-Almejas, Baja California Sur was conducted by boat. Composition, abundance, and distribution of species were determined in 12 coastal censuses conducted from February 2002 to February 2003. A total of 207,383 individuals of 80 species and 20 families were recorded. Seven listed species breed in the wetland. Only ten out of 80 species were very common, while the others were occasional along the coastline. Guilds with highest populations were pelicans and allies (54%), followed by shorebirds (23%), and gulls, terns and skimmers (14%). The highest richness of 63 species was recorded in the Santo Domingo Channel in autumn. In contrast, the highest abundance (50,082) was recorded in fall in Magdalena Bay. Migratory birds explained spatial and temporal changes in richness, while resident pelicans and allies explain abundance variations. The highest species richness was observed in mangrove zones, particularly in the Santo Domingo Channel. Therefore, this habitat together with breeding and gathering places used for other activities, should be primary targets for future management and conservation initiatives.
4132592|Agricultural landscapes provide a wide variety of avian habitats that vary seasonally. The effects of seasonal habitat changes on the habits of four large waterbird species in an agriculture-wetland mosaic are investigated in this paper. The habits of Painted Storks (Mycteria leucocephala), Asian Openbills (Anastomus oscitans), Woollynecked Storks (Ciconia episcopus) and Black-headed Ibis (Threskiornis melanocephalus) were documented over a 15-month period in Etawah and Mainpuri districts, Uttar Pradesh, India. Monthly road transects were undertaken to determine flock sizes, density, and habitat preference of these species. Flock sizes varied significantly with season for Woolly-necked Storks and Black-headed Ibis and with habitat for Painted Storks. Flock size and density were strongly correlated in all four species. Increasing wetland size and extent of wetlands in the landscape affected flock size of Asian Openbills implying that food availability may be the most important factor affecting flocking in this species. Density differed seasonally for Woolly-necked Storks and Black-headed Ibis. Density of all four species did not vary with extent of wetlands in the landscape. Monthly densities of Black-headed Ibis were correlated to that of all the other three species. Habitat use varied widely across species and seasons. Natural wetlands but not rice fields were preferred by all four species in nearly all seasons. Irrigation canals were avoided consistently by the Black-headed Ibis and used to different extents by the other three species. Flooded agriculture fields did not compensate adequately for natural wetlands. Wetlands need to be retained in agricultural landscapes to ensure continued survival of these species.
4132593|The Relict Gull (Larus relictus) is considered vulnerable due to its declining world population. Non-breeding season ecology of this species is poorly understood. Recent observations on wintering Relict Gulls indicated that Bohai Bay, Tianjin municipality, China, is important for this species. From 2003-2005, surveys were carried out there in order to provide data on distributions, numbers and population structure of the gulls during the non-breeding season. The results show that Bohai Bay is of international importance for Relict Gulls based on the 1% Ramsar criterion. The maximum wintering flock was composed of 3,362 individuals, which is nearly one third of the world population. Proportions of the three age groups (first-year, second-year and adult) changed through the migration season. Loss of intertidal flats and human disturbance are regarded as the main threats to the gulls. Further surveys on population size, distribution and age structure should be conducted along the coasts of southern Bohai Bay and the Yellow Sea during the winter in the near future.
4132594| The coast of the Buenos Aires province, Argentina, includes a remarkable diversity of habitats and is used by more than fifteen Nearctic shorebird species during the austral summer months. We evaluated non-breeding shorebird distribution and abundance patterns along the Buenos Aires coastal zone and determined shorebird use of different coastal landscapes. Surveys were conducted in December 2000, and January and February 2001, using line-transect methods. The data were classified based on five previously defined coastal landscapes. Fifty four localities were surveyed covering 93 kilometers of coastline. A total of 44 waterbird species corresponding to 13 families were recorded. Shorebirds (Scolopacidae, Charadriidae, Haematopodidae and Recurvirostridae) accounted for approximately 45% of recorded waterbirds, including 14 nearctic species. Shorebird species recorded per locality varied from one to eleven, with 61% of the localities having one to four species. The most common were the American Oystercatcher (Haematopuspalliatus), White-rumped Sandpiper (Calidris fuscicollis), Two-banded Plover (Charadrius falklandicus), American Golden-Plover (Pluvialis dominica) and the Sanderling (Calidris alba). Shorebird species richness and abundance varied significantly among coastal landscapes, with the highest values recorded in estuarine saltmarshes of Baha Samborombn and Baha Blanca. Among marine landscapes, the highest abundance and number of species were recorded in sandy beaches with "restinga" patches. This study confirms that shorebirds are an important component of the birdlife in the Buenos Aires coastal zone during the austral summer months, and that their distribution is not homogeneous along the coast, with species richness and abundances varying among localities depending on coastal landscapes. 
4132595|Intraspecific exploitation competition as a cause for density dependent breeding success in White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) was investigated. Breeding success of 101-126 pairs of White Storks was documented between 1999 and 2004 over an area of
4132596|Royal Tern (Sterna maxima) chick diet at Fisherman Island National Wildlife Refuge, Virginia, was investigated in 2003 and 2004. Primary objectives were to document common prey species, annual and seasonal variation in prey selection, and seasonal variation in prey size based on average bill length in this species. Over 2200 Royal Terns bred on this island each year of the study. Single items of prey species carried in the bill by adult terns feeding their chicks were identified using 8 x 42 binoculars. A total of 11,566 and 33,646 prey items were identified during 44 and 87.5 h of systematic observations in 2003 and 2004, respectively. Terns foraged largely on anchovy (Anchoa spp.) early in the season, then switched to herrings (Clupeidae); average prey size also increased seasonally each year. Prey switching was similar to that of Royal Terns in North Carolina (but with drum as well as herring), indicating regional adaptations to forage fish availability by this species along the mid-Atlantic seaboard.
4132597|Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) kleptoparasitism of Elegant Terns (Thalasseus elegans) at a southern California breeding colony entailed piracy offish from recently fed chicks, adults feeding chicks and adults engaged in courtship feeding.
4132501|The junk-food hypothesis attributes declines in productivity of marine birds and mammals to changes in the species of prey they consume and corresponding differences in nutritional quality of those prey. To test this hypothesis nestling Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) and Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) were raised in captivity under controlled conditions to determine whether the type and quality of fish consumed by young sea-birds constrains their growth and development. Some nestlings were fed rations of Capelin (Mallotus villosus), Herring (Clupea pallasi) or Sand Lance (Ammodytes hexapterus) and their growth was compared with nestlings raised on equal biomass rations of Walleye Pollock (Theragra chalcograma). Nestlings fed rations of herring, sand lance, or capelin experienced higher growth increments than nestlings fed pollock. The energy density of forage fish fed to nestlings had a marked effect on growth increments and could be expected to have an effect on pre- and post-fledging survival of nestlings in the wild. These results provide empirical support for the junk-food hypothesis.
4132502|Sexual selection can operate throughout the annual cycle and likely shapes the winter plumage and courtship displays of many northern waterfowl that choose mates during winter. Less conspicuous effects of sexual selection are likely and in this study I asked whether winter distribution patterns and grouping behavior of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) are partially shaped by sexual selection. Harlequin Ducks are typically dispersed in small groups and observed grouping behavior supported the hypothesis that unpaired adult and immature birds will show sexually-selected changes in their spacing to facilitate courtship and mate sampling. Unpaired birds occurred in larger groups than paired birds during October-February, and group-related differences in the sex ratio and in the proportion of females that were unpaired indicated that unpaired birds were aggregating specifically for courtship. Behavior similar to lekking was observed at one site. Males gathered at this site at daybreak, unpaired females visited the site each apparently to attract a group of courting males, and these courting groups left the site without feeding. When herring spawn was available in March, unpaired birds were more likely to move to exploit it and gained both direct nutritional benefits as well as indirect benefits related to changes in time budgets and spacing behavior that facilitated courtship and mate sampling. Overall, results suggest that sexually-selected behaviors that affect the process of mate choice and the timing of pairing are important to consider if we are trying to explain winter spacing patterns of waterfowl.
4132503|Nesting habitats and nest success of five species of marsh birds were studied during 1997 and 1998 at the Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) and the adjacent Oak Orchard and Tonawanda State Wildlife Management Areas (WMA) located in western New York. Nest searches located 18 American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), 117 Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis), 189 Pied-billed Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps), 23 Sora (Porzana Carolina), and 72 Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola) nests. Average nest densities in 1998, our best nest searching year, ranged from 0.01/ha for Soras (N = 8) to 0.28/ha for Pied-billed Grebes (N = 160). Mayfield nest success estimates for Least Bittern were 80% (N = 16) in 1997 and 46% (N = 37) in 1998. Nest success estimates were 72% (N = 55) for Pied-billed Grebe, 43% (N = 6) for Sora, and 38% (N = 20) for Virginia Rail. Nests of all five species were located in
4132504| From 1997 to 2005, the distribution, seasonal abundance, and age and sex ratios of wintering Barrow's Goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica) was documented in the St. Lawrence River Estuary and Gulf, Canada, with a combination of ground and helicopter surveys. Ground surveys showed that Baie-Comeau and Baie-des-Rochers were the most important localities, with monthly averages of 250 (max. = 1020) and 273 (604) individuals, respectively, from November through April. Helicopter surveys showed that four areas (Baie-Comeau, Baie-des-Rochers, Baie-Sainte-Catherine and La Malbaie/Cap--1'Aigle) harboured on average 74% of all Barrow's Goldeneyes in the estuary, that numbers of individuals were more stable at these sites, and that the distribution of Common Goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula) within the estuary differed from that of Barrow's Goldeneyes. Because of ice conditions, goldeneyes were not found on the south shore of the estuary during the coldest winter months, although they were quite numerous in spring and fall. In contrast, large numbers of goldeneyes used the north shore of the estuary all winter long and through the end of April. In January-February of 1999, 2002 and 2005, helicopter surveys (N = 8) yielded on average 2428 Barrow's Goldeneyes (CV = 8%), 2503 Common Goldeneyes (6%) and 1320 Red-breasted Mergansers (Mergus senator, 70%) per year in the estuary. These species averaged 2087 (CV = 81%), 2214 (41%) and 2898 (34%) individuals/year, respectively, in the gulf in January-February of 2002 and 2005 (N = 3). Helicopter survey results indicated possible identification errors between these three species, stressing the need to survey them concurrently. The January-February ratio of adult males and 'brownheads' was greater in 1998 (57.0%) than in 1999 (51.8%), partly because there were more immatures in the population in 1999 (18.1%) than in 1998 (10.2%). Adult sex ratios were significantly different from 1/1 in January-February of 1998 (P < 0.0001) and 1999 (P = 0.0072), whereas immature sex ratios were not (P  0.27). The monthly proportion of immatures increased between January and May of 1998 (P < 0.0001) and 1999 (P < 0.0001), because of adults departing for breeding areas. The eastern North American wintering population of Barrow's Goldeneyes may include a maximum of 6187 individuals, of which > 90% would winter along the St. Lawrence Estuary and Gulf. Thus, the St. Lawrence corridor should undoubtedly be considered as the winter stronghold for Barrow's Goldeneyes in eastern North America. 
4132505|Many bird species use human-made habitats and an important issue is whether these are equally suitable foraging habitats as are historical, natural habitats. Historically, Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens; hereafter Snow Geese) wintered in coastal marshes in Louisiana but began using rice-prairies within the last 60 years. Time spent feeding was used as an indicator of habitat suitability and time and energy budgets of Snow Geese were compared between rice-prairies and coastal marshes in southwest Louisiana. Composite diets of Snow Geese have a lower energy density in the rice-prairies than in coastal marshes; thus, we predicted that Snow Geese would spend relatively more time feeding in rice-praires to obtain existence energy. However, time spent feeding was higher in coastal marshes and thus, not proportional to energy density of composite diets. Snow Geese in coastal marshes ingested less apparent metabolizable energy than did Snow Geese in rice-prairies. In rice-prairies, juveniles spent more time feeding than did adults; however, time spent feeding was similar between age classes in coastal marshes. Undeveloped foraging skills probably cause juvenile Snow Geese to forage less efficiently in coastal marshes than in rice-prairies. These findings are consistent with recent trends in Snow Goose numbers, which increased in rice-prairies but remained stable in coastal marshes.
4132506|From May 2000 to November 2003 we studied waterbird use of mangroves, intertidal flats, shrimp ponds and coastal forests surrounding Leizhou Peninsula at the southernmost extent of mainland China. We recorded 61 waterbird species. The most species-rich habitat was intertidal flat with 45 species, followed by mangrove with 38 species, shrimp ponds with 37 species and coastal forest with 15 species. Greatest bird abundance was on intertidal flats, which supported 69% of all birds recorded and 81% of all migrants. Leizhou Peninsula is in the East Asian-Australasian flyway of migratory birds and is an important staging site for migrants. Intertidal flats proved important to nationally and provincially protected and threatened species. Species richness and abundance at shrimp ponds nearly equaled that in mangroves. Charadriids, scolopacids and ardeids used shrimp pond dikes as roosts and foraging habitats during high tides. Shrimp pond dikes play an important role by substituting for natural hightide roosts such as sandbars, which, in many cases, they replaced. Mangrove-planting programs should avoid conversion of important intertidal flats. When restoring abandoned shrimp ponds, it is also important to retain some dikes as high-tide roosts and foraging areas. Because of the complexity of coastal-zone land administration on Leizhou Peninsula, it is critical that government departments work together to plan and implement mangrove restoration and intertidal flat conservation projects.
4132507|One of the proposed benefits of colonial nesting in birds is the protection afforded against avian predators. This advantage may be counter-balanced by the negative effects of intraspecific aggression on breeding success. Effects of nest density, nest location within the colony, and timing of nest initiation on productivity of Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) were investigated on Crescent Island in the mid-Columbia River, Washington, USA. In the absence of intense nest predation at the Crescent Island tern colony, it was hypothesized that nest density would be negatively associated with productivity. A rangefinder was used to determine spatial distribution of Caspian Tern nests, and these data used to calculate nest characteristics (nest density, nearest neighbor distance, and distance to colony edge) for a randomly-selected subset of nests monitored for nest chronology and productivity. Productivity did not differ between nests in high- and low-density areas of the colony, and was positively associated with earlier nest initiation. Early nests were more productive, were located in areas of higher nest density, and were further from the colony edge than late nests. The strong effect of timing may have been attributable to seasonal declines in prey resources for terns at this site. Our results suggest that Caspian Terns nesting at the highest densities observed in this study did not incur immediate reproductive costs, despite increased potential for encounters between chicks and aggressive conspecific adults.
4132508|The breeding population of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) increased in the Beaver Archipelago of northern Lake Michigan, while simultaneously, a Smallmouth Bass (Micropterus dolomieui) population in the region declined. However, the role that cormorants played in this decline has remained uncertain. During summer 2003, VHF radiotelemetry and rafting locations were used to determine whether birds foraged primarily in bass habitat. The foraging activities of ten breeding cormorants were monitored by radiotelemetry from both land and water on a daily basis, weather permitting, throughout the breeding season. In addition, cormorant foraging raft locations were documented by boat survey throughout the breeding season. Radiotelemetry indicated that cormorants typically foraged 2.5 km away from their colonies, at the northeastern end of Beaver Island. This area overlaps with the area determined from rafting locations; however the latter were centered further south. These data allow for better estimation of foraging patch use by archipelago cormorants and indicate that birds are not typically concentrating their foraging in Smallmouth Bass habitat. Cormorants forage in open water in areas with dramatic changes in depth, and these locations agree with diet data that indicates that Alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus) are important prey. Data gathered has led to a better understanding of cormorant foraging patterns in the study area, and indicate that if cormorant foraging areas remain spatially separate from bass habitat, the probability of birds directly impacting these fish is low.
4132509| Although chicks of waterbirds usually stay in their nesting territory, in a few species they precociously leave the nesting site and join together in a "crche". While several authors have suggested a relationship between crching behavior and reduced aggression in Larids, quantitative data on aggression in crching species are missing. In this paper, we quantify the level of aggression through the breeding season in two evolutionarily independent species pairs, each consisting of two closely-related crching and non-crching species (Black-billed Gull, L. bulleri, crching; Red-billed Gull, L. scopulinus, non-crching; versus Slender-billed Gull, L. genei, crching; and Black-headed Gull, L. ridibundus, non-crching). Aggressiveness was similar among species until the chicks were 1-2 weeks old and then decreased in crching species and increased in non-crching ones. This change in aggressiveness at an age when chicks usually join a crche strongly suggests it is related to crching behavior. To broaden our study we suggest a comparative approach including Tern species. 
4132510|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) occurs in the vast majority of birds, although explanations for its existence are controversial. We studied SSD in the Painted Stork (Mycteria leucocephala), a large wading bird, by recording copulating birds on a video camera and obtaining measurements of tibia, tarsus, bill, body length and body depth, on each individual in a pair. Field studies were conducted in the natural heronries of the Delhi Zoo in North India. For quantifying the dimensions of various body parts we improvised upon a microscopic software (MOTIC IMAGES) and developed a protocol for obtaining the dimensions of body parts in metric units. Males were larger than the females in all of the 100 pairs recorded during the study period. A PCA performed on the available data set of male and female independently showed a significant difference in the first PC scores, which were highly correlated with body length in both sexes. A tendency towards positive assortative mating was observed by plotting the male and female values of different variables. There were no significant differences in the median body lengths of individuals recorded copulating early and late in the nesting season. However, early male birds were recorded to have significantly larger tarsus, compared to later birds. The methodology used in this field study has wide applicability for studying the SSD and mating patterns in various groups of waterbirds.
4132511|As raptor populations recover following the banning of organochlorine pesticide use, there may be consequences for prey populations. While Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) actively prey on Glaucous-winged Gulls and their offspring (Larus glaucescens), their presence at colonies and roost sites may also influence reproductive success of gulls by impacting activity budgets. Here we investigate changes in Bald Eagle abundance in relation to gull breeding phenology over 6 years at Seabird Rocks (Vancouver Island, Canada) and compare activity budgets of gulls in relation to Bald Eagle abundance. Bald Eagle abundance varied seasonally, peaking during late incubation and hatching of gull eggs. As Bald Eagle presence increased, gulls showed a strong increase in time allocated to vigilance (54%) and frequency of flushing (up to 6 times/hr). These results indicate that Bald Eagle attendance patterns at gull colonies coincide with hatching of gull chicks and can influence time-activity budgets of gulls. Predator-induced changes in gull behavior during the breeding season may influence reproductive success by impacting time and energy budgets and facilitating egg and chick predation. These findings could be important for understanding failure at gull colonies in Barkley Sound and evaluating impacts of increasing Bald Eagle populations in the region.
4132512|Primarily due to loss and disturbance of their open beach habitat, Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) nesting colonies often occur on flat or gently sloped gravel rooftops throughout the Southeastern United States. Currently, these rooftops are being converted to a new substrate, unsuitable for Least Tern nesting, because of changes in state building codes. The purpose of this study was to determine which rooftops Least Terns are currently selecting to help develop man-made structures for nesting and determine where these structures should be placed. From 1998-2003 in Pinellas County, Florida, all previously occupied Least Tern rooftops were surveyed to see if they had a colony and new colonies were located. In 2003, there were 36 rooftops with colonies and 34 unoccupied rooftops that had been previously occupied sometime from 1998-2002 but still had gravel rooftops. In addition, 36 gravel rooftops that had no record of supporting a Least Tern colony were randomly selected. At each building distance to any body of water, distance to a large body of water, distance to a higher building, distance to another colony, height of building, area of rooftop, number of taller trees/poles within 50 m and number of trees that touched the roof were measured. Backwards stepwise regression indicated that only distance to water significantly predicted if a rooftop was currently or never occupied. These results indicate that even relatively small, low structures, located near any body of water may be judged suitable by Least Terns and have the potential to help add to the species' overall productivity.
4132513|Despite recent interest in the interactions between birds and feather microbes, little is known about the identity of these microbes, and all studies of feather microbes thus far have focused on passerines living in temperate regions. Comparisons of the microbial groups living on different groups of birds may provide valuable insight into the ecological roles microbes play on feathers. We used culture-independent molecular techniques to identify the assemblages of bacteria found on the feathers of two closely related seabirds (Crested and Least Auklets (Aethia cristatella and A. pusilla)) and, for comparison, domestic Chickens (Gallus gallus). Some isolates were found on all three species (as well as on other species, as reported in the literature), while others were only found on Auklets. In particular, bacteria of the cold- and salt-tolerant genus Psychrobacter were only recovered from Crested Auklets. These results suggest that some genera of bacteria may be commonly found on birds, while others may be restricted in their distributions.
4132514|Forster's Terns (Sterna forsten), like most seabirds, are monomorphic and are difficult to sex without extensive behavioral observations or genetic sexing. We conducted the first morphological study and discriminant function analysis on Forster's Terns to develop a method to accurately identify their sex in the field. A sample of 84 terns from the San Francisco Bay estuary were captured or collected, measured, and the sex of 40 female and 44 male terns was confirmed by genetic analyses or via necropsy. Male Forster's Terns were larger than females for 7 of 9 morphological measurements, with head-bill length showing the least amount of overlap between the sexes, followed by culmen length and culmen depth at the gonys. Sexual size dimorphism was greatest with retrix R
4501788|We documented nest habitat selection, nests success, and factors affecting nest success of Black Terns (Chlidonias niger) at Agassiz National Wildlife Refuge in northwestern Minnesota. During 1992-1994, 289 Black Tern nest sites and 400 random sites were sampled on five search areas totaling 1,325 ha. Four habitat characteristics were measured at each nest and random site: (1) mean water depth, (2) distance to open water, (3) dominant vegetation within a 2-m radius, and (4) amount of open water within a 2-m radius. Habitat variables werehighly correlated with each other, making it difficult to estimate independent effects of each habitat variable on nest-site selection. However, conditional logistic regression models indicated that locations closer to open water and in deeper water were more likely to be associated with nest sites. Locations in bulrush (Scirpus acutus) and sedge/grass were preferred, although 68% of nests were in cattail ( Typha spp.) reflecting the greater availability of that habitat in the study area. Nest success ranged from 48-69% (Apparent) and 33-62% (Mayfield) among years. Except for five nests that were abandoned or had infertile eggs, nests that failed to hatch apparently were depredated. Nest success was higher for nests with larger clutch sizes and for nests located farther away from other nests. Nests with 3-egg clutches were 2.8 times as likely to hatch as 2-egg nests. The odds of a nest being successful increased by 25% for each 5 m increase in distance to the nearest nest. Earlier nests were also more successful (the odds of a nest being successful was estimated to decrease 7% for each additional day that passed before the nest was initiated). Nest success was not related to nest cluster size and was negatively related to habitat factors associated with nest site-selection.
4501789|Knowledge of the ontogeny of the sex ratio is required for proper framing of evolutionary hypotheses regarding adaptive parental sex allocation, competition for mates, evolution of mating systems, and endangered species management. We traced the development of a male-biased adult sex ratio in Nazca Boobies (Sula granti) by determination of the sex ratio at hatching, fledging, and at returning tojoin the adult population. The sex ratio at hatching and fledging did not differ from unity, while the return sex ratio was significantly male-biased. Therefore, the observed adult sex ratio bias arises after the period of parental care ends, during the subadult/juvenile stage, with important implications for mate competition.
4501790|Colonial seabirds such as alcids often do not rapidly recolonize former breeding habitat following extirpation of nesting colonies. Social attraction (e.g., use of decoys, recorded vocalizations and mirrors) artificially stimulates nesting by providing social cues that encourage colonization. Common Murres (Uria aalge) stopped breeding at Devil's Slide Rock, San Mateo County, California following the 1986 Apex Houston oil spill. Natural recolonization did not occur between 1987 and 1995. Common Murres began regular visits to Devil's Slide Rock with-in 24 hours of social attraction equipment installation inJanuary 1996 and six pairs nested byJune 1996. Over 90% of murre observations were in decoy plots in contrast to control plots and outside of plots where few murre obser-vations occurred. Significantly more murre presences versus absences were recorded in low density decoy plots and these birds most often frequented open areas (aisles) within decoy clusters. Significantly larger groups of murres visited high density decoy plots and aisle sub-plots. Murre densities were significantly greater within 30 cm of mirrors. Five of six nests were within 60 cm of mirrors. Nests coincided with areas where prior nesting and last pre-1996 attendance had been concentrated. Rapid breeding response combined with recent nonbreeding attendance suggests that the first colonists may have been surviving breeders from the original colony or young produced at the rock prior to the oil spill. The initial recolonization event and continued restoration efforts have prompted further colony growth to 190 pairs nesting by 2004. This study suggests that social stimuli can limit natural colonization of otherwise suitable habitat.
4501791|Gull predation is an important source of egg and chick mortality for many seabirds. From 2003-2005, the effects of gull predation and a predator control program on tern nesting success were studied at Eastern Egg Rock, Maine. In 2003, gull predation was uncontrolled, and in 2004 and 2005, attempts were made to shoot Herring (Larus argentatus), Great Black-backed (L. marinus), and Laughing (L. atricilla) gulls that preyed on Common (Sterna hirundo), Arctic (S. paradisaea), and Roseate (S. dougallii) tern adults, eggs, and chicks. To evaluate the effectiveness of gull removal, daily watches were performed from an observation tower and tern hatching and fledging success were measured annually. Despite shooting efforts in 2004-2005, many known predators could not be removed. Great Black-backed Gull predation was a function of year, tidal state, and visibility, while Herring Gull predation depended only on the stage of the tern breeding cycle. Using disappearance of eggs and chicks from monitored nests as a proxy for gull predation pressure, an estimated 23% of Common, 32% of Arctic, and 6% of Roseate tern nests were depredated by gulls during the study period. Predation risk depended on nest position within the colony, but not year, with some areas consistently more vulnerable to gulls than others. We discuss the difficulty of removing predatory gulls from a tern colony lacking nesting Herring and Great Black-backed gulls and suggest the importance of human presence and associated research activities for reducing gull predation at this site.
4501792|We analyzed temporal and spatial trends in annual nest counts of Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis), Royal Terns (Sterna maxima), and Sandwich Terns (Sterna sandvicensis) throughout South Carolina from 1969 through 2005. There was an increase in the number of active pelican nests from 1969 through the mid 1980s, although this was followed by a steady decline that continued through 2005. Numbers of Royal Tern nests have declined during the study period, especially since 1990. In contrast, annual counts of active Sandwich Tern nests remained relatively stable through the mid 1980s, then increased substantially and have since remained stable. During the early years of the study, a greater proportion of nests from each species occurred on colonies within the Cape Romain region, although this distribution appears to have shifted with a greater proportion of nests now occurring along the southern coast. At the statewide level and at each of the primary colonies, we observed a positive correlation in counts of Brown Pelican and Royal Tern nests. Mechanisms underlying the observed trends are unclear. We suggest that priorities for research include (1) determination of diet and foraging locales for all three species, (2) impacts of ectoparasites on condition and survival of pelican chicks, and (3) metapopulation structure of all three species. Management activities should focus primarily on protection of colony sites.
4501793|Studies using stable-isotope analyses of feathers to determine molt locations in marine birds are increasingly common but generally lack verification through ground-truthing. In this study, we examined the stable isotope compositions of wing feathers from King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis) implanted with satellite-transmitters. We compared stable carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen isotope compositions (
4501794|We report an unusually high return rate (16%) of one-year-old Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) to their natal colony on Aride Island, Seychelles, in 2005. Detailed accounts of these birds are provided in terms of timing of arrival, breeding status, and plumage characteristics, and compared with those of two other age classes (2-year-olds and 3 to 6 year-olds) in the same colony and with temperate populations. One-year-old individuals returned on average three weeks later than older birds and did not attempt to breed. Their immature plumage dress ('portlandica phase') differed from their one-year-old temperate counterparts, with most birds showing several characteristics of adults in full breeding plumage, such as red bill and red legs, long tail-streamers, and absence of a dark carpal bar. Contrary to expectations from temperate studies, nonbreeding two-year-old individuals did not retain any characteristic of the portlandica plumage, and were virtually inseparable from breeding adults. The ad hoc return rate of Roseate Tern one-year-olds found in this particular year is high compared to recapture/resighting data from colonies in temperate areas, but is comparable to observations made at other tropical (Caribbean) breeding colonies. Altogether, these findings suggest that tropical Roseate Terns are prone to return to their natal site earlier than their temperate counterparts, and show a more rapid acquisition of the adult plumage. This may be especially the case in years of good food supply conditions, since the 2005 event coincided with the two years (2004-2005) of highest marine productivity recorded in the vicinity of Aride Island over the 1997-2005 period.
4501795|Geographic variation in the body mass and acoustic parameters of territorial 'yodels' recorded from male Common Loons (Gavia immer) were assessed for individuals breeding on territories across the eastern United States. Multivariate analyses incorporating male body mass, body size, the acoustic parameters of yodels, and geographic latitude and longitude indicated that males inhabiting lakes in northwestern regions were smaller and produced higher-frequency yodels. These relationships strengthen previous observations of clinal geographic variation in loon body size and vocal behavior across North America, but also support the hypothesis that the dominant frequencies of yodels are in part influenced by male body size. Therefore, the frequencies loons use for long-distance communication are apparently influenced, at least in part, by those selective forces responsible for shaping optimal body size. Received 8 February 2006, accepted 29 October 2006.
4501796|Annual apparent survival rates of the Magnificent Frigatebird (Fregata magnificens) were estimated from 1998 to 2003 using a capture-resight model with 870 marked adult birds on Isla Isabel, Mexico (
4501797|From 26 March to 2 August 2003, both the time budget and the diurnal rhythm of behavior of breeding Black-necked Cranes (Grus nigricollis) were studied at Ruoergai Wetlands National Natural Reserve, Sichuan Province, China. The breeding season was divided into three phases: Pre-reproduction, Incubation and Chick-rearing periods. Foraging behavior was the most prevalent during the breeding season, accounting for 45% of the diurnal time budget, followed by breeding activity (28%), locomotion (10%), maintenance (9%), alert (7%), resting (1%) and "other behavior" including excretion, calling and antagonism (0.6%). During the three breeding phases, there were significant differences in the time budget of all behavior types except for locomotion and "other behavior". In terms of frequency of events, alert behavior was the highest, occurring 43 times per hour, followed by foraging (31), maintenance (17), locomotion (11), breeding activity (5), "other behavior" (1) and resting (0.7). During the three breeding phases, there were significant differences in the frequency of various behavior types except for "other behavior". During the day, the rhythm of different behavior types varied according to time.
4501798|The Black-faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor) is a critically endangered species. Over 50% of individuals winter regularly in Chiku Wetland on the southwestern coast of Taiwan. This study investigated the stomach contents of the Black-faced Spoonbills killed by avian botulism between December 2002 and January 2003 to identify diet of this species at the wintering site. Fourteen fish species belonging to eight families and one species of prawn were retrieved from 43 stomachs. The Shannon-Weiner index for the diet was 1.90. Estimated mean total dry weight of contents per stomach containing animal items was 23.3 g (0.1-111.7 g). Dogtooth-toxic Goby (Yongeichthys caninus) was the most abundant diet species comprising 39% of the total diet items but contributed only 2% of the estimated total dry weight. Large-scale Mullet (Liza macrolepis), comprising only 17% of the total diet items but contributed 54% of the estimated total dry weight, was the most important diet species. Our results suggest that conservation of the Large-scale Mullet is important to this endangered wader. Received 15 March 2005, accepted 15 June 2005.
4501799|We examined sexual dimorphism of Dovekie (Alle alle) from the breeding colony in Hornsund (south Spitsbergen). Each bird was sexed using DNA extracted from blood. Body morphometrics including flattened wing, head-bill, tarsus length, bill width and body mass were recorded in 331 birds caught during the breeding season in 2003-2006. Analysis of measurements of mated pairs showed that males are usually bigger than females in case of head-bill length, bill width and body mass. Only head-bill length was significantly correlated within a pair (
4501800|The Imperial Shag (Phalacrocorax atriceps) is monomorphic in plumage, but males are larger than females. We analyzed the sexual size dimorphism and variability of six morphometric characteristics (bill length, bill depth, head length, tarsus length, wing length, and body mass) measured on 291 breeding Imperial Shags at Punta Le6n colony in coastal Patagonia, Argentina, during 2004 and 2005 breeding seasons. Discriminant analyses were performed on external measurements that we considered potentially useful in sexing Imperial Shags. All the birds were sexed by a distinctive behavior (vocalizations) and a sub sample of fifty were also sexed by DNA-based genetic techniques, showing 100% agreement between the two methods. All measured characteristics differed between the sexes, with males being larger than females. Body mass (17.8-18.0%) and bill depth (12.8-13.2%) showed the highest level of dimorphism whereas bill, head, tarsus, and wing length were less dimorphic (ranging 4.8-6.0%). Dimorphism in body mass for breeding shags was lower than previously reported during winter, prior to the breeding season. Although the wing length showed the lowest degree of dimorphism (5.3-5.4%), it presented the lowest coefficient of variation (1.9-2.0%) resulting in the most accurate single-measurement indicating sex. A cross validation process with a new sample, revealed that discriminant functions comprised by two characteristics were more accurate and reliable for sex determination than single-measurements. We obtained two functions correctly classifying 94-97% of shags. These functions were reliable (similar accuracy for discriminant analysis, Jackknifed validation, and cross-validation with a new sample) and seasonal unbiased, as body mass was not included in the analysis.
4501801|Diet of the Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) was studied in three coastal wintering areas (Axios and Evros Deltas, Messolonghi Lagoon) of Greece, in order to assess spatial differences and commercial value of prey. Thirteen birds were collected from the Axios Delta, 28 from the Evros Delta, and 16 from Messolonghi Lagoon. Pellets were collected from the Evros Delta (26) and Messolonghi Lagoon (30). A variety of fish taxa were found in the samples, but only one or two dominated in Great Cormorant's diet, either by numbers or biomass. Grey mullets (Mugilidae and Golden Grey Mullet Liza aurata) were the most important prey by numbers and biomass in the Axios Delta; Giebel (Carassius auratus gibelio) dominated by numbers and biomass in the Evros Delta; whereas Boyer's Sand Smelt (Atherina boyeri) was most important by numbers and Mugilidae by biomass at Messolonghi Lagoon. Differences found in diet between areas are probably due to differences in prey species composition and abundance. Fish of high commercial value contributed in low proportions in Great Cormorant's diet, by numbers and biomass, being highest at Messolonghi Lagoon (22.4% by numbers, pellets; 11.5% by biomass, stomachs). The small overlap between the bird's diet and valuable prey suggests minimal competition with fisheries.
4501802|Jehl (1988) observed that the departure of Eared Grebes Podiceps nigricollis from Mono Lake, California, a major fall staging area, did not occur in relation to time of year or weather but was initiated after the density of brine shrimp (Artemia monica)-the major prey-fell below a predictable threshold. Although Caudell and Conover (2006) found no such relationship at Great Salt Lake, the other major staging area, reevaluation of their data indicates that the threshold concept applies there as well. Substantial differences in the staging ecology of Eared Grebes at the two lakes remain to be demonstrated.
4501803| Techniques most commonly used to estimate migratory shorebird abundance often yield estimates with a wide margin of error, and fail to consider extent of habitat use. This study was designed to investigate whether observation of percentage of a given area covered by shorebird footprints may be useful in obtaining accurate estimates of habitat use. Flocks of Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) foraging on mudflats in the upper Bay of Fundy, Canada, were videotaped and percent-cover by footprints was observed upon their departure. Through review of the videotapes, habitat use was determined in bird-seconds m (sum of time each individual was present divided by the area observed). There was a strong positive, non-linear relationship between percent-cover and habitat use, which suggests that the former can be used to estimate the latter. A theoretical value for habitat use resulting in 100% footprint cover, beyond which the method would be ineffective, was calculated. Observed values did not approach this upper limit, and in other related studies 100% cover has rarely been noted, suggesting that this technique is appropriate for use in the Bay of Fundy and in other similar settings. 
4501804|We determined diurnal time-activity budgets of Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) at Chesapeake Bay, Mary-land, USA with the principal aim of determining intensity of their feeding activity. Although Mute Swan herbivory is believed to contribute to declines in submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) in the Bay, there is a lack of comprehensive quantitative data indicating the magnitude of feeding activity by Mute Swans. We collected time-activity budgets from May through August 2003 (N = 50 10-minute observation periods) and from March through August 2004 (N = 818). Mute Swans spent more time feeding (38.4%) than in non-foraging activities, including swimming (21.8%), resting (18.4%), self-maintenance (18.6%), agonistic activity (1.7%), and disturbance-induced activities (1.2%). Feeding intensity was not influenced by seasons (spring and summer). Mute Swans foraged more actively during the morning than they did midday. Mute Swans in flocks (2 three individuals) spent more time feeding than those in pairs and birds in larger flocks spent more time feeding than those in smaller flocks. Moreover, a recent exclosure study on the Chesapeake Bay indicated that grazing by Mute Swan flocks caused a higher SAV decline than grazing by paired Mute Swans. It is likely that individuals in flocks (especially large ones) pose a greater risk to the SAV in the Bay as compared to those in pairs. Thus, management authorities should seriously consider controlling Mute Swan flocks (especially large ones) in the Bay in addition to pairs.
4501805|We studied the breeding ecology of Black-crowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) in three mixed species heronries in Pyeongtaek, Gyeonggi-Do, Korea during 2000 and 2001. Population size and breeding species changed between 2000 and 2001. Mean clutch size, hatching success and fledging success was not significantly different between years. Fledging success varied significantly in 2000 but not in 2001 with regard to number of hatchlings per nest. Mass, culmen-length, and wing-length growth rates of Black-crowned Night Heron chicks did not differ between years. With regard to hatching order in 2000 and in 2001, only tarsus-length growth rates differed between years. Clutch size, reproductive success, and growth rate of Black-crowned Night Herons did not differ between years.
4501806|The reproductive biology of the Coot (Fulica atra) was studied in a shallow pond, Timerganine, in the semi-arid Hauts-Plateaux. Our results contrast with a previous study carried out in the coastal wetlands of Numidia showing differences in laying dates, egg size and clutch size. Nest site selection was strongly influenced by spatial patch structure and vegetation structure may act as a cue of habitat quality. Coots bred at Timerganine at a high nest density and reproductive performances were influenced by adverse weather and more markedly by both predation and anthropogenic activities. We also found that alternative reproductive strategies were present within the studied coot population which exhibited a high rate of conspecific brood parasitism.
4501807|Great Crested Grebes (Podiceps cristatus), especially when nesting in large colonies, are known to suffer huge egg losses during storms. However, if the devastation of nests is not complete, partial or entire clutches can still be saved. The effects of high waves and strong wind can be countered to some extent by continuous and accelerated building. Even eggs floating in the water inside the remains of destroyed platforms may be recuperated by rebuilding the nest around and pushing the eggs with the beak ever higher on the weed. Due to the high resistance of eggs to cooling, they may even hatch after having passed several hours in cold water. In addition, grebes are capable to resume or continue laying quickly to replace lost eggs.
4501808|Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus) were caught on the southern Baltic coast during early phase of their autumn migration between 27 July and 9 August from 1992 to 1995. Due to involvement in breeding, adult Black-headed Gull started primary replacement later than second-year birds, but their molt was slightly faster during the studied two-week period. This suggests that the difference in primary molt score between the age classes may decrease toward the end of the molt period. There were no differences in primary molt between sexes. Adults had larger hole in wing area and they had higher body condition index than second-year birds. This might reflect higher cost of flight of adults due to their lower aerodynamic efficiency of the wing and their tendency to buffer themselves against increased energetic stress. Second-year Black-headed Gulls migrate for longer distances farther than adults on average and this might be a reason of their slower rate of primary replacement.
4501809|A non-breeding adult female White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) was observed tending multiple nests during the 2006 wading bird breeding season in the Florida Everglades. This is the first known case of adult multiple nest-attending breeding behavior documented for the Ciconiiformes order.
4501810|The brood size of the White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) was investigated at 30 localities within the breeding range of the species in Greece in 1993, 1994 and 1995. These localities were grouped in four major habitat types: river, lake, delta and dry habitat (lacking water bodies nearby). Brood size groups of 1, 2, and 5 nestlings (less common) and 3-4 nestlings (common) for all years and major habitats were compared. No significant spatial or temporal differences in the brood sizes were found. The mean brood size of the White Stork in Greece was among the highest in Europe attributable to favorable feeding conditions associated with cultivations.
4501811|Data were collected at one of the important stop-over sites in the southern Baltic between 1989 and 1995. Sandwich Terns were not only more advanced in primary molt than Common Terns, but also replaced their flight feathers faster due to larger number of primaries growing simultaneously. All caught adult Sandwich Terns were in active molt, whereas over 21% Common Terns either had not started primary molt or suspended it. The difference in migration strategy may be the main reason for the discrepancy between these two species in molt advancement. Biometrical analysis showed thatjuveniles of both species did not reach adult size at this stage of migration. Sandwich Terns caught in late summer in northeast England had shorter wings than birds from Puck Bay probably due to different origin of birds caught at these two sites. Common Terns caught in Puck Bay were larger than birds from German and Scottish breeding colonies and also from birds measured in northeast England. Moreover in Puck Bay, 84% of Common Terns were replacing primaries during autumn migration, whereas only 45% in Teesmouth did it at the same time. It seems that Common Terns from west Europe and terns passing the Baltic Sea belong to different populations, which differ in the distance they cross between breeding and wintering grounds and also in biometrics.
4501815|We trapped 656 Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) and measured five body dimensions and body mass for each bird; 313 birds were of known age, and 229 were sexed by DNA. Males were larger than females in all five dimensions, but were smaller in body mass. Early-nesting birds were larger than late-nesting birds in all five dimensions: at least for wing length, this difference was related to both laying date and age. Head length (from back of skull to tip of bill) was the most useful measure for sexing Common Terns in the field. Discriminant functions indicated that 75.9% of single birds and 84.5% of pairs could be sexed correctly by head length alone. We present rules and nomograms for field sexing of Common Terns; these provide trade-offs between sensitivity (proportion of birds classified) and specificity (proportion of birds correctly sexed). Three of 80 pairs (4%) included two females: these pairs nested early and were at least as successful as male-female pairs. Within pairs, tarsus lengths were negatively correlated; we found no evidence for positive assortative mating by linear dimensions or body mass. This study confirms some previous reports of sexual dimorphism in this species based on less reliable methods of sexing, but fails to confirm other reports of sexual dimorphism and assortative mating.
4501816|We used DNA markers to determine the sexes of 449 breeding adult Black Terns (Chlidonias niger) captured and measured in southeastern Wisconsin from 2000 to 2005. Various morphometric discriminant functions were then generated to classify the sexes of these birds. Other objectives were to examine the effect of sample size on the predictive ability of discriminant function analysis (DFA), to evaluate the temporal stability in the accuracy of DFA for a specific population, and to test the geographic specificity of DFA by comparing separate breeding colonies in southeastern Wisconsin and also by applying a discriminant function, derived from an Oregon population, to terns in Wisconsin. The best discriminant function included head-plus-bill length and body mass, and correctly classified 81% of the birds in the complete sample. Within-pair comparisons increased the classification accuracy to 87%, because males usually were larger than their mates with respect to head-plus-bill length. Samplesize analysis indicated that a satisfactory discriminant function for Black Terns could be generated from a sample of only 10% of the population. Region-wide, classification accuracy was similar among years, indicating temporal stability, but the accuracy of prediction for females tended to erode over time at specific colonies. Discriminant functions generated from birds captured at one site performed equally well on neighboring populations, but the Oregon function performed poorly on the Wisconsin population. Our findings suggest that a discriminant function derived from morphometrics of a single population can be applied to other populations in a limited geographic region but its utility may decrease over time. Our results also validate the previous cautions that geographic variation in the biometry of a species precludes the use of a single discriminant function on widely disjunct populations.
4501817|We recorded the daily presence of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) at the nesting island on Oneida Lake, New York, by monitoring the activities of 15 radio-tagged adults from July through September, 2000, using an automated data-logging receiver. A total of 24,464 acceptable detections was obtained for adult cormorants actively attempting to nest on the lake. Tagged cormorants had a bimodal daily activity pattern during the first month, with the fewest birds detected on the island at 09.00 h and 15.00 h Eastern daylight time. The pattern of activity appeared to change slightly in the second month of the study, representative of a post-breeding period for the colony, with a shift from a less synchronous pattern of departures to a greater focus on morning activity also centered around 09.30 h. These results correspond with daily observations of Great Cormorant (P. carbo) foraging activities reported for colonies in Africa and Poland. The data also support the possibility of nocturnal foraging activity, not previously reported for this species on their summer breeding grounds. No correlation was found between total number of daily detections and climatalogical factors or events.
4501818|Male Scarlet Ibises (Eudocimus ruber) and White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) have bills that are on average 22% longer than females, yet only half of this difference can be attributed to body-size differences. In this work it is suggested that the sexual dimorphism in bill length and bill shape is based in large part upon the role of bill length in determining the outcome of male bill-sparring contests. Sexual differences in bill morphology and behavior were investigated in a captive flock of 350 Scarlet Ibises. In 29 instances of males sparring with males in contests prior to breeding and in 11 instances of nest take-over during breeding, no significant differences in age, body size, or body condition between winning and losing males were found. However, males winning bill-sparring contests and nest take-overs had significantly longer bills than losing males. Longer billed males also bred significantly earlier than shorter billed males in captivity. Sexual differences in the relationship between bill curvature, bill chord and bill length suggest that male Scarlet and White Ibises are under selection for increased bill length. In addition, among 16 of 23 ibis species for which information was available, sexual dimorphism in bill length was positively associated with colonial nesting but was not associated with group foraging. This result supports the theory that close proximity during nesting is one feature that may facilitate bill sparring between males, resulting in selection for longer bills.
4501819| We used Pacific Loon (Gavia pacifica) and Red-throated Loon (G. stellata) nests with known ages to gauge the efficacy of egg flotation for determining nest age in coastal Alaska. Egg flotation accurately estimated nest age for both species; the mean  1SD difference between known age and age determined with egg flotation was - 0.05  2.00 d and -0.02  1.63 d for Pacific and Red-throated Loons, respectively. Day of nest initiation did not influence the relationship between known nest age and nest age estimated with egg flotation, indicating incubation period was not shortened in nests initiated later in the season. Additionally, we found no difference in the ability of egg flotation to estimate nest age between two widely dispersed study sites for Pacific Loons, and only a small difference between two of three widely dispersed study sites for Red-throated Loons. Thus, our described relationships between egg flotation categories and nest age should be broadly applicable for these holarctic species. We conclude that for Pacific and Red-throated Loons, egg flotation is a useful technique for determining nest age in the field to better monitor nest fate, and to quantify nest age effects on nest daily survival rate. 
4501820|During the 2003 and 2005 breeding seasons we conducted ground surveys of historical, potential, and current nesting sites of the VanRossem's Gull-billed Tern (Gelochelidon nilotica vanrossemi) along the Pacific coast of Mexico. We documented 13 active colonies, including ten previously unrecorded nesting sites. One previously reported colony was inactive. Colony sizes ranged between one and 161 breeding pairs. In 2005, the estimated breeding population size was 526 pairs. Eighty-two percent of the total breeding population was concentrated in three relatively large colonies, Cerro Prieto and Isla Montague, Baja California and Laguna Las Garzas, Nayarit. Gull-billed Terns nested mostly on islets in very shallow waters. Colony associates included other terns, Black Skimmers (Rhynchops niger), gulls, and egrets. The nesting population of this subspecies in Mexico is very small and consists of a few widely separated colonies. This subspecies should be included in Mexico's official list of species at risk, and a management plan should be developed and implemented to assure its conservation and that of the wetland habitat on which it and other bird species depend.
4501821| Little is known about the molt migration of the Surf Scoter (Melanitta perspicillata), a species endemic to North America. Our objective in this study was to document the breeding and molting chronology of Surf Scoters in Qubec. Breeding birds were studied at Lake Malbaie, located about 90 km north of Quebec City, Canada. Surf Scoters arrived at Lake Malbaie in the fourth week of May and most males stayed only for approximately three weeks. This relatively early departure of males from the breeding areas emphasizes the importance of salt water habitats for these birds. Unsuccessful adult females did not leave with the males but remained on their breeding lake. These females left the lake from mid to late July, nearly a month after the departure of males and much earlier than females with broods which left from mid to late August after abandoning their brood. This departure sequence was observed during the three years of the study. The difference in timing of molt migration between age and sex groups has important management implications as it potentially exposes them to different levels of mortality. For example, late molters, mostly adult females that bred successfully may still be flightless at the beginning of the hunt- ing season in some areas. Better understanding of molt chronology and habitat selection by various sex and age groups will permit a more holistic and efficient management of Surf Scoters. 
4501822|Barrow's (Bucephala islandica) and Common (B. clangula) goldeneyes winter in large numbers in the St. Lawrence estuary and little is known of their distribution and diet. The objective of the study was to characterize how these two similar species, co-existed in the St. Lawrence estuary during the non-breeding season. Their local distribution, diet, and dive efficiency were compared. There was little overlap in habitat use by both goldeneyes. Their distribution was not correlated in the autumn (r = 0.04) but was in the spring (0.68). Autumn and spring distributions were more correlated in Common Goldeneyes (r = 0.82) than in Barrow's Goldeneyes (r = 0.49). Both species moved to the north shore of the estuary during January and February 1999 as south shore intertidal areas froze. Barrow's Goldeneyes foraged in larger flocks than Common Goldeneyes (
4501823|The Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) population in the North American Great Lakes region has increased substantially during the past three decades. Cormorants are likely recovering after a period of human-caused suppression; however, their resurgence has raised concerns regarding potential negative interactions with other waterbirds. To examine this issue, we compared measures of nesting success and aggressive behavior in Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) nesting on two artificial islands in Hamilton Harbour, western Lake Ontario. Only breeding Herring Gulls occupied the first island, whereas a mixed colony of both Herring Gulls and cormorants occupied the second. Over three years, Herring Gulls in the single-species colony had greater nesting success than those in the colony shared with cormorants. Gulls in the mixed colony had more nests that contained cormorant eggs in addition to Herring Gull eggs, or that were usurped by cormorants. Analysis of individual Herring Gull egg fates revealed lower hatching rates and more eggs displaced from nests in the mixed colony. Due to the presence of cormorants, gulls in the mixed colony engaged in more aggressive interactions near their nests than those in the single-species colony. We conclude that at our study site cormorants were competing directly with Herring Gulls for nest sites and nesting material, and contributing to reduced Herring Gull reproductive success in the mixed colony. Our results suggest that interactions between species in mixed colonies may be more subtle than the displacement of breeding adults, and may not be detected by examining nest counts alone. We suggest that further studies examine cormorant interactions with other colonial bird species at additional sites.
4501824| Endangered Interior Least Terns (Sterna antillarum athalassos) and threatened Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) nest in Nebraska at gravel mines where they are vulnerable to disturbance and nest loss. Conflicts occur when their nesting and protected status delay mining activities. The possibility of shifting nesting from active to inactive mining areas by using a deterrent (mylar flagging), an attractant (gravel and driftwood spread on bare sand), and a control (untreated sand) was evaluated. Experimental plots (mean 0.36 ha) were established at 18 different gravel mines, twelve in 2000 and seven (one repeat) in 2001 along the Platte and Elkhorn rivers prior to nesting season. Of 117 tern nests, 73% were in attractant, 2% in deterrent, and 26% in control plots. Of 23 plover nests, 61% were in attractant, 9% in deterrent, and 30% in control. Colonies used plots containing less vegetation and more driftwood than unused plots. Within control plots, both tern and plover nests were surrounded by more large (>15 mm) gravel and less coarse sand than was available at random points. Within attractant plots, substrate at the nest did not differ from random points. In all plots, Least Tern nests were more likely to have driftwood by the nest than was available at random points. Hatching rates did not differ between attractant and control plots. To attract Least Terns and Piping Plovers, sand covered with 15% small gravel, 5-10% large gravel, <3% vegetation, and about ten pieces driftwood/1,000 m was found to be effective. As deterrents, mylar streamers 7 m long, 30 mm wide, and 0.025 mm thick, attached to 1 m poles arranged in a 7 m grid were used. The combination of attractant and deterrent treatments provided a mechanism to protect nesting birds and avoid conflicts. 
4501825|Populations of Southern Rockhopper (Euduptes chrysocome chrysocome) and Macaroni (E. chrysolophus) Penguins at key breeding sites in the Southern Hemisphere have declined substantially in the past 50 years, but their statuses at important breeding sites in southern Chile are poorly known. In 2002, at two of the largest breeding sites in Chile, the Ildefonso and Diego
4501826|Thirteen Blue-footed Boobies (Sula nebouxii) born on Isla Isabel, Nayarit, Mexico, nested on Isla El Rancho, Sinaloa. This natal dispersal of about 450 km was unknown for this species. Recruitment of these breeders appeared to happen at between four and seven years of age, slightly higher than the recruitment age reported for Isla Isabel birds that remain there. Age at first detection did not differ between males and females. Immigration to Isla El Rancho could relate to the recent establishment of this colony, and its continuous growth during the last five years. Since there doesn't seem to be a shortage of nesting sites at Isla Isabel, long distance natal dispersal may be a normal trait in this species of booby.
4501827| In June 2000, an oiled Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus melodus), part of the endangered eastern Canadian population, was caught and banded, and a second oiled individual was observed at Flat Bay (4826'N; 5832'W) in southwestern Newfoundland. These are the first documented cases of oiled Piping Plover in Canada. The banded plover was subsequently recaptured inJuly 2001, and appeared healthy. Evidence of another individual surviving exposure to oil was documented in 2005 in Nova Scotia. This suggests that Piping Plovers are vulnerable to oil pollution but may have some capacity to survive minimal oiling. 
4501828|Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) typically nest on unvegetated sand or gravel substrates throughout their breeding range. We report on the atypical habitat characteristics of four Piping Plover nests that we found amongst young cottonwood (Populus deltoides) saplings on a sandbar island in the Missouri River along the South Dakota-Nebraska border. Atypical habitat use could have implications for estimating demographic parameters and management of this protected species. It is important to explore the extent to which Piping Plovers use atypical breeding habitat throughout their range and the quality of this potentially poor habitat.
4501829|Tiger Herons (Tigrisoma) are little studied and generally characterized in the literature as being relatively uncommon birds of forested streams and wetlands. Contrary to these expectations, we found Bare-throated Tiger Herons (Tigrisoma lineatum) on the Pearl Islands of the Gulf of Panama to be birds of open, wave-exposed rocky seashores. We also found them to be common birds, inhabiting most shoreline coves. They fed over much of the tidal cycle along beaches and rocky shores, especially on and near surf-washed rocks. They caught crabs and fish by standing and walking slowly and methodically. Feeding efficiency was low, averaging about one prey item per hour. Plumage coloration is highly cryptic against shore rocks; but, in contrast, the bird becomes quite obvious when it expands its bare yellow throat, especially when accentuating a distinctive stretch display used to claim shore-line territory and for within-pair interactions. Tiger herons in the Pearls nested high in trees on ocean-facing cliffs. The habitat choice and behavior of this population of tiger herons that we report extend understanding of the biological scope of the subfamily of tiger herons.
4501830| American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) that breed on Anaho Island, Pyramid Lake, Nevada, are potentially exposed to a variety of contaminants. Therefore, the reproductive success of this colony was monitored in 1996 and eggs, blood and feathers from nestlings, livers from adults and nestlings, regurgitated fish from nestlings, and fish from representative feeding areas were collected and analyzed for mercury and selenium to determine exposure to the pelicans and sources of contamination. Additional samples were collected and analyzed in 1988, 1992, and 2004. Reproductive success at the Anaho Island colony was normal in 1996 based on hatching rates of eggs (75% in undisturbed areas) and survival of nestlings. Mercury and selenium concentrations in eggs were generally below known effect levels and did not appear to have an adverse impact on hatching success. Mercury and selenium concentrations in fish ranged widely, with mercury of greatest concern. Microscopic lesions characteristic of mercury toxicity were absent in pre-fledging nestlings in 1996. Some adult pelicans had elevated mercury concentrations in their livers; however, the potential toxic effects were difficult to evaluate because of probable demethylation of mercury, thereby possibly providing protection from toxicity. Exposure of pelicans to mercury varied among years, most likely in relation to wet-dry cycles and available feeding areas. 
4501831|The Xisha Archipelago, South China Sea, was surveyed for waterbirds in March-April 2003 and April-August 2004. Forty-five waterbird species were recorded, making a grand total of 53 species for the Archipelago when earlier published records are included. The Archipelago is of great importance for the Red-footed Booby (Sula sula), with an estimated 10% of the world population breeding on Dong Island. Other breeding seabird species were Great Frigatebird (Fregata minor), Great Crested Tern (Sterna bergii) and Sooty Tern (S. fuscata), and it is believed that Black-naped Tern (S. sumatrana) and Roseate Tern (S. dougallii) also breed there. Compared to 1926, the number of seabirds, and the islands on which they breed, has declined greatly. The data for Ardeidae and shorebirds provide information on migration and, possibly, wintering strategies of these species. Despite habitat degradation and human disturbance, the Xisha Archipelago is still important for breeding seabirds and there is an urgent need to improve the conservation status of this bird group.
4501832|White-eared Night-heron (Gorsachius magnificus) is the most threatened and geographically restricted of the herons. Its biology is essentially unknown. On 24 May 2004, six adults and four juveniles were found for the first time at Thousand Island Lake, Zhejiang Province, P. R. China. In all, six nests and sixteen eggs were found over three years. Thirteen nestlings survived to fledging from seven breeding pairs. These numbers are the largest ever documented for the species. Our observations of breeding performance serve as an important baseline for future research on this species.
4501833| There have been no detailed studies on reproductive biology of the Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis) in Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. We conducted such investigations during the breeding seasons of 1999 and 2000 in Qinghai-Lake Bird Isle, China. Great Cormorants began to migrate to Qinghai-Lake for reproduction from the middle of March and left from early October at the end of reproduction. Nesting periods were from early April to mid June and took 50 days. Egg-laying occurred during the three weeks from the end of April to 20 May. Females typically laid an egg every 1-2 days until clutch completion. Mean clutch size in the study area over two years was 3.3 (SE  0.13, N = 68, range 1-5) and most (66.18%) fell within the range 3-4 eggs. Length of eggs averaged 61.01 mm and breadth averaged 34.13 mm. Fresh egg weight averaged 57.34 g (SE  0.36, range 46.0-73.7 g, N = 179). Hatching success was 48.7% and fledging success was 64.9% over two years. Decline of available fish resources in Qinghai-Lake might be one of main causes of lower reproductive success. The causes of chick loss were possibly high altitude, high winds and prolonged rain. 
4501834|We recorded the diurnal behaviors of the endangered Black-faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor) for 16 days during the wintering season inJeju Province, Korea to find an appropriate and effective sampling technique for behavioral study. Two main techniques were used and compared: focal sampling with continuous recording and scan sampling with instantaneous recording at various time intervals. As a result, recording the behavior of a focal bird for more than 20 min per h was the best technique with high accuracy and precision. However, to select less time- and labor-intensive techniques we concluded that scan samplings with less than 10 min intervals or focal samplings with more than 15 min durations are appropriate measurements of the spoonbill's behaviors. Considering sampling sizes, scan sampling with 5 min recording intervals can be an effective technique but additional methods are also required to obtain significant information for infrequent or occasional behaviors. We suggest that each sampling technique should be validated by preliminary or supplementary surveys to estimate the endangered animal's behaviors and this can be an important part of the groundwork for conservational efforts on the Black-faced Spoonbill.
4501837|The largest breeding colony of the endangered California Least Tern (Sterna antillarum browni) north of San Luis Obispo County occurs at Alameda Point, San Francisco Bay, California. Data on population size, reproductive success, and food habits were collected since the colony's inception in 1976, while more specific data on breeding chronology (dates of active nesting and nest initiation dates), clutch size, hatching success, and size of prey dropped at the breeding site were collected from 2000-2004. The number of breeding pairs increased by 10.4% per year, making this colony the largest colony in San Francisco Bay and representing 6% of the state population. Breeding success varied but is generally superior to the state's combined productivity numbers. Of the 32 Least Tern sites monitored in 2004, only five other colonies had higher breeding success than Alameda Point in that year. Despite the colony's success, both hatching and breeding success have declined since the mid-1990s. Terns at this urban location forage in central and south San Francisco Bay, characterized by both marine and estuarine water. Dropped prey collected since 1981 indicate that silversides (family Atherinopsidae) were the most abundant prey in all years. Breeding success was positively correlated with the proportion of Northern Anchovy (Engraulis mordax, family Engraulididae), the second most common prey collected, suggesting that this high-energy fish may be beneficial to these terns. Potential factors limiting growth of this crucial northern Least Tern colony include predation and human disturbance, an inadequate protected nesting area, and environmental variability and its effects on prey abundance.
4501838|We recorded and compared diurnal and nocturnal time-activity budgets of American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana), Lesser Yellowlegs (Tringa flavipes), Least Sandpiper (Calidris minutilla), and Wilson's Phalarope (Phalaropus tricolor) on 21 saline lakes in the Southern Great Plains, USA, during spring and summer/fall 2002 and 2003 to examine importance of saline lakes as migratory stopover sites. All four species spent most of their time feeding (47-70%) and resting (7-37%) by day and at night during spring and fall migrations. Little time was spent in other behaviors. Time budgets differed among species and between seasons, likely due to different energy needs. Time spent foraging varied seasonally between saline lakes and freshwater playas for American Avocets and Least Sandpipers, likely due to differences in vegetation cover and availability of prey between these wetland types. For most species, time spent foraging and resting differed between day and night. Therefore, extrapolating diurnal activity budgets to the entire 24-hour period and from one type of habitat to another within the same region is not recommended. Saline lakes are used by migrant shorebirds as stopover sites where they replenish lipid stores. Conservation efforts should focus on preserving these unique wetlands and the freshwater springs that discharge in them.
4501839|The Gulf of Panama is a highly productive marine ecosystem at the southern edge of North America. Although the Gulf's aquatic bird populations have been remarked upon by ornithologists for over 50 years, nesting populations have been neither systematically studied nor completely characterized. In 2005 and 2006, the entire Gulf of Panama was inventoried to document the nesting status of seabirds and other colonial waterbirds. Over 50,000 birds of 20 species nesting at 57 sites were documented. Seabirds nested during the dry season, the period of oceanographic upwelling. Coastal colonial waterbirds nested at the end of the dry season and in the early wet season, when inland feeding habitats were optimal. Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) were the most numerous seabird with over 4,800 nests and 10,000 individuals counted. Over 3,600 Neotropic Cormorant (Phalacrocorax brasilianus) nests and over 2,200 Magnificent Frigatebird (Fregata magnificens) nests were documented. Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) were the most abundant colonial wading birds, followed by Great Egrets (Ardea alba). Great Egrets were the first wading birds to nest, Cattle Egrets the last. Seven sites contained over 1,000 nests. Colony locations and numbers differed markedly from the historic literature. Some historic information is erroneous, but other differences reflect changes in distribution. More nesting Brown Pelicans and Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) and fewer Neotropic Cormorants were found than expected from the literature. New sites documented included some of global or regional conservation importance. This paper presents the first breeding records for Panama of Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea), Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus), and Bridled Tern (Sterna anaethetus), and third record for Cocoi Heron (Ardea cocoi). There is no evidence for long-term declines of seabirds or colonial wading birds in the Gulf of Panama. Populations reaching conservation thresholds globally or biogeographically include Brown Pelican, Bare-throated Tiger-Heron (Tigrisoma mexicanum), White Ibis (Eudocimus albus), Glossy Ibis, and Bridled Tern. The Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) exceeded conservation thresholds for Central America. Six new sites of global importance for bird conservation were identified and the continued importance of another site confirmed. The continued health of the waterbird populations of Panama will depend on environmental education and protection of important colony sites from disturbance and development.
4501840|During the 2003 breeding season 367 historic, potential, and current nesting sites of larids (Fam. Laridae) along the coast of western Mexico were surveyed. In 2004 and 2005, three areas: Guerrero Negro, in Baja California Sur; Marismas Nacionales, in Nayarit-Sinaloa; and Laguna Cuyutlin, in Colima were surveyed more intensively. In 2003-2005, there were nine nesting sites and probably between 200 and 300 breeding pairs of Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia); eleven confirmed nesting sites and at least 13,000 breeding pairs of Royal Tern (S. maxima); two nesting sites, one of which included almost the entire population, and 90,000 breeding pairs of Elegant Tern (S. elegans); four nesting sites and about 20 breeding pairs of Forster's Tern (S. forsteri); and 13 nesting sites and about 1,000 breeding pairs of Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger). Breeding of Caspian and Elegant Terns on the Pacific coast of Mexico is confined to the northern areas, whereas that of Royal Terns and Black Skimmers occurs at selected sites along most of the coast. Forster's Terns nest in two widely separated areas, one in the northern section of the coast, and one in the southern section.
4501841|Environmental acidification has been associated with factors that may negatively affect reproduction in many waterbirds. Declines in lake pH can lead to reductions in food availability and quality, or result in the altered availability of toxic metals, such as mercury. A recent laboratory study conducted by the U.S. Geological Survey and the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources indicated that Common Loon (Gavia immer) chicks hatched from eggs collected on acidic lakes in northern Wisconsin may be less responsive to stimuli and exhibit reduced growth compared to chicks from neutral-pH lakes. Here we report on the relation between Common Loon egg characteristics (eggshell thickness and egg volume) and lake pH, as well as eggshell methylmercury content. Eggs (N = 84) and lake pH measurements were obtained from a four county region of northern Wisconsin. Eggshells were 3-4% thinner on lakes with pH 6.3 than on neutral-pH lakes and this relation was linear across the pH range investigated (P < 0.05). Egg volume also tended to be larger in eggs from neutral-pH lakes. Eggshell methylmercury content however was not significantly related to shell thickness (P > 0.05, n.s.) or lake pH. Results suggest that low lake pH may be associated with thinner eggshells and reduced egg volume in Common Loons. We speculate on the mechanisms that may lead to this phenomenon.
4501842|For most ground-nesting seabirds, offshore islands usually serve as refuges from mammalian predators, however, introduced predators pose a substantial threat to many species. In New England, thousands of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls (L. marinus) breed on hundreds of coastal islands. The Isles of Shoals (New Hampshire/Maine) archipelago has some of the largest colonies of both gull species in New England. In 2004, we noted unusually large numbers of failed nests on Appledore Island, Maine and hypothesized that Raccoons (Procyon lotor) were the cause. Therefore, we quantified egg and chick mortality and documented the presence of Raccoons. We trapped Raccoons on Appledore and Smuttynose islands and conducted nest surveys on these and two other islands in the Isles of Shoals. Surveys of marked nests on Appledore Island revealed high levels of egg and chick mortality in early June 2004; by late June 58% of nests were empty. We also found that on Appledore and Smuttynose, where Raccoons were observed, the odds that a nest would be empty were 17 times greater than on Lunging or Duck Islands where no Raccoons were observed. During 2004, eleven Raccoons were trapped off of Appledore and Smuttynose Islands. A survey of nests in 2005 showed that gull breeding success increased significantly on Appledore and Smuttynose islands, whereas there was no significant change in the relatively high ratio of chicks to nests from 2004 to 2005 on Lunging Island where Raccoons were not observed. Thus, we concluded that the presence of a few Raccoons on Appledore and Smuttynose islands was sufficient to cause substantial breeding failure in large colonies of larids.
4501843|Foraging habitat selection of nesting Great Egrets (Ardea alba) and Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) was investigated within an estuary with extensive impounded salt marsh habitat. Using a geographic information system, available habitat was partitioned into concentric bands at five, ten, and 15 km radius from nesting colonies to assess the relative effects of habitat composition and distance on habitat selection. Snowy Egrets were more likely than Great Egrets to depart colonies and travel to foraging sites in groups, but both species usually arrived at sites that were occupied by other wading birds. Mean flight distances were 6.2 km (SE = 0.4, N = 28, range 1.8-10.7 km) for Great Egrets and 4.7 km (SE = 0.48, N = 31, range 0.7-12.5 km) for Snowy Egrets. At the broadest spatial scale both species used impounded (mostly salt marsh) and estuarine edge habitat more than expected based on availability while avoiding unimpounded (mostly fresh water wetland) habitat. At more local scales habitat use matched availability. Interpretation of habitat preference differed with the types of habitat that were included and the maximum distance that habitat was considered available. These results illustrate that caution is needed when interpreting the results of habitat preference studies when individuals are constrained in their choice of habitats, such as for central place foragers.
4501844|The Illinois and central Mississippi river valleys provide important habitats for migrating waterfowl. Unfortunately, both river systems have experienced large-scale hydrologic alterations, resulting in considerable loss of waterfowl habitat. To provide information to guide wetland conservation and rehabilitation efforts, we used data from aerial inventories of waterfowl conducted by the Illinois Natural History Survey to model Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) use in relation to wetland characteristics. Mallard use was positively associated with the proportion of wetland area classified as "emergent" (e.g., containing robust or moist-soil wetland vegetation) during spring and fall in both river valleys. Use by Mallards was also related to proportion of inventoried locations where hunting and other disturbances were prohibited during fall and spring, perhaps indicating better management of fall refuges to provide foraging habitat during spring. We suggest wetland habitat acquisition and rehabilitation efforts intended to benefit waterfowl emphasize emergent-wetland components. Further, we recommend investigations of wetland use by waterfowl in each river system to elucidate the role of areas where hunting and disturbance is prohibited.
4501845|In the first comprehensive survey of tern colonies in the Honduras Bay Islands, 46 cays were surveyed in 2005 and 2006 and three species of terns were observed nesting in colonies on ten individual cays. Apparent colony turnover was high between years for Least (Sternula antillarum) and Roseate (Sterna dougallii) Terns, from 71% to 100%, respectively. The first nest records of Bridled Tern (Onychoprion anaethetus) for Honduras are documented.
4501846|In this study we present data about local distribution, abundance, and habitat preferences of Black-headed Duck (Heteronetta atricapilla) in central Chile. Black-headed Duck is an endemic species of southern South America and the only obligate brood parasite whose ducklings needs no further parental care after incubation of the eggs. From July 1993 to January 1998 we monitored populations in 19 wetlands of the Mediterranean distribution is restricted and its presence is strongly associated to habitat with emergent vegetation. These results suggest that, populations located on the occidental side of the Andean highland, would present ecological traits strongly associated with rarity and high vulnerability.
4501847|Little is known about the factors influencing the breeding decisions of Arctic breeding seabirds and their behavior in a failed breeding year. Here we present the behavioral patterns observed in a year with late sea ice break-up and regular predator visits to the colony. We found that breeding initiation of Arctic Terns and Sabine's gulls was delayed until the breeding attempt was given up and the colony abandoned. However, the birds did not leave the region but returned to the colony soon after sea ice break-up continuing bonding behavior although egglaying was not initiated. In 2006, the period 11-15 July seemed important for the breeding decision, as birds gradually gave up breeding and left the colony during that period.
4501848|Dovekie (Alle alle) parents feed their chicks almost exclusively with high energy Arctic zooplankton associated with cold polar waters. In years with a stronger influx of warm Atlantic waters (positive NAO index) in their traditional feeding grounds, they may be forced to forage in suboptimal feeding areas. We compared the Dovekie chick diet in Hornsund (Spitsbergen) in the early, mid and late phases of the chick-rearing period in two seasons with different distributions of cold (Arctic) and warm (Atlantic) water masses. Parents delivered to their chicks food loads of lower wet weight (in the mid and late phase) and lower energetic value (in the late phase) under warm water conditions compared to colder water conditions. This suggests worse foraging conditions for Dovekies and foraging in suboptimal feeding areas during warm water events. However, data from the mid phase showed that Dovekies are able to compensate by increasing the number of daily feedings. In this phase, chicks received the same amount of food (by mass and energy) as in cold years. It is unknown how large the inflow of Atlantic water can be before it has negative implications for adult Dovekie daily time budget, body condition, survival rate, their breeding success and fitness.
4501849|Helicopter spraying of rotenone fish poison over Paardevlei, a lake near Cape Town, provided an opportunity to assess both the effect of helicopter disturbance on waterbirds and the immediate response of birds to fish poisoning. Birds were less disturbed by protracted helicopter activity than by a single fish eagle over-flight. Rotenone provided a food bonanza for pelicans and cormorants with no evidence of adverse effects on any birds.
4501850|American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) molt some tertials and tertial coverts during their first fall and winter, but descriptions are incongruous and the timing, extent and sex-specific differences in molt patterns are largely unknown. We studied molt of these feathers from fall to spring using captive, harvested, and trapped wild birds, as well as specimen wings. During their first fall and winter, males molted earlier and replaced more tertials and tertial coverts than females, but all birds retained some juvenile tertial coverts until the end of April. We attribute these differences to their primary mating system of annual monogamy, with females being the limiting sex. The early acquisition of adult tertials and tertial coverts are likely selectively advantageous for males because these feathers are prominently displayed during courtship and pair bond formation. Young birds that have acquired adult-like feathers may exhibit a higher degree of fitness, facilitating breeding in the first year. This knowledge of wing feather replacement is useful for determining the age of Black Ducks as either second year or after second year and can also be used in dual feather isotope analysis to link natal and wintering areas.
4501851| Waterbird surveys following the annual African Waterbird Census were conducted in the Antsalova region of western Madagascar from 2002 to 2004. Seven wetland sites were monitored: five freshwater lakes, one alkaline lake and one marsh. Three of the five fresh water lakes were in the Manambolomaty Lakes Complex, a RAMSAR site. A total of 37,836 individual birds were recorded belonging to 55 species representing 15 families. The marsh had the highest waterbird abundance of all sites with an average of 3,616.3  461 individuals (N=3 years). Species diversity index was highest in the freshwater lakes with an average of 2.53  0.07, and the lowest was recorded at Antsohale Lake with an average of 2.22  0.08. The waterbird abundance varied significantly between freshwater lakes and the marsh from 2002 to 2004, between freshwater lakes and the alkaline lake in 2003 and 2004, and between the alkaline lake and marsh. The net difference in species abundance between the Manambolomaty Lakes Complex and the other lakes varied significantly. In contrast, species richness between the Manambolomaty Lakes Complex and the other lakes did not vary. Several threatened species were at population levels observed ten years earlier. 
4501852|Winter observations of Black Terns (Chlidonias niger) in Mexico are rare. On 19 January 2007, we observed over 3,000 Black Terns foraging among hundreds of breaching manta rays one kilometer offshore on the coast of Guerrero, Mexico.
4501853|Adult Greater Flamingos (Phoenicopterus roseus) are sexually dimorphic, with males being on average larger and heavier than females. However, there is no practical way to sex the chicks by their morphology. Here we describe a method relying on quick and easy DNA extraction from feathers. A PCR test employing primers to amplify introns whose lengths usually differ between the CHD-W and the CHD-Z genes allow sex discrimination. This method is thus a fast, accurate and inexpensive protocol to sex flamingo chicks from feathers bulbs sampled in the field.
25148252| Nesting distribution, abundance, and reproductive success of colonially nesting herons and egrets in the central coastal region of California surrounding the San Francisco Estuary were analyzed from 1991 to 2005. Nesting activity among nine major wetland subregions was compared with regard to nesting distribution, nest survivorship, productivity of successful nests, habitat characteristics, and intraseasonal timing. An average of 73 active colony sites y supported approximately 62 Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) colonies, 25 Great Egret (Ardea alba) colonies, 13 Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) colonies and twelve Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) colonies each year. Regional nest abundances were stable or increasing in all species. Annual changes in nest abundance were consistent with shifts in colony site preference as wetland suitability and disturbance patterns fluctuate across years and over space. Decreases in colony size were significantly related to higher rates of nest mortality, suggesting that conspecific nest failure may stimulate shifts in breeding distribution. A sharp decline in regional nest abundances suggested the effects of reduced recruitment associated with increased juvenile mortality in winter, rather than a decline in productivity. Persistence of colony site use increased substantially at sites that reached at least 20 active nests. Subregional increases in nesting abundance coincided with the restoration of tidal marshes. Significant declines in regional reproductive success of Great Blue Herons, Black-crowned Night-Herons, and Snowy Egrets resulted primarily from declining nest survivorship, which coincided with regional increases in abundances of Common Ravens (Corvus corax). We found small but significant subregional differences in nest survivorship, productivity, and overall reproductive success. Local and subregional productivity of successful Great Blue Heron and Great Egret nests fluctuated within larger-scale variation across the region, whereas nest survivorship was associated with processes at local or subregional scales. 
25148253|Numbers of California Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis californicus) along the coast of Oregon and Washington have increased sharply in recent years. We identified East Sand Island in the Columbia River estuary as the site of the largest pelican roost within this region. Numbers of pelicans roosting on East Sand Island have increased from less than 100 during 1979-1986 to a high count of 10,852 in 2002. The East Sand Island roost is currently the site of a major non-breeding aggregation of this endangered subspecies. Total numbers of pelicans roosting on East Sand Island increased seasonally from April to September or October, and then declined sharply with the onset of winter storms. Pelicans appeared to forage more during low tides, and return to the roost during high tides; therefore, pelican numbers on the island were positively associated with tide height. Land-based human disturbance was negatively associated with total pelican numbers, whereas water-based human disturbance had no significant effect on total pelican numbers on the island. Natural disturbances, although more frequent than human disturbances, apparently did not influence the total number of pelicans on the island.
25148254|The current male-costs hypothesis to explain variation in the timing of pairing in waterfowl acknowledges that relative parental investment and intra-sexual competition among males place females in control of pairing in most species. However, because females may benefit from early pair formation, it assumes that they should be willing to pair whenever males are energetically capable, and thus predicts that timing of pairing depends on decisions made by males. A compilation and review of available data on pairing behavior in waterfowl found little support for this hypothesis and considerable data that were inconsistent with its predictions. The mutual-choice hypothesis extends the male-costs hypothesis by incorporating cost-benefit trade-offs to females as well as males, and by giving more consideration to the various components of the pairing process, including time and energy invested into mate choice, the quality of mate chosen, and the state of being paired, including possible benefits of time spent gaining familiarity with a partner before breeding. This hypothesis differs from the male-costs hypothesis in two essential points: 1) that decisions by females rather than males primarily determine the timing of pairing, and 2) that it is necessary to incorporate the process of choosing a partner as well as the state of being paired. The new hypothesis was supported by available data and by results of preliminary, comparative analyses, and provides a theoretical structure to describe phylogenetic trends in pairing behavior. However, critical testing of many predictions is currently hampered by a lack of longitudinal data on age- and sex-specific pairing chronologies using individual-based measures of pairing chronology.
25148255|Intra-specific predictions of the male-costs and mutual-choice hypotheses to explain variation in the timing of pairing in waterfowl were tested in a longitudinal study of marked, known-aged Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus). Pairing chronologies and seasonal changes in time-activity budgets and rates of aggressive interactions were compared in relation to sex, age, and paired status. Results supported the mutual-choice and not the male-costs hypothesis. Paired females gained no immediate benefits relative to unpaired females from mate defense and vigilance, and there was no evidence that females preferred to pair as early as possible, as postulated by the male-costs hypothesis. Unpaired males spent much more time in courtship than paired males spent in mate defense and constraints on male time and energy budgets was not a plausible reason for delayed and protracted pairing of young and re-pairing females. As predicted by the mutual-choice hypothesis, decisions by females about how much time and energy to allocate to the pairing process appeared to be the main factor controlling the timing of pairing in Harlequin Ducks. Newly-pairing females invested an extended period of time in courtship and mate sampling before pairing, in spite of an abundance of courting males clearly energetically capable of maintaining a pair bond. Many young females decided to pair during mid-winter when time constraints to males should have been most severe. Time-budget trade-offs were apparent for young females and their date of pairing was related to the amount of time per day that they allocated to courtship. Pairing success of males was not related to their rate of courtship, nor was it related to the length of time they invested in coursthip as they began courting while they were still immature and generally courted for several years before pairing.
25148256|We describe and analyze the bird community composition of the lacustrine water bodies of the seasonally flooded wetlands of the Mamirau and Aman Reserves, Amazonas, Brazil. Bird surveys were conducted in 54 water bodies within four water body systems aboard a speedboat, in July 2003, at the peak of the high water season. We recorded 2,823 individuals representing 79 bird species associated with aquatic environments, mostly resident; of these, 34 were aquatic (exclusively associated with aquatic environments), and 19 were primarily piscivorous. The aquatic bird communities of Mamirau and Aman comprise a few abundant species and a higher number of rare species. Seven species accounted for 71.7% of all 34 aquatic birds recorded. In general, the more elongated the water bodies, the lower the aquatic and piscivorous bird species richness, and the lower the bird abundance. Piscivorous bird abundance was not significantly related to water body shape. Matrices of bird species by water body were subjected to multivariate analysis using Principal Co-ordinate Analysis (PCoA). For the quantitative data (species abundance) and qualitative data (species presence/absence), the composition of the community of aquatic birds changed significantly among lacustrine water body systems, and was significantly affected by water body shape. The quantitative and qualitative composition of the piscivorous bird community did not change significantly among water body systems, and were not affected by water body shape. The numerical analyses revealed a remarkably different behavior of the communities of aquatic birds and piscivorous birds, the former changing significantly with lacustrine water body morphology and local geography (water body system), and the latter being relatively insensitive to variation in these parameters. Water body shape is one of the determinants of aquatic bird community composition in the seasonally flooded wetlands of this part of Amazonia.
25148257|The rainfall regime of the Pampas region of Argentina shows a long-term cyclic behavior that has increased in intensity over the historical mean during the last four decades. In this paper we explored the effects of changes in monthly cumulative rainfall on lagoon and riparian habitat, and, in turn on the wetland waterbird community. We also explored the responses of waterbird morphofunctional groups to fluctuation in water level and habitat diversity caused by the change in rainfall at the Mar Chiquita Coastal Lagoon, Argentina (3732' to 3745'S, 5719' to 5726'W). Analysis of satellite images shows that increases in rainfall increased wetland water surface, but reduced riparian habitat area and habitat diversity. Increases in water surface negatively affected the abundances and species richness of waterbirds; habitat diversity did not explain a significant portion of total waterbird variability. Shorebirds (i.e., yellowlegs, plover, sandpiper) were the most affected by reduction in mudflats and habitat diversity. Other waterbirds (i.e., long-legged wading birds, waterfowls) were affected by increases in water surface (ducks, swans, long-legged waterbirds and gulls), decrease in mudflat availability (long-legged waterbirds and gulls), and decrease in habitat diversity (ducks). Our results show that the inter-annual variability in the rainfall pattern influenced the presence and abundance of most waterbirds, and species richness and composition. Fluctuation in water depth per se is known to be a key factor for habitat use of many waterbirds, but habitat diversity also needs to be considered.
25148258|We assessed the effects of the presence and the frequency of canoe and pedestrian disturbance during two breeding seasons on multiple behavioral responses (scanning, freezing, grooming, sleeping, moving, wing-raising, and standing-up) of Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) nestlings in a breeding colony in southeast Chicago. Short-term responses (min) of Black-crowned Night Heron nestlings showed that they were sensitive to the presence of aquatic and pedestrian disturbance by increasing vigilant (scanning) and anti-predator (freezing) behaviors and decreasing maintenance (grooming, sleeping) behaviors. Nestlings were also sensitive to recreationist behavior, with less time allocated to sleeping and more time to freezing and scanning in the presence of inquisitive pedestrians than pedestrians who passed by the colony without stopping. However, medium-term responses (days) were insensitive to the frequency of disturbance, but spatial proximity to the source of disturbance influenced time scanning, sleeping, and freezing). Our results have wide implications for the protection of the Black-crowned Night Heron in States in which it is considered a species of conservation concern. We recommend that boating activities should be precluded during the initial part of the breeding season and buffer zones of 50 m should be established around the colony to minimize human disturbance. However, under these conditions, restrictions on the number of visitors during the breeding period may not be necessary.
25148259|Each spring, Black Scoters (Melanitta nigra), Surf Scoters (M. perspicillata) and White-winged Scoters (M. fusca), pass through the Bay of Fundy in daytime on their northward migration to the sub-arctic breeding grounds. Their migrations along the Fundy coast were monitored from the Point Lepreau Bird Observatory at Point Lepreau, New Brunswick, from 1996 to 2004. Black Scoters migrated first (peak migration day: 13-17 April), followed by Surfs (23-25 April) and White-wings (22-28 April) which migrated together, although White-wings persisted over a longer period. Based on their rates of passage, we estimated the relative proportions of the wintering eastern North American populations of scoters, assumed to be of breeding age, which migrated by Point Lepreau each spring. We determined that 6-18% and 28-37% of the North American breeding populations of Surf Scoters and Black Scoters, respectively, utilized this northward migration route annually. The low numbers of White-wings (0.4-0.6%) suggested that larger numbers of this species employed a different migration route in spring or migrated at night. This observatory offers an exceptional facility for monitoring this group of sea ducks, over time.
25148260|Red, orange, and yellow carotenoid-based coloration abounds in birds, with over half of all avian orders known to display it in some form. Penguins (Order Sphenisciformes), however, are one order of birds for which the proximal causation of ornaments is unclear, i.e., whether such colors in plumage or bare-parts are carotenoid-based. We experimentally supplemented the diet of captive Gentoo Penguins Pygoscelis papua for two months with extracts of krill, a common carotenoid-rich food source for these animals in the wild, to determine whether orange coloration in the beak and feet is influenced by carotenoid content of the diet. We found using UV-Vis reflectance spectrophotometry that dietary carotenoid enrichment elevated beak but not foot brightness. This suggests that the crustacean part of the diet is at least in part responsible for orange beak coloration but not feet in Gentoo Penguins and that, like other carotenoid signals, these traits have the potential to reveal important aspects of mate quality (e.g., nutrition, health).
25148261|We identified foraging locations during a two-year radio telemetry study (2003-2004) and described chick diets over a seven year period (1999-2005) for co-nesting Arctic (Sterna paradisaea) and Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) at Country Island, Nova Scotia, Canada. The results of the radio telemetry study showed that both species foraged within nine km of the breeding colony, however, Arctic Terns foraged in deeper water on the seaward side of the colony while Common Terns foraged in relatively shallow water between the colony and the mainland. The results of the diet study showed that chick diets overlapped significantly, with both species feeding mostly on hake (Urophycis sp.) and sand lance (Ammodytes sp.). Despite the overlap in diet, Arctic Terns delivered proportionally more hake and less sand lance than Common Terns and the sand lance they delivered were smaller on average than those delivered by Common Terns. Overall, Arctic and Common terns at this site show foraging habitat segregation, but similar chick diets.
25148262|Until recently, our understanding of the role of movement in animal populations was limited due to a prevalence of studies on single local populations. Here we report on local and regional movement patterns of Razorbill (Alca torda), the least numerous Atlantic alcid, through the use of multi-site capture-mark-recapture/resight for five breeding locations spanning their entire North American breeding range. Razorbill philopatry and breeding site fidelity rates for the Gannet Islands, Labrador were high with 83% of young birds (N = 340) and 97% of adults (N = 149) returning to the same colony to breed. The distance moved between the natal colony and the colony where an individual later bred was significantly greater for birds banded as chicks, both between colonies on the same island and within islands in the Gannet Islands cluster. Regional movements of 40 banded individuals were recorded during 2003-2006, including seven birds that were confirmed breeding at a location different from their natal colony. Emigration distances among colonies in North America ranged from 57 to 1,737 km, providing an unexpectedly high rate of movement of birds between breeding colonies that has not been previously reported for any auk species. One bird, banded as a chick on Digges Island, Nunavut in 1982 was recaptured 24 years later as a breeder on the Gannet Islands (1,737 km away). A chick banded on Handa Island, Scotland in 1971 was seen four times in 2004 at the Gannet Islands (3,210 km away). Despite exhibiting low productivity and survivorship, Razorbill populations at some Atlantic Canada breeding sites have been increasing. We conclude that the dispersal and recruitment of individuals into new colonies that are characteristic of other seabird species may also partly explain patterns of population dynamics at North American Razorbill colonies.
25148263|Understanding how Interior Least Tern (Sternula antillarum athalassos) chicks hatched on rooftops interact with their environment is essential in the conservation of roof nesting colonies. We observed a colony of terns nesting on gravel roofs in Denton County, Texas, in 2003 and 2004. We used focal sampling to examine how chicks behave in relation to surface temperatures and in the presence of predators. We also placed two types of structures, artificial plants and wooden teepees, on the roofs to determine whether chicks would use them for shade or for protection from predators. As surface temperature increased, chicks increased time spent under cover (whether a man-made structure or being brooded) and decreased intraspecific interactions (ducking while an adult flew over, attacking or being attacked by other terns, submissive behaviors, and posturing). As chicks matured shade use decreased and body maintenance (preening and scratching) increased. When adults were mobbing potential predators over the colony, chicks ceased body maintenance, flight muscle preparation (stretching wings or flapping wings), and intraspecific interaction. Most chicks either fell prostrate where they stood when mobbing began or ran away from the predator. The use of structures by chicks did not change in the presence or absence of potential predators. Of the two experimental structures, only artificial plants were used more than expected. Overall, chicks hatched on roofs survive high surface temperatures by relocating to shade and survive predation by running or using camouflage. Artificial plants may be important for providing shade but not for providing protection against predators.
25148264|The Common Gull (Larus canus) is a typical breeding bird species of the Baltic Sea coast in Schleswig-Holstein, northern Germany, where it has declined substantially in recent decades. Since the mid-1990s, Common Gulls have started to colonize flat roofs of buildings, consisting mostly of gravel and small stones. The total number of roof-breeding Common Gulls in Schleswig-Holstein is estimated to be at least 400-450 pairs for the period 2000-2005, with further increasing trends. Minimum reproductive performance at two colonies in 2000 was 0.9 and 1.8 fledged chicks per nest. The diet at two colonies studied in July 2001 consisted mainly of terrestrial food items. The most important prey categories were cherries, lumbricids, insects and bivalves. It is concluded that Common Gulls show a flexible response to environmental conditions by successfully exploiting a new breeding habitat, by reproducing successfully there and by taking benefit of their wide food spectrum to exploit man-made sites.
25148265|The New World Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) and Old World Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) are ecologically similar and historically allopatric species both of which recently colonized Barbados, West Indies, as breeding species. Examination of their foraging behavior in their zone of recent sympatry suggests that they choose the same (very limited) foraging sites but differ in foraging behavior. The larger Little Egret was more active and diverse in its foraging, fed more in upright posture, chose open, unvegetated sites more frequently, and was dominant over the Snowy Egret. The conservation situation in Barbados for these two species, and their thus-far unique sympatry, is uncertain as both feeding and nesting sites are far from secure.
25148266|Seabirds and other colonial waterbirds nesting in the northern Bahamas are nearly undocumented. This study is the first complete inventory of seabirds and other colonial waterbirds nesting in the northern Bahamas (including the islands of the Abacos, Grand Bahamas, Biminis, and Berries). The survey found 20,267 nests of 19 species of seabirds and other colonial waterbirds at 113 colony sites. The over 40,000 seabirds and other colonial waterbirds found nesting in the northern Bahamas doubles population estimates previously published for The Bahamas as a whole, which included few of these sites. Sooty Tern (Sterna fuscata) was the most abundant species, having a nesting population of over 10,000 pairs. Next most abundant were the Bridled Tern (Sterna anaethetus), Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla), and Brown Noddy (Sterna stolidus). This paper documents the first nesting record in the Commonwealth of The Bahamas of the White Ibis (Eudocimus albus), the first recent nesting in northern Bahamas of the Magnificent Frigatebird (Fregatta magnificens), and the first recent nesting in Grand Bahama of the Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis). Based on the results, 27 sites may be recognized as of special importance to seabird conservation in the northern Bahamas. Opportunities for conservation, including community-based colony site stewardship and protection of the most important sites within twelve protected areas are discussed.
25148267|Super-normal clutches (five eggs or more) in the Caspian Gull (Larus cachinnans), Mediterranean Gull (Larus melanocephalus) and Whiskered Tern (Chlidonias hybrida) are described. These species have regularly bred in Poland since the beginning of the 1990s. The occurrence of super-normal clutches was 1.8%, 4.1% and 0.3% in the Caspian Gull, Mediterranean Gull and Whiskered Tern, respectively. The first descriptions of a female-female pair in the above species as well as in the Yellow-legged Gull (Larus michahellis) and an unusual mixed female-female pair of two gull species (Yellow-legged Gull and Caspian Gull), never mentioned in the literature before, are also presented. The first fully documented case of a multi-female association of the Mediterranean Gull was also identified. The frequency of the SNCs in this study was higher than in other colonies located in different parts of the geographical range of the species.
25148272|Population and trophic relationships among diving ducks in Chesapeake Bay are diverse and complex as they include five species of bay ducks (Aythya spp.), nine species of seaducks (Tribe Mergini), and the Ruddy Duck (Oxyura jamaicensis). Here we considered the relationships between population changes and diet over the past half century to assess the importance of prey changes to wintering waterfowl in the Bay. Food habits of 643 diving ducks collected from Chesapeake Bay during 1999-2006 were determined by analyses of their gullet (esophagus and proventriculus) and gizzard contents and compared to historical data (1885-1979) of 1,541 diving ducks. Aerial waterfowl surveys, in general, suggest that six species of seaducks were more commonly located in the meso- to polyhaline areas of the Bay, whereas five species of bay ducks and Ruddy Ducks were in the oligo- to mesohaline areas. Seaducks fed on a molluscan diet of Hooked Mussel (Ischadium recurvum), Amethyst Gemclam (Gemma gemma), and Dwarf Surfclam (Mulinia lateralis). Bay ducks and Ruddy Ducks fed more on Baltic Macoma (Macoma balthica), the adventive Atlantic Rangia (Rangia cuneata), and submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV). Mergansers were found over the widest salinity range in the Bay, probably because of their piscivorous diet. Each diving duck species appears to fill a unique foraging niche, although there is much overlap of selected prey. When current food habits are compared to historic data, only the Canvasback (Aythya valisineria) has had major diet changes, although SAV now accounts for less food volume for all diving duck species, except the Redhead (Aythya americana). Understanding the trophic-habitat relationships of diving ducks in coastal wintering areas will give managers a better understanding of the ecological effects of future environmental changes. Intensive restoration efforts on SAV and oyster beds should greatly benefit diving duck populations.
25148273|This paper presents information on the most common species of waterfowl that breed in the Chesapeake Bay including Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), Wood Duck (Aix sponsa), American Black Duck (Anas rubripes), Canada Goose (Branta canadensis), and Mute Swan (Cygnus olor). Long-term (40 years) and short-term (13 years) trends in breeding populations were evaluated using the North American Breeding Bird Survey and the Atlantic Flyway Breeding Waterfowl Survey. Species that have adapted to landscape-level and local habitat changes in the past 40 years have expanded, especially Mute Swans, Canada Geese, and Mallards, while species that are less tolerant of these changes such as American Black Ducks have declined. Wood Ducks may be showing some recent declines in the Bay region, even though the Atlantic Flyway population is increasing. Losses of forested wetland habitats around the Bay may account for some of this decline.
25148274|The Chesapeake Bay plays a significant role in the life cycle of Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) along the entire Atlantic coast of the U.S. In addition to supporting a resident breeding population, the Chesapeake Bay is an area of convergence for post-nesting and subadult Bald Eagles from breeding populations in the southeastern and northeastern U.S. The convergence of three geographically distinct populations (northeast, southeast, and Chesapeake Bay) suggests that the Bay plays a particularly important role in the recovery of Bald Eagles in eastern North America. Since the ban on DDT and formal listing under the Endangered Species Act, the Chesapeake Bay breeding population has increased dramatically. Between the early 1970s and 2001 the population within the Bay and vicinity has grown exponentially from 60 to 646 pairs with an average doubling time of just over eight years. Reproductive rates have increased over this time period and are now similar to those documented prior to the DDT era. With the current rate of increase, the population is expected to reach saturation within the next decade. Bald Eagles continue to be vulnerable to the potential introduction of new biocides into the estuary, human disturbance within nesting and foraging areas, and the loss of habitat to urban and industrial development. The tidal fresh reaches of the estuary appear to support core breeding areas, as well as, concentration areas for migrant populations and should be priorities for long-term conservation efforts.
25148275|The Chesapeake Bay supports the largest Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) breeding population in the world. The population experienced a dramatic reduction due to biocide-induced reproductive suppression in the post World War II era and reached an estimated low of 1,450 pairs by the early 1970s. By the mid 1990s, the population recovered to an estimated 3,500 pairs and breeding was documented on 427 of 878 named tributaries of the tidal Bay. Recovery has been exponential but spatially variable with average doubling times for defined geographic areas varying by more than an order of magnitude. Rates of population growth have been negatively related to salinity with the highest rates occurring within tidal fresh reaches suggesting that recovery has progressed from the main stem of the Bay toward the fall line. Virtually nothing is known about the breeding ecology of Ospreys in the lower saline waters of the Bay. The increase and diversification of man-made structures used for nesting has made a fundamental contribution to recovery and current distribution. A synthesis of information from several field sites throughout the Bay shows a collective increase in reproductive rate (young/active pair) from less than 0.8 in the 1960s to more than 1.2 by the mid-1980s followed by a reduction to below 1.0 in the late 1980s. Threats to the population continue to be the release of new classes of contaminants into the estuary and anthropogenic activities that have the potential to suppress reproductive rates and juvenile/adult survivorship.
25148276|With the DDT ban enacted in the early 1970s, piscivorous bird populations have grown exponentially throughout the tidal reach of the Chesapeake Bay. However, avian population growth is not uniform throughout the Chesapeake Bay watershed; several species including Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) and Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) experienced significantly greater population growth rates in riverine tidal freshwater and oligohaline regions than in higher salinity portions of the bay. Shifting fish prey resources may provide an explanation for the observed influence of salinity on distribution of piscivorous bird populations. Changes in the fish resources available to avian predators over the past 40 years include changing temporal and spatial distribution of fish prey, as well as shifts in taxonomic and trophic structure of resident and migratory fish assemblages. Historical ecological changes, including long- and short-term changes in the abundance of anadromous clupeid fishes, Atlantic Menhaden (Brevoortia tyrannus), and the relatively recent introduction and establishment of non-indigenous fishes, within tidal freshwater rivers may be influencing piscivorous bird distributions and abundance, particularly for Bald Eagles and Ospreys, in the Chesapeake Bay. Predator-prey interactions among piscivorous birds and fish prey have received little attention from wildlife managers. Collaborative efforts between fishery scientists and avian ecologists will ultimately lead to better ecosystem management of the Bay's living resources.
25148277|A search of the Contaminant Exposure and Effects-Terrestrial Vertebrates (CEE-TV) database revealed that 70% of the 839 Chesapeake Bay records deal with avian species. Studies conducted on waterbirds in the past 15 years indicate that organochlorine contaminants have declined in eggs and tissues, although p,p'-DDE, total polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and coplanar PCB congeners may still exert sublethal and reproductive effects in some locations. There have been numerous reports of avian die-off events related to organophosphorus and carbamate pesticides. More contemporary contaminants (e.g., alkylphenols, ethoxylates, perfluorinated compounds, polybrominated diphenyl ethers) are detectable in bird eggs in the most industrialized portions of the Bay, but interpretation of these data is difficult because adverse effect levels are incompletely known for birds. Two moderate-sized oil spills resulted in the death of several hundred birds, and about 500 smaller spill events occur annually in the watershed. With the exception of lead, concentrations of cadmium, mercury, and selenium in eggs and tissues appear to be below toxic thresholds for waterbirds. Fishing tackle and discarded plastics, that can entangle and kill young and adults, are prevalent in nests in some Bay tributaries. It is apparent that exposure and potential effects of several classes of contaminants (e.g., dioxins, dibenzofurans, rodenticides, pharmaceuticals, personal care products, lead shot, and some metals) have not been systematically examined in the past 15 years, highlighting the need for toxicological evaluation of birds found dead, and perhaps an avian ecotoxicological monitoring program. Although oil spills, spent lead shot, some pesticides, and industrial pollutants occasionally harm Chesapeake avifauna, contaminants no longer evoke the population level effects that were observed in Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) and Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) through the 1970s.
25148278|Colonially nesting wading birds (herons, egrets, and ibis) are a highly visible, biologically significant component of the mid-Atlantic coastal avifauna. Populations of these species were decimated by extensive market hunting in the late nineteenth century, recovered, and additional species colonized the region. Herein, we summarize changes in species, numbers of breeding pairs, and colony sites for ten species of wading birds surveyed four times over a 26-year period (1977 to 2003) within the Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic coastal barrier island region. Over the period of surveys, wading bird breeding colonies increased 246% (to 537) and numbers of breeding pairs increased 67% (to 26,589). Expansion among Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias), Great Egrets (Ardea alba), Yellow-Crowned Night-Herons (Nyctanassa violacea) and Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus), primarily accounted for the dramatic increase, while declines were recorded for Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula), Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) and Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax). Rapid loss of breeding wading birds along the Atlantic coastal lagoon system during the last decade is of particular conservation concern.
25148279|Over the past one hundred years, dramatic changes have taken place in populations of colonial-nesting seabirds that breed within Chesapeake Bay and the Maryland-Virginia coastal region. Populations of species that were decimated by extensive market hunting in the late nineteenth century recovered, additional species colonized the region and in the past ten years many species have declined. During 2003, over 72,000 pairs of seabirds of thirteen species bred within the region. Breeding population sizes are presented and population trends evaluated based on benchmark census information from 1977 and regional censuses compiled during 1993 and 2003 by the states of Maryland and Virginia. Since the 1970s, Brown Pelicans (Pelicanus occidentalis) and Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) expanded into the region and now represent six percent of the seabird guild. Gull populations have exhibited important changes and have affected other seabird species. Significant population declines have occurred in Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger), Gull-billed Terns (Sterna nilotica), Royal Terns (Sterna maxima), and Common Terns (Sterna hirundo). Since 1993, populations of ten of thirteen seabird species have declined, many significantly. Conservation challenges for seabird species in the region include: 1) habitat change and loss as a result of sea-level rise, 2) increasing mammalian predator populations, 3) competition for colony sites, 4) human infrastructure conflicts, and 5) changing fisheries populations and harvest. Conserving and managing colonial-nesting seabirds in the coming decades as the human population continues to increase in the mid-Atlantic region will present significant challenges to future generations.
25148280|From 1993 to 1999, we conducted banding and telemetry studies of fall migrant Soras (Porzana carolina) in the historic rail hunting and exceptional stopover habitat of the Wild Rice (Zizania aquatica) marshes of the tidal Patuxent River. Drift traps equipped with audio lures produced 3,897 Sora and 417 Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola) captures during the seven-year study. Sora captures were characterized by a high proportion (70% to 90%) of young-of-the year and a paucity of between-year recaptures (N = 12). Radio-telemetry studies depicted Soras as long-distance migrants with high stopover survival and a critical dependence on tidal freshwater marshes for migratory fattening. Here, the high productivity of Wild Rice, Smartweeds (Polygonum spp.) and other seed-bearing annual plants seem intrinsically linked to Sora migratory fitness. A stopover period of >40 days and mean mass gain of +0.6g/d suggests Soras are accumulating large fat reserves for long-distance flight. Radio tracking confirmed Soras as strong flyers with a demonstrated overnight (ten h) flight range of 700-900+ km. Given the potential size of fat reserves and the ability to use tail winds, it is conceivable for Soras to make nonstop flights from the Patuxent River to Florida, the Bahamas, or even the Caribbean. Once a widely hunted species, a single sport-hunting recovery from our 3,900 bandings attests to the decline in popularity of the Sora as a game bird in the Atlantic Flyway. We suggest the few between-year recaptures observed in our bandings results from three possible factors: 1) the strong influence of wind drift on migration, 2) different migration chronology or flight path of AHY versus HY birds, and/or 3) high mortality of especially HY birds during Atlantic coastal and Gulf crossings. The critical dependence of Soras and other seed-dependent, fall-migrant waterbirds on highly productive yet limited tidal freshwater marsh habitats make conservation of such areas a priority mission within the Chesapeake Bay.
25148281|Emergent tidal marshes are a dominant feature of the Chesapeake Bay's estuarine environment and account for an approximate 123,100 ha of the 185,870 ha (66%) of classified wetlands. Tidal marshes vary in salinity, structure, and plant composition according to their geographic position in the Bay. Chesapeake Bay marshes support breeding bird populations that are of regional or national conservation significance. Marsh bird communities vary with marsh type, geographic position, salinity, patch size, and landscape context. Marsh loss has been significant over the past two hundred years primarily as a result of urban, industrial, and agricultural development. Protective legislation enacted in the 1970s has slowed the rate of loss but marshes continue to be degraded and population of marsh birds continue to decline from the invasion of exotic species, ground predators, poor management practices, encroachment by development, and sea-level rise. Despite these concerns, there is still relatively little information on the population trends of most marsh birds or on the distribution of some of the Bay's highest species of concern such as Black Rails (Laterallus jamaicensis), King Rails (Rallus elegans), Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows (Ammospiza caudacuta), and Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii). Marshes along the bay's fringe, tributaries, and islands that currently support species at risk of extinction in the Bay are in immediate need of identification and protection. High marshes on the Delmarva peninsula, support greatest concentrations of species at risk and are marshes among the most at risk of loss and degradation. Management to reduce or abate threats to marsh birds is critical to their long term survival.
25148282| From 1986-2005, Virginia supported between 6% and 13% of the federally threatened Atlantic Coast Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) breeding population with an annual average of 111 nesting pairs (SD  25.0, range = 84-192 pairs). The statewide population remained relatively static from 1986-2003 (x = 104.4 pairs, SD  12.0, range = 84-127 pairs). In 2004, the population increased to 152 pairs and in the following year grew to 192 pairs. Over 95% of the state's Piping Plover breeding activity occurred on the barrier islands. From 1986-1997, five pairs or less were observed at Craney Island, a dredge material deposition site in Portsmouth and at Grandview Nature Preserve, a high-use recreation area located in the City of Hampton. Predators and human disturbance likely account for the present-day absence of nesting pairs from both inland sites. From 1990-2002, annual productivity studies revealed an annual average of 1.14 fledged young per pair (SD  0.4, range = 0.59-1.65). The 2003 breeding season marked the first time Piping Plover productivity approached two fledged young per pair, which was followed by another increase in 2004 when productivity rose to over two fledged young per pair. The virtual doubling of Virginia's breeding population observed in 2005 along with the recent increase in breeding success represents an important contribution to the overall security of the Atlantic Coast Piping Plover population. We attribute the vitality of Virginia's Piping Plover population to the combined effects of predator management, public education and outreach, and the unique conservation status of the barrier islands that affords plovers a level of protection not found elsewhere within the Atlantic coast breeding range. 
25148283|The conservation status of the American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus palliatus) along the Chesapeake Bay, coastal bays, and barrier island shorelines of Maryland and Virginia has been investigated in detail in recent years. The region supports approximately 700 breeding pairs with more than 80% occurring on the east coast of the Delmarva Peninsula and less than 20% occurring along the shorelines of the Chesapeake Bay. The number of breeding pairs in Maryland appears to have been stable or to have increased slightly during the past 20 years. The overall trend of the breeding population in Virginia is less clear, but recent evidence suggests that numbers on the barrier islands are increasing after more than two decades of a declining trend. The coastal bays and barrier islands typically support between 1,500 and 2,000 wintering birds with most occurring on the east coast of the Virginia portion of the Delmarva Peninsula. The shorelines of both states together play an important role in supporting core breeding and wintering populations of the American Oystercatcher in the eastern United States. Throughout the region, oystercatchers are facing threats common to all coastal waterbird and shorebird species such as predation and overwash events. The threat of habitat loss to development, however, is not as alarming as in other areas of the species's breeding range due to a significant amount of habitat being in protective conservation ownership or being unfit for development and recreation purposes. Habitat loss attributed to sea level rise, barrier island dynamics, and the indirect effects of development, such as pollution and contaminants, may play more important roles in the stability of breeding and wintering habitat for the American Oystercatcher in Maryland and Virginia.
25148284|In the past half century, many waterbird populations in Chesapeake Bay have declined or shifted ranges, indicating major ecological changes have occurred. While many studies have focused on the problems associated with environmental degradation such as the losses of coastal wetlands and submerged vegetation, a number of restoration efforts have been launched in the past few decades to reverse the "sea of despair." Most pertinent to waterbirds, restoration of submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) beds, tidal wetland restoration, oyster reef restoration, and island creation/restoration have benefited a number of species. State and federal agencies and nongovernment agencies have formed partnerships to spawn many projects ranging in size from less than 0.5 ha to ca. 1,000 ha. While most SAV, wetland, and oyster reef projects have struggled to different degrees over the past ten to twenty years with inconsistent methods, irregular monitoring, and unknown reasons for failures, recent improvements in techniques and application of adaptive management have been made. The large dredge-material island projects at Hart-Miller Island near Baltimore, Poplar Island west of Tilghman Island, Maryland, and Craney Island in Portsmouth, Virginia have provided large outdoor "laboratories" for wildlife, fishery, and wetland habitat creation. All three have proven to be important for nesting waterbirds and migrant shorebirds and waterfowl; however nesting populations at all three islands have been compromised to different degrees by predators. Restoration success for waterbirds and other natural resources depends on: (1) establishing realistic, quantifiable objectives and performance criteria, (2) continued monitoring and management (e.g., predator control), (3) targeted research to determine causality, and (4) careful evaluation under an adaptive management regime.
25148285|For decades, we have invested in research to document declining numbers of birds and the causes of those declines. But how much have we invested in trying to change the human behaviors that are affecting those declines, especially lately? Have we adequately used the knowledge of marketing specialists and economists? This paper looks at some of the root causes of bird population declines as they relate to human behaviors and attitudes and what the Virginia Coastal Zone Management Program is doing to try to reverse these trends. Human population growth, increasing separation of people from nature, sea-level rise, and the science-public information gap are four of the root causes identified; some proactive measures are suggested for improvements in each of these areas. Scientists need to become more proactive and engaged in the public discourse to try to get more environmental "buy-in" to reverse the environmental degradation we witness.
25148289|A population survey for Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus) was completed in the western United States and Canada in 2004 and 2005. This survey was conducted during the early breeding season, using a stratified random sample from habitat strata. The survey design was a 32-km road transect with 40 five-min point counts at 800-m intervals. Detection probabilities were estimated using the removal method in which observations in one-min intervals were removed from further consideration. Model selection based on Akaike's Information Criterion resulted in a model where detection probability varied among observers, but was constant throughout the point count for each observer. Estimated detection probabilities for the point count duration were greater than 0.68 for all observers. Counts were adjusted for detection probability and then used to estimate the mean density within surveyed point count plots. Overall, the range-wide estimate of total population size was 161,181 individuals. The estimates were 183,231 individuals for 2004 and 139,131 for 2005, with corresponding 90% confidence intervals of 113,324 to 422,046 and 97,611 to 198,252, respectively. In addition to estimates for both the United States and Canada, population densities were estimated for geographic sub-regions: Bird Conservation Regions, Shorebird Planning Regions, administrative regions, and for each Canadian province. Issues and assumptions inherent in the study design and their implications are discussed.
25148290| We estimated annual survival probabilities of color-banded adult Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) breeding in a colony on the Canadian shore of Lake Ontario, between 1981 and 1984, and between 1993 and 1998. During the study, major changes occurred in prey fish availability, fish-eating bird abundance, and organochlorine contaminant exposure. We used capture-mark-recapture models and an information-theoretic approach to model selection to explore the importance of indices for these environmental variables and the role of year and sex as exploratory effects. In our models, year but not sex acquired strong support suggesting important annual variation in our apparent survival (survival confounded by permanent emigration) and encounter probabilities. The arithmetic mean of our model-averaged apparent survival probabilities provided an estimate of 0.91 (0.02 SE), and four out of the seven estimates were high for the species (0.93). Our model-averaged estimates suggested that apparent survival declined after 1995 to a low of 0.79  0.07 (SE). Of the three environmental covariates fitted to survival, only the abundance of Alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus) acquired strong support as an explanatory variable. Annual fluctuations in survival and the decline after 1995 may be a reflection of nutritional stress resulting from the decreased availability of lipid (energy) and high quality protein from this prey species, following the arrival of the exotic Zebra Mussel (Dreissena polymorpha). These nutritional impacts may be exacerbated by some of the PCB-associated sublethal health effects documented in these gulls over the period of this study. Our limited success at isolating other important environmental covariates reinforces the difficulty posed in identifying the critical components of the complex of environmental variables encapsulated in 'time'. 
25148291|The nest survival of the Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger) in coastal Mississippi was modeled to better understand their breeding biology and suggest management strategies for protecting nesting colonies. During the 2004 and 2005 breeding seasons a total of 301 nests was monitored and hatching success was 67% in 2004 and 39% in 2005. Mean clutch size differed between years, although mean incubation length did not differ between years or between colonies on the mainland and barrier islands (P = 0.70). Nest survival was influenced by year, seasonal variation within year, clutch size, and colony. Nest survival was greatest in 2004, and within years nest survival followed a seasonal pattern where it was high from May through late June and then decreased through early August. Large clutches had greater survival than small clutches. There was considerable inter-colony variation in nest survival, and it appeared that low survival was correlated with disturbance risk at many colonies. This study provides the first detailed information on the nest survival of the Black Skimmer in Mississippi, increases the understanding of seasonal variation and other influences on nesting success, and provides a basis for suggesting conservation measures for this species during the nesting season.
25148292|Resightings of Razorbills (Alca torda) banded as chicks on the Gannet Islands, Labrador (N = 1,873 resightings of 638 individuals) and Machias Seal Island, New Brunswick (N = 870 resightings of 291 individuals) were used to estimate the timing and age at first return to the natal colony and age at first breeding. In total, 14 one-year-old and 110 two-year-old birds were observed on land. All one- and two-year-old birds were seen for the first time on the islands late in the breeding season after laying had occurred, with two-year-olds returning to the colony on average three weeks earlier than one-year-old birds. Age at first breeding was significantly lower on Machias Seal Island than the Gannet Islands, 3.88  0.13 SE and 4.40  0.13 SE years, respectively (range two to six years, N = 123). Four two-year-old birds were observed engaging in courtship and breeding behaviors, including copulation. Overall, age at first return and breeding was lower than for known European Razorbill colonies and is likely due to low breeding densities and fidelity at the two North American colonies studied.
25148293|Between 1989 and 2003 colonies of Little Terns (Sterna albifrons) occurring in the lagoon of Venice (55,000 ha; Italy) have been surveyed. Each year the number of breeding pairs ranged between 31 (in 1997) and 611 (in 1995), with a yearly mean of 205 (SD = 163). An overall stability in breeding numbers was observed, with an increase from 1989 to 1995 and a decrease afterwards. 34 sites were used; 13 (38%) were saltmarsh islets, twelve (35%) dredge islands, four (12%) beaches and the remaining five (15%) artificial beaches. Colony size median ranged between 25 and 15 pairs, with no differences among site typology. Sites used each year ranged between one and twelve, with a mean of 4.7  3.0 sites. Turn over rate was high, 60%, and it did not vary significantly among colony sites type. Larger colonies were not more stable than smaller ones. Despite historically breeding at both beaches and saltmarshes, over the 15 years of study a shift in colony sites from beaches to saltmarshes and from these to dredge islands has been documented. Dredge islands, taken as a whole, were over the last years the most important breeding site in the entire lagoon.
25148294|We conducted multiple Common Goldeneye (Bucephala clangula) aerial surveys between 1 May and 31 July 2004 and 2005 on the Pribonka River, where a new hydroelectric reservoir will be created in 2007. We also conducted single pair and brood surveys on randomly chosen 5  5-km plots on the River drainage basin. Objectives were to assess the validity of the impact assessment surveys of 2002, examine the variation in pair and brood numbers, and determine recruitment and habitat characteristics related to productivity. During both years, the number of indicated breeding pairs (IBPs) declined steadily through May, whereas the social index (paired males/lone males) remained stable, declining only when few IBPs were located. However, backdated number of paired and lone males from observed broods suggested that the number of pairs remained maximal and constant during a three-week period centered on the fourth week of May in 2004 and the second week of May in 2005. IBP density (IBPs/10 km of shoreline) was 1.40 on the River and 0.64 in its drainage basin on average in 2005 (no surveys in 2004). When compared to results of the Black Duck Joint Venture (BDJV) surveys, IBP density was higher on the River by 0.69 IBPs in 2002, whereas densities in the two areas differed only by 0.07-0.29 in 2004 and 2005. No difference in brood density was perceived among survey sections and years. Recruitment rate was 0.15 in 2002, but increased to 0.57-0.67 in 2005 and 2004. Variables related to wetland area and distance to wetlands explained most variability in IBP and brood locations. We believe that timing of surveys and weather were the primary factors that affected difference in productivity estimates between 2002 and the 2004-2005 period.
25148295|We used logistic regression to model the effects of weather, habitat, and management variables on Greater Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis tabida) nest success at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in southeast Oregon. We monitored 506 nests over 9 breeding seasons. Mean apparent nest success was 72%  4% and varied from 51 to 87%. Nest success was lower one year after a field was burned and declined with nest initiation date. Nest success was higher during warmer springs, in deeper water, and in years with moderate precipitation. Haying, livestock grazing, and predator control did not influence nest success. We suggest the short-term consequence of burning on nest success is outweighed by its long term importance and that water level management is the most important tool for managing crane nest success. Finally, studies of brood ecology are needed to develop a more complete picture of crane nesting ecology.
25148296|Habitat use patterns are influenced not only by characteristics of the habitat itself, but also by the nature of the surrounding landscape. Conservation of waterbirds in agricultural areas, therefore, needs to consider the effects of landscape patterns on the occurrence of species in individual fields. The relationships between the densities of waterbirds using flooded rice fields in winter and characteristics of the surrounding landscape were analyzed in California's Sacramento Valley. The spatial scale at which the landscape was described was varied by calculating the amount of each habitat type within 2 km, 5 km, and 10 km of each field's boundary. Waterbird densities in flooded fields were related to landscape patterns in various ways, but the nature of the relationships differed among taxonomic groups and depended on the scale at which the landscape was characterized. Densities of geese, wading birds, and shorebirds were positively correlated with the amount of wildlife refuge or semi-natural wetland in the vicinity of a flooded field. These two variables were highly correlated with each other and their effects could not be assessed independently. The abundance of flooded rice fields in the landscape was less likely to be related to bird use of flooded fields, but was positively related to duck densities at a 5 km scale and negatively related to shorebird densities at a 10 km scale. These results suggest a number of hypotheses about the ways in which landscape scale patterns of farmland management might affect waterbird use of individual fields, with potential repercussions for both birds and farmers.
25148297| Increased human use of coastal areas threatens the United States population of American Oystercatchers (Haematopus palliatus), a species of special concern. Biologists often attribute its low numbers and reproductive success to human disturbance, but the mechanism by which human presence reduces reproductive success is not well understood. During the 2003 and 2004 breeding seasons, 32 nesting attempts of American Oystercatchers were studied on Cumberland Island National Seashore (CINS). Behavior was examined with and without human activity in the area to determine how human activity affected behavior. The oystercatchers' behavioral responses (proportion time) were analyzed with and without human or intraspecific disturbances using mixed models regression analysis. Proportions of time human activities were present (300 m from oystercatchers) during observations averaged 0.14 (N = 32, 95% CI = 0.08-0.20). During incubation, pedestrian activity near (137 m) oystercatchers reduced the frequency of occurrence of reproductive behavior, but pedestrian activity far (138-300 m) from oystercatchers had no effect. Vehicular and boat activities (300 m) had minimal effects on behavior during incubation. During brood rearing, an effect of pedestrian activity near oystercatchers was not evident; however, pedestrian activity far from oystercatchers increased the frequency of reproductive behavior. Vehicular and boat activity had no effects on behavior during brood rearing. Of 32 nesting attempts, two failed (<10%) because of human disturbance and were located in areas of greater human activity (south end). Managers on CINS should minimize pedestrian activity near nests (137 m) during incubation. During brood rearing, protection from pedestrian activity should be increased, when possible, to >137 m and vehicular activity should be minimized at current levels or less. 
25148298|Breeding success of African Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus moquini) was monitored over three austral summers on Robben Island, South Africa from 2001 to 2004. Robben Island is a busy tourist destination which has a resident population that live and work on the island in addition to tourists that visit the island daily. Potential predators of birds' eggs and chicks include feral cats (Felis catus), Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus), Mole Snakes (Pseudaspis cana) and House Rats (Rattus rattus). The mean number of fledglings per pair declined from 0.74 in the first breeding season to 0.41 and 0.35 in the subsequent breeding seasons. This fledgling success slightly exceeded the threshold estimated to maintain a stable population, and is similar to fledging success observed in other oystercatcher species. The lower fledging success in the second and third breeding seasons compared to the first breeding season were increased depredation of eggs and chicks and high-tide events on 17 February 2003 and 10 February 2004. Predation can be aggravated by human disturbance, and it was found that the area with greatest resident and tourist activity had the greatest egg and chick losses in all three breeding seasons. The area adjacent to the disturbed area had reduced breeding success in the second breeding season, possibly a result of increased predation associated with the settlement. Breeding success near the Kelp Gull breeding colony decreased in the third breeding season; the period during which the greatest number of Kelp Gulls were breeding. The potential success of a breeding attempt decreased if incubation of the clutch started later in the breeding season.
25148299|The spring condition hypothesis (SCH) states that the current decline of the Norht American scaup population (Lesser [Aythya affinis] and Greater Scaup [A. marila] combined) is due to a decline in quality or availability of scaup foods on wintering, spring migration, or breeding areas that has caused a reduction in female body condition and subsequent reproductive success. Our previous research indicated that forage quality in diets of Lesser Scaup (hereafter scaup) at two sites in Northwestern Minnesota was lower in springs 2000-2001 than that reported for springs 1986-1988, consistent with the SCH. Accordingly, we further tested the SCH at a landscape scale, by comparing amounts of amphipods in diets (index of forage quality) of scaup (N = 263) collected in springs 2003-2005 from seven eco-physiographic regions in Iowa, Minnesota, and North Dakota in relation to data from Northwestern Minnesota during springs 2000-2001. We found that aggregate percentages of Gammarus lacustris and Hyalella azteca (amphipods) in scaup diets during springs 2000-2001 in Northwest Minnesota were similar to those in the Iowa Prairie Pothole, Minnesota Morainal, Minnesota Glaciated Plains, Red River Valley, and Northwestern Minnesota in springs 2003-2005; however, scaup consumed relatively higher aggregate percentages of Gammarus lacustris and Hyalella azteca in North Dakota Missouri Coteau and North Dakota Glaciated Plains. Females in Iowa were over three times less likely to have consumed food than those in North Dakota, despite previous research indicating similar foraging rates among these regions. Mean mass of scaup diet samples throughout the upper-Midwest were 77 mg (49%) and 87 mg (52%) lower than those of historical studies in Minnesota and Manitoba, respectively. We conclude that there has been a decrease in forage quality for scaup in Iowa and Minnesota and a decrease in the amount of forage consumed throughout the upper-Midwest, consistent with the SCH.
25148300| Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) chick growth, diet, feeding rate and early survival and adult body condition were quantified on Hornya, North Norway in 2002 and 2003 after a long-term change in diet from large Capelin (Mallotus villosus) and Sand Lance (Ammodytes spp.) in the early 1980s to smaller, poorer quality gadids, Sand Lance and Herring (Clupea harengus). The results were compared with data collected in 1980-1982, when feeding conditions were considered very favourable. Chick growth was similar in both periods. The breeding adults compensated for reduced food quality by increasing the feeding frequency, such that the chicks received the same amount of fish (g d and kJ d) or even more in 2002-2003. This increase in activity did not, however, result in a decline in adult body mass, suggesting that prey were abundant close to the colony and that the parents did not suffer from the apparent increased feeding effort. 
25148301| In this study, the relationship between physical attributes of sandy beaches, levels of human disturbance, and shorebird occurrence was investigated. The linear density km of shorebirds on 42 km of sandy beaches in Monterey Bay, California was documented from late autumn through spring, and the relationship of shorebird densities to two physical variables (slope of beach swash zone, total beach width), one spatial variable (distance to Elkhorn Slough, a wetland of regional importance for shorebirds), and relative level of human disturbance was analyzed using stepwise multiple regression. The six most abundant species were Sanderling (Calidris alba), Willet (Tringa semipalmata), Marbled Godwit (Limosa fedoa), Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola), Whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus) and Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus). Mean abundance of four of the six most abundant species (Marbled Godwit, Willet, Whimbrel, Black-bellied Plover) was negatively related to swash zone slope; flatter beaches supported more shorebirds. Mean abundance of all species analyzed was negatively related to distance to Elkhorn Slough; beaches closer to the mouth of Elkhorn Slough supported more shorebirds. Total beach width had no effect on shorebird occurrence, and level of human use appeared to have no effect. Most shorebird species were more abundant on beaches at low than at high tide, indicating that sandy beaches provide important foraging habitat regionally. 
25148302|Urban populations of several gull species worldwide are increasing dramatically and this is often assumed to be a result of greater access to anthropogenic food obtained in urbanized environments. This research investigated the potential effects of an anthropogenic diet on the mass and body condition of Silver Gulls (Larus novaehollandiae) by comparing birds at a remote, non-urbanized site (Furneaux Island Group) with those at an urbanized (Hobart) site in Tasmania, Australia. The mass, size and body condition of gulls were independent of whether or not a bird was breeding, and independent of the stage in the breeding cycle. Male gulls from this urban environment were heavier and of greater body condition than the structurally identical, non-urban gulls, but no differences were detected between females.
25148303|Although shorebirds are detrimentally affected by marine oil spills, they are often overlooked during rescue and rehabilitation efforts. This note describes a rescue and successful rehabilitation effort of an oiled adult and a juvenile Hooded Plover (Thinornis rubricollis) in Victoria, south-eastern Australia, during an oil-spill which oiled almost 1% of the State's population of this threatened beach-nesting species. Two birds requiring intervention were located, selectively captured, cleaned and released. Both have survived at least two years after the spill and have bred, with at least one successfully fledging young. The fledgling has also successfully bred. Two nests with eggs present during clean-up operations were protected and hatched successfully. This small case study indicates that at least some groups of breeding shorebirds, such as plovers and dotterels, can be effectively rescued and rehabilitated during oil spills, and hence should not be overlooked during such circumstances.
25148304|In herbivorous birds the processing rate of food is constrained by gizzard capacity. To enhance digestive processes, many species ingest grit to grind the food. Grit ingestion, however, may further limit the capacity of the gizzard. Graylag Geese (Anser anser) wintering in SW Spain fed mainly on Alkali Bulrush (Scirpus maritimus) tubers, showing a preference for small tubers. This preference may be due to a faster disintegration of small tubers than larger ones inside the gizzard. As larger tubers are likely coarser than smaller tubers, more grit would be necessary to process larger tubers. However, the ingestion of more grit to grind large tubers would be at the expense of ingesting additional tubers because of gizzard capacity limitations. Under these circumstances, there may be an inverse relationship between tuber size and amount of grit ingested to optimize food ingestion. Indeed, we found such a relationship. Grit facilitated the disintegration of tubers. This suggests that relying on some amount of grit to facilitate the grinding of food should outweigh the loss of gizzard capacity to the amount of food ingested.
25148305|We measured Sanderlings (Calidris alba) at Chaplin Lake, Canada during the northward migration and compared data with unpublished information from wintering grounds of Chile and Peru. The morphological analysis show significant differences in weights between and amongst localities. These results can be explained by the period of the migration cycle in which the birds were measured. The birds were significantly heavier at the end of the non-breeding season and during migration.
25148306|A total of 2,395 hybrid records were obtained from Central Europe [Austria (N = 45), Belgium (N = 229), Germany (N = 1,628), France (N = 82), Netherlands (N = 9), Switzerland (N = 392), other countries (N = 10)]. Diving duck hybrids were most common (60%) followed by those of geese. Records of hybrids increased significantly between 1934 and 2006. Crosses of indigenous species made up 1,795 of all records and 600 records were crosses with at least one non-native or alien invasive species. Hybrids within the genera Anas, Aythya and between diving and dabbling ducks occurred more often between indigenous species than expected, while geese hybrids occurred more often with non-native species. Aythya hybrids showed a clear seasonal pattern with a peak of numbers during midwinter while most of the Anser hybrids are rather sedentary. Increases in hybrid records may be due to increased use of field guides and number of observers.
25148307|Fledgling Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were observed practicing food manipulation techniques with large sticks, algae, and shells at their respective natal colonies in eastern Lake Ontario, North Channel of Lake Huron, and Lake of the Woods. Although practice behaviors have been documented for other species of waterbirds, this behavior has not been recorded previously for Double-crested Cormorants.
25148308|On 22 March 2007, I observed Royal Terns (Sterna maxima) flushing and capturing flying fish off the northern tip of the Yucatan Peninsula. Individual terns struck the water which flushed flying fish out of the water and allowed other terns to capture them in midair. This observation is an example of opportunistic foraging by conspecifics.
25148316|Abdim's Storks Ciconia abdimii were studied in a post-breeding staging area dominated by Sahelian grasslands in southeastern Niger. In late September 2003, a total of 5,763 birds was recorded on systematic transect counts. The estimated density was 5.66 per km, equivalent to a total of c. 17,000 Abdim's Stork within the utilized area of 3,000 km. A high percentage of juveniles in the flocks in late August, when the Nigerien breeding population is still at their nests, indicate a southern origin of the birds. The storks probably make northward post-breeding movements into the Sahel to feed on locally abundant food supplies, first of all Senegalese Grasshopper Oedaleus senegalensis, the dominant grasshopper species in the area. The mean density of Oedaleus in late September 2003 was 11.2 per m (6.7 g fresh weight/m). Storks feeding on grasshoppers made on average 5.6 successful pecks per min during their first h of daily feeding, enabling them to fulfil 95% of their daily energy requirements within one h. In 2005, Oedaleus densities were only 5.1 per m (2.8 g fresh weight/m). Foraging storks made on average 2.5 and 1.9 successful pecks per min during the first and second h of daily feeding, respectively, and even two h of active foraging allowed them to fulfil only 70-75% of their daily needs. As a probable consequence, the storks left the area earlier than in 2003. Flocks of Abdim's Stork are able to significantly reduce grasshopper densities in frequently used areas, but their impact on Oedaleus numbers within the 3,000 km utilized area as a whole is probably negligible. However, the impact of the storks should not be viewed in isolation.
25148317| We determined whether lipid extraction of seabird muscle, liver and feathers is required for C and N analysis, based on a study of Barau's Petrels (Pterodroma baraui) and White-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon lepturus). Samples were analyzed for stable isotopes before and after lipid removal. Lipid-free muscle and liver were significantly enriched in C compared to those containing lipids (0.52 and 0.61 mean differences in C respectively) implying that lipids should be extracted from these tissues to avoid effects of uncontrolled differential lipid content. However lipid extraction also slightly increased muscle N values in tropicbirds. Researchers should thus run samples separately for C and N analysis, extracting lipids only in aliquots in which C is measured, or apply arithmetic C normalization methods on non lipid-extracted samples. Predictive models developed from our data, inferring C values of lipid-extracted material from C values and C:N ratios of non lipid-extracted material are presented and compared to five normalization methods taken from literature. Our models showed the best prediction efficiencies followed by that developed by McConnaughey and McRoy (1979). In feathers, no difference in stable isotopic measurements were noted between aliquots treated with sodium hydroxide or 2:1 chloroform:methanol. Both protocols seem suitable for preparing feather samples for isotopic analysis. 
25148318|I examined the food exploitation patterns of three day herons, Great Egret (Ardea alba), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Tricolored Heron (E. tricolor) and a nocturnal species, the Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) that nested together in an estuarine colony. Types and sizes of prey were determined by analyzing the food of nestlings. These data were evaluated in light of relative abundance of prey, which was based on fish collected in nearby tidal creeks. The majority of food items (43%) taken by the heron assembly consisted of a two species of nekton, Mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus) and Grass Shrimp (Palaemonetes pugio). Among the day herons, dietary compositions overlapped to the extent expected if each individual was foraging randomly. The diet of the Black-crowned Night-Heron diverged significantly from those of the Snowy Egret and Tricolored Heron, but not from that of the Great Egret. Considering relative abundance of different sized Mummichogs, the lengths of dietary Mummichogs overlapped as expected between each heron species. The three day herons coincided in their use of feeding microhabitats, most of which were in the intertidal zone. I found no evidence of social foraging: group sizes of feeding herons were the same as those of herons engaged in other activities, and most birds foraged alone. Foraging birds were rarely aggressive. Similarities (overlaps) in resource exploitation, as measured by type and size of prey and by microhabitat use, were as expected under a null model. Only two of 15 pairwise overlaps were less than expected; two were greater than expected. The four heron species formed an assembly of opportunists, whose members took prey according to abundance. The results provide little evidence that the herons partitioned food resources in any significant way. The lack of competitive or cooperative interactions between herons may be related to the superabundance of a few prey species, a condition probably typical of most estuaries.
25148319|We assessed potential factors contributing to variation in counts of staging Bonaparte's Gulls (Larus philadelphia) on the Niagara River in southern Ontario. Much of the Mississippi Flyway population of this species stages each autumn at this site, en route to the Gulf coast and Mexico. Between 1986-96, weekly or bi-weekly counts were made of gulls flying to their nocturnal roost at the mouth of the Niagara River entering Lake Ontario, to assess the seasonal and temporal patterns of movement. Counts began each year in early October, corresponding to the 'second wave' of gulls. Generally, this second wave of autumn movements began in early October to late November (median 1 November) and continued until late January or mid-February (median 5 February). Model selection based on a repeated measures analysis (Generalized Estimating Equations) demonstrated a quadratic relationship between counts and time of year and a linear relationship with daily count duration. Less evidence existed for the role of mean daily temperature in explaining variation (positive relationship) in counts; more data, or inclusion of different weather variables (e.g., wind, cloud cover), may demonstrate that it is more important than our models suggest. Maximum counts were from early November to late January (median 6 December). Peak daily totals per season varied between 6,300 (1993/94) and 40,000 (1990/91). Migration counts may be useful to help monitor populations of this species, provided that variables affecting seasonality in counts are accounted for and the turnover rate of individual gulls staging in the area is determined (e.g., through mark-recapture or radio-telemetry studies).
25148320|Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) is monomorphic in plumage such that sexes cannot be separated by plumage characteristics. In contrast, it displays sexual size dimorphism, with males generally being larger than females. Sexual dimorphism and variability in size of the continental Great Cormorant (P. c. sinensis) was studied in Greece to develop useful sexing techniques using morphometric measurements. Body mass, wing, culmen, and tarsus length of 81 birds controlled under license were measured during the wintering season in 1999-2002. The sex of each bird was determined by dissection and gonadal inspection. Forward stepwise discriminant analyses were performed to provide reliable functions that would enable the prediction of sex of a bird. Differences in size between adult and juvenile birds were not significant in both sexes, whereas males were larger than females in all measurements. Body mass (19.2%) and culmen length (11.1%) were the most dimorphic variables of those looked at followed by tarsus (6.5%) and wing (6.1%) length. Although wing length was the least dimorphic variable, it also displayed the lowest coefficient of variation (2.3%) thus being the best single measurement for separating the sexes. Three discriminant functions that correctly classified 92.6-95.1% of Great Cormorants of this sample were produced. These functions were reliable (similar accuracy for discriminant analysis and jackknife validation) and seasonally unbiased, as body mass was excluded from the analyses. The function including wing and culmen length as variables showed somewhat lower accuracy when tested with a new sample from The Netherlands suggesting that the obtained functions should be applied with caution to other populations, especially within the area of overlap between the sexes, unless inter-population sources of variation (e.g., geographic variation, hybridization, inter-observer bias) are sufficiently understood.
25148321|We used feathers and skeletal measurements, white and black areas at the wing tip and bill morphometrics of Yellow-legged Gulls (Larus michahellis lusitanius) in order to test for possible sex-differences. Overall, 157 individuals from the eastern Bay of Biscay (N Spain) were measured, and the sex determined in 155 individuals, by means of DNA-analyses. All feathers and skeletal-associated measurements, except the distance between each primary (P1 to P5) feather and the wing tip in a folded wing varied between the sexes, with males being larger than females. Sexual selection is discussed to be the major cause explaining these differences. A discriminant function is provided to separate sexes. By contrast, both wing tip patterns of coloration and bill morphology did not vary between sex classes.
25148322|Numbers of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) have declined dramatically in at least one important breeding area in the Western Canadian Arctic (WCA) and the regional population is small and widely scatered. The overall Pacific Flyway Population, to which the WCA Brant belong, has declined historically as well, probably in part due to high rates of harvest and low rates of survival during the 1960s and 1970s. To better understand how changes in survival rates may have influenced WCA Brant, band recoveries and recaptures were used to estimate historical (1962-67 and 1975-79), and more recent (1991-2001) survival rates. On the mainland WCA, adult survival rates (derived from band recoveries) averaged 0.719  SE 0.045 and 0.693  0.082 in the 1960s and 1970s, respectively but increased significantly (P < 0.05) to 0.884  0.052 (based on band recoveries of both sexes) or 0.886  0.025 (based on recaptured females) during 1991-2001. Comparable survival rates for juvenile Brant, derived from band recoveries only, were 0.216  0.051, 0.460  0.112, and 0.694  0.205, and increased significantly over time. On Banks Island, located 250 km northeast of our mainland study site, adult survival rates averaged 0.945  0.037 during 1992-94. The harvest of Pacific Flyway Brant has declined substantially since the 1960s which possibly explains much of the observed increase in survival estimates in WCA Brant. The most recent survival estimates for WCA Brant are as high as, or higher than, those for other areas in arctic North America or Eurasia. Managing harvest to maintain current levels of survival, and maintaining or increasing current levels of productivity (known to have declined in at least one important breeding area) may be required to maintain WCA Brant at present population levels.
25148323| Inferences on seabird ecology from stable isotopes ratios (C, N) and mercury concentrations analysis of feathers have been made for temperate and polar species but are far more rare for tropical species. In this paper, we used this approach combined with analysis of regurgitations and feeding observations at colonies to examine diet segregation between Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) and Lesser Noddies (Anous tenuirostris) breeding sympatrically on Aride Island (Seychelles), western Indian Ocean. Our results indicated extensive overlap between the two species in trophic level and foraging area during the breeding season. Goatfish predominated (93-97%) in all diet samples of adults and chicks collected in the colonies, except in prey fed to mates by Roseate Terns, of which scad and tuna comprised 20%. The isotopic analyses of feathers replaced by adults during molt (primary and body feathers) suggested, however, that the two species differ in foraging ecology during the nonbreeding period. Roseate Tern adults had consistently lower N values than Lesser Noddies which, in turn, had N values comparable to those of chick feathers grown on Aride. Moreover, low but similar mercury levels were found in body feathers of Lesser Noddy adults and Roseate Tern chicks, whereas Roseate Tern adults were significantly more contaminated. Overall, these results support the hypothesis that the Lesser Noddy is largely sedentary, being associated with the same food web in the vicinity of the colonies year-round. In contrast, Roseate Terns rely on distinct prey during the molting (nonbreeding) season which may be also consistent with a change in food web (i.e., a migratory regime) although the assignment of potential wintering areas remain difficult without isotopic basemaps currently available for the Indian Ocean. 
25148324|The Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) is a federally listed species with three distinct breeding populations, including Great Plains (threatened), Great Lakes (endangered), and Atlantic Coast (threatened), all of which winter along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States. The spatial distribution and site fidelity of wintering Piping Plovers was investigated on Little St. Simons Island (LSSI), Georgia, from 2003-2006, with emphasis on the conservation significance of this site for the endangered Great Lakes population. Of the individually recognizable color-banded plovers observed on LSSI during 2003-2004 (N = 39), 31% (N = 12) were observed the following year; 69% (N = 9) of plovers that wintered in 2003-2004 returned to winter in 2004-2005. Although good winter survival in 2003-2004 was estimated, survival estimates dramatically declined in 2004-2005. Even with low survival estimates for 2004-2005, 44% of these wintering individuals returned to winter in 2005-2006. Wintering plovers on LSSI were site faithful to particular sections of beaches and occupied small home-ranges. These data on site fidelity and home-range suggest that relatively small areas on LSSI may be of disproportionate importance to wintering Piping Plovers. Critical habitat designations should take account of this within-island variation, and modest detection rates suggest plover numbers could be underestimated by single-visit surveys throughout their winter range.
25148325|Approximately 7,610 to 3,175 pairs of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) nested along 420 river km of the Upper Mississippi River (UMR) from 1993 to 2003. Numbers declined precipitously in the mid-1990s stabilizing somewhat in the early 2000s. The average number of nests in colonies was 349 (SD = 283). Annual colony turn over rate for the eleven year period was 0.15 and ranged from 0.06 to 0.29 each year. The number of years that a colony was active was positively correlated with the average number of nests present while the colony was active. Of the eight colonies active in 1993 that averaged more than 349 nests, four were abandoned by 2003. Only one colony grew to greater than 349 nests during the study period. Custer et al. (2004) suggested that herons on the UMR may be limited by forage resources or foraging habitat and social factors, as evidenced by the even spacing of colonies that reflects the maximum feeding range of herons on the river. To rule out nesting and foraging habitat limitation, landscape habitat features of terrestrial and aquatic areas were examined for colony areas and areas without colonies. Available fish monitoring data were used to examine potential interactions between herons and forage resources. Colony areas did not differ from areas without colonies in any habitat feature. Indices of potential heron forage fish increased from 1993 to 2002, although low indices of fish abundance in 1993 were likely influenced by flood conditions that year. Although fish availability to herons is related to flows and water levels, available data suggested that herons did not negatively impact their potential forage base. Numbers of herons were not correlated with indices of fish abundance from the preceding year on a pool-wide scale. Indices of fish abundance were higher within 5 km of colonies than farther than 5 km from colonies, and indices of fish abundance increased from June through August both near and far from colonies. Numbers of herons and locations and sizes of colonies varied annually, whereas landscape features typically vary little if at all from year to year. Indices of fish abundance also varied greatly by sample location and year. Disturbance, particularly by humans in this highly used river, should be examined in relation to limiting foraging opportunities and influencing behavior (colony and individual) and productivity in colonies.
25148326|Three statewide surveys in South Carolina for American Oystercatchers, Haematopus palliatus, were conducted during the breeding season from 2001-2003. A mean of 1,105 oystercatchers were recorded each year. In 2002, 407 breeding pairs were documented and in 2003, 397 pairs. There were 378 nonbreeding oystercatchers in 2002 and 383 in 2003. The Cape Romain Region supported a majority of South Carolina's breeding pairs and nonbreeding flocks. Oystercatchers nested, on average, closer to each other on estuarine islands, (specifically made of shell) and farthest apart on edge shell mounds. Although historically oystercatchers may have nested primarily on front beaches, this study documented only 28% of the breeding pairs on barrier island beaches, 27% on estuarine islands and 45% on edge shell mounds. Twenty-four percent of all pairs in South Carolina were on edge shell mounds adjacent to the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway (AIWW). Nesting on shell mounds may become increasingly important as beaches become more disturbed by humans and dogs.
25148327|Least Terns (Sternula antillarum) have been documented as nesting along the central Platte River of Nebraska since 1949. The very first accounts of birds were on an island "which was formed in the dredging of sand" (Wycoff 1950). Since that time more than 90% of the documented nests occur on human created habitats consisting of commercial gravel mines and constructed river islands. From 1991 to 2005, Least Tern nests were monitored at sandpits that were managed specifically for nesting Least Terns and islands constructed in the Platte River and managed specifically to provide nest sites for Least Terns. In addition a set of sandpits which did not receive any management were monitored from 1994 to 1997 to compare reproductive output to the managed sandpits. During the study period 647 Least Tern nests were documented at all sites. Of the nests observed 125 were on unmanaged sandpits, 473 were on managed sandpits and 49 were on islands. Hatching success for those nests was 38% on unmanaged sandpits, 65% on managed sandpits and 71% on constructed riverine islands. A total of 639 Least Tern chicks were observed to have fledged from these nests. Production of fledged chicks per nest for each type of nesting site were unmanaged sandpits 0.56 fledglings/nest, managed sandpits 1.13 chicks/nest and islands 1.04 chicks/nest. Nest success and fledgling survival was significantly greater at managed sandpits than unmanaged sandpits in the 1994 to 1997 time period.
25148328|A previously undocumented thermoregulatory behavior of adult cormorants for their pre-fledged young was recorded during observations of a Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) colony in Lake of the Woods, Ontario. Many adult cormorants were observed regurgitating water over their chicks' bodies. The authors believe that the warm temperature, intense sun, and calm winds during the observation periods were the primary factors triggering this previously undocumented thermoregulatory behavior.
25148329|A complete tarsometatarsus from a small Pleistocene sinkhole in northwest central Cuba is identified as that of a Bare-throated Tiger-Heron Tigrisoma mexicanum. This constitutes the first record of any kind of tiger-heron (subfamily Tigrisomatinae) in the West Indies. The extinction of the species in Cuba is perhaps attributable to habitat loss due to climatic change.
25148330|We report a new locality for the Brazilian Merganser (Mergus octosetaceus), a critically endangered species from Southern and Central South America. The species' range is considerably extended to the East, and a new habitat and basin used by the species are given. The species was found near the city of Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais State, Brazil, located in a transition zone between the Cerrado and the Atlantic Forest biomes. Our finding improve a little bit the hope for the conservation of the species but more detailed studies to determine if there is a resident population, or if we recorded a vagrant bird, are necessary.
25148331|Fidelity of individual shorebirds to stopover sites between years has been documented in only a few species. In May 2005, we recaptured a migrant male Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri) on the Copper River Delta, Alaska, 5.8 km from its original 2004 capture site. We classified the individual as a first-year bird in 2004 and as an adult in 2005. This report extends our knowledge of site fidelity in migrant shorebirds to one of the most common species on the west coast of North America, and to a small geographic area within a larger stopover site.
25148332|Most species of wading birds are monomorphic and present few or no external characteristics to allow for sex determination in the field. We used standard morphometric measurements and discriminant function analysis to determine the sex of Great Egrets (Ardea alba) and White Ibises (Eudocimus albus). The models were validated based on sex determination from DNA. Two functions were created for Great Egrets; mass reliably discriminated 88% of our samples, while wing chord separated 81% of our samples. We included mass in the discriminant function analysis for Great Egrets because mass did not vary between years or within our pre-breeding sampling period. Mass was not included in our analysis of White Ibis because it differed by year and within our pre-breeding sampling period. White Ibis samples were separated by a discriminant function using the length of curved bill and tarsus. This function correctly classified 78% of our samples. We provide simplified linear equations to calculate the sex of Great Egrets and White Ibises as well as cut off points where the probability of correctly sexing individuals drops below 75%. Our model can be used to reduce the costs of sex determination by allowing researchers to use expensive DNA analysis techniques only for those individuals that cannot be reliably classified using the simple statistical model.
25148339|We used 19 years of mark-recapture/resighting data collected on 11,020 birds from 1988-2006 at five colony sites in Massachusetts, New York, and Connecticut, USA, to examine temporal variation in the survival rates of adult Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) during periods of overall population increase (1988-2000) and decline (2000-2006). Roseate Terns nested at only one colony site in Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts at the start of this period, but two more sites in this area were recolonized as the study progressed. Adult survival rates varied temporally in different ways at the different colony sites, but for the five sites combined they did not differ between the period of overall population increase (0.835  0.006 SE) and the period of population decline (0.835  0.008 SE). As expected based on previous work, adult survival from 1991 to 1992 was lowered as a result of a severe hurricane in August 1991. An oil spill in Buzzards Bay in April 2003 did not appear to result in lower survival of the birds nesting at the sites in this area compared to those nesting at the other two study sites in New York and Connecticut. Temporal variation in other vital rates of this species (such as postfledging survival) needs to be examined to determine the likely cause(s) of the recent population decline.
25148340| Roseate terns are rare and restricted range breeders in NW Europe, with a population size of below 1,100 pairs and 95% of these within four colonies. The apparent survival and breeding dispersal rates of adults was estimated from live resighting data collected at three of the largest colonies between 1995 and 2007. These parameters were estimated using a multi-state model implemented in program MARK, with transition rates equating to breeding dispersal. The program U-CARE identified transience and trap-dependence in the data and so these effects were specified in the model. Time-averaged apparent survival rates were 0.735 yr for birds during the interval following their first encounter and 0.855 yr for "older" birds. Survival varied among years but not colonies. Breeding dispersal rates varied among colonies, being highest towards the largest and most productive colony, intermediate in the reverse direction and lowest between the two smaller colonies. Since the largest colony is not en route to either of the smaller colonies this observation cannot be explained by the order in which birds encounter sites during spring migration, so we propose that birds either follow the bulk of birds migrating north in spring or choose to breed there after prospecting during the staging period of the previous year. The differences in numbers breeding at each colony, however, mean that the numbers moving in different directions among colonies broadly balance out, such that net movements in terms of the number of individuals involved are relatively small. 
25148341|Survival of tropical Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) from the western Indian Ocean was modeled using a capture-mark-recapture dataset of 102 breeding adults ringed and resighted on Aride Island, Seychelles, from 2002 to 2007. The effect of covariates reflecting oceanographic conditions and resighting effort was also examined during the modeling. A time-invariant survival rate was best supported by our data, with annual adult survival estimated at 0.807  0.033 (SE). Resighting probability was found to be influenced by sea-surface temperature (SST) anomalies, as expressed by the mean Indian Ocean Dipole mode index recorded during the nonbreeding period. Years of higher SST in the western part of the Indian Ocean in September-April (8 months) corresponded to a lower probability of resighting adults at the colony during the breeding season (May-August), which may be related to a tendency for some adults to refrain from breeding in less favorable years. Comparing our results with temperate studies, Roseate Terns breeding on Aride were found to exhibit similar survival estimates. Consequently, this study does not support the hypothesis that tropical Roseate Terns may counterbalance their lower fecundity (clutch size and breeding success) compared to their temperate and northern-hemisphere counterparts (Europe, North America, Caribbean) by relatively higher survival rates.
25148342|Capture-recapture data from two disparate breeding populations of Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) captured together as non-breeding individuals from 2002 to 2007 in the southern Great Barrier Reef, Australia were analyzed for both survival rate and recapture rate. The average annual survival rate for the two populations in the study area was estimated at 0.850. There is strong evidence that the average annual survival rate for the birds from the Asian population (S. d. bangsi) (0.901) is higher than that of the other population of unknown breeding origin (0.819). There was large variability in survival in both populations among years, but the average survival rate of 0.85 is similar to estimates for the same species in North America. The Cormack-Jolly-Seber models used in program MARK to estimate survival rates also produced estimates of recapture probabilities and population sizes. These estimates of population size were 29,000 for S. d. bangsi and 8,300 for the 'unknown' group. The population estimate for S. d. bangsi is double the visual estimates of the numbers in the study area and much larger than the documented numbers in the likely breeding areas, suggesting that many breeding sites are currently unknown.
25148343| This paper presents a summary of the four preceding papers and integrates them with previously-published data to compare demographic parameters of Roseate Terns breeding in tropical and temperate regions. Tropical Roseate Terns appear to breed less frequently than temperate birds and raise far fewer chicks to fledging when they do breed. Nevertheless, the three estimates of adult survival rates of tropical populations that were presented in this symposium are lower than those for temperate populations (0.17-0.82 yr vs 0.83-0.90 yr). Two estimates of juvenile survival (from fledging to age 1 or 2 years) of tropical birds are slightly higher than comparable estimates for a temperate population, but the differences are not sufficient to offset the lower productivity. Data on ages at first breeding are similar in the two regions. Given their irregular breeding and low productivity, the true survival rates of tropical Roseate Terns must be much higher than those estimated in this symposium. The adult survival rates of temperate Roseate Terns are unusually low compared to other seabirds with similar life-history characteristics. This is partially offset by consistently high productivity, but the reported demographic parameters cannot account for the observed long-term increases in numbers of two well-studied regional populations. Despite intensive study of Roseate Terns in several parts of their world range during the last 25 years, important features of the demography of both tropical and temperate populations remain poorly understood. 
25148344|Parental care behaviors often differ in dimorphic seabirds, leading to sex-specific differences in foraging behaviors. However, few studies have examined sex-specific foraging behaviors in monomorphic seabirds. Using radio-telemetry, we studied Forster's Terns (Sterna forsteri)-a monomorphic and socially monogamous seabird-breeding in the South San Francisco Bay, California. Space use did not differ between males and females. Instead, space use varied by breeding stage and colony affiliation. Forster's Terns were located farthest from the nest during pre-breeding and post-breeding time periods, and closest to the nest during incubation and chick-rearing. Home-range size and core-use areas decreased as the breeding season progressed and were most concentrated in the post-breeding stage. The results of this and other studies indicate that terns, unlike other monomorphic seabirds studied, do not exhibit sex-specific differences in space use.
25148345|Female American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) were radio-marked (N = 15) and tracked in the South San Francisco Bay, California, to determine if space use varied by breeding stage. Visual observations were used to determine breeding stage (pre-incubation, incubation, brood-rearing, post-breeding) of marked avocets. Space use measurements (linear movements, home ranges, core areas, and average distance from nest) varied significantly among breeding stages. Space use was greatest for the post-breeding stage, followed by pre-incubation, incubation, and brood-rearing. Most avocet nests (93%) were located within their pre-incubation core area boundaries, whereas only 36% of nests were within post-breeding core areas. Distance between daily location and future nest sites decreased significantly as the number of days prior to incubation decreased, suggesting that avocets prospected future nest sites several weeks prior to nesting. These data indicate that breeding stage influences space use of female American Avocets and illustrates the importance of delineating breeding stages to better understand space use of avian species.
25148346|We compared the composition and overlap in the chick diets of the two most abundant auks in the Northwest Atlantic, the Common Murre (Uria aalge; hereafter murres) and the Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica; hereafter puffins). Our objective was to assess how auks with different foraging strategies (dietary specialization among murres vs. generalization among puffins) and physiological constraints imposed by differences in body size and prey-loading meet the energy demands of reproduction. Murres provisioned chicks with female capelin (>100 mm): 98.8% by number in 2004 and 95.5% in 2005. The relative contribution of gravid capelin to murre chick diets decreased by an order of magnitude between years (41.1 and 4.9% by number in 2004 and 2005, respectively) and was related to the timing of capelin spawning. Puffins provisioned chicks with high proportions of forage fish in both years with the focal species changing from sandlance Ammodytes spp. in 2004 (97.6% by index of relative importance, IRI) to capelin (>100 mm) in 2005 (92.3% IRI). Murre fledglings were significantly lighter in 2005 (203.0  4.6 g) compared to 2004 (215.0  3.9 g) whereas puffins chicks exhibited no such differences. These results suggest that generalized feeding is a viable strategy for puffins but that specialized feeding by murres can lead to poor offspring condition when there is low overlap between peak food availability (i.e., capelin spawning) and chick-rearing.
25148347|We documented the movement and distribution patterns of wintering Surf Scoters (Melanitta perspicillata) and White-winged Scoters (Melanitta fusca) in relation to herring spawn events in the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia. Radio-telemetry and surveys were conducted in Baynes Sound, an important wintering area where scoters feed primarily on clams. In early March, herring spawn events in areas adjacent to Baynes Sound provide a short-term pulse of abundant and easily accessible food, which could affect habitat use by wintering scoters from Baynes Sound. Radio-marked Surf Scoters and White-winged Scoters exhibited limited movements during winter, in contrast to the spring herring spawn season, when both scoter species moved greater distances to access herring eggs. Most individuals were located near spawning locations at least once during the spawning season, and the majority of telemetry locations were close to spawning sites, with Surf Scoters showing a higher association with spawn for both metrics. A marked decrease (66-98%) in the abundance of both scoter species in Baynes Sound was observed coincident with spawn initiation in adjacent sites. We conclude that scoters altered their movement and habitat use patterns in spring to take advantage of herring roe, an energy-rich food source. This dramatic change in behaviour suggests that herring spawn may be of particular importance to these species.
25148348|Migration chronology was quantified for 15 waterfowl species on 58 playa wetlands in the Southern High Plains of Texas from February 2004 through April 2006. Abundance of each species was estimated on playas once every two weeks during the nonbreeding season (16 August to 30 April); presence of ice was also recorded. Dabbling ducks were most common (N = 250,668) and most tended to exhibit either a bimodal migration pattern (lower abundance in winter than during fall and spring passage) or a unimodal pattern (one defined peak). Abundance of the most common dabbling ducks was skewed toward late winter and spring. Most species of diving ducks (N = 15,128) tended to exhibit irregular migration patterns. Canada Geese (both Branta canadensis and B. hutchinsii, N = 15,347) had an abundance pattern that gradually increased, peaking in midwinter, and then decreased, which is typical for a terminal wintering area. Ice was most common on playas during the first half of December, which coincided with the lowest winter abundance in dabbling ducks. Data from this study will support management efforts focused on playa wetlands, including the development of population goals and habitat objectives that span the entire non-breeding season.
25148349|Nests of many over-water nesting birds are frequently subjected to wave action from repeated wind-storms. Colonial grebes often lose over 50% of nests in any particular breeding season to wave action, depending on factors such as storm activity and habitat quality. We examined nest structure survival in a colony of Western Grebes (Aechmophorus occidentalis) in relation to wave action due to wind. Initial nests were 66% successful in hatching at Lake Christina, Minnesota, in 2005 compared to only 48% in 2006. In 2005, initial nests that survived and hatched young were closer to the central tuber-mat of the colony and closer to individual bulrush island centers than were nests lost during storms. In 2006, a year of high storm activity, nests located near the colony edge most prone to wave attack were less likely to last the season and produce young than were nests in central or more protected areas of the colony. Buffer zones of vegetation surrounding the nest were the single most important factor in attenuating waves. Buffer zone stem density was less important than the amount of buffer between nest and wave attack, which may be a major factor colony founders select for when evaluating nest placement sites within a colony.
25148350|Many species of waterbirds nest over-water in shallow lakes and marshes in the Northern Plains region of North America. High winds are common in this region and the resulting waves can cause significant loss of nesting platforms, yet the behavior of waves in these systems has not been well-studied. We used observational and experimental techniques to examine how Hardstem Bulrush (Schoenoplectus acutus Muhl.) impacts wave attenuation through its clonal growth characteristics. The predictable growth patterns influence nest placement and nesting success in colonial nesting grebes and other over-water nesting waterbirds. We constructed an artificial nesting colony to experimentally test how location with respect to wave-exposure affects nest structural integrity in grebes. Additional experiments with boat wakes confirmed the importance of emergent vegetation in attenuating waves caused by watercraft. Nests gain more protection from being placed on the lee side of a stand of vegetation than by having denser vegetation right at the nest. Over-water nests that are more protected from wave action by vegetation are at least three times more likely to hatch eggs than more exposed nests.
25148351|We investigated the use of crayfish gastroliths and exoskeleton pieces for quantifying crayfish abundance and size-structure in diets of White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) chicks in the Everglades. We then quantified crayfish and fish abundance from various small hard parts and intact fish heads in 23 boluses, taken from two nesting colonies in Water Conservation Area 3 (WCA 3) and Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge (Lox) in the Florida Everglades during May 2006. We determined that using gastroliths to estimate crayfish numbers in boluses had significant drawbacks; only a small fraction of field-caught crayfish bear gastroliths and the two crayfish species in the Everglades differ in percentage bearing gastroliths. In contrast, counts of crayfish rostrums and chelae pairs gave simple and similar estimates of crayfish in the boluses. The two colonies had strikingly different diets in May 2006; New Colony 3 (Lox) boluses were dominated by crayfish while birds from the Alley North (WCA 3) boluses were fish-dominated and had few crayfish. Using measurements of the crayfish rostrums we determined the size-structure of crayfish found in the diets of the New Colony 3 birds, and determined that the crayfish in the diet were relatively large (mean = 19 mm carapace length) when compared to the available crayfish in the marsh. These crayfish were also large relative to previous reports of crayfish found in White Ibis diets in the Everglades.
25148352|Diet of Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis) nestlings was studied during four consecutive breeding seasons (1999-2002) at three Greek colonies (Axios Delta, and Lakes Kerkini and Mikri Prespa) in order to assess variation and commercial value of prey. A variety of fish taxa were found in nestlings' regurgitates in each area and season, but only one or two dominated by numbers or biomass. Black Goby (Gobius jozo), Round Sardinella (Sardinella aurita) and Twaite Shad (Alosa fallax) were the most important prey in the Axios Delta; Bleak (Alburnus alburnus), Giebel (Carassius auratus gibelio) and Roach (Rutilus rutilus) at Lake Kerkini; Chalcalburnus belvica and Giebel at Lake Mikri Prespa. Nestling diet varied both seasonally (but only at Lake Kerkini significantly so) and annually (significantly in the Axios Delta and at Lake Mikri Prespa). Temporal changes can be attributed to changes in prey availability and abundance and confirm this bird's opportunistic behavior. Between-colonies, differences in diet were significant, probably due to differences in habitat and prey species diversity and composition. The low consumption of valuable fish prey by Great Cormorant nestlings (<10%, numbers and biomass) suggests minimal competition with human interests.
25148353| Diet of the Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) was studied using regurgitated pellets, individual fish bones and fish remains collected from below roosting trees at elivka and Slapy Reservoirs, Czech Republic, during summer, a warm winter and a cold winter. Both reservoirs have the same trophic status and similar fish assemblages. Using diagnostic bones (os pharyngeum, dentale, praeoperculare) and our own linear regression equations relating dimensions of the diagnostic bone and fish total length (
25148354|Adult Humboldt Penguins (Spheniscus humboldti) are sexually monomorphic in feather coloration, therefore sexing by direct observation is difficult. To determine if subtle morphometric differences exist, we compared gender as determined by DNA analysis with logistic regression leave-one-out analysis of bill length, bill depth and flipper length measurements collected from free-ranging Humboldt Penguins inhabiting a coastal island in Chile. The final chosen model used bill length and bill depth, with no interactions, and correctly predicted the sex of 87.7% of the 756 individuals. Of the 368 females, 13.5% were misclassified as males, while 11.1% of the 388 males were misclassified as females. Including flipper length improved the predictive value of the model slightly. The analysis was not useful in determining the sex of a captive population of Humboldt Penguins of known sex because of excessive beak growth seen in captive penguins.
25148355|Common Eider (Somateria mollissima dresseri) breeding success and gull-eider interactions were studied at Stratton Island, Maine in 2004 and 2005. Eiders suffered little nest predation, and most egg losses to gulls were either facilitated by researcher intrusions or confined to newly initiated, unattended nests. Despite high nest success (>80%) in both study years, predation watches indicated that few, if any, ducklings survived to fledging as a result of extreme harassment and predation by Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus). Gull attacks were opportunistic, involved one to 36 gulls, and often resulted in complete crche destruction. Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) also took occasional young and eggs. Although Stratton Island is managed as a tern restoration site, and gull control measures to enhance tern productivity include nest destruction and shooting of tern predators, gulls continued to congregate around crching areas and to prey on ducklings. We suggest that additional gull control measures, particularly at a nearby gull colony, may enhance duckling survival. We also recommend monitoring of other eider colonies in the region to better assess duckling survival and recruitment rates.
25148356|Wetlands are critical foraging areas for many waterbird species, and their relatively high productivity often determines the coexistence of several species using food resources for breeding and/or refueling during migration. Between 18 October and 20 December 2000, we gathered information on foraging habitat use and feeding techniques of sixteen waterbirds during the austral spring at Malaspina inlet, Chubut, Argentina. We quantified the utilization by waterbirds of ten foraging habitat types and seven feeding techniques on seven fixed survey stations along the coastline, representing the different coastal habitats of the Malaspina inlet. The waterbird assemblage was structured in three main guilds: shallow water frequenters (three cormorants, two terns, a grebe, and two steamerducks), hard habitat peckers (two gulls, an egret, and an oystercatcher) and soft habitat frequenters (two oystercatchers, a sandpiper, and a duck). These differed greatly in their use of habitats and feeding techniques, suggesting clear differences in the use of food resources. Most of the groups defined used almost exclusively one feeding technique or habitat type. This fact and the low resource utilization breath values suggest the existence of a relatively high degree of specialization within this waterbird assemblage.
25148357|Humans may modify winter habitat of the imperiled Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus), yet published accounts of the species' winter ecology are rare. We studied Piping Plovers at Oregon Inlet, North Carolina from December 2005 to March 2006. Plovers used a 20.1 km area (100% minimum convex polygon home range) containing narrow barrier islands with ocean and sound-side beaches, and small shoals, dredged-material islands, and marsh islands in shallow-water sounds. Plover activity was concentrated in twelve areas totaling 2.2 km (95% fixed kernel home range). When plovers were on ocean beaches, they spent less time foraging (18%) than when on Sound Island beaches (88%) and islands (83%, P = 0.003). Sound island use increased and beach use decreased as the tide dropped (Logistic regression, P < 0.001). Plover use of dredged-material islands implied that habitat managers can create or restore attractive foraging sites where habitat may be declining or limiting. Wintering habitat management should aim to provide foraging opportunities during most of the day and across a range of tide conditions and ensure that foraging habitat is close to roost sites.
25148358|We surveyed a heronry for 16 years to study nest site selection in relation to bird species presence and vegetation structure. Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) was the most abundant species, while Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) and Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) increased only in the last years. In a first phase, Black-crowned Night Herons selected tall Black Locusts (Robinia pseudoacacia) for nesting. Later they moved into the understory, selecting Hawthorn (Crataegus monogyna) and Black Elderberry (Sambucus nigra), while the higher canopy was used by Grey Herons. The result was a stratification of nests of different species. Considering the succession in use of different forest strata by the medium-sized heron species and years of Grey Heron arrival, it is likely that the forest structure more than competition between species influenced nest site selection in this heronry.
25148359|Although the collection of air-dried blood samples on filter paper has been used for field work as a routine, it has required the use of special and expensive types of paper. In the present manuscript the use of common filter paper to collect and store air-dried bird blood samples is validated for its use in DNA based sexing techniques with a very simple method avoiding DNA purification for PCR. This method not only simplifies the laboratory work but also does not add any additional cost for DNA-based sexing techniques. The method was tested and successfully employed for sex determination by molecular techniques on blood samples taken on common filter paper during different field trips from four seabird species.
25148360|The Crested Ibis (Nipponia nippon) is one of the most endangered avian species in the world. In 1981, seven ibis were discovered in the Qinling Mountain, central China. The ibis population responded positively to 20 years of intensive conservation growing to more than 500 birds. Population growth of the Crested Ibis exhibited a nonlinear response to increased population size along an altitudinal gradient (600-1,400 m). Prior to 1993, the ibis population was constrained to high mountains with elevations greater than 1,000 m and exhibited density dependent growth in spite of small population size (less than 20 birds). Limited availability of habitats at high elevations might result in competition for food and other resources among the ibis. The ibis returned to traditional nesting habitats at low elevations (<1,000 m) and has grown exponentially since 1992. Fledging success of the ibis did not differ between low- and high-elevation habitats. Rapid population growth of the ibis in low-elevation habitats was mainly due to increased breeding population size and reduced anthropogenic disturbances. Differences in population growth pattern along an altitudinal gradient indicate that high-elevation habitats are suboptimal. Likewise, the recovery of other endangered or threatened species may be constrained by suboptimal habitats. Therefore, caution is needed when interpreting habitat requirements of endangered species based only on presently occupied habitats.
25148361|Habitat selection in Black-tailed Gulls (Larus crassirostris) on Hongdo Island, Korea, was studied during the breeding period in 2002-2003. To compare topographical advantages and disadvantages on breeding, we examined two habitats on the island: rocky-cliffs (lower and edge) and grassy (upper and inside) for differences in breeding biology and feeding frequency. In rocky-cliff habitat, Black-tailed Gulls had higher clutch size, faster laying and hatching date, and higher hatching and fledging success. Topographically, rocky-cliff habitat had two advantages-it was closer to sea and difficult to access. Proximity to the sea allowed higher feeding frequency whereas difficult access restricted predators. Conversely, grassy habitat was farther from the sea and allowed easier access to predators, but a lot of grass covered nests to protect eggs and chicks. These disadvantages caused low feeding frequency and higher hatching failure. Egging by fisherman was also a disadvantage of grassy habitat because of easy access from landing places. Therefore, our results suggested that rocky-cliff habitat was more profitable habitat than grassy habitat and this profitability was related to topographical difference between habitats.
40212105|Brandt's Cormorant (Phalacrocorax penicillatus) breeding effort, phenology and success were studied in 1997-2001 at three colonies spanning approximately 200 km of the central California coast: Point Reyes (PR); Devil's Slide Rock and Mainland (DS); and Castle-Hurricane Colony Complex (CH). Breeding effort was reduced at all three colonies in the 1998 El Nio event. Mean clutch initiation dates differed significantly among colonies, with cormorants at the southernmost colony (CH) laying earliest, and those at the northernmost colony (PR) laying latest. Productivity at individual colonies varied greatly among years (range 0.7-2.5 fledglings per pair). Overall colony means were lowest (1.6 fledglings/pair) during the 1998 El Nio event and highest (2.5 fledglings/pair) in the 1999 La Nia event. Productivity at CH (1.7 fledglings/pair) was significantly lower than at PR (2.2 fledglings/pair), and interannual variation was greatest at CH. Late-nesting birds laid fewer eggs, hatched fewer chicks, and fledged fewer chicks per pair than early-nesters. The rapid rate of growth at some nearshore colonies in central California suggests immigration from elsewhere, most likely the large offshore colony at the South Farallon Islands. Variation in timing of breeding and reproductive success among colonies demonstrates a value in maintaining multiple study locations when assessing Brandt's Cormorant population parameters in the California Current System.
40212106|This study quantifies the relative importance of factors affecting selection of brood-rearing areas by Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) according to duckling age. A total of 1,431 h of observation was conducted from June-August on the New Brunswick mainland in 2000 and on Grand Manan Island in 2001. The number of breeding pairs of Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) on colonies near study sites appeared to be a better predictor of duckling abundance in sites than the number of Common Eider nests on those colonies. Neither degree of exposure of site nor availability of rockweed (Ascophyllum nodosum) explained variations in duckling abundance. However, sites with a gradual slope, which offer increased surface-feeding area, supported 43-85% more ducklings than sites with a steep slope. Rockweed-harvested sites with a steep slope supported the least number of ducklings on Grand Manan Island, and duckling numbers on the mainland decreased faster in harvested than in control sites. Predation was unimportant, with only nine successful predator attacks on ducklings occurring. Of those, Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) were responsible for six duckling losses. However, Common Eiders may have avoided Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) in duckling-feeding sites, possibly to avoid klepto-parasitism on eiders by gulls. Human disturbance was also a minor factor.
40212107|King Rail (Rallus elegans) populations are listed as threatened or endangered in 13 states. One remaining area of relative abundance is the rice-growing region of southwestern Louisiana. Rice fields are flooded for much of the year and support thick emergent vegetation, potentially providing high-quality habitat for King Rails. The objectives of this study were to determine: 1) relative nest density of King Rails in rice; 2) which local and landscape factors influence relative nest densities; 3) nest survival of King Rails in rice fields; 4) effectiveness of callback surveys in indicating King Rail breeding activity; and 5) site occupancy of King Rails in rice fields. In the summers of 2004 and 2005, King Rail surveys and nest searches were conducted in Cameron, Jefferson Davis, Vermilion, and Acadia Parishes in southwestern Louisiana. In 2004, 42 fields were searched for nests and 30 of those were surveyed with callback survey techniques. In 2005,40 fields were searched and 60 were surveyed. A total of 77 King Rail nests was found, and relative nest density was between 3.4 and 4.8 nests/ km. The highest nest densities were in fields with a high proportion of irrigation canals around the perimeters and a low proportion of trees. Nest survival was ~50% in both years. Most survey responses were detected in June, and survey detections were correlated with nest abundance. Site occupancy was estimated as 0.35  0.11 in 2004 (no estimates for 2005) from callback surveys and between 0.4 (2004) and 0.5 (2005) from nest searches. Callback surveys were an effective technique for monitoring King Rails in this region. Given high nest survival rates and apparently stable nest densities, rice fields appear to provide high-quality habitat for King Rails in southwestern Louisiana.
40212108|Flight patterns of Great Egrets (Ardea alba) and Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) arriving at and departing two mixed-species colonies were studied in Wichita, Kansas, in May and June 2007. For 137 short-distance flights (about 200 m) at one colony, flight duration and flight distance were recorded and wing beats were counted. For 90 longer flights (about 1,200 m) at a second colony, flight durations were recorded. From these data, wing-beat frequencies and flight velocities were calculated, then wind vector addition was used to determine air speeds and examine the effects of wind velocity and wind direction on flight patterns. Using published algorithms and data from two of our previous flight line studies, the daily energetic costs of foraging flights were estimated. Flight patterns by Great Egrets and Snowy Egrets showed some similarities. For example, mean air speeds for Great Egrets (9.2 m/s) did not differ from those of Snowy Egrets (8.7 m/s). Differences between species included lower wing-beat frequencies by Great Egrets and a much stronger effect of headwinds on Snowy Egret flight velocities. Energetic requirements for flight also differed between species, which are ascribed to differences in wing-loading and mass. The cost of an average flight for each species was estimated, and daily flight costs were compared to overall daily energy budgets. Flight comprised 25.9% of the total energy budget for Great Egrets and 27.5% for Snowy Egrets. Based on previous foraging studies, a Great Egret can meet its daily energy requirements for flight after an estimated 82 min of foraging, whereas a Snowy Egret must forage for 168 min to capture enough prey to meet the daily demands for flight. This study represents the next stage in our development of annual time-and-activity budgets for these two species of wading birds.
40212109|The Peruvian Tern (Sternula lorata) is one of the rarest seabirds that breed on the barren desert plains of Peru and Chile. Unlike the majority of seabirds breeding in this region, Peruvian Terns nest in open areas on the mainland, where they are exposed to attacks by predators, mainly foxes (Pseudalopex spp.). Here, we describe the Peruvian Tern's breeding biology and examine its ecological adaptations to counteract high predation rates from data collected during the 1970s and 1990s at four localities in central-southern Peru: Puerto Viejo (1234'S), Pampa Lechuzas (1353'S), Yanyarina (1526'S) and Mollendo (1704'S). Egg-laying was asynchronous both within and among breeding groups, spreading from mid October to late January. Modal clutch size was two eggs, which were incubated for 22 d. Weight increment for two chicks during the linear section of the growth curve was 2.27 and 2.54 g/d. A complete body weight growth curve for one chick was fitted to the logistic equation with
40212110|In South America, Royal Terns (Thalasseus maximus maximus) and Cayenne Terns (Thalasseus sandvicensis eurygnathus) breed mostly in Argentina and Brazil. Royal Terns have been recorded in at least 22 locations (six in Brazil and 14 in Argentina). Cayenne Terns have been recorded in at least 38 locations (15 in Brazil and 23 in Argentina). At 15 locations, mostly located in Argentina, Royal and Cayenne terns breed in association, often with their nests intermingled. Total population size for Royal Terns was estimated in at least 750 pairs in Brazil and less than 5000 in Argentina, while that of Cayenne Tern was estimated in at least 8000 pairs in Brazil and less than 10000 in Argentina. However, lack of counts at some coastal sectors and changes among breeding sites between seasons preclude an accurate estimation of total population size for both species and make spatial management challenging. Main threats faced by their populations in both countries are human disturbance, fisheries, egging, and expanding Kelp Gull (Larus dominicanus) populations. Priority research and conservation actions are presented.
40212111|Fledgling counts are often used to estimate fledgling production or calculate an index of chick survival (i.e., fledging success) in the Least Tern (Sterna antillarum). Timing of counts is critical because numbers of fledglings present may be influenced by temporal patterns in fledgling departures from colonies and post-fledging mortality. The objectives of the present study were to measure chick survival and fledgling residence time (FRT) at three Least Tern colonies in Maine and examine the accuracy of single or multiple counts of fledglings for estimating fledgling production and fledging success. Chicks were color-banded at age zero to one d in 2002-2003 to estimate chick survival using mark-resighting methods and to examine relationships between fledging date and FRT. Colony sites were searched for banded chicks and fledglings every one to three d from just prior to fledging until their disappearance from the vicinity of nesting areas at three colonies. Data on numbers of banded fledglings known alive on each survey date were used to simulate single or periodic counts of banded fledglings for the purpose of comparing estimates of fledgling production and success based on count methods with known values. Chick survival estimates were 0.73, 0.74, and 0.14 for the three colonies. Fledgling residence times decreased relative to fledging date at all colonies, and the trend for maximum values of FRT, which may be an indicator of the maximum time to departure, varied from approximately 30 d in mid-July to 15 d in early to mid-August. The highest one-d counts of fledglings underestimated fledgling production by 21-30% for the two sites with high chick survival. Methods based on multiple counts also tended to underestimate fledgling production. Fledgling residency patterns limit the utility of count methods for estimating fledgling production and fledging success.
40212112|Feeding activity of wintering Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) was conducted in Southwest Greenland. Behavioral observations were made at two wintering sites, a fjord habitat and an outer coastal habitat, at which habitat characteristics and human activities differed considerably. In the coastal area where hunting and fishing was common and foraging typically occurred 0.5 to one km from the shore eiders were identified as primarily diurnal feeders. They also foraged during twilight periods, but only rarely at night. In contrast, in the fjord where human disturbance was rare and foraging occurred very close to the shore (<50m) adult eiders fed only during twilight and at night. During daytime, birds gathered in large communal roosts in open water away from feeding areas. Occasionally, feeding was initiated by juveniles during daytime, but was discontinued due to interactions with White-tailed Eagles (Haliaeetus albicilla groenlandicus) and suggests that nocturnal feeding is an anti-predator mechanism. More experienced adult birds in the fjord did not attempt feeding during daylight hours. Large communal roosts observed at deep waters during previous aerial surveys suggest that nocturnal feeding maybe common throughout the fjords in Southwest Greenland.
40212113|Selection of a foraging site entails costs and benefits which are reflected in survival and reproductive success. We studied Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) foraging- site selection during the breeding season (2001-2003) on the Missouri River and examined the relationship between site selection and invertebrate abundance indices within habitats. Foraging adult plovers selected protected shoreline (inter-sandbar channels, inlets, and backwater areas) more often than expected based on availability (use:92%  3%; availability: 58%  5%). Invertebrate biomass and numbers along exposed shoreline did not differ among reaches. Along the protected shoreline, invertebrate biomass and numbers were higher below a dam with an epilimnetic release and a relatively constant release rate (epilimnetic reach) than at the other two reaches. On the epilimnetic river reach, invertebrate biomass and numbers were higher along the protected shoreline than on the main channel shoreline. On a reach below a dam with a hypolimnetic release and diel flow pulse (hypolimnetic reach) and a cold water reservoir, invertebrate indices were similar on the protected and exposed shoreline. Invertebrate numbers were higher in saturated and moist habitats than in vegetated and dry habitats (P< 0.05). At the epilimnetic and hypolimnetic reaches, foraging Piping Plover chicks used saturated and moist habitats more than vegetated and dry habitats, based on availability. On the Missouri River, protected shorelines were important foraging sites for Piping Plovers during the breeding season, and sandbars with low-lying moist habitat were important to foraging chicks. Piping Plovers will benefit from increased availability of these habitats on managed or created sandbars on the Missouri River.
40212114|Populations of egrets and other waterbirds in the Murray-Darling Basin of eastern Australia are declining. River regulation and increasing frequency of droughts are considered to be mainly responsible by reducing the frequency and extent of flooding to temporary wetlands. However, other changes have occurred to wetlands, such as the introduction of non-native fish, widespread severe declines in the abundance of native fish, increased salinity, sediment and nutrient concentrations, and removal of aquatic vegetation by livestock grazing. Current knowledge of the diets of egrets is inadequate for an assessment of any ecological implications arising from these changes. In this study the breeding season diets of Eastern Great Egret Ardea modesta and Intermediate Egret A. intermedia were quantified at a colony in the Murray Basin. Eastern Great Egrets depended mainly on introduced Common Carp Cyprinus carpio (94% of diet biomass), a species regarded as a severe pest of river systems and wetlands within the Basin. Attempts to eliminate carp, without adequate restoration of native fish populations, could result in further long-term declines in egret breeding success and survival. Intermediate egrets depended mainly on adult and larval frogs (80% of diet biomass), species that are under threat from habitat degradation and predicted increases in the salinity of freshwater wetlands. A holistic approach to the restoration of wetlands, involving the integration of improved flooding regimes, pest fish management and reinstatement of native fish and amphibians, salinity control and restoration of aquatic vegetation will be needed to ensure the future of egrets and other fish eating birds in the Murray-Darling Basin.
40212115|The emergence of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 has elevated concerns about wild birds as virus hosts; however, little is known about the ecological and epidemiological factors of transmission by shorebirds. Here we summarize results for 2,773 shorebirds that were live-trapped on the Pacific coast of the United States during 2006-2007 and tested for avian influenza virus using real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and virus isolation. As was the case throughout North America, HPAI H5N1 was not detected in shorebirds during this interval. Contrary to other wild bird groups, most notably waterfowl, the prevalence of even low pathogenicity virus among shorebirds in our study areas in California, Washington, and Alaska was extremely low (0.5%). Virus was detected by RT-PCR from four different species, including, Dunlin (Calidris alpina; N = 3), Western Sandpiper (C. mauri; N = 8), Long-billed Dowitcher (Limnodromus scolopaceus; N = 1), and American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana; N = 1), with the detections in the latter three constituting the first published records for these birds. Based on studies in the eastern United States, we expected, but did not detect (H=1.6, P=0.21) elevated avian influenza prevalence among shorebirds during spring migration. Diagnostic tests, which were designed to evaluate testing and sampling methods, indicated poor functioning of traditional virus isolation methods and no improvement in detection likelihood by collecting oropharyngeal swabs in addition to cloacal swab samples for low pathogenicity viruses (Z =0.7, P=0.48).
40212116|Prey consumed by breeding Pacific Gulls (Larus pacificus) were identified and quantified on seven islands in the Furneaux Group, Bass Strait, Australia, over the 2003/04 austral summer to examine temporal and spatial variation in dietary preference. Non-invasive dietary sampling involved collection of non-consumed parts of prey (large particles) and regurgitated pellets of prey remains (pellets) from feeding platforms every two weeks. Of the l28 prey items identified, 17 of these items were prominent in the diet of Pacific Gulls. Of these, seven were identified by both large particles and pellets of prey remains, three only as large particles and the remaining seven only in pellets. PRIMER multidimensional scaling revealed differences between stages of breeding and between sites in the abundance of each type of prey found as large particles, but only between sites for prey found in pellets. Based on the relationship between body mass and dietary requirements a breeding adult Pacific Gull requires, on average, 600 kj/d over the breeding season. This study identified prey corresponding to only 193  35 kj/d which equates to a total biomass of approximately 1,000 kg of prey being consumed by the 108 breeding Pacific Gulls, or 19 kg per breeding pair. Results were biased toward hard-bodied prey, and hence, this research failed to identify 90% of the food consumed by the Pacific Gull population. Caution is advised against one-off sampling in time and space, and using simple techniques, to examine dietary preference in gulls.
40212117|Unlike conspecifics in the subantarctic region, which typically begin breeding in mid- spring to summer, Common Diving-petrels Pelecanoides urinatrix urinatrix in southcastern Australia (towards the northern limit of the species' distribution) commence breeding mid winter. Knowledge of the foraging ecology of this species is crucial to understanding the factors that influence its timing of breeding in the region, yet there is currently little information available. Analysis of 43 stomachs of breeding adults, collected opportunistically after they were killed in a fire which burned through their colony, indicated that their diet was dominated by two taxa: a euphausiid Nyctiphanes australis which comprised 87% of the diet by number; and a hyperiid amphipod Themisto australis which constituted a further 12.5%. Mean lengths (SE) of N. australis (n = 39) and T. australis (n = 41) were 12 mm (0.3) and 5.2 mm (0.2), respectively. The importance of N. australis in the diet of Common Diving-petrels is discussed in relation to their timing of breeding and the euphausiid's potential role in the Bass Strait pelagic ecosystem.
40212118|Data on population size and some aspects of the breeding biology of Gentoo Penguins (Pygocelis papua) have been studied as part of a long-term monitoring program at Martillo Island in the Beagle Channel, Tierra del Fuego. The colony of Gentoo Penguin on Martillo Island is the only one reported in Argentina and has been monitored regularly since 2000. Timing and hatching success were similar to those reported at other colonies in the South Atlantic Ocean/Antarctic Peninsula region. A maximum of twelve nests were recorded during the 2006/2007 season, with an average breeding success of 1.0 chicks/nest. The Gentoo Penguin colony at Martillo Island increased by 19% in the past 13 y, while other colonies in the south Atlantic region and the Antarctic Peninsula have been decreasing or stable.
40212119|We provide first evidence of cannibalism in fledglings of the Australian White Ibis (Threskiomis molucca) and Australian Pelican (Pelecanus conspicillatus). The ibis only fed on carcasses of dead conspecifics (indirect cannibalism); the pelican consumed live pelican (heterocannibalism) and ibis nestlings.
40212120|Many Neartic shorebirds migrate to South America for the non-breeding season, and use several key stopover and wintering sites along the Atlantic coast. However, there is little information about annual shorebird use along the northeast coast of Brazil. This year-long study examined the seasonal occurrence and abundance of shorebirds at Atalaia Nova beach in Sergipe State, Brazil. Of the 13 species recorded, the most abundant were Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus). Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidrispusilla) , and Sanderlings (Calidris alba). Highest numbers occurred between September and March, and the lowest numbers occurred between April and August. Some species were present throughout the year. Atalaia Nova beach is an important migration stopover and wintering site for shorebirds in northeastern Brazil.
40212121|East China is a very important wintering region for many migratory waterbirds, but many species have suffered large population declines over recent decades. However, the limited information available on the current and historical abundances of waterbirds in the region seriously limits our ability to assess the magnitude of these declines. The first comprehensive count of the complete Fujian coastline, conducted over a three-week period in February 2006, provided the opportunity to compare data from this count with historical information on waterbird abundances along the Fujian coast obtained during the second half of the 1800s and early-1990s. Our count total of nearly 110,000 birds of 65 species shows that the Fujian coast is still very important for waterbirds during the wintering period. We obtained abundance comparisons for 28 species of which 19 had declined greatly in the last 100-150 years; four of these are globally threatened. The Anatidae group, in particular, has suffered seriously in diversity and numbers during the last century and this finding is consistent with observed decreases in breeding numbers. Given population declines and the great importance of east China as a wintering area for waterbirds (including some globally threatened species), an important priority should be to determine the current status of the different species throughout the region. This information will be useful in proposing effective conservation measures including monitoring in east China.
40212122|Risk factors for predation attempts by Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) were examined in Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) during fall staging in the Bay of Fundy, Canada. Odds of attacks may be expected to vary with a host of factors such as time of day, time of year, spacing within groups and weather conditions. During the ebbing tide, 65 surprise attacks by falcons were recorded over 596 observation periods. Two factors emerged as risk factors for predation attempts by Peregrine Falcons on Semipalmated Sandpiper flocks during four consecutive fall staging periods. Falcons initiated attacks more often on denser flocks and later during the migratory stopover. Year, time of day and weather factors did not influence attack rate. These findings may reflect lower anti- predator vigilance in denser groups and the greater numbers of sandpipers available in the later stages of stopover. Fitness consequences of these attacks remain to be established.
40212123|Twelve colonies where the Red-legged Cormorant (Phalacrocorax gaimardi) breeds in Argentina were visited. Physical and biological characteristics were recorded at 29 nesting cliffs and at different sectors within cliffs. Forty-five percent of the cliffs were located on continental shores, the rest were on islands. Cliff height and length varied (mean height = 14  5 m, length range = 12 to 3,000 m) but their slope was commonly 80 to 90. Most cliffs had more than 50% of the total available area with apparent suitable breeding sites. Cliff length and available area was positively correlated with the number of nests. Forty-nine different sectors used by Red-legged Cormorant on the cliffs were identified. In those sectors, number of active nests was positively correlated and nest density negatively correlated with area. Highest median density of nests was NE in orientation, protected from predominant winds. Minimum average distance from the tide line to the closest nest group was positively correlated with both wave effect exposure (fetch in front of the sector) and cliff slope. Probability of occurrence of active Red-legged Cormorant nests in a sector increased with cliff slope. Forty-one percent of cliffs also had nests of the Rock Shag (Phalacrocorax magellanicus). For Red-legged Cormorant, cliff slope, orientation, available area and exposure to waves seemed important for nesting.
40212124|Various types of copulatory behavior of individually marked and molecularly sexed Dovekies (Alle alle) were studied in the breeding colony in Hornsund (South Spitsbergen) in 2005-2006. Female-male (reverse) mounting (females mounting males) was recorded in 5% of all 851 observed copulations and copulation attempts. All reverse mountings were observed in one pair of 37 studied during the prelaying period. Female-male mountings made up half of all recorded copulations and copulation attempts in this particular pair. We discuss possible function of female-male mountings. We also describe homosexual male-male, mountings and redirected mountings which made up 0.3% and 1.5% respectively of all observed types of copulatory behavior.
40212125|Kleptoparasitism is a common behavior in birds, and seems to be widespread among Ciconiiforms, both intra and interspecifically. Between 2023July 2005, two observations were made of a Great Kiskadee (Pitangus sulphuratus) stealing prey from a Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea) in a feeding aggregation on a mudflat in Canania, southwestern Brazil. On the two occasions, a Great Kiskadee left a perch to take decapod prey from the heron's bill during a brief hover.
25148368|Since the first documented successful nesting of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) in South Carolina in 1981, a total of 16,642 nesting attempts have been recorded. During the past 26 years, annual nesting has increased from eleven to a high of 2,057 nests in 2004. Storks have used 27 different colony sites, however, five sites have supported 76.3% of all nesting attempts. Mean colony size was 118 nests (range 1-547). Colony turnover rate was 0.19 overall based on annual calculations. However, 95.6% of colonies with more than 100 nests in one year were achieve the following year (N = 68). Only three of 27 sites are in public ownership and 21 sites are in wetlands altered or maintained by man. Production of young has been high each year (x bar = 2.08 young per successful nest) and abandonment of active colonies has been rare. This may result from the availability of varied habitats used by foraging storks. Nesting storks use palustrine habitats associated with rivers, inter-tidal wetlands, isolated wetlands and marsh impoundments. The variety of habitats used, combined with the topography of our coastal plain, provide adequate foraging habitat under a wide range of rainfall conditions.
25148369|Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) were first recorded nesting in Georgia in 1965 at Blackbeard Island National Wildlife Refuge (Harris 1995). In 1992, biologists initiated annual aerial surveys of known wading bird rookery sites to document Wood Stork distribution and estimate the number of nesting pairs in Georgia. Additionally, personnel from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Savannah River Ecology Laboratory have contributed annual ground-count data for several colonies. Since surveys began, stork nesting has been documented at least once in 43 locations across the Coastal Plain of the state, with an average of 14 active sites per year. The documented nesting effort for storks has increased from four pairs in one wading bird colony in 1965 to a high count of 1,817 pairs in 19 colonies in 2005. A regression of log-transformed nest totals for the 14-year time-series (1992-2005) showed no significant overall trend in nesting pair numbers (P = 0.84) for that period. However, it is possible that an ongoing rebound from a drought-related crash could continue, resulting in an increasing trend. Thirty-three (77%) of stork nesting locations were on private land, with only ten (23%) nesting locations in public ownership. Seven colony sites have supported an average of 68% of the stork nesting effort since 1992; in 2005 these sites supported 77% of the nesting effort. Although not a systematic census of all potential stork nesting habitat, these standardized surveys have produced a useful estimate of Wood Stork population size, distribution, and stability in Georgia. We believe that Georgia's Wood Stork population has shown an increase in size and distribution, and that numbers can continue to increase or stabilize as long as hydrologic conditions favorable to the species persist.
25148370|Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) breed in colonies widely dispersed across approximately 3,350 km within the United States, and effective monitoring of this population presents immediate tradeoffs between coverage, accuracy, and cost. Here, we summarize surveys in Florida 1991-2005 as a first step towards improving existing survey strategies. In order to determine whether counts from aircraft are a suitable technique for quantifying nests, we compared aerial and ground counts at the same eleven colonies in 2004. Across all colonies, aerial counts averaged 8.1% more nests, probably as result of either better visibility or mistakenly including Great Egret (Ardea alba) nests in the count. During the period 1991-2005, statewide totals in Florida ranged from 2,211-6,449 nests, with an apparently increasing trend through time. Annual modal colony size fluctuated from 65-144 nests, with significantly smaller modal size in 2001-2004, suggesting that colony size has decreased over time. Current survey practices are to visit all previously active colonies and all new ones that are reported or that are encountered during flights between known colonies. Surveys are not systematic, and the number or importance of novel, undetected colonies is unknown. In south Florida, where past and potential colony sites have been systematically surveyed annually, turnover (proportion of colony sites different in two surveys) increased rapidly with interval between surveys, and within ten y, >80% of colony sites differed. Annual turnover rates were not uniform across years, and young colonies appeared to have higher turnover than older ones (up to four y). Novel systematic aerial transects across suitable habitat in central Florida revealed approximately one novel colony/525 km. Thus, abandonment of old colonies and formation of new ones is a typical and fairly rapid process in this species. Throughout the state, larger colonies were more persistent, and were surveyed more often than small colonies. The bias of the current nonsystematic survey strategy is towards visiting older colonies that are likely to disappear within 15 y, and against finding newer, growing colonies. This is likely to bias estimates of total population downwards compared to true values. We strongly recommend that surveys be geographically systematic, even if this reduces coverage. We suggest these systematic surveys be located in large blocks (hundreds or even thousands of km) in areas with suitable habitat and historically high colony densities.
25148371| Determination of breeding success rates of endangered species such as the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) and reasons for their variation are vital information needed for monitoring recovery efforts. To provide information in the northern portion of their breeding range, breeding success rates were monitored for nine stork colonies in Georgia and South Carolina in 2004 and 2005. Overall success rates were very high in 2004 (N = 421, x = 2.3 fledged young per nesting attempt), with slightly greater success in inland colonies as compared to coastal colonies. Overall success rates declined in 2005 (N = 359, x = 1.6 fledged young per nesting attempt), with slightly greater success in coastal colonies as compared to inland colonies. Reduced success in 2005 may be due to elevated mid-breeding season rainfall and its negative effects on prey availability. Examination of longer-term breeding success at multiple Georgia stork colonies relative to annual rainfall showed no consistent trends between success and mid-season rainfall. A moderate positive association was found between pre-breeding season rainfall and success for coastal, but not inland, colonies. 
25148372|The combined rate for 21 Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) colonies during 2003-2005 was 1.19  0.09 fledglings/nest (N = 4,855 nests). The mean fledging rate of 0.61 fledgling/nest for colonies during 2005 was significantly less than the rate of 1.47 fledglings/nest in 2003 and 1.43 fledglings/nest in 2004. A comparison of the annual fledging rates for a subset of 13 colonies monitored during all three years indicates the overall probability of fledging >1 nestling was significantly greater in both 2003 (69.7%) and 2004 (69.8%) than in 2005 (38.5%). Though the probability of fledging one stork was similar among years (range 9.7-12.0%), the probabilities of 0, 2, or >3 fledglings were significantly different in 2005 than in either 2003 and 2004. Colony size and longitude had no significant effect on mean colony productivity. However, latitude did have a significant positive effect on colony productivity. Thus, colonies farther north in Florida tended to exhibit greater productivity. The colonies in the northeastern and northwestern regions of the state generally had greater fledging rates than did colonies farther south in Florida, especially the southeast region. This study also identified objectives for management activities and future research. There is a need to develop an unbiased estimator of productivity that takes into consideration the lack of nesting during some years, which would allow managers to more accurately estimate stork productivity at the regional level. Because some colonies out perform others, an index-type system of colonies should be developed to designate colonies that perform above a modeled fledging rate, thus offering long-term insight into stork productivity. A re-examination of the productivity indices listed in the Wood Stork Recovery Plan is needed to ensure the current status of the U.S. breeding population.
25148373|Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) breeding in the southeastern United States exhibit lengthy inter- and intra-regional movements in response to resource availability. One type of movement, post-breeding dispersal, has resulted in storks from this population temporarily moving into the Gulf Coast states of Alabama and eastern Mississippi. Concurrently, other Wood Storks, presumably of Mexican/Central American origin, are frequently observed in large numbers in the Mississippi River Valley and nearby western states during the late-summer months and the proximity of dispersing storks from the two regions might result in population mixing. In a preliminary examination of the origins of Wood Storks observed in Gulf Coast states and the likelihood of population mixing, we deployed ten satellite transmitters on storks in those areas in June-July of 2003 and monitored their movements. All storks captured in eastern Mississippi moved into southern Florida. Storks captured in western Mississippi went to eastern Mexico or western Guatemala. One stork from Louisiana went to Mexico and the other went to southern Florida, suggesting that population mixing may be occurring on their non-breeding season habitats.
25148374|We modeled population dynamics and extinction probabilities for the endangered Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) using count data from synoptic aerial surveys, annual measures of productivity from throughout the southeastern U.S., and survival data from satellite-tagged juveniles. Using a simple, count-based diffusion approximation approach we were able to quantify an increasing population trend since 1976. High inter-year variability resulted in wide confidence intervals and we could not eliminate the possibility of long-term population decline in spite of recently measured population increases. We also used a stage-based population matrix model to incorporate observed differences in survival rates among age classes. Fledging success, and survival of fledglings, one, and two-year-old birds were estimated using data from the satellite telemetry study. Because the survival rates of three-year-olds and adults are presently unknown, we analyzed population dynamics over a range of these values. Long-term population growth was most sensitive to changes in adult survivorship. This deterministic matrix model indicated that adult survival rates >0.94 were necessary to maintain a growing population, an estimate considerably higher than that observed in the European White Stork (Ciconia ciconia). This study underscores the need for reliable estimates of juvenile and adult survival in Wood Storks, and for a conservation focus on the factors that affect adult survival. It also provides a tool for understanding and projecting potential trajectories of the Wood Stork population in the Southeastern United States.
25148375|In 1984, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service listed the U.S. breeding population of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) in their known range of Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and Alabama as "endangered" under the Endangered Species Act, due to a population decline of 75 percent from the 1930s to the 1980s. In 1997, an updated Recovery Plan for the Wood Stork established two metrics to for determining the biological status: numbers of nesting pairs and regional productivity measured over time. Five-year averages of nesting pairs from annual aerial surveys show an increasing trend (1981-85, 1991-95, 2001-2005). Since listing in 1984, the average number of active colonies has almost doubled, however colony size has decreased. Current productivity estimates are similar to those recorded in the 1970s and 1980s. Monitoring continues to indicate that nesting numbers and productivity rates are variable within and among years and within and among colonies. Variability is likely related to environmental factors affecting the quality of local and regional nesting and foraging habitats. Loss of natural foraging habitat continues to be a major threat, while the effects of the increasing number of constructed wetlands and their use as foraging areas is unknown. Habitat Management Guidelines are being updated and will address: managing colony sites, controlling predation and human disturbance, and core foraging habitat issues. One of the most important initiatives is the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), which has identifies the restoration of healthy wading bird populations as an expected benefit. It is anticipated that CERP will be a large contributing factor toward the recovery of this species.
40212131|Information on breeding and wintering Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in Greenland very limited, and no firm estimates of breeding and wintering numbers are available. However, it is assumed that only a few thousand pairs breed in Greenland. Numbers of molting males are estimated at 5,000 to 10,000 birds. They comprise both Greenland and eastern Canadian breeders; their proportions are unknown, but the latter may very well constitute a significant part. If true, Greenland has a significant responsibility for the well being of the eastern Canadian breeding population. Presently, there are no immediate threats to the Harlequin Duck population in Greenland. Hunting (illegal) has only negligible effects and habitat destruction is extremely limited. However, oil spills from transport of oil and increased offshore oil exploration constitute a potentially serious threat to molting and wintering birds from the breeding populations in Greenland and in eastern Canada.
40212132|In Iceland, the Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) is generally distributed as a breeder on rapid clear-water streams, from sea level to about 700 m. Densities are generally low, except at the headwaters of streams draining productive lakes where blackflies (Simulium vittatum) are abundant. In northwest, north and east Iceland, molting Harlequin Ducks are found in similar localities as the wintering birds, but molting birds are largely absent from the southwest coast. During the molt, the birds often stay close to cliffs or rocks and are hard to find. Harlequin Ducks winter on exposed rocky coasts and densities are correlated with substrate as indicated by shore exposure. In 1998-2001, the total wintering population of Harlequin Ducks in Iceland was estimated at 14,000, with 95% confidence limits of 12,000 to 16,000. Assuming that migration in and out of Iceland is insignificant, the total Icelandic breeding population is 3,000-5,000 females, or three to five females (pairs) 100 km. A decline in wintering numbers was found in southwest Iceland in 1961- 2002, but numbers in the northeast have increased. This may be related to increased temperatures, but changes in exploitation may also have affected the population. The conservation of the Icelandic population of the Harlequin Duck is largely a matter of wise use of the coast and streams which should include preemptive measures, such as minimizing pollution and development. Small-scale river development for power production and salmon fishing pose potential threats to Harlequin Ducks, but direct exploitation of this population is not likely.
40212133|The distribution and abundance of the Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) is poorly known in Arctic Canada. The limited historical information on this species is summarized, and new field surveys and interviews with Inuit hunters in 1998-2002 were also conducted. Recent data confirmed that Harlequins still occur on Baffin Island and are breeding. The majority of new data on this duck come from the Kimmirut area of southeastern Baffin Island, where surveys in the 1930s also found the species. However, it occurs as far west as Cape Dorset, and as far north as Clyde River. Few birds were observed during recent field surveys, suggesting that the population on Baffin Island is small and dispersed. Future monitoring of Harlequin Ducks in Nunavut will probably be best accomplished using community-based surveys by hunters.
40212134|In the last decade, several survey and research efforts have been undertaken to better understand the ecology and distribution of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in Qubec. The results of these efforts are summarized and new survey, research and management needs are identified. Harlequin Ducks breed on rivers and streams of the Gasp Peninsula, the Quebec North Shore, and the immense Hudson Bay and Ungava Bay drainage basins. Quebec is possibly the most important breeding area for Harlequin Ducks in eastern Canada, and there is every indication that a significant proportion of the birds wintering in south-western Greenland and in eastern North America breed in Quebec. In spring, significant numbers of birds spend a few days or weeks along the Gasp Peninsula before departing for their breeding or molting areas. The most important molting sites in Quebec are Bonaventure Island, the Port-Daniel/Newport area, and the Pointe du Sud-Ouest/Jupiter River area on Anticosti Island. Known fell staging areas include the coastal waters of the Gasp Peninsula, the Pointe du Sud-Ouest/Jupiter River area, and Brion Island, on the Magdalen Islands. The few Harlequin Ducks that overwinter in Quebec are mostly in Baie des Chaleurs, on the south shore of the Gasp Peninsula. There are no good data on trends of Harlequin Ducks in Quebec. Major threats to population recovery/health include hydroelectric developments, illegal and subsistence harvests, coastal exploitation (aquaculture, fisheries, boating), and recreational activities on breeding rivers and streams. Survey, research and management needs include better estimates of breeding densities and distribution, characterization of spring, summer and fall coastal habitats, comprehensive genetic analysis, monitoring, and public education on the status of Harlequin Ducks. /// Au cours de la dernire dcennie, plusieurs travaux d'inventaire et de recherche ont t faits afin de mieux comprendre l'cologie et la rpartition de l'Arlequin plongeur Histrionicus histrionicus au Qubec. Nous rsumons ici les rsultats de ces travaux et identifions d'autres besoins de suivi, de recherche et de conservation. L'Arlequin plongeur niche sur des rivieres de la Gaspsie, de la Cte-Nord, et des vastes bassins versants de la Baie d'Hudson et de la Baie d'Ungava. Le Qubec est probablement l'endroit de nidification le plus important pour l'Arlequin plongeur dans l'est du Canada, et il semble qu'une proportion importante des oiseaux hivernant sur la cte sud-ouest du Groenland et de ceux hivernant dans l'est de l'Amrique du Nord nichent au Qubec. Au printemps, de nombreux arlequins sjournent quelques jours ou quelques semaines le long de la pninsule gaspsienne, avant de s'envoler vers leurs sites de nid ifcation ou de mue. Au Qubec, les aires de mue les plus importantes sont l'le Bonaventure et le secteur de Port-Daniel/Newport, en Gaspsie, et le secteur de la Pointe du Sud-Ouest,  l'le d'Anticosti. Les principaux secteurs ctiers utilises  l'automne se trouvent galement le long de la pninsule gaspsienne et dans le secteur de la Pointe du Sud-Ouest. Les rares arlequins qui passent 'lhiver au Qubec sont concentrs dans la Baie des Chaleurs, sur la rive sud de la Gaspsie. II n'existe pas de donnes fiables sur la tendance des effectif de l'Arlequin plongeur au Qubec. Les principales menaces sont le dveloppement hydrolectrique, le braconnage, la chasse de subsistance, l'exploitation des zones ctires (aquiculture, pcheries, activits nautiques) et les activits rcratives sur les rivieres o l'esp ce niche. Les activits futures de recherche et de conservation devraient comprendre des recensements afin de prciser la repartition et l'effectif de l'espce en priode de reproduction, une caractrisation des habitats ctiers utilises au printemps, en t et en automne, des analyses gntiques plus approfondies, un suivi des populations, et une campagne d'ducation du public sur la situation proccupante de l'Arlequin plongeur.
40212135|Labrador represents a significant portion of the breeding range for the Northwest Atlantic population of the Harlequin Duck (Histronicus histronicus). The region comprises almost 300,000 km of wilderness with habitat for breeding, molting and staging activity. The wilderness quality of Labrador has also posed several challenges in terms of understanding the status of this species. Expensive and logistically- challenging survey programs have only recently (i.e., last 20 years) targeted Harlequin Ducks but due to the co-ordination amongst agencies and proponents, an appreciation of the range, numbers, and timing of movements for this species in Labrador has been developed. Over 800 helicopter survey hours have been completed on at least 111 river systems/sections during late May- early June (July in northern-most areas) from 1987-2008. Presence of the species was widespread and confirmed on approximately 67% of areas examined. It is estimated that 395 breeding pairs occur on rivers where presence has been confirmed and the majority of potential habitat for this species has been examined in Labrador. The actual number of breeding pairs, their success and other population limiting factors remain unclear. Regardless, Harlequin Ducks are common in Labrador and the population appears to be stable or increasing.
40212136|Relatively low numbers of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) are present year-round in with breeding, molting and wintering at specific areas. Breeding is largely restricted to the Great Northern Peninsula, but there is some evidence of breeding in remote areas of the eastern part of the island. A large molting concentration is present on the Grey Islands, east of the Northern Peninsula. Harlequin Ducks winter on the south coast of Newfoundland, with the largest concentration at Cape St. Mary's. Counts from Cape St. Mary's indicated Harlequin Ducks decreased through the 1980s, but have been increasing rapidly since the early 1990s. Although anecdotal, information from early sources suggests populations of Harlequin Ducks in Newfoundland are much reduced. Chronic oiling and misidentification of Harlequin Ducks by hunters remain as threats, while forestry and hydroelectric development may be potential sources of habitat reduction.
40212137|Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) are a relatively rare species in the Canadian Maritime Recent confirmed breeding records are restricted to northern New Brunswick. Sightings of small numbers of birds during the molting and staging periods occur in all three provinces. It is estimated that New Brunswick supports as many as 200 wintering Harlequin Ducks, and almost 600 winter off the coast of Nova Scotia, although due to the extent of coast and occasional sightings of Harlequin Ducks from previously unknown locations, it is likely that these are minimum estimates, particularly for Nova Scotia. Few trend data are available in the Maritimes, but available information suggests an increase in the last five years. Hunting, both intentional and unintentional, still occurs; hunter education and enforcement to stop the take of this species could be worthwhile. Coastal development, including vacation home building and aquaculture sites, are occurring in places where Harlequin Ducks winter. There is a general need to monitor the impacts of these developments on local Harlequin Duck populations.
40212138|Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histronicus) arrive along the eastern coast of the United States at traditional wintering grounds from late September to December through early January. Counts in January and February best represent wintering bird numbers. Spring migrants depart from April to May, although from more southerly wintering areas, birds appear to depart in March. Breeding has never been confirmed in the eastern United States. Molting females have been documented in Maine during the fall, but the extent of molting has not been assessed. It is estimated 1,575 to 1,800 Harlequin Ducks wintered in the eastern United States from Maine to North Carolina between the winters of 1997-98 and 2001-02. Over 75% of the birds wintering in the eastern United States were in Maine, primarily in the vicinity of Isle au Haut. Smaller concentrations representing about 18% of the wintering birds in the eastern United States were at locations in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, primarily the Cape Anne region and Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts and the Sachuest Point region, Rhode Island. South of Rhode Island, Barnegat, New Jersey is the only area that regularly reports counts of over 25 birds. In the Isle au Haut region of Maine, numbers along survey routes have not shown a linear change from 1989- 2002, but show a pattern of decline from 1989 to 1993 followed by increases since then. In eastern Maine, population increases are greatest and birds are expanding their winter range into new areas. All other areas in the eastern United States south of Isle au Haut that regularly report over 50 birds show significant population increases since the 1980s, north-eastern US.
40212139|Mid-winter activity budgets and diving behaviors of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) at Isle au Haut, Maine were examined. Feeding was the most frequent activity and the number of hours during the day devoted to feeding increased from December to March as day length increased. Resting was not a frequent midwinter activity, but birds rested more in the morning than in the afternoon and the duration of resting bouts increased in March, likely in relation to increasing day length. During foraging bouts, first-winter males had longer submergence times and longer pause times than adult males, although the resulting dive: pause ratio was similar. This may be related to feeding inefficiency of the young birds or lack of experience with local habitats or prey species. Mean dive durations and pause durations at Isle au Haut were greater than reported elsewhere for this species, and may be related to strong local currents associated with the wave washed ledges on Isle au Haut.
40212140|Foraging behavior of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) and its response to changing conditions during winter was investigated at Cape St. Mary's, Newfoundland. Behavioral synchrony among individuals permitted continuous observations of flocks to be conducted, sometimes over entire days. Overall foraging effort of Harlequin Ducks was examined at two organizational levels: dive cycles (dive and surface pause) and foraging cycles (foraging bout and rest bout). Overall foraging effort decreased at greater tide depths as Harlequin Ducks decreased the duration of foraging bouts. Dive: pause ratios did not change within these shorter foraging bouts at high tides, however the duration of dives, pauses, and the total dive cycle all increased. Overall foraging effort decreased in response to increased wind/wave exposure due to a decrease in dive duration. Overall foraging effort did not change in response to decreasing ambient temperature; however the frequency of dive cycles decreased which could decrease energy expenditure associated with post-dive thermoregulatory costs. Overall foraging effort increased throughout the day, particularly in the last foraging bout before the overnight fasting period. Interestingly, this strategy was accomplished by decreasing dive durations but increasing foraging bout duration. These opposite results across levels of behavioral organization are interpreted in the context of intermittent exercise and locomotion whereby decreasing effort at one level of energy expenditure could allow for increased effort at another. Therefore, different (and sometimes opposite) responses to environmental conditions can occur at different levels of behavioral organization. Even when overall foraging effort remains unchanged, the strategy employed can differ in its temporal allocation or frequency, which could be important in balancing energy budgets under increased energetic costs and/ or time constraints. These results have particularly important implications for interpreting behavioral responses investigated at only a single level of behavior, extrapolating data from brief observation periods to longer time scales, and foraging models which only consider single levels of behavior such as the dive cycle.
40212141|Female Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) incubate eggs and rear broods, while males normally depart the breeding grounds at the onset of incubation. On 27 July 2000, a male Harlequin Duck was observed in association with a female and brood of five ducklings on the Ikadlivik River in northern Labrador. The male maintained some distance (~ 100 m) from the female and brood; however, upon appearance of a researcher, the group amalgamated and the male appeared to influence the behavior of the female and brood. Possible explanations for early male departure and this exception are discussed.
40212142|Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) and aquatic insects have been monitored on the River Lax at Myvatn, from 1975 and 1977, respectively, up to the present The area holds the densest breeding population of this species in Iceland. The relationship between food abundance, reproductive success and density of breeding Harlequin Ducks were examined on three sections (outlet, upper and lowland) of the Lax. Spring density was highest on the lake outlet (2.1 ha) and much lower on the upper (0.3 ha) and lowland (0.4 ha) sections. Numbers of Harlequin Ducks on the Lax increased significantly during the study period, 1975-2002. The trend of increasing numbers could be attributed to either a general, as yet unexplained, increase of Harlequin Ducks in northern and northeastern Iceland, or perhaps to the successful eradication of American Mink (Mustela vison) breeding at the lake outlet (the main production centre of young Harlequin Ducks). Sex ratio in spring was 41% females at the outlet and on the upper Lax but 36% on the lowland part. Yearling males were about 1% of all males on the upper river but 6-19% on the lowland part. Most young were produced at the outlet, while few females or broods were found further down the river. The mean total number of young produced annually at the outlet was 7411 (range = 3-235). Young per female present in spring at the outlet and upper part was 0.49  0.09, or if only females at the outlet in spring are considered, 0.82  0.17. Annual production of young was positively correlated with total yearly black fly abundance. We conclude that food limits the production of young in the Harlequin Duck. Changes in the densities of adults on the breeding grounds showed density dependence but were not significantly associated with food resources or previous production of young.
40212143|Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) breeding on the upper Torrent River of the northern peninsula of Newfoundland were studied from 1993 to 2002. This reach of the watershed was proposed for hydro-electrical development in the 1990s. Harlequin Ducks arrive on the Torrent River as soon as ice-out permits in early to late May. Pairs concentrate in the upper watershed that drains the Long Range Barrens ecoregion. Nesting and brood rearing appear to take place primarily in proximity to spring-pair activity, although movements of more than ten km were observed. Young remain in the upper watershed until fledging in late August to mid-September. Counts of Harlequin Ducks breeding on the upper Torrent River increased throughout the 1990s, and the estimated population growth rate for the Torrent River birds was very similar to the growth rate for birds wintering at Cape St. Mary's, Newfoundland (1.14 vs. 1.13) during the same period. Paired females spent ~ 40% of the day in feeding activities whereas paired males allocated less time to feeding (~19%) and more time to alert or vigilant behaviors while females fed. Birds rested for 35-40% of the day. Harlequin Ducks exploited rapids, riffles and runs, and were especially associated with the boulder-strewn inlets and outlets of ponds. The large quantities of submerged and semi-submerged angular boulders provide increased surface area for attachments of larval insects, and movement of water through boulders assures high rates of oxygenation important to filter-feeding insects. Broods selected areas with flow rates of 1.27  0.24 m/s. The family Chironomidae contained the most taxa and was the most numerous invertebrate group found in the Torrent River. Chironomidae may comprise the most important food items for pre-nesting Harlequin Ducks when considering volume of prey types consumed. A high rate of brood production in 1997 and 1998, compared to adjacent watersheds, suggests the possibility that the Torrent River system may behave as a source population for the general region of northern Newfoundland.
40212144|The number of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) wintering in eastern North American is small, and little was known about these birds, especially their breeding distribution. During the breeding period, 990 km of river and streams on Newfoundland's North Peninsula was surveyed where 69 Harlequin Ducks were sighted. Breeding densities varied among watersheds (range 0-0.090 males/ km), were slightly lower than elsewhere in eastern North America, and lower than in western North America and Iceland. A total of 128  45 males (indicated pairs) or 284  89 birds (95% CI) was estimated to occur on the North Peninsula during the breeding season. This may represent 20% of Harlequin Ducks wintering in eastern North America and highlights the importance of the Northern Peninsula as a breeding area for this rare duck.
40212145|As part of the Hydro-Qubec Grande-Baleine (Great Whale) hydroelectric project feasibility studies, Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) surveys were conducted in 1990 and 1991 in the eastern Hudson Bay and James Bay drainage basins. A total of 142 and 420 Harlequin Ducks were counted in 1991 and 1992, respectively, of which 142 (1991) and 356 (1992) were found in the area surveyed both years. Most individuals were in pairs and the overall sex-ratio did not deviate significantly from 1:1. The highest numbers of Harlequin Ducks counted over the two years were found on the Little Whale River, Des Loups-Marins Lake, and Nastapoka,  l'Eau Claire and Boutin Rivers. Highest pair densities were observed in June 1992 on rivers located in tundra and forest tundra i. e., the lower Little Whale,  l'Eau Claire and Nastapoka Rivers, and near D'Iberville Lake. In 1992, pair densities varied between 0.003 and 0.093 pair/km, depending on the watershed, and followed a latitudinal gradient. Two broods were located in 1991 and three were found during a preliminary survey conducted in 1989. Broods were located on Boutin, Nastapoka, and Great Whale Rivers, as well as along the Hudson Bay coast. The difference in the number of Harlequin Ducks found in June 1991 and 1992 may have been related to weather and methodological factors. Considering the vastness of northern Qubec and the limited area surveyed during this study, we suggest that Harlequin Ducks breeding in northern Qubec may well number in the thousands, and represent a very high proportion of the Greenland molting and wintering populations. /// En 1990 et 1991, nous avons ralis des inventaires d'Arlequins plongeurs Histrionicus histrionicus sur des rivires des bassins versants de la baie d'Hudson et de la baie James, dans le cadre des tudes de faisabilit d'Hydro-Qubec pour le projet Grande-Baleine. Nous avons recens 142 et 420 Arlequins plongeurs en 1991 et 1992, respectivement, desquels 142 (1991) et 356 (1992) se trouvaient dans l'aire inventorie les deux annes. La plupart des Arlequins plongeurs taient en couple et le sex-ratio des oiseaux recenss ne diffrait pas significativement de 1:1. Les plus grands nombres d'Arlequins plongeurs recenss les deux annes se trouvaient sur la Petite rivire de la Baleine, le lac des Loups-Marins et les rivires Nastapoka,  l'Eau Claire et Boutin. Les densits les plus leves de couple ont t notes en juin 1992 sur des rivires de la toundra et de la toundra forestire, soit dans la partie aval de la Petite rivire de la Baleine et des rivires  l'Eau Claire et Nastapoka, ainsi que dans le secteur du lac d'lberville. En 1992, les densits ont vari de 0.003  0.093 couple/km selon les bassins versants, et suivaient un gradient latitudinal. Nous avons observ deux couves en 1991, et en avions localis trois en 1989 au cours d'un inventaire prliminaire. Les couves ont t aperues sur les rivires Boutin et Nastapoka, sur la Grande rivire de la Baleine ainsi que sur la cte de la baie d'Hudson. La diffrence importante entre le nombre d'oiseaux recenss en 1991 et en 1992 pourrait s'expliquer par des facteurs mtorologiques et mthodologiques. Nous sommes d'avis que le Nord-du-Qubec pourrait abriter quelques milliers d'Arlequins plongeurs en priode de nidifcation, lesquels pourraient reprsenter une partie trs importante de la population de l'Arlequin plongeur qui mue et passe l'hiver sur la cte sudouest du Groenland.
40212146|In 1996, a study to locate and describe breeding sites, estimate pair densities and document brood movements of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) was conducted on selected rivers of the Gasp Peninsula, Qubec. Pair densities on the Port-Daniel, Sainte-Anne and Madeleine River systems were low: 0.32, 0.10 and 0.06 pairs/km, respectively. Six VHF radiotransmitters were implanted in nesting females on the Port-Daniel and Sainte-Anne Rivers. Two successful nests were located on cliff ledges and one unsuccessful nest was located on the ground on an island. These nests represented the first recorded for the eastern North American Harlequin Duck population. Of the marked hens, two successfully hatched ducklings. One was followed for a month until the female was killed by a Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus). The brood used a six km stretch of the Sainte-Anne River during that period. The other brood was tracked for two months and concentrated its activities along a three km stretch of the Port-Daniel River. The female was located in coastal waters near Newport on 24 August 1996. Two of the marked females from the Port-Daniel River and one from the Sainte-Anne River migrated to Bonaventure Island, where they likely molted. A female captured on the Port-Daniel River was killed by a Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicencis) before its nesting status was confirmed. A female from the Port-Daniel River was located at the Sally islands, Maine, on 5 December 1996. The study confirmed the importance of the Gasp Peninsula Rivers for breeding Harlequin Ducks and the use of adjacent coastal molting sites by postbreeding females. It also established a link with the major Maine wintering area. /// En 1996, nous avons conduit un projet de recherche pour localiser et dcrire les sites de nidification, estimer le nombre de couples et documenter les dplacements de couves de l'Arlequin plongeur (Histrionicus histrionicus) sur quelques rivires de la Gaspsie, au Qubec. Nous avons survol les rivires Port-Daniel, Sainte- Anne et Madeleine en mai et y avons dnombr peu de couples, soit 0.32, 0.10, 0.06 couples/km, respectivement. Nous avons implant un metteur VHF dans six femelles nicheuses: trois sur la rivire Port-Daniel et trois sur la Sainte-Anne. Nous avons trouv deux nids qui ont produit des canetons, les deux sur des corniches de falaises, et un autre, celui-l prdat, construit au sol sur une le. Ces nids reprsentent les premiers jamais rapports dans l'est de l'Amrique du Nord. Deux femelles marques ont t aperues avec des jeunes: une est demeure sur la rivire Sainte-Anne pendant un mois, soit jusqu' ce que la femelle soit tue par un Grand-due d'Amrique Bubo virginianus. Cette couve a utilis un secteur de la rivire couvrant prs de six km. L'autre couve suivie l'a t pendant deux mois sur la rivire Port-Daniel, o elle a utilis un secteur d'environ trois km. La femelle a t repre en eaux sales le 24 aot 1996, prs de Newport. Deux des femelles marquees sur la rivire Port-Daniel et une sur la rivire Sainte-Anne ont migr  l'le Bonaventure, o elles ont probablement mu. La troisime femelle capture sur la riviere Port-Daniel a t tue par une Buse  queue rousse Buteo jamaicencis avant que son statut de nicheur puisse tre confirm. Une femelle capture sur la rivire Port-Daniel a t dtecte le 5 dcembre 1996 aux les Sally, Maine. Cette tude a permis de confirmer l'importance des rivires de la pninsule Gaspsienne pour la nidification de l'Arlequin plongeur et l'utilisation par les femelles des eaux ctires adjacentes aprs la nidification. Elle a aussi permis d'tablir un lien avec l'aire d'hivernage du Maine.
40212147|Between November 1994 and November 1995, regular boat surveys for Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) were conducted on The Wolves archipelago in New Brunswick, Bay of Fundy. The birds arrived in early November and departed by mid-May, reaching a peak of 38 birds in March. Sex ratios tended to be close to unity, consistent with observations in Maine in the mid-1990s. Juvenile age ratios were noticeably higher than those observed at other wintering sites, suggesting that the juvenile birds may prefer The Wolves archipelago as a wintering site. Overall, these surveys confirm the importance of The Wolves archipelago as a non- breeding area for this species.
40212148|Sea ducks have been captured with mist nets set across breeding streams and in drive traps at sea during the flightless period, but capture of flying birds on staging and wintering coastal areas presents a challenge. Here, we describe a highly successful technique for capturing Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) at sea, modified from a mistnet set developed to capture Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) at sea. While original method was passive, decoys were added to attract birds and occasionally birds were driven toward the nets using small boats. The capture technique proved to be safe and effective. Three hundred and seventy-eight birds were captured during 28 d of effort and no birds died in the nets or during handling. The technique has been further modified to capture molting Harlequin Ducks. The technique and its modified version could be easily used to capture other sea ducks on their staging, wintering and molting areas. /// Les canards de mer ont dj t captures  l'aide de filets japonais tendus des deux cts d'une rivire et dans des trappes alors qu'ils sont inaptes  voler en mer, mais la capture d'oiseaux aptes au vol aux hakes migratoires et aux aires d'hivernage reprsente un dfi majeur. Nous dcrivons ici une technique qui s'est avre trs efficace pour capturer des Arlequins plongeurs Histrionicus histrionicus en mer. Nous avons utilis des montages de filets japonais utiliss pour capturer des Alques marbrs Brachyramphus marmoratus en mer. Alors que la mthode originale tait utilise de faon passive, nous avons ajout des appelants pour attirer les oiseaux prs des filets et nous avons aussi dirigs les oiseaux vers les filets  l'aide d'embarcations lgres. Cette technique de apture s'est avre scuritaire et efficace. Trois cents quatre-vingt-huit oiseaux ont t captures pendant vingt-huit jours d'effort de capture. Aucun oiseau n'est dcd lors des captures et des manipulations. La technique a de plus t modifie pour capturer des Arlequins plongeurs en mue. La technique mise  l'essai ainsi que la version modifie pourrait facilement tre utilise pour capturer d'autres espces de canards de mer aux haltes migratoires et aux aires d'hivernage et de mue.
40212149|Capture-recapture data from a five-year field study of individually marked Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) wintering at Isle au Haut, Maine was used to examine patterns in age-and sex-specific apparent survival and local movements. Adult females had lower annual apparent survival probabilities than adult males. Survival probabilities for adult females were lower during the summer season than the winter season. Adult males showed no differences in apparent survival between the summer and winter intervals and survival during the winter season was similar for adult males and females. There was little evidence to suggest differences in apparent survival between first winter males and females, although sample sizes, especially for first winter females, were small. Annual apparent survival rates were lower for first winter males than adult males and likely reflected a combination of greater dispersal and higher mortality. Adult males captured in April in the study area disappeared from the study area more than adult males captured in November and may represent spring dispersal of unpaired males searching for mates or individuals from other wintering sites gathering before spring migration. Greater dispersal of adult and first winter males to adjacent wintering sites in subsequent winters was noted than for adult females.
40212150|Survival rates are an essential parameter for understanding the dynamics and status of wild populations. Apparent survival (the combined probability of surviving and returning to a site) and capture rates were estimated for male Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) (second-year, N = 30, adult, N = 83) that were captured and/or resighted on the Gannet Islands, Labrador, from 1999- 2003. Most birds available for analysis were first captured locally (N = 74), although a significant number were originally banded on wintering grounds in Maine (N = 36), and the remaining three were banded on breeding grounds. Second-year male apparent survival rates were low (0.466  0.118; 95% PLI: 0.256 - 0.689), and different from adult rates (0.744  0.045; 0.647 - 0.822), likely due to increased dispersal of young birds. There was little evidence for annual variation in survival rates, but samples sizes were low. Apparent survival rates of male Harlequin Ducks were lower than found in most studies, suggesting that some males emigrate from the Gannet Islands molting site, but do confirm that there is some fidelity to molting sites, similar to observations of the Pacific population.
40212151|There is an increasing interest in using winter juvenile counts as indices of recruitment in species that show delayed plumage maturation, especially for species, such as dispersed breeders, for which it is difficult to obtain good productivity estimates. To date, however, the needed mathematical work to assist in interpreting these winter juvenile/adult ratios has not been conducted. A matrix-based population model is presented that is modified to allow the fecundity component to be measured in mid-to late winter. This model is simplified to a set of equations that relate adult survival, winter juvenile/adult ratios and population growth rates, allowing an assessment of population trend with only one survival rate and age ratio data. These models have the advantage of not requiring that age of first breeding be well known. As an example, age ratios and survival rates of Harlequin Duck (Histnonicus histrionicus) populations in British Columbia and Maine are presented. Models for both populations suggest recruitment of young is insufficient to compensate for adult mortality, which is contrary to observed trends. Although some further methodological work is needed, such as better estimates of true adult survival and a further understanding of how to obtain unbiased estimates of juvenile/adult ratios, these models may prove to be a useful tool to assess population trends when detailed demographic data are not available.
40212152|In order to better delineate affiliations between breeding, molting, and staging areas of the small Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) population wintering in eastern North America, in April 2001 satellite transmitters were implanted in eight adult males at Isle au Haut, Maine, a major wintering area for this population. Two birds were confirmed breeding on rivers on the Gasp Peninsula, Quebec, two birds molted in northern Labrador, and four birds migrated to southwestern Greenland during the molting season, including one bird that bred in Qubec. The four birds tracked to southwestern Greenland likely molted there, although molting could be confirmed for only one bird. All birds tracked to Greenland, to breeding areas, and to molting locations returned to wintering sites in Maine the following wintering season. This study is the first confirmation of wintering male Harlequin Ducks from eastern North America molting in Greenland./// Afin de mieux circonscrire les aires de nidification, de mue et de repos de la petite population d'Arlequin plongeur (Histrionicus histrionicus) qui hiverne dans l'est de l'Amrique du Nord, laquelle est en peril, nous avons marque en avril 2001 huit mles  l'aide d'metteurs satellites  l'Isle au Haut, au Maine, une rgion o hiverne une part importante de cette population. Deux individus ont niche sur des rivieres de la pninsule gaspsienne, au Qubec, deux individus ont mu sur la cte du nord du Labrador, et quatre individus ont migr vers la cte sud-ouest du Groenland avant la priode de mue, dont un individu ayant niche en Gaspsie. Nous avons confirm la presence d'un seul de ces quatre derniers individus sur la cte du Groenland durant toute la priode de mue, bien qu'il soit probable que tous aient mu  cet endroit. Tous les arlequins qui se sont rendus au Groenland ainsi que ceux qui se sont reproduits ou qui ont mu sur la cte du Labrador sont retourns dans le secteur de l'Isle au Haut au Maine pour la priode d'hivernage. Notre etude est la premiere qui confirme que des Arlequins plongeurs males faisant partie de la population qui hiverne sur la cte est de l'Amrique du Nord muent au Groenland.
40212153|Satellite telemetry was used to determine the migration patterns between breeding, staging, and molting areas of adult male Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) breeding in central Labrador during 2001 (N = 5) and 2002 (N = 6). Male Harlequin Ducks remained near their capture locations for an average of 19-20 d. Males spent an average of 18 and 34 d on the Labrador coast in 2001 and 2002, respectively, and moved along the coast between several important staging areas prior to migration to Greenland. Male Harlequin Ducks may be completing a pre-basic molt prior to migrating to Greenland. Seven males migrated from the Labrador coast to three distinct molting areas in Greenland. All transmitters expired by September preventing a confirmation of whether these males wintered in Greenland. The absence of band sightings during winter in eastern Canada, especially Maine, indicates that some Harlequin Ducks breeding in central Labrador may also winter in eastern Greenland.
40212154|The recent use of abdominally-implanted satellite transmitters to track movements of waterfowl is rapidly filling gaps in our understanding of their population structure and affinities. However, premature loss of transmitter signals is of serious concern. Such loss occurred in 21 out of 25 satellite transmitters implanted in Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in 1996-1998. The tracking of eight birds captured while migrating along the shores of Forillon National Park, Gasp Peninsula, Quebec, and the resightings of some of these birds after transmitter failure is detailed. The birds were followed for three to 373 d (mean = 127 d, SD = 82 d) until transmitter signal was lost, but four birds were resighted 493 to 1,474 d after the surgical procedures. These results indicate that premature failure of the transmitter is a common cause of signal loss, even when the battery voltage is adequate at the time of loss. Harlequin Ducks drakes implanted with satellite radios are able to live long after the transmitter has failed. /// L'utilisation rcente d'metteurs satellites sous forme d'implant pour suivre les dplacements de canards a permis d'acqurir rapidement des connaissances sur leur cologie. Cependant, la perte prmature du signal mis par les metteurs demeure inquitante. Nous avons perdu prmaturment le signal de 21 des 25 metteurs satellites implants dans des Arlequins plongeurs (Histrionicus histrionicus) en 1996, 1997 et 1998. Nous dtaillons ici les dplacements de huit Arlequins plongeurs capturs le long des ctes du pare national Forillon, en Gaspsie, et l'observation de quatre de ces oiseaux aprs la dfaillance de leur metteur. Ces oiseaux ont t suivis  l'aide d'metteurs satellites pendant une dure de 3  373 jours (moyenne = 127 jours, cart- type = 82) soit jusqu'au dernier signal reu. Quatre de ces oiseaux ont t revus 493  1,474 jours aprs les procdures chirurgicales. Nos rsultats indiquent que la perte du signal mis par les metteurs pourrait tre lie  un arrt prmatur de ces derniers, mme lorsque le voltage des piles demeure adquat. La survie  long terme d'oiseaux implants avec des metteurs satellites est aussi possible.
40212155|The movements of a total of 948 Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) banded in eastern North America and Greenland from 1996-2003 (313 breeding, 186 molting/staging, and 449 wintering) were examined. Regular resignting and recapture projects have been underway at the Gannet Islands, Labrador, as well as Jericho Bay, Maine. Less consistent observations have been conducted on the Gasp Peninsula, Quebec, and incidental observations were obtained from the public. Affiliations between breeding, molting and wintering sites were assessed in an effort to determine movement patterns and the level of geographic separation. Population affiliations indicated by past satellite telemetry studies were verified by the capture-recapture data. Absolute geographic separation between the eastern North American wintering population and the Greenland wintering population could not be determined.
40212156|Harlequin Ducks (Histronicus histronicus) were captured and measured at a variety of staging, breeding, molting and wintering sites across their Northwest Atlantic range from 1996-2002. The consistency in the body measurements taken on the same birds across time and sites, as indexed by repeatability, was adequate (0.4-0.75), with the notable exception of total tarsus, which showed poor repeatability. Correlations among morphological measurements were weak within each sex. Some differences among locations were detected, notably in wing length, with birds breeding in Labrador showing longer wings than birds breeding further south and those wintering in Maine. Overall, however, major differences among sites were not apparent. Recent satellite and banding information indicate that many of these locations are linked and these observations are supported by this morphological data. Harlequin Ducks are similar to other ducks (except eiders) in that they are wide ranging and have disjunct populations, but show, at best, weak morphological differentiation across their range.
40660751|This study made at Dumfries, SW Scotland, has revealed new information on the ecology and social structure of an urban colony of Lesser Black-backed and Herring Gulls Larus fuscus and L. argentatus. There has been a decline in the numbers of gulls nesting in Dumfries, contrary to a national trend of increasing numbers. These gulls nested socially and almost invariably had another pair within 100 m. Recruitment was almost totally confined to existing groups and new breeding areas were initiated by forming roosting groups on suitable sites. High-density groups were formed on flat roofs, usually on industrial and commercial properties, while low densities pairs occurred in residential areas and these pairs usually nested on chimneystacks. From 2000 to 2007, the public subjected nesting gulls to appreciable and increasing non-lethal disruption, mainly by nest and egg removal. This halved the overall breeding success and resulted in increased movement of nesting sites between years. However at sites not subjected to management, breeding success was high and movement was significantly lower. On low-density sites, nest-removal and proofing against nesting gulls mainly resulted in pairs moving a short distance, and did not reduce the numbers nesting in the immediate area. In contrast, synchronous removal of nests and eggs (or the prevention of breeding by netting or demolition) at high-density nesting sites caused desertion of the site. In the next breeding season, most of these displaced gulls failed to nest nearby, resulting in an appreciable reduction in density of gulls nesting in the immediate area. Further, the gulls did not move as a group elsewhere within the town. It is believed than many either failed to breed in the year after disruption or permanently emigrated from the town, an interpretation that is supported by two other studies. Surprisingly, few of the gulls that had their eggs and nest removed re-laid in that breeding season. These findings should be used to form the basis of non-lethal management of urban nesting gulls, which should be planned on an experimental basis to confirm and quantify the results from Dumfries.
40660752|Southern Illinois mined lands were investigated to identify wetland-scale habitat parameters influencing the presence of a habitat limited species, the Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis). Total area (ha), open water area (ha), robust emergent (REM) area (ha), percent REM coverage, REM-open water edge length (m), edge: REM cover index and water depth parameters were measured at 35 wetlands (mean = 5.51 ha; range = 0.13-39.7 ha) to develop one- and two-regressor logistic regression models best explaining Least Bittern wetland use. Logistic regression models using open-water area or open-water area + edge index regressors ranked highest among candidate models, which distinguished our results from those obtained in previous studies. These data suggest that human-created basins supporting at least semi-permanently flooded robust emergent cover, ample expanses (>8 ha) of open water and high emergent edge lengths relative to flooded REM area may consistently meet breeding season requisites of Least Bitterns. Further work to validate or refine this profile of Least Bittern habitat may benefit efforts to enhance pre-existing wetland resources or create new ones.
40660753|Over an 18-month period regular counts were made of the water birds inhabiting lakes and ponds in the Lanin National Park in Argentinean Patagonia. A total of 130 bird surveys were conducted on 21 wetland areas, detecting 6,364 individuals belonging to 27 species from nine families. The most abundant and frequent spe cies were Cloephaga poliocephala, Anas flavirostris, Fulica armillata and Fulica. leucoptera. Species richness was higher in spring and summer than in autumn and winter, involving 31 and 27 expected species, respectively. In contrast, bird abundance did not differ between season. The presence and abundance of bird species with respect to the surface area of the water body highlights the importance of certain lakes in particular. Thus, small water bodies (<100 ha) support higher numbers of birds; an average of 78.4-45.0 individuals as compared with larger lakes with an average of 18.58 birds. However, some species such as Phalacrocorax olivaceus, Podiceps major, Tachyeres patachonicus and Anas specularis were observed more at larger lakes, such differences being statistically significant. In contrast, Anas flavirostris, A. platalea and A. sibilatrix were more common in small and medium-sized lagoons. This information contributes to the development of management guidelines for the conservation of Patagonian wetlands.
40660754|Ground-based censuses of shorebirds were conducted during the winters of 2000-2008 (even years only) and the springs of 2002-2004 and 2008 at Estero Santa Cruz, Sonora, Mxico, a 3,622 ha coastal wetland at the Gulf of California between the Colorado River Delta and Bahia Santa Maria and Ensenada Pabellones, Sinaloa. We documented 21 shorebird species using Estero Santa Cruz. Winter species richness averaged 13 (SD = 2, range 11-16 species, N = 8) while the spring species richness averaged eleven (SD = 2, range 8-16 species, N = 15). In all censuses, Calidris spp.primarily Western Sandpiper (C. mauri)was the most abundant species group, accounting for up to 91% of daily abundance in both winter and springvarying between 60-91% in winter and 34-92% in spring. The highest winter daily count of calidrids was 3,485 while the spring high count was 7,095. The two highest single day counts were the latest dates censused (10 April 2004, 9 April 2008) suggesting that the peak of spring migration comes later, and thus that peak shorebird abundance in the estero is higher than our censuses have recorded. Estero Santa Cruz and other estuaries geographically intermediate between larger shorebird staging areas and migratory bottlenecks represent important migratory stopover sites. Such sites allow for flexibility in migratory pathways, and thus deserve conservation attention and management.
40660755|Between April and July 2007 we surveyed the coasts of Jalisco, Colima, Michoacn and Guerrero, in southwestern Mexico. We documented 33 breeding localities of seven species of Charadriiformes: six of Snowy Plover, two of Collared Plover, five of Wilson's Plover, three of Killdeer, one of Gull-billed Tern, and 16 of the Least Tern. We also located a potential colony of the Black Skimmer. Twenty of these locations were documented for the first time. Excepting breeding localities of the Killdeer and three-four of the Least Tern, all colonies were on saltflats, likely due to the sand dunes bordering beaches being narrow, well vegetated and used heavily by humans, or, for Snowy Plovers, perhaps owing to greater food availability on saltflats. Our data elevated the conservation value of Laguna Cuyutln, Colima, and discovered the value of the Xola-Paramn system, in Jalisco, and Laguna El Potos system and La Parota, in Guerrero.
40660756|Nest and chick census data gathered from 1975-2005 at all known breeding colonies of Royal (Sterna maxima) and Sandwich (S. sandivicensis) Terns in three mid-Atlantic States are reported. Nest census data were gathered sporadically in North Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland throughout this period. Royal Tern chick counts based on annual banding efforts were obtained in Maryland since 1975 and North Carolina and Virginia since 1977, while Sandwich Tern chick counts date from 1977 in North Carolina and 1980 in Virginia. Royal Tern chick counts show significant annual variation by state, and are positively correlated between North Carolina and Virginia, but negatively correlated between Maryland and both North Carolina and Virginia. Sandwich Tern nest counts showed significant annual variation in North Carolina, as did chick counts in North Carolina and Virginia. These results suggest regional, rather than local, trends in Royal Tern numbers over time. While Royal Tern numbers indicate a gradual decline in nests and chick production since the 1980s, followed by an increase in recent years, Sandwich Tern numbers have remained consistentiy lower than Royal Terns but stable over the entire study period. Causes for the decline in Royal Tern numbers are attributed primarily to loss of open sandy habitat from vegetational succession at breeding sites on dredged material islands and to invasive species at nesting sites, including quadraped predators. Increased habitat management and regular censusing with consistent methodology are recommended to help maintain these species at sustainable levels.
40660757|The Atlantic Coast population of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) has been the focus of rangewide monitoring and recovery efforts since it was listed as Threatened in 1986 pursuant to the U.S. Endangered Species Act. Breeding pairs in the U.S. and Eastern Canada were censused annually from 1986 through 2006, and productivity (chicks fledged per breeding pair) was reported annually for varying proportions of the population. Census totals more than doubled, from 790 pairs in 1986 to 1,749 pairs in 2006, concomitant with sustained intensive management. Population growth was greatest and most rapid in the New England and New York-New Jersey recovery units, while increases were more modest in the Southern and Eastern Canada units. Periodic rapid declines in the Southern and Eastern Canada units raise concerns about long-term risks of extirpation. The Atlantic Coast population became less evenly distributed between 1989 and 2006, with the percentage of the population breeding in New England increasing from 21.5% to 36.2% while declining proportionately in the other three recovery units. Overall productivity for the Atlantic Coast population 1989-2006 was 1.35 chicks fledged per pair (annual range = 1.16-1.54), and overall productivity within recovery units decreased with decreasing latitude: Eastern Canada = 1.61, New England = 1.44, New York-New Jersey = 1.18, and Southern = 1.19. Within recovery units, annual productivity was variable and showed no sustained trends. There were significant, positive relationships between productivity and population growth in the subsequent year for each of the three U.S. recovery units, but not for Eastern Canada. There was a latitudinal trend in predictions of annual productivity needed to support stationary populations ( = 1.0) within recovery units, increasing from 0.93 chicks fledged per pair in the Southern unit to 1.44 in Eastern Canada. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that survival rates of Atlantic Coast Piping Plovers decline with increasing latitude of breeding sites, and suggest that modified productivity objectives that are specific to individual recovery units may be appropriate.
40660758|The Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) is a threatened species in Canada under the Species at Risk Act and breeds in manmade impoundments on Department of National Defence land in Nicolet/Baie-du-Febvre, Qubec, a designated Migratory Bird Sanctuary. We conducted Least Bittern call-broadcast surveys in three adjacent basins in these impoundments from 2004 to 2006. Least Bittern abundance greatly fluctuated between these years with a maximum of 37 individuals in 2004, 16 in 2005, and increasing to 32 individuals in 2006, translating into 38, 18 and 31 estimated breeding pairs. A breach in a dyke occurred on the larger basin in the fall of 2004 where most Least Bitterns were detected, which decreased the water level of the marsh and altered the habitat structure the following spring. The dyke was repaired in the fall of 2005 followed by a significant increase in the water level. The fluctuating Least Bittern abundance observed during these years suggests a rapid response of the local population to interannual changes in water level and habitat structure. Water-level management may be necessary to ensure long-term ecological integrity of artificial wetlands but management activities should be conducted outside the breeding season to ensure that the Least Bittern's reproductive needs are fulfilled.
40660759|A Horned Screamer (Anhima cornuta) population was studied to examine its conservation status and habitat deterioration in the El Canclon Lagoon wetland (Manglares Churute Ecologic Reserve) at coastal Ecuador from February 2001 to January 2002. Weekly censuses were conducted along 100m transects around the lagoon perimeter in five survey areas, showing different degree of perturbation, during the dry and wet seasons. At least 68 screamers were observed in the lagoon. The abundance of screamers was lower (six-ten individuals) in more disturbed areas containing farms, agriculture fields and cattle ranching. Abundance was inversely associated with the presence of cattle and was not seasonally dependent during the dry and wet seasons. Screamers were significantly associated with vegetation coverage. Because the Horned Screamer strongly relies on the wetland vegetation, cattle overgrazing jeopardizes its habitat and survival in this Ramsar wetland. Best management practices and the establishment of buffer zones (i.e. 100m) are needed to mitigate the agriculture expansion and cattle ranching around the El Canclon lagoon in order to protect this threatened Anseriformes species in Ecuador.
40660760|We assessed the effects of capture period, capture subregion, age, sex and habitat conditions on the body condition of migrating and wintering Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) in the Playa Lakes Region (PLR) of northwestern Texas. Body condition varied with sex, age, subregion and month during the wet 2002. During 2002, after-hatch-year (AHY) males had more carcass fat (g and percent) than did AHY females. Likewise, AHY males had 34% more carcass fat (g) than hatch-year (HY) males, but we did not detect differences between AHY and HY females. The average increase in carcass fat (g) from October to November-December during wet 2002, was 26% for males and 42 to 93% (HY) for females. Body condition of pintails in the south exceeded those captured in northern subregions of the PLR during wet 2002, but not dry 2003. Southern caught AHY males had 31% more carcass fat (g) than northern caught AHY males, but we found no differences for HY males. Females caught in southern subregions also had 24-77% more carcass fat (g) than northern captured females. During dry 2003, pintail carcass fat (g and %) did not vary by capture location or among age and sex classes, except for males, which increased carcass fat by 34% between capture periods. From our findings, we recommend that managers periodically assess pintail body condition to detect temporal trends of condition status and measure population response to conservation efforts. However, use of body condition measures to evaluate habitat management and conservation efforts must be evaluated in the context of habitat conditions, sample locations, period of sample collection and age and sex classes.
40660761|We analyzed carcass lipid, ash and protein dynamics of male and female Wilson's Snipe (Gallinago gallinago delicata) from arrival on wintering areas in coastal Texas until departure for spring migration. In addition, we analyzed seasonal variation in mass and length of digestive organs to document changes that may increase gut capacity and digestive efficiency of migrating and wintering Wilson's Snipe. Lipid reserves of female snipe remained relatively stable from fall to winter, whereas body protein increased by 3% during this time. Females catabolized lipids and protein prior to spring migration. Conversely, lipid reserves of male snipe increased by 44% from fall to winter and were at least maintained from winter to spring. Furthermore, we observed a trend (P = 0.021) for increasing lipid content in males during spring. Because male snipe accumulate fat reserves prior to spring departure, it appears they employ a "time-selected" strategy for spring migration. In contrast, female snipe migrate later in spring when food may be more available. Thus, females apparently rely more on dietary nutrients acquired at migration stopover sites to and likely employ an "energy-selected" strategy for spring migration. Gut morphology of male snipe remained unchanged throughout the non-breeding period whereas length of small intestine, caeca, and large intestine decreased by 6%, 8% and 8%, respectively from fall to winter in females. Small intestine length in creased by 6% in females from winter to spring.
40660762|Little information exists on breeding Greater Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis tabida) in riparian wetiands of the Intermountain West. We examined the nesting ecology of Sandhill Cranes associated with riparian and palustrine wetiands in the Henry's Fork Watershed in eastern Idaho in 2003. We located 36 active crane nests, 19 in riparian wetiands and 17 in palustrine wetiands. Nesting sites were dominated by rushes (Juncus spp.), sedges (Carex spp.), Broad-leaved Cattail (Typha latifolia) and willow (Salix spp.), and adjacent foraging areas were primarily composed of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.), cinquefoil (Potentilla spp.), Rabbitbrush (Ericameria bloomeri) bunch grasses, upland forbs, Quaking Aspen (Populus tremuloides) and cottonwood (Populus spp.). Mean water depth surrounding nests was 23 cm (SD = 22). A majority of nests (61%) were surrounded by vegetation between 30-60 cm, 23% by vegetation <30 cm, and 16% by vegetation >60 cm in height. We were able to determine the fate of 29 nests, of which 20 were successful (69%). Daily nest survival was 0.986 (95% LCI 0.963, UCI 0.995), equivalent to a Mayfield nest success of 0.654 (95% LCI 0.324, UCI 0.853). Model selection favored models with the covariates vegetation type, vegetation height, and water depth. Nest survival increased with increasing water depth surrounding nest sites. Mean water depth was higher around successful nests (30 cm, SD = 21) than unsuccessful nests (15 cm, SD 22). Further research is needed to evaluate the relative contribution of cranes nesting in palustrine and riparian wetlands distributed widely across the Intermountain West.
40660763|Nest site characteristics and reproductive success of Black-crowned Night Herons Nycticorax nycticorax, Little Egrets Egretta garzetta and Grey Herons Ardea cinerea were studied in a heronry in Pyeongtaek, Gyeonggido, Korea. When the species nested in trees without other conspecifics, the mean height of the nest from the ground and the mean distance of nest from the tree trunk differed among species. In trees where both Blackcrowned Night Herons and Little Egrets nested, mean nest height did not differ between species, but Black-crowned Night Herons nested, on average, farther from the tree trunk. In trees where Black-crowned Night Herons and Grey Herons nested, the mean distance of nest from the tree trunk for Black-crowned Night Herons was greater, but the mean nest height did not differ between species. In trees where all three species nested, the mean nest height from the ground for Black-crowned Night Herons and Grey Herons was higher than for Little Egrets, and the mean distance of nest from the tree trunk for Black-crowned Night Herons was greater than for the other species. Clutch size did not differ significantly among herons and egrets. Black-crowned Night Herons had fewer hatchlings and fledglings than did the other species. We suggest that while nest height from the ground for herons and egrets was not related to reproductive success, the distance of the nest from the tree trunk was so related.
40660764|During a time of food stress, we observed sex-biased mortality during the nestling stage in a sexually size dimorphic species of wading bird, the White Ibis (Eudocimus albus). Over four days spread out over a week, we captured a total of 180 25-32 d old White Ibis nestlings from a colony of several thousand breeding pairs. On sequential capture dates we caught significantly fewer females than males. Through this time period male nestlings had higher body condition indices (mass/tarsus) than females, though the rates at which male and female body condition increased over the week were not significantly different. Several sources of evidence suggest that our sampling was not sex-biased and was reflective of actual changes in abundance of males and females. These data indicate that despite the greater caloric requirements of males, their larger size may have conferred a competitive advantage over female siblings in obtaining food from parents during a time of food shortage.
40660765|Attempts of interbrood food theft (food kleptoparasitism) from chicks of Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) by foreign nestlings are reported from three heronries situated in northern Poland. Such behavior was observed more often in two of the three sites studied. In one colony, it was recorded occasionally. Possible reasons of intercolonial differentiation in food theft attempts occurrence are discussed.
40660766|We implanted satellite transmitters into eight juvenile Common Mergansers to investigate post-fledging movements from their natal river in southcentral Alaska. Subsequently, they moved widely throughout portions of western and southcentral Alaska up to 750 km from their natal areas during fall and winter months. Transmitters of two birds (one male and one female) continued to send location data into their second year and allowed us to determine the location and timing of the flightless molt period for each bird. Overall, our data suggest that juvenile Common Mergansers range widely immediately after fledging, that second year males and females may differ in their movement patterns, and that these movements have implications for population genetic structure of this species.
40660767|Tens of thousands of shorebirds use saline lakes as migratory stopovers in the Southern Great Plains, USA. To assess their foraging strategies and understand how they replenish energy reserves during spring and summer/fall migrations, we examined diets, prey taxa selection, and prey size selection of American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana), Least Sandpipers (Calidris minutilla), Wilson's Phalaropes (Phalaropus tricolor), and Lesser Yellowlegs (Tringa flavipes). Migrant shorebirds foraged opportunistically by taking most prey taxa according to their availability. Least Sandpipers preferred small prey (2-5 mm), whereas American Avocet, Wilson's Phalaropes, and Lesser Yellowlegs generally preferred intermediate and large prey (6-20 mm). By consuming prey taxa according to their availability and prey sizes that require minimum energy to capture and ingest, shorebirds increase their ability to replenish energy reserves while migrating through interior North America. Drought and drying of freshwater springs will reduce availability of prey in saline lakes for migrating shorebirds. To preserve the saline lakes as important habitats where shorebirds replenish nutrient reserves while migrating through the Great Plains, it is important to conserve groundwater so that freshwater springs continue to discharge into the lakes.
40660768|The foraging and diving behavior of the Great Grebe (Podicephorus major) was studied in southern Brazil, from June to October 2005. A total of 547 dives performed by adult birds and 578 dives of juveniles were recorded. There was no age-related difference in dive duration (adults = 19.43 s; juveniles = 20.00 s) but the time elapsed between two successive dives (pause or recovery time) differed among age-classes (adults = 16.1 s; juveniles = 15.0 s). Duration of dive and pause times were weakly correlated in adults and not correlated in juveniles. Both age classes had feeding bouts of similar durations. Adults were more efficient in capturing prey (0.2 prey/min) in comparison with juveniles (0.1 prey/min) and took significantly larger prey. The main food item was the White Croaker (Micropogonias furnieri), an abundant demersal fish in the area. Juveniles had higher prey handling time in comparison with adults (78.2 s vs. 20.1 s), making them more prone than adults to being cleptoparasitized by other seabirds. Diving duration varied during daytime hours, with juveniles diving longer during early morning and late afternoon, while adults avoided foraging during midday hours. Feeding throughout the day could be a mechanism used by juvenile grebes to compensate for low foraging efficiency.
40660769|In austral spring 2006, a year of severe drought conditions, we timed 314 and 133 dives and subsequent surface durations of Hoary-headed (Poliocephalus poliocephalus) and Australasian Little Grebes (Tachybaptus novaehollandiae), respectively, at a freshwater lake in southern Australia. Hoary-headed Grebes stayed submerged for longer (18.5  3.6 s) than Australasian Little Grebes (15.7  4.2 s and 2.1  1.1, respectively). Consequently, Hoaryheaded Grebes maintained a high and constant diving efficiency (2.33  0.25)measured as the dive: pause ratiothroughout the study, suggesting that they are better at facing changes in water level of their lacustrine environment than Australasian Little Grebes, which showed an erratic and lower (1.95  0.48) dive efficiency.
40660770|This paper reports the first record of the Green Heron (Butorides virescens) nesting on the oceanic islands of Bermuda. Nesting was first documented in 2002; nests were first found in 2003. From 2005-2007, the Green Heron nesting population was about 20 pairs, located at as many as seven sites dispersed over most of the islands. It is likely that the Green Heron nested on Bermuda for some years immediately before its discovery. A review of available information suggests that it may have nested also on Bermuda in pre-colonial times, possibly even into the historic period. During the study period, over 80 young have fledged at the two main nesting sites. Green Herons on Bermuda eat small fish at inland ponds and marshes and along the coast. This paper also provides the first published description of the occurrence, in 1985-1990, of the Striated Heron (Butorides striata) on Bermuda. Colonization of the Green Heron followed private and government engagement in wetland conservation action, which likely provided habitat required for the colonization event to be successful.
40660771|This study compares the plumage of a single Eurasian White-throated Dipper Cinclus cinclus with that of three Common (European) Blackbirds Turdus merula (all road casualties). As expected, the Dipper had far more down and contour feathers (3,322) than the Blackbirds (mean 1,704), with Dipper down and contour feathers being significantly shorter than those of Blackbirds. However, contrary to published information, the plumage of dippers is not exceptionally dense; the mean follicle density of the Dipper was 59.2 follicles cm, that of the Blackbirds 58.6-61.7 follicles cm. Instead, the enhanced insulation of diving Dippers stems from a) much more extensive plumage (the apterylae between feather tracts are fully feathered, whilst naked in Blackbirds), b) substantial down cover of head (absent in Blackbirds), c) extensive down cover of wings. Much of the higher number of feathers in the Dipper is made up of contour feathers rather than down/semiplume feathers (the ratio between Dipper contour and down/semiplume feathers, 3.35:1, was similar to that of Blackbirds, 3.55:1), indicating an insulative function for contour feathers as well as down. Ultrastructural investigation showed that Dipper breast and back down was substantially finer (more complex) than in Blackbirds, but leg down, and contour feathers of the two species were indistinguishable.
40660772|Red-footed Boobies (Sula sula) belong to the Sulidae family and the order Pelicaniformes and are expected to present low rates of extra-pair paternity (EPP) due to several life history traits of seabirds. We found no evidence of EPP among 14 families of Red-footed Boobies nesting on Genovesa Island in the Galpagos archipelago using multilocus minisatellite DNA markers. The band-sharing values between parents and offspring ranged from 0.44 to 0.86 and those among unrelated individuals ranged from 0.07 to 0.4; all bands in offspring lanes were accounted for by those in the lanes of the putative parents.
40660773|Depth recorders are among the most useful tools available for ornithologists interested in waterbird foraging behavior. Despite their widespread use in the literature, there is little information available about their precision and accuracy, including, for the case of TDRs, device drift. We examined the uncertainty associated with two types of depth-recorders deployed on Thick-billed Murres Uria lomvia in the Canadian Arctic in 2007 for up to 48 hours. The maximum depth obtained by capillary tube maximum-depth gauges (MDGs), a cheap and simple depth-recorder, was highly correlated (R = 0.87) with maximum depth obtained by electronic time-depth recorders (TDRs) attached to the same bird (n = 29) up to depths of 100 m. Deeper than 100 m or in deployments of 144 hours, MDGs were unreliable. We suggest that the maximum depth for Thick-billed Murres in the Canadian Arctic is about 150 m, rather than the 210 meters previously reported using MDGs recorders, and that caution should be used when quoting maximal maximum depths for species diving deeper than 100 m using this method. We also attached two Lotek TDRs to the same bird (n = 18) and examined the similarity of the two recorders. The average difference increased from about 0.5 m near the surface to about 1.0 m below 60 m, with extreme differences of up to 4 m obtained. Furthermore, TDRs submerged to known depth were accurate within  2 m. The effect of these variations on measurements of maximum and average depth and duration was about 0.6-1.3 m (depth) or s (duration), which is similar to the manufacturer's accuracy specifications ( 1%). Finally, we examined the drift (offset from zero at the surface) within the TDRs. Drift varied from -2.5 to + 2 m, with 9 out of 36 recorders showing no drift, and no change amongst years for individual recorders. Drift was lowest (most negative) at the colony, higher during flight and highest (most positive) on the water surface, despite very small differences in altitude (<50 m). We suggest that drift may be a useful tool for quantifying at-sea behavior, especially in conjunction with temperature logs. We conclude that MDGs are reliable up to 100 m and within 48 hours, and that TDRs are precise within 2%, but that more research needs to be completed on device accuracy and precision.
40660810|A framework for a sampling plan for monitoring marshbird populations in the contiguous 48 states is proposed here. The sampling universe is the breeding habitat (i. e. wetlands) potentially used by marshbirds. Selection protocols would be implemented within each of large geographical strata, such as Bird Conservation Regions. Site selection will be done using a two-stage cluster sample. Primary sampling units (PSUs) would be land areas, such as legal townships, and would be selected by a procedure such as systematic sampling. Secondary sampling units (SSUs) will be wetlands or portions of wetlands in the PSUs. SSUs will be selected by a randomized spatially balanced procedure. For analysis, the use of a variety of methods as a means of increasing confidence in conclusions that may be reached is encouraged. Additional effort will be required to work out details and imple ment the plan.
40660811|A large proportion of the Hudsonian Godwits (Limosa haemastica) spending the boreal winter along the eastern Pacific Ocean coast are known to occur in the vicinity of Chilo Island, Chile, but the importance of the region to Whimbrels (Numenius phaeopus) is less known. Ground counts conducted in 2007 and 2008 increased published estimates, at a minimum, of Pacific coast populations by 27% for Whimbrels (33,150 individuals) and 51% for Hudsonian Godwits (21,161 individuals). Bays and shorelines in the Chilo Island region supported 99% of Hudsonian todwits and, perhaps, 61% of Whimbrels estimated to occur along the Pacific coast during the boreal winter. Whereas Hudsonian Godwits aggregated in shallow bays on the eastern and northern coast of Chilo Island, Whimbrels were more dispersed along the island's coastline and reached a density of 7.5 birds/km along sheltered gravel shorelines. Bays in the vicinity of Chilo's capital, Castro, provided important foraging and roosting habitat for non-breeding birds; these sites supported 52% of the Pacific coast population of Hudsonian Godwits and > 4,000 Whimbrels. Low human disturbance in Pullao and Putemun bays makes these sites particularly attractive to nonbreeding Hudsonian Godwits, and their permanent protection is urged.
40660812|Patterns of spatial and temporal variation in species richness, abundance and diversity were evaluated in eight wetlands in Central-South Chile in relation to nine wetland characteristics. Twenty-six bird species were recorded, among the most representative families were Rallidae, Ardeidae and Anatidae with five species each. Stepwise regression analyses identified wetland area and water level fluctuations as the most important variables determining bird abundance. Variations in species richness were explained by wetland area, shoreline length, vegetation cover and water-level fluctuations. Shoreline development, shoreline length and wetland area lower than one-meter depth were especially important in determining species diversity. Cluster analyses showed similar results. Shoreline length was an important feature influencing total species number, but simple regression analysis showed that the species area relationship occurs in wetlands too. This study concludes that species richness, bird abundance and diversity reach higher values in larger and structurally more heterogeneous wetlands, but with important seasonal dynamics in waterbirds. The relationships between habitat characteristics and community structure did not remain unchanged throughout the year, suggesting that the birds respond differently to one or another habitat characteristic depending on the season. These results show the need for wetland conservation in Chile, paying special attention to the largest and most heterogeneous wetlands to conserve the greatest species richness and bird abundance.
40660813|A study, using satellite telemetry, was conducted to determine the precise migration patterns and wintering locations of Common Loons (Gavia immer) breeding in the northeastern United States. Transmitters were implanted in 17 loons (16 adults and one juvenile) that were captured on breeding lakes in New York, New Hampshire, and Maine during the summers of 2003, 2004, and 2005. Transmitters from ten of the birds provided adequate location data to document movement to wintering areas. Most adult loons appeared to travel non-stop from breeding lakes, or neighboring lakes (within 15 km), to the Atlantic coast. Adult loons marked in New Hampshire and Maine wintered 152 to 239 km from breeding lakes, along the Maine coast. Adult loons marked in the Adirondack Park of New York wintered along the coasts of Massachusetts (414 km from breeding lake), Rhode Island (362 km), and southern New Jersey (527 km). Most of the loons remained relatively stationary throughout the winter, but the size of individual wintering areas of adult loons ranged from 43 to 1,159 km 2 , based on a 95% fixed kernel utilization distribution probability. Ajuvenile bird from New York made a number of stops at lakes and reservoirs en route to Long Island Sound (325 km from breeding lake). Maximum functional life of transmitters was about 12 months, providing an opportunity to document spring migration movements as well. This work provides essential information for development and implementation of regional Common Loon conservation strategies in the Northeastern U.S.
40660814|The conservation of wading birds is increasingly dependent upon determining the ability of humanmodified habitats to serve as surrogates for natural habitats. The suitability of commercial shrimp farms and seminatural estuarine mudflats in Northwest Ecuador as foraging habitat for wading birds was assessed by observing the foraging efficiency, diet and behavior of Great (Ardea alba) and Snowy (Egretta thula) Egrets, censusing wading birds, and measuring prey availability (i.e. prey density, standing crop, water depth and diversity). Mean annual wading bird density was greatest in shrimp ponds, but was greater on mudflats during the breeding season when energy demands are most critical. Foraging efficiency (capture/strike) was greater on average in shrimp ponds than on mudflats, and both Great and Snowy Egrets captured significantly larger prey items (in both length and mass) there than on mudflats. However, intake rates (g/minute) were significantly greater on seminatural mudflats than in shrimp ponds during the breeding season. Prey standing crop, mass of individual prey items and water depths were all significantly greater in shrimp ponds than on mudflats, while the opposite was true for prey density and diversity. Shrimp ponds provide important foraging habitat for Great and Snowy Egrets, particularly during harvest events and during the non-breeding season, while four other wading bird species (Tricolored Heron (Egretta tricolor), Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea), Yellow-crowned Night Heron (Nyctanassa violacea) and Striated Heron (Butorides striatus)) were precluded from foraging in most ponds due in part to deeper water (> 30 cm), pond bathymetry, larger prey items and differing foraging behaviors. While important to Great and Snowy Egrets, shrimp ponds do not appear to provide suitable foraging habitat for all other diurnal wading bird species within the local community, and do not likely serve as complete ecological substitutes for natural foraging habitat throughout coastal Ecuador.
40660815|A study was carried out on breeding Horned (Slavonian) Grebes (Podiceps auritus) in Scotland to investigate causes of low breeding success. Clutch and brood survival were examined separately, as well as overall breeding success. For those clutches where the cause of loss was known, most were lost to avian predators. Clutch survival was negatively correlated with crow (Corvus spp.) frequency and variability in water levels. Brood survival was lower where the introduced fish species, Pike (Esox lucius) was present and higher where the water was clearer. These factors may have affected prdation rates and foraging efficiency, respectively. Overall productivity (young fledged per pair) was negatively related to the frequency of crows and number of bank anglers, who can disturb grebes. Remains of 19 fully-grown birds were found at five lakes. Some had been skinned and dismembered in a similar way, suggesting prdation by a mustelid. Steps to improve productivity should include education of bank anglers, and perhaps selective removal of Pike and crows. Alternatively, breeding habitat could be improved at lakes where predators are less common.
40660816|Since their recovery from population declines in the 1960s and 1970s, Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) have become a common breeder on the Atlantic coast of the southeastern U.S.A. Despite their relative abundance, few studies of their breeding biology have been conducted in this region. Parent and nestling behavior during early chick rearing were examined at a colony in Charleston Harbor, South Carolina. Rates of parental and chick feeding decreased linearly with chick age. Rates of parental attendance, chick begging and chick aggression all peaked when chicks were approximately 21 d post-hatching and then declined. Direct feeding events were never observed when chicks were < 11 d of age and indirect feeding events were rarely observed after chicks were > 15 d of age. The transition from indirect to direct feeding was not accompanied by a change in begging rates. Shifts in the frequencies of both parent and chick behaviors occurred at approximately three weeks post-hatching, when chicks achieve thermoregulatory independence and become more mobile. These data suggest that any spatial or temporal comparisons of parent or chick behavior should be assessed in relation to the age category of the parent and the age of the chicks.
40660817|Nest-site selection and nest success for Red-breasted Mergansers (Mergus serrator) breeding on a barrier island complex (Tern Islands) with > 10,000 Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) in eastern New Brunswick, Canada, were studied in 2005 and 2006. Concealment was the most important feature for nest placement as 153 of 156 nests were in dense stands of Marram Grass (Ammophila breviligulata), and overhead concealment, vegetation density and vegetation height were all greater at nests than at random locations. Apparent success for all nests was 57% and was similar between years. Few nests were depredated (N = 3), but abandonment was responsible for 95% of nest losses and was most common early in the season. Nest success was < 45% for nests initiated before 25 May but > 75% for nests initiated after 10 June. Nest abandonment was influenced by intraspecific nest parasitism and investigator activity. Red-breasted Mergansers selected nest sites adaptively on Tern Islands because: 1) nests were more concealed than random sites; 2) avian prdation at nests in the Common Tern colony was lower than at nests on nearby islands without terns; 3) nests were not exposed to mammalian predators; and 4) nest success and nest densities were high.
40660818|A substantial proportion, perhaps 30%, of the North American breeding population of Longtailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) winter in the vicinity of Nantucket Island, Massachusetts. These birds spend the night on Nantucket Sound and commute during daylight hours to the Nantucket Shoals, which extend about 65 km offshore from the southeastern corner of Nantucket. Strip transects done from a single-engine plane in 1997 and 1998 indicated that Long-tailed Ducks foraged over the shallower ( 20 m depth) portions of the Nantucket Shoals, up to 70 km offshore. Diet analyses of ten birds collected in February 1999 and five in December 2006 showed that they fed principally (106.6 +/-42.0 individuals per crop) on Gammarus annulatus, a pelagic amphipod that often forms large aggregations, and is consumed by several species of fish and marine mammals. Our findings emphasize the importance of conservation of the Nantucket Shoals and the prevention of oil spills or other potentially harmful accidents.
40660819|Stable isotope analyses have revolutionized the study of migratory connectivity. However, as with all tools, their limitations must be understood in order to derive the maximum benefit of a particular application. The goal of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of stable isotopes of C, N, H, O and S for assigning known-origin feathers to the molting sites of migrant shorebird species wintering and breeding in Argentina. Specific objectives were to: 1) compare the efficacy of the technique for studying shorebird species with different migration patterns, life histories and habitat-use patterns; 2) evaluate the grouping of species with similar migration and habitat use patterns in a single analysis to potentially improve prediction accuracy; and 3) evaluate the potential gains in prediction accuracy that might be achieved from using multiple stable isotopes. The efficacy of stable isotope ratios to determine origin was found to vary with species. While one species (White-rumped Sandpiper, Calidns fuscicollis) had high levels of accuracy assigning samples to known origin (91% of samples correctly assigned), another (Collared Plover, Charadnus collans) showed low levels of accuracy (52% of samples correctly assigned). Intra-individual variability may account for this difference in efficacy. The prediction model for three species with similar migration and habitat-use patterns performed poorly compared with the model for just one of the species (71% versus 91% of samples correctly assigned). Thus, combining multiple sympatric species may not improve model prediction accuracy. Increasing the number of stable isotopes in the analyses increased the accuracy of assigning shorebirds to their molting origin, but the best combination - involving a subset of all the isotopes analyzed - varied among species.
40660820|Mercury exposure may be linked to several sources of variation related to habitat conditions and species ecology. In generalist birds, feeding habits may change quickly in response to environmental conditions, prey availability and individual requirements. Stable nitrogen isotope ratios (N) were used as a marker of trophic level, and stable carbon isotope ratios (C) as a marker of carbon sources (terrestrial vs. marine) in food webs involving waterbirds, to infer the effect on mercury exposure due to differences in feeding ecology and the relative dependence on aquatic environments. Four generalist species occupying three different habitats were examined during the breeding season. Habitats: Brackish water-saltwater (saltpans), brackish water-freshwater (ricefields and some saltpans) and terrestrial environment (steppes). Species: Avocet (Recurvirostra avosetta), Black-winged Stilt (Himantopus himantopus) , Kentish Plover (Charadnus alexandnnus) and Cattle Egret (Bulbucus ibis). Chick feathers were at several locations between 2000 and 2003. Species used resources differently in the environment, and distinct pathways were involved in the mobilization of mercury into food webs. The positive relationship between feather N values and mercury levels indicated mercury bioaccumulation and biomagnification. Inter-specific variation in feather  C values revealed a different relative dependence among species on terrestrial vs. aquatic prey. Intra-specific variation in feather C values also indicated differential use of marine inputs within each species, and within saltpans for Avocet chicks. Feather mercury levels and  C values suggested that the relative use of marine-derived prey influences mercury levels in chicks.
40660821|The determination of genetic parameters for most waterbird populations presents considerable challenges because these species frequently breed in inaccessible locations which preclude capture of nesting pairs. The application of non-invasive sampling techniques, such as the collection of molted feathers in the field, could represent an appealing strategy to overcome the above cited problem. Here, the feasibility of sampling molted feathers collected in Brazilian populations of the Roseate Spoonbill (Plataka ajaja; N = 94) and the Jabiru Stork (Jabiru myctena; N = 10) for genetic studies was evaluated. Each feather yielded high quality DNA with a concentration 1.25 times higher than that obtained from feathers from similar sized birds from other groups. Amplification of a 390-396 bp fragment for molecular sexing and 11 microsatellite loci was successful. The average percentage of positive PCRs (i.e. those that yielded products) among all Roseate Spoonbill loci and samples was 95.5%. The sampling approach appears suitable to gather genetic information in natural populations of these waterbirds and can be ap plied to other similar species.
40660822|Cats (Felis catus) were probably introduced to Reunion Island (Western Indian Ocean) in the seventeenth century and feral populations are now spread over all anthropogenic and native habitats. The diet of feral cats living in the breeding habitat of Barau's Petrel (Pterodroma baraui), an endemic and threatened seabird of Reunion Island, were studied. Results from the analysis of 217 scat (333 prey items) showed that Barau's Petrel were the most common prey of feral cats, followed by introduced rodents. Numerous dead birds at breeding colonies that had been killed by cats were found, 58% of the birds were adults. Given the high sensitivity of the population growth rate of a long-lived seabird to any additive mortality of adults, these results are particularly worrying. As this species is also threatened by massive light-induced mortality of fledglings, it is highly likely that this population is declining. A control of cats at breeding colonies is urgently needed to save this species from extinction.
40660823|The Punta de Manabique Wildlife Refuge in the inner Gulf of Honduras, Guatemala, was surveyed for shorebirds from August 2000 to June 2001. Shorebirds were counted along beaches, coastal lagoons and river mouths. A total of 25 species was recorded. Species richness and abundance were highest in a zone where several river mouths and coastal lagoons occurred. The most common species, each accounting for > 5% of all individuals observed, were in decreasing order of abundance: Spotted Sandpiper (Actitis macularius), Sanderling (Calidris alba), Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola), Collared Plover (Charadnus collans), Least Sandpiper (Calidns minutilla), Whimbrel (Numeniusphaeopus) , and Semipalmated Plover (Charadnus semipalmatus). Species composition differed between autumn and spring by 42%. For all surveys a total of 2,673 individuals was recorded, and flock size ranged from 2 to 35 birds, indicating that Punta de Manabique is a secondary migration site for shorebirds.
40660824|The status and breeding success of Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus) in Numidia, Algeria and factors affecting its conservation in Algeria and North Africa were investigated during 2002-2007. After a century and a half of apparent interruption, reproduction was once again noted at Lake Fetzara and three new breeding sites: Dakhla, Chatt and Lake Tonga. At the latter site, colonies shifted location annually between 2002 and 2006 and were often split into subcolonies located on distinct islets. Egg-laying occurred between mid-April and the end of June, beginning over a month earlier in 2004 than in 2005. Mean clutch size for the combined three study years (2004, 2005 and 2007) was 3.7  0.6 (N = 49 clutches). Hatching success amounted to 89% (29 clutches) and an average of 2.7  0.9 chicks per nest survived to twelve days. Habitat loss and degradation as well as lack of management plans are identified as major threats to the future of the Glossy Ibis in Algeria.
40660825|Colonization pattern, clutch size variations and nest mortalities were studied in a wild population of Painted Stork (Mycteria leucocephala) in Delhi Zoo, India during 2005-2006. Among the seven different colonies in the zoo, colony 3 was the first to be occupied in both years. Nest initiation dates were significantly different across colonies. Initiation dates of satellite colonies were 7-15 days later than the island colonies (16-19 August). Clutch size varied among different colonies (1.41-3.04) with colonies 3 and 4 exhibiting highest values, 3.04 and 2.70 respectively. Birds nesting early (< 14 days since nest initiation date) had higher clutch sizes compared to later nesters and those nesting in satellite colonies. House Crow (Corvus splendens) and Black Kite (Milvus migrans) were the major predator on eggs and chicks. The significance of site specific studies in providing conservation insights and setting the foundation for long term population monitoring projects is highlighted.
40660826|Changes in clutch size and fledging success associated with the height and distance from shore of nests were investigated in a colony of Black-crowned Night Heron at Poyrazlar Lake, Turkey. A total of 100 nests in five plots were surveyed in 2007. Nest height varied between 45-300 cm, with a tendency to be lower further from shore. Clutch size appeared independent of nest location and variable, with 37% of nests with two eggs, 32% with three eggs, 22% with four eggs and 9% with five eggs. Fledging success was approximately 67% for plot 1, nearest to shore, but increased up to 94% for plot 5, furthest from shore.
40660877|The Kittlitz's Murrelet (Brachyramphus brevirostns) is a poorly-known species of alcid and a seabird of conservation concern. Nesting murrelets were discovered at Agattu Island in the western Aleutian Islands, and a field study provided new information on nest site selection, chick growth rates and reproductive success. Twelve ground nests were located in upland habitats (441 masl) at inland areas of Agattu (2.3 km from shore). All nests contained one egg or chick. Murrelets tended to nest in association with a ground cover of orange crustose lichens, bare ground, small rocks and graminoids. Estimates of growth rates for the body mass of nestling Kittlitz's Murrelets were lower (K L < 0.10) than published estimates for other small-bodied alcids with semiprecocial young (K L = 0.14 to 0.23). Murrelet young departed from nests after 30 days of growth at 47% of adult mass but at 80% of adult wing length. Optimal wing-loading may ensure successful dispersal flights from terrestrial nest sites to ocean habitats. Survival of eggs and young were low during the incubation (0.26; 30 d) and brood-rearing periods (0.22; 30 d), leading to a low probability of nest survival (0.06). Losses during incubation were mainly due to avian predators, whereas mortality of young after hatching was caused by inclement weather. Kittlitz's Murrelets have a suite of life-history traits associated with low reproductive potential (small clutch size, slow growth and poor reproductive success) and may have limited ability to recover from population declines.
40660878|Field-collected and hunter-donated ducks obtained during September-January of 1997-98 and 1998-99 were used to determine if food habits and body mass of Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) and Mallards (A. platyrhynchos) wintering in Suisun Marsh (Suisun), California, a managed estuarine brackish marsh, differed from values in the adjacent Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta (the Delta), a freshwater region of grain fields flooded after harvest. Ducks in Suisun fed primarily on seeds of Sea Purslane (Sesuvium verrucosum), followed by Alkali Bulrush (Schoenoplectus maritimus) and Wild Millet (Echinochloa crusgalli), together forming 73-90% (aggregate % dry mass of the diets. Ducks in the Delta fed primarily on seeds of Smartweed (Polygonum spp.), followed by corn (Zea mays) and tomato seeds (Lycopersicon esculentum) , together forming 62-88% of the diets. Pintails and Mallards collected in Suisun each had similar (5 of 11 seasonal comparisons) or greater (6 of the 11 comparisons) body mass compared to their conspecifics collected from the Delta (90% confidence interval analyses), despite a composite diet in the Delta having about 39% greater metabolizable energy content (ME) and 24% greater protein content than in Suisun. Therefore, diet quality alone was not a predictor of body mass in these two areas. Other factors must have been involved, such as greater food abundance and density, lower waterfowl abundance and density, or lower daily energy costs in Suisun. Direct measurement of these factors should explain the apparent inconsistencies in body mass relative to food quality in these brackish and freshwater habitats.
40660879|Interactions of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auntus) and fish in a constricted shallow basin near a cormorant nesting site (Young Island) in Lake Champlain, Vermont were studied. Much of the basin was dominated by submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV), which led to the investigation of how fish residing among SAV could affect cormorant foraging. Data were collected on foraging flocks, individual birds and their stomach contents, the fish community, and SAV from May to September. Fish were most abundant in August and September; they did not migrate from the basin during the warmest time periods or the greatest densities of SAV. Although many fish species (N= 28) were collected, Yellow Perch (Perca flavescens) numbers comprised almost half of the fish community and were the major prey, based on numbers, in cormorant stomachs. Double-crested Cormorants regularly foraged in the basin until early August when they began foraging in more distant areas. The shift occurred soon after the peak in SAV biomass and height, which covered essentially the entire area previously frequented by foraging birds. The results indicate that cormorants expand their foraging range when prey become less available. Thus, dense SAV can indirectly contribute to the expansion of Double-crested Comorants, adding complexity to strategies for managing cormorant numbers throughout the lake.
40660880|Seasonal variation in abundance, time activity budgets and foraging behavior of non-breeding Marbled Godwits (Limosa fedoa) and Willets (Tringa semipalmata) were compared at four sites at the Laguna Ojo de LiebreGuerrero Negro saltworks complex, Baja California, Mexico. Habitat use varied between species, seasons and sites. Marbled Godwits (182  44.1 individuals per site) were more abundant than Willets (70  16.1 individuals per site), reflecting their overall pattern in northwestern Mexico. Overall abundance diminished throughout the season (270  69 individuals per site in Oct-Nov, 85  21 in Dec-Jan and 60.2  24 in Feb-Mar), although it remained high at mudflat. Consistent with bill length, Willets foraged mostly by pecking, while Marbled Godwits did so mostly by probing (proportion of pecks: 0.95  0.17 and 0.4  0.27, respectively). Marbled Godwits changed their time activity budgets through the wintering season: time devoted to vigilance changed from 8-23% in Oct-Nov, to 0.4-8% in Feb-Mar whereas time devoted to feeding changed from 12-40% in Oct-Nov to 59-74% in Feb-Mar. This pattern seems to reflect a change in priorities; surviving early in the season and accumulating energy to migrate, later. In both species, differences in use of habitat appeared to be related to site characteristics such as substrate hardness and risk of prdation. The mudflat was the site most used and the saltmarsh, the least used. Some individuals in both species used the more risky saltmarsh, but increased the time devoted to vigilance. Thus, habitat quality for non-breeding shorebirds depended on both benefits and costs for foraging birds, and habitat choice by specific individuals was complex and probably involved condition-or state-dependent tradeoffs that balanced metabolic requirements, safety priorities, and, perhaps, social status or dominance.
40660881|The Boat-billed Heron's (Cochleanus cochleanus) atypical bill has inspired a half-century of literature addressing its possible ecological and evolutionary implications. Based on a review of this literature and results of a field study conducted in San Blas, Mexico, it can be concluded that the Boat-billed Heron is nocturnal, visuallyfeeding, with a limited and simple feeding repertoire and diet. The heron forages by standing on branches and roots and by walking slowly in shallow water capturing fish and shrimp by lunging and by scooping the surface of the water with its bill. Except for scooping, the feeding repertoire is unexceptional and moreover is typical of other herons that feed by perching on low-hanging branches. Similarly, its food is similar to other nocturnal herons feeding in the same place. Herons obtained about 60 prey items per day. Thus the outlandish bill appears not to be detrimental to the bird's foraging successfully in a manner typical of herons using similar habitat. The bill has been shown to be used in social signaling, which may be its primary contemporary function. Based on available information the exceptional bill of the Boat-billed Heron appears to have few, if any, systematic or ecological implications.
40660882|The Lava Heron (Butorides stnata sundevalli) is a distinctively dark-plumaged heron that feeds along the rocky intertidal shoreline of the Galapagos Islands. The open shoreline used by the Lava Heron differs markedly from the dense swamps used by most populations of Butondes. Larva Herons feed by standing and by walking slowly at the water's edge, averaging only three steps per minute and catching primarily fish, crabs and prawns. Lava Heron foraging is characterized not only by its use of open shoreline, but by an extreme dependence on standing feeding behavior, frequent shifting of feeding sites following the tidal flux across a broad intertidal zone, and importance of crabs in the diet; but overall its foraging does not differ significantly from that used by Butondes elsewhere. The fundamental Butondes foraging strategy appears to have accommodated the habitat shift from dense bushes to open shoreline. Individuals maintain separate feeding territories, with the nest being placed within the territory of one of the pair. Feeding success was 0.12 prey per minute. In that nesting production is low contrasted with other populations, it appears that food may overall be limiting. The Galapagos population differs from South American Striated Herons (Butondes stnata stnata) in having a longer and stouter bill, a feature that correlates with the importance of crabs in the diet. Although known for its distinctive dark color, plumage ranges from all black to light grey, similar to South American birds. The dark color has been assumed to provide camouflage against the similarly colored shoreline, but its specific function has not been explained. Dark ventral plumage likely provides camouflage from active fish and crab prey. Dark dorsal plumage likely provides camouflage on the dark shoreline from above. Although the Galapagos lacks predators, four bird species steal prey from herons, suggesting that the dark plumage of Lava Herons may function to provide camouflage against piratical birds. Whereas the complex plumage patterns of most Butorides populations renders those birds cryptic within their usual densely vegetated habitat, dark plumage is similarly cryptic along the exposed dark shoreline of the Galapagos.
40660883|Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) have been identified as a species of concern by government agencies and conservation organizations because they have small populations and are sensitive to disturbance caused by shoreline and near-shore human activity. Expanding human recreation in Prince William Sound (PWS) may have potential negative consequences on Black Oystercatcher reproduction and on the population as a whole. Almost 2000 km of shoreline in western PWS was inventoried to assess density, distribution and habitat use of breeding Black Oystercatchers each June and July from 2001 to 2004. These efforts identified 94 territories (density 0.03-0.38 pairs/km). Black Oystercatcher territories were preferentially located on wave-cut platforms and rocky islets as well as gravel beaches but they avoided salt marsh, tide flats and sheltered rocky shores. Within western PWS 186 shoreline campsites were documented and people preferred to camp on gravel beaches. The association between campsites and territories was evaluated, and although there was a positive correlation at the landscape level, direct overlap only occurred on four sites and territories were separated from campsites, on average, by 1.8 km. Impacts associated with direct overlap (e. g., trampling of nests or direct displacement of pairs) may be rare for this remote area.
40660884|Little is known about the ecology and population structure of the Reddish Egret (Egretta rufescens). Furthermore, the effects of the near extirpation on genetic variation of Reddish Egrets are unknown. A 223-basepair region of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region was sequenced in 149 Reddish Egret samples from sixteen breeding colonies along the Texas Coast to investigate genetic diversity and population structure. Despite experiencing a severe reduction in population size, Reddish Egrets retained a moderate amount of haplotype (0.705) and nucleotide diversity (0.005). A mismatch distribution among haplotypes and non-equilibrium relationship between the number and similarity of haplotypes (Fu's Fs) are consistent with historical population size changes. No evidence of genetic structuring was found among either colonies or color morphs. Reddish Egrets along the Texas Coast appear to form a single panmictic population. The results of this first conservation genetic study of Reddish Egrets serve as a foundation for management and additional research.
40660885|Dimorphism in various morphological traits is widely used to sex birds. However, when a threshold is set and there is overlap in the distribution of traits between sexes, there will be an error rate. Macaroni Penguins show limited sexual dimorphism in size, with the distributions of most phenotypic traits overlapping between sexes, making using morphological characters for sexing difficult, although bill depth is used in one discrimination test. Two existing DNA-based PCR tests that use different primer pairs (P2/P8 and 2550/2781) were adapted for use with fluorescently labelled primers to enable the size of fragments to be accurately measured via genotyping protocols and sex to be determined. The two molecular tests were applied to the same samples to estimate the error rate within and between tests. Whilst both primer pairs reproducibly identified the sex of the penguins under study with no inconsistencies between tests, the P2/P8 primer pair had a higher success rate of amplification. To estimate the error rates of morphometric tests, they were compared with molecular tests, revealing areas of disagreement. Structure in the error indicated a bias near the morphometric discrimination threshold. We suggest that larger sample sizes in discriminant function analyses and calibration with molecular data can be used to estimate the likelihood of misidentification for any particular value of the trait. A description of where error lies can then be used to target the more expensive and time-consuming DNA tests to check individuals that are most likely to be mis-assigned.
40660886|A total of 124 pellets (regurgitated casts) produced by the Neotropic Cormorant (Phalacrocorax olivaceus) were collected monthly between January 2004 and November 2005 from a roosting site at Rosario Lake Chubut, Patagonia, Argentina. Analyses of the samples showed that fish were the most frequent and important prey by number, followed by crustaceans and molluscs. The three fish species inhabiting Rosario Lake were represented in the diet which suggests that this bird is a generalist feeder. However, cormorants positively selected for Patagonian Silverside and Rainbow Trout, which might be related to their foraging strategy and/or to the conspicuousness of potential prey. The estimated annual fish intake by cormorants at Rosario Lake ranged between 2.3-3.7 tons of fish or 16,000-26,000 individuals. The impact produced by the Neotropic Cormorant on recreational fish resources and local fish farms appears negligible.
40660887|A wild Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) was observed to take bread, drop it in a pond, wait for the fish to be attracted to the bread, strike at the fish, and successfully catch fish in this way (active bait-fishing). A Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) was observed, at the same site, to catch fish attracted to bread which had been thrown onto the water by humans (passive bait-fishing). Little Egrets and Grey Herons have not previously been recorded using bait for fishing.
40660888|The Phoenix Petrel (Pterodroma alba) is classified as Endangered and its population is declining on most of its breeding islands. However, the exact population size is not clearly known and data are sometimes old and inaccurate, such as for the Marquesas Archipelago, French Polynesia. Hatuta'a Island, Marquesas, was visited for three days in March 2007 to determine whether P. alba was still breeding on this island. The population size was estimated to be more than 200 pairs, compared with the one individual seen 20 years ago. Thus, Hatuta'a's importance for bird conservation in the region has increased.
40660889|The Black Guillemot (Cepphus grylle) is a monomorphic, socially monogamous member of the Alcidae. Although aspects of their breeding and foraging ecology have been extensively studied, less is known about possible sex-based differences in morphology, nor whether Black Guillemots mate assortatively based on body size. Using molecular techniques, we identified the sex of 26 male and 21 female Black Guillemots captured in the Canadian Arctic, and measured six external body measurements: outer tarsus length, wing length, culmen length, bill depth, head plus bill length and body mass to test for sexual size dimorphism (SSD) and assortative mating. Overall, males were 1.7% and 8% larger than females in outer tarsus length and bill depth, respectively. Within breeding pairs, bill depth was the most dimorphic trait. Despite these morphological differences no evidence of assortative mating based upon body size was found. Thus, mate choice for body size does not appear to be an underlying mech anism of SSD in bill depth in Black Guillemots.
40660890|Nest site choice and construction by ground-nesting shorebirds can have important repercussions for survival and reproductive success, potentially impacting prdation risk, mate retention and hatching success. One such decision, lining nests with shell fragments, was investigated in the Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus). Data were collected describing the placement, construction and fate of 34 nests on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, USA in 2003. Model selection criteria were used to determine the habitat variables that most strongly influence nest lining. The best model included variables related to both the immediate surrounding (proportion of the substrate made up of shell and rock, and sand granularity), as well as nest location (distance from the dune). Plovers used more shell fragments in nests that are on shelly, rocky, or coarse-sanded beaches, and when nesting closer to dunes. There was a negative correlation between fledging success and the amount of shell surrounding the nest. These results and related conservation implications are explored for this threatened shorebird.
40660891|The first late Oligocene fossil record of a loon (Gaviiformes) is described from the lacustrine deposits of the German locality Enspel. The specimen is an isolated foot, which is associated with a crocodilian tooth. The fossil belongs to a species about half the size of the smallest extant loon, and is morphologically most similar to the Paleogene taxon Colymboides. In all probability it constitutes the prey remains of a crocodilian, which is of particular significance because the distribution ranges of loons and crocodilians hardly overlap today. The Enspel palaeoclimate was warm-temperate and subtropical, and the Enspel specimen and other Paleogene fossils of gaviiform birds raise the, as yet, unanswered question of why loons largely disappeared from inland habitats of the warmer regions.
40660892|Incorporating lightweight synthetic lines, nylon fish netting and sailboat and fishing hardware, the drop net is an effective, portable method to trap many different species of shorebirds. During 2006 and 2007 drop nets were used to safely capture more than 265 targeted shorebirds in habitats in North and South America. Shorebirds captured included Calidris sandpipers, Charadrius sandpipers, Buff-breasted Sandpiper (Tringites subruficollis), and dowitchers (Limnodromus).
40660912|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrcorax auritus) and other piscivorous birds are frequently implicated in having negative effects on commercial and sport fisheries despite the fact that several studies suggest that such effects may be infrequent. Increases in cormorant populations in North America over the last decades have fueled the debate further and population controls, official and unofficial, are in effect in several jurisdictions. Of importance to the management community is the need to obtain the best information on actual diets of cormorants throughout their annual cycle but particularly on the temperate breeding grounds where they frequently overlap with fisheries. Despite success in quantifying seabird diets, managers have yet to exploit the potential of the stable isotope approach to examine trophodynamics of cormorants where they can potentially interfere with fisheries. Here, the use of stable isotope methods (N and C) to quantitatively predict trophic interactions between cormorants and their prey are recommended to augment conventional dietary approaches. The stable isotope approach is particularly suited to situations where birds feed at a single, well-defined lake or waterbody. The approach can provide a quantitative estimate of fish consumption to species or species groups in cases where such groups are isotopically distinct. This paper is intended to provide the research and management communities with the necessary background to apply stable isotope methods to better assess diets of cormorants and other piscivorous water-birds.
40660913|Prey items fed to chicks of eight individually-marked and known specialist Thick-billed Murres ( Uria lomvia) were watched over a 15-year period at Coats Island, Nunavut, and time-depth recorders attached to eight birds in two separate years. Two males were amphipod specialists, one male a cod specialist and another male a shanny specialist; two females were sculpin specialists and two capelin specialists. Although there was likely some gender-related component to diet, there were clear specializations within each gender. Specialization in diet was mirrored by specialization in foraging behavior: amphipod specialists made V-shaped dives and had short foraging ranges, shanny/cod specialists made many shallow dives, sculpin specialists made deep, U-shaped dives, while capelin specialists made V- or W-shaped dives to moderate depths. There was no clear pattern between specialties and age or reproductive success. The use of longitudinal studies in foraging behavior, as long-term studies of individuals can complement existing knowledge of the flexibility or specialization of waterbirds, is encouraged.
40660914|Beginning in the 1960s, Ring-billed Gulls' (Larus delawarensis) historic breeding range expanded from inland habitats and freshwater wetlands to marine sites in Atlantic North America. Adults winter on salt water but salt tolerance may entail costs (e. g. maintenance of salt glands) and favor reduced parental use of marine resources for feeding chicks. Diets of Ring-billed Gull chicks nesting on a marine island off Prince Edward Island, Canada, were investigated using soft rgurgitant collection and stable isotope (C and N) analysis of both rgurgitants and blood samples. Isotopic signatures in blood of chicks of Ring-billed and sympatrically-nesting Herring (L. argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls (L. marinus) were also compared. Rgurgitants of Ring-billed Gull chicks contained freshwater/terrestrial and marine invertebrates and fish. A stable isotope mixing model incorporating both C and N in chick rgurgitants and blood estimated that 42.2% of Ring-billed Gull chick diet came from the marine environment, whereas estimates from blood for Herring and Great Black-backed Gulls were 43.6%, and 73.5%, respectively. Further, differences existed among gull species in estimates for dietary contribution from various food sources from marine and terrestrial/freshwater environments. Although Ring-billed Gulls can use marine food sources to feed their young, whether salt in marine food imposes a physiological cost on these young in comparison to young reared exclusively on non-marine foods is unclear.
40660915|The Black-winged Stilt (Himantopus himantopus) is a long-distance migratory wader common in Europe, North Africa, Asia and Australia. Diets of Black-winged Stilt chicks collected from breeding sites in southwestern Taiwan between April and September 1999-2001 were investigated. The contents of 305 stomachs were examined and 12,176 food items categorized into seven classes, 17 orders, 39 families and 48 species of animals. Prey importance was determined by the index of Acosta i. e. the sum of the relative frequency of occurrence, relative abundance and relative estimated volume. The mean abundance and estimated volume of animal contents per stomach were 39  6 items and 80  10 mm, respectively. The main aquatic invertebrate prey > 10) were water scavenger beetles (Hydrophilidae), biting midges (Ceratopogonidae), chironomid midges (Chironomidae), shore flies (Ephydridae), house flies (Muscidae) and brine shrimp (Artemiidae). The total relative frequency of occurrence, relative abundance and relative estimated volume of these six families were over 64%, 87% and 72%, respectively. The major prey size range of stilt chicks was 2.7-7.4 mm, which comprised only 18% of the total relative abundance of diet items while contributing 42% of the total estimated diet volume. Two alien (an Oreochromis hybrid and Gambusia affinis) and one indigenous (Yongeichthys caninus) fish species were also important contributors to the relative estimated volume (17% in total). The findings suggest that water-level management may improve the feed ing habitats of stilts.
40660916|The Argentinean Pampas is an ecologically disturbed region where patchy wetlands form complex habitats with surrounding agricultural areas. Numerous bird species concentrate in these sites at breeding colonies and communal roosts. For two consecutive years, point censuses were made of birds in the vicinity of a roosting and breeding area at Los Padres Lake in the south-east Pampas's plain. In parallel with these censuses, limnological analyses (e. g. nutrient concentration, conductivity, water transparency and temperature) were conducted to correlate changes in the structure of waterbird assemblages with environmental variability. Seasonal variability in the structure of waterbird assemblages could be due to changes in the birds' habitat use and reproductive phenology through the year (e. g. colonies, foraging and roosting sites) and land use in neighboring areas (e. g. for agricultural practices). Waterbird abundance in July and August correlated with phosphorus and nitrogen concentrations, which were linked to changes of waterbird assemblages and their feeding behavior. The present study shows the potential importance of waterbird communities in contributing biotic nutrients to Pampas wetlands.
40660917|Many salt ponds around the Mediterranean are being either abandoned or converted into aquaculture enterprises, which affects their use by migratory shorebirds. Effective management of salt ponds can improve their attractiveness to birds but requires a better understanding of the shorebirds' response to variations in environmental conditions of the ponds. The main objectives of this study were to analyze the relative importance of different types of salt pond (industrial, traditional and inactive) to shorebirds throughout the tidal cycle, as well as determine the environmental factors that affect the use of salt ponds by shorebirds. Birds were counted during low and high tides on salt ponds in the Guadiana estuary, southeast Portugal. Simultaneously, the environmental conditions of each of the 212 pans studied were recorded and their importance analyzed using logistic regression models. Although more birds used the salt ponds during the high-tide, many species stayed in the study area during lowtide, suggesting a preference to feed on salt ponds as compared to tidal flats. Industrial salt ponds were preferred by most of the species. Water depth, salinity and area were major factors in explaining the presence of the shorebirds and, hence, are the most important environmental variables to take into consideration when devising man agement plans for salt ponds.
40660918|Reproduction within a recently re-introduced resident flock of Whooping Cranes (Grus americana) in Florida during 1992-2007 was poor compared to an established wild flock. Pairing and nesting increased with average age of the flock, but fertility, hatching and fledging were variable among years, suggestive of an environmental influence. For climatic variables measured during the incubation period, only maximum soil temperature was associated with the failure of late nests in dry years. However, pre-nesting winter precipitation and water elevation were positively correlated with an index of nesting effort. Winter precipitation was associated with fertility and hatchability, whereas winter marsh water levels were associated with earlier nesting dates and increased egg volume. Both winter precipitation (> 8 cm mean monthly) and water elevation (> 20.3 m above mean sea level or 68% of full marsh surface area or perimeter) greater than a threshold level appeared to be good predictors for successful reproduction in central Florida, but occurred together in only four of ten study period years. Pairs delayed nesting, had smaller eggs, and hatched and fledged fewer chicks in years with low winter water elevation. Low winter precipitation associated with decreased fertility of eggs may explain the failure of fully incubated nests to hatch in some years. Insufficient stimulation of the neuroendocrine system due to limited rainfall and poor physiological condition due to poor food resources in low water marshes are proposed mechanisms for low fertility and delayed nesting and egg size, respectively. Drought appears to encourage birds to use lake edges for nesting which have increased hazards. Thus, conservation of wetlands for cranes should include deep marshes and lake edges with controlled boat usage during the nesting season. Further investigation is recommended for pre-nesting and incubation behav iors, diseases of eggs, and egg volumes.
40660919|Wintering diving duck (Aythya spp.) time-activity budgets have been developed for many species in different regions. As such, direct comparisons can be made among studies where substantial deviations in "normal" activity budgets can provide insight as to how location, food resources, habitat, weather and human disturbance may differentially influence behavior (s) during winter. To examine how diving ducks use large reservoirs in eastern Texas, 1,275 individual time-activity budgets were quantified for Canvasback (Aythya valisinena), Lesser Scaup (A. affinis) and Ring-necked Duck (A. collans) wintering on B. A. Steinhagen, Sam Rayburn and Toledo Bend Reservoirs during winter 2003/2004 and 2004/2005. Behaviors varied among species (P< 0.001), where food acquisition, locomotion and resting-related behaviors dominated time-activity budgets. All three species spent similar time feeding compared to other studies in the southeastern United States, but spent substantially more time locomoting than previously reported. Human disturbances from boat traffic were associated with time spent locomoting, but no species dramatically increased time feeding to compensate for increased time locomoting. Wintering diving duck activity budgets on these large eastern Texas reservoirs were generally similar to previous studies in the southeast. However, the (in) direct impacts of boat disturbances warrants closer investigation, specifically related to wintering waterfowl responses and the potential utility or value of voluntary avoidance areas during winter.
40660920|The reduced mobility of flightless waterbirds during wing-feather molt should influence time allocation during the day, but time-budget studies are lacking in most species. Here, time budgets of flightless and fullywinged individuals at Lake Constance, Central Europe, were compared for five waterbird species with different feeding ecology and varying sensitivity to disturbances or prdation pressure. Significant differences in diurnal activity budgets of flightless and fully-winged birds were observed in all five species. Different behaviors were responsible for the observed differences. Flightless Mute Swans Cygnus olor spent more time feeding while decreasing locomotory activity. Red-crested Pochard Netta rufina also increased feeding, but, in addition, had increased locomotory activity while resting less. In contrast, flightless individuals of both Gadwall Anas strepera and Tufted Ducks Aythyafuligula spent less time foraging, while there was no such change in Eurasian Coot Flica atra. More consistent patterns were observed in vigilance behavior, which increased in three of the five species. Comfort activities, such as preening, increased in two species, and were unchanged in the remaining three. Social interactions, which constituted only a small part of the daily budget, only changed in Gadwall. The present data suggest that the five waterbird species meet the increased energy demands during molt by either one or a combination of behavioral adaptations, i. e. different strategies, such as higher nutrient intake (e. g. Mute Swan, Red-crested Pochard), lower energy consumption by reducing the locomotory component (e. g. Mute Swan, Tufted Duck) or a breakdown of energy reserves deposited prior to the molting period resulting in more time spent resting (e. g. Gadwall). Also, increased resting times during the day may indicate nocturnal feeding, which needs to be examined in more detail.
40660921|Many studies on the effects of human disturbance on birds have focused on adults and report mainly negative effects. Few focus on effects on chicks. Here, an experimental approach was used to determine effects of human disturbance on chick growth. Cassin's Auklet chicks were assigned to one of three groups (control, low and high disturbance). In experimental groups, a person walked close to the burrow entrance four times or eight times a day, according to the disturbance level assigned. Growth (mass increment and wing length increase) was measured and compared between the three groups. Since adults are absent from the nest during the day, chicks, but not their parents, experienced the disturbance regime. Body condition and experience (age) of the parents did not influence peak or fledging mass of chicks subject to disturbance. Chicks were not affected by disturbance in the early stages of growth, while chicks in the experimental groups stopped gaining weight sooner than controls and fledged at lower weights (6 to 9% less) compared to chicks in the control group. Chicks in the high disturbance group had a lower peak (F <sub>2,68</sub> =7.53, P<0.001) and fledging mass (F <sub>2,68</sub> =17.274, P<0.001) compared to chicks in the control group, while chicks in the low disturbance group had a lower fledging mass (F <sub>2,68</sub> =17.274, P<0.001) but similar peak mass. As subsequent survival of chicks is likely to be affected by their mass at fledging, the results show that it is necessary to consider the chick growth stage when making management plans for areas with burrow nesting seabirds.
40660922|King Rails (Rallus elegans) and Clapper Rails (Rallus longirostns) are large, secretive waterbirds whose ranges overlap in brackish marshes along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts. King and Clapper Rails are difficult to separate by physical appearance and there is currently no reliable method to distinguish between the two species. Here, the relative effectiveness of using discriminant analysis of morphometric measurements to identify and sex King and Clapper Rails was examined. Mean measurements of wing, tarsus, and weight were different between male King and Clapper Rails and between female King and Clapper Rails. However, for all measurements except culmen, male Clapper Rails and female King Rails were not different. Discriminate analysis of morphometric measurements revealed that wing, tarsus, and culmen measurements differentiated between King and Clapper Rails, but cross-validation results for male Clapper Rails were only 73%. Male King Rails were larger than female King Rails for all morphometric measurements and male Clapper Rails were larger than female Clapper Rails for all morphometric measurements except for the tail. Wing and tarsus measurements differentiated between male and female King Rails and wing, tarsus, and culmen measurements differentiated between male and female Clapper Rails.
40660923|Although DDE caused reproductive failures in a wide variety of bird species during the 1950s-1970s, the mechanism (s) by which it acted have still not been fully elucidated. This experimental study was designed to test an hypothesis that the primary mechanism by which DDE caused hatching failure in Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) was by disrupting the structure of the eggshell, leading to reduced exchange of O and CO through the shell to and from the embryo. In the study, gas exchange through two groups of Common Tern eggshells was reduced by 12% or 28% by sealing parts of the surface with acrylic resin. Contrary to predictions from the hypothesis, all treated eggs hatched and there were no other changes in breeding success relative to untreated controls. The result suggests that DDE caused embryonic deaths in Common Terns by mechanisms acting within the egg rather than by modification of the structure or respiratory properties of the shell.
40660924|Previous reports of female-female pairings in seabirds concerned surface-nesting species only and the genetic relatedness between the two females has been determined only once. Here, the first observation of a female-female pair (detected by molecular sexing) in a burrow-nesting seabird is documented. In 2003, two female Cory's Shearwaters (Calonectns diomedea) were found incubating the same egg, from which a chick hatched. A genetic (microsatellite) analysis showed that the two females were unrelated. This study provides additional evidence that petrel mating systems may be more flexible than initially thought. Female-female pairing in burrow-nesting seabirds might be promoted by similar factors to surface-nesting seabirds, and might have remained undetected until now due to the secretive habits of burrow-nesting seabirds and the low number of genetic studies conducted. Re ceived 15 October 2008, accepted 10 April 2009.
40660925|Skin collections show that the Shandong coast of China used to harbor a breeding population of the Chinese Crested Tern, Thalasseus Bernsteini, in the 1930s. However, the current status of this Critically Endangered population is poorly documented. From June to July 2006 a survey was conducted along the southern Shandong coast. The results suggest that the species has likely been extirpated. The extirpation of the regional breeding population may have resulted from anthropogenic colonization and development on the breeding islands starting dur ing the 1950s.
40660926|Reptiles are uncommon as seabird predators on islands. While conducting a study on Cory's Shearwaters (Calonectns diomedea) on Selvagem Grande, North Atlantic, incidental observations during 2006 early hatching period indicated that some chicks were being killed by Madeiran Wall Lizards (Teira dugesii). In the same year and in 2007, the phenomenon was further examined and samples of 78 and 153 nests, respectively, were followed. Also, non-systematic visits were made to other nests. A total of 40 episodes of lizards depredating Cory's Shearwaters hatchlings was recorded. This hitherto unknown source of prdation for this shearwater accounted for the failure of four (5.1%) study nests in 2006 and eight (5.2%) study nests in 2007. All recorded prdation cases took place either during or shortly after hatching. Also, non-systematic observations indicated that three other species of burrowing petrels (Bulwer's Petrel, Bulwena bulwerii; Madeiran Storm-petrel, Oceanodroma castro; White-faced Storm-petrel, Pelagodroma manna) were preyed upon by Madeiran Wall Lizards. Prdation by lizards is apparently a phenomenon of lesser concern for Cory's Shearwaters but the potentially higher impact over the smaller petrel spe cies is not known.
40660946|Female Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) were sampled in California's three main Central Valley wintering regions (Sacramento Valley, Suisun Marsh, San Joaquin Valley) during September-October before most regional movements occur and microsatellite and mitochondrial DNA were analyzed to examine population structure and relatedness. Despite reportedly high rates of early-fall pairing and regional fidelity, both sets of markers indicated that there was little overall genetic structuring by region. Pintails from Suisun Marsh did exhibit higher relatedness among individuals and capture groups than in the Sacramento or San Joaquin Valleys, likely reflecting a sample comprised of a greater proportion of local breeders. The lack of genetic structuring among regions indicates that a high degree of movement and interchange occurs among pintails wintering in the Central Valley. Thus, although maintaining the existing distribution of pintails among Central Valley regions is important for other reasons, it does not appear to be critical to retain current patterns of population genetic variation. Because of potential lack of independence among highly related study individuals, researchers should consider regional differences in relatedness when designing sampling schemes and interpreting research findings.
40660947|The use of tissue stable isotope values to track animal movements is well-established but independent tests of existing models and assignment accuracy at coarse spatial scales and for non-model species are rare. Assignment error associated with an existing model for distinguishing origins of North American Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) on the basis of feather S,D,N,C values was evaluated. Prior information about regional movements reported in Mallard mark-recapture studies was accounted for, and new models generated and applied to independent data obtained from flighdess, juvenile Mallard and Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis). Assignment error of an existing model was reduced from 14 to 8% by incorporating prior information about mallard movement rates between Pacific and Mid-continent Flyways (range 0 to < 1%) in Flyway-specific models. The revised Mid-continent model correctly assigned 86% of 70 flightless hatch-year Mallards captured at breeding areas in central North America during 2005 to origin. Assignment accuracy ranged from 76 to 91% over five 1 latitude increments where Boreal Forest and Prairie regions were increasingly separated from a focal Aspen Parkland region; here, separating Boreal Forest and Prairie regions from the Aspen Parkland by 4 latitude provided the highest relative assignment success rates among all three regions. Estimated origins of known-source scaup were accurate (14 of 16) for birds with feathers grown in Aspen Parkland but not (0 of 5) for those grown in the Canadian North-western Boreal Forest. The results support the use of multiple feather-isotopes for assigning natal origins of birds at broad geographic scales but evaluation of factors affecting species-specific isotope differences is required for application of existing models to other species.
40660948|In 1993, a mark-recapture effort was initiated to band annually all Great Lakes Piping Plover nesting adults and offspring. With voluntary reporting by observers, > 430 sightings of 154 individually-marked Great Lakes banded birds were documented on the wintering grounds during 1995-2005. This paper reports non-breeding distribution and site-fidelity and identifies Critical Habitat units used by this population during the winter. Information obtained through banded bird sightings indicates that the winter range of Great Lakes Piping Plovers extends from North Carolina to Texas, and the Bahamas, with the majority (75%) of reported individuals wintering in Georgia and Florida. About 95% of sightings were near or within federally-designated winter Critical Habitat for Piping Plovers. Within season (52%) and between-year (62%) site fidelity was documented for resightings within 3.5 km of initial sighting. Although breeding pairs do not winter in close association, there is some evidence to suggest that offspring winter closer to the male rather than the female parent (P-value = 0.03), and adult males and females appear to exhibit latitudinal segregation (P-value < 0.001). Females reach the winter grounds before males, arriving in July and staying through April (~9 months) or 75% of the annual cycle. The study is the first to identify winter distribution for the Great Lakes Piping Plover population. The significant proportion of the annual cycle spent on the wintering grounds emphasizes the importance of habitat protection during the non-breeding season for this federally-listed population.
40660949|Forager (predator) abundance may mediate feeding rates in wading birds. Yet, when modeled, feeding rates are typically derived from the purely prey-dependent Holling Type II (HoII) functional response model. Estimates of feeding rates are necessary to evaluate wading bird foraging strategies and their role in food webs; thus, models that incorporate predator dependence warrant consideration. Here, data collected in a mangrove swamp in Puerto Rico in 1994 were reanalyzed, reporting feeding rates for mixed-species flocks after comparing fits of the HoII model, as used in the original work, to the Beddington-DeAngelis (BD) and Crowley-Martin (CM) predatordependent models. Model CM received most support (AIC <sub>c</sub> w <sub>i</sub> = 0.44), but models BD and HoII were plausible alternatives (AIC <sub>c</sub>  2). Results suggested that feeding rates were constrained by predator abundance. Reductions in rates were attributed to interference, which was consistent with the independently observed increase in aggression as flock size increased (P < 0.05). Substantial discrepancies between the CM and HoII models were possible depending on flock sizes used to model feeding rates. However, inferences derived from the HoII model, as used in the original work, were sound. While Holling's Type II and other purely prey-dependent models have fostered advances in wading bird foraging ecology, evaluating models that incorporate predator dependence could lead to a more adequate description of data and processes of interest. The mechanistic bases used to derive models used here lead to biologically interpre table results and advance understanding of wading bird foraging ecology.
40660950|Resource partitioning in three sympatric stork species: Black-necked Stork (Ephippiorhynchus asiaticus) Painted Stork (Mycteria leucocephala) and Asian Openbill (Anastomus oscitans)) was studied in the Keoladeo National Park, India from October 1994 to May 1997. Little is known about their feeding success in variable water depths and habitat use. The Black-necked Stork, a solitary generalist forager, uses tactile and visual methods with a high proportion offish in the diet. The Painted Stork and Asian Openbill forage in groups of two to 100. Both Painted and Asian Openbill Storks are specialists and tactile foragers, with the former preferring fish and the latter snails (Pila spp.). Differences in prey composition were mainly due to difference in feeding behavior and water level at foraging sites. Peck rate, steps and success rate varied significantly among the three species and water level influenced feeding success. The three stork species showed variations in foraging parameters in relation to fine-scale habitat use. All stork species showed preferences for foraging habitat that differed with respect to water level, vegetation community structure and the presence of prey species. The fishing depth component of resource segregation, as described in many wading bird communities has played a major role in determining feeding success and reducing niche overlap. The findings have application to foraging habitat management and the conservation of stork species.
40660951|Stable-isotope analysis of whole blood was used to examine the feeding of adults and chicks of five seabirds (Wedge-tailed Puffinus pacificus and Christmas Shearwaters P nativitatus, Bonin Pteroaroma hypoleuca and Bulwer's Petrels Bulweria bulwerii and Tristram's Storm-petrel Oceanodroma tristrami) in the northwestern Hawaiian Islands. The goal was to compare community foraging patterns as determined by stable-isotope analysis with traditional studies conducted in the early 1980s. Furthermore, chick-rearing Procellariiformes have been hypothesized to practice a bimodal food-provisioning strategy, a behavior yet to be documented in any of the northwestern Hawaiian Islands species outside the albatrosses. Except for Christmas Shearwaters, adults and chicks had significantly different isotope ratios, suggesting differential self-and chick-provisioning by adults. Wedge-tailed Shearwaters foraged opportunistically for themselves, while providing prey of higher trophic position to their chicks. Bulwer's Petrel and Tristram's Storm-petrel adults likely brought prey of more uniform trophic position to their chicks, while relying on more permanent prey patches differing in composition for themselves during the breeding season. Results suggested little overlap in stable-isotope ratios among species and were likely a result of behavioral and mor phological differences in feeding.
40660952|Time activity budgets, foraging habitat quality and behavior of Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) were examined during three non-breeding seasons in a large estuarine system in southeastern Georgia, USA. Among the foraging sites available to shorebirds at each tidal stage, non-breeding plovers tracked those with the greatest biomass and density of invertebrate prey. Prey biomass differed according to tidal conditions but was strongly predicted by the salinity, organic content and particle sizes of the sediments. Foraging rates (pecks/min) and densities (birds/ha) of plovers were both predicted by invertebrate density and biomass. Foraging rates correlated significantly with the rate of defecations, indicating that peck rates were related to intake rates. Foraging rates reached an asymptote of 25 pecks per minute, suggesting an upper limit to the rate of capture unconstrained by digestive bottlenecks. While available, nearly all plovers foraged when on mudflat habitats, while about 33% foraged on salt marsh habitats and 12% foraged on beaches. There was no effect of density of foraging birds on their rate of foraging at mudflats, suggesting that birds were not experiencing intra-specific competition at this productive site.
40660953|Diets of breeding Imperial Cormorants Phalacrocorax atnceps were studied at two breeding colonies, Islas Blancas and Isla Arce, located approximately 30 km apart in an area subject to increasing fishing pressure off Central Patagonia, Argentina. The goal was to assess differences between locations and diet variation among stages of the breeding cycle. Pellet casts (403 and 358 pellets per colony, respectively) were collected from November 2002 to February 2003. Analyses of the pellets revealed that Imperial Cormorants at Islas Blancas and Isla Arce fed on at least 25 and 23 prey types, respectively. Fish showed the highest frequency of occurrence at both colonies (> 70%), followed by crustaceans and molluscs. Of the fish prey, Merluccius hubbsi (22-71%), Engraulis anchoita (16-51%) and Raneya brasiliensis (5-48%) showed the highest frequencies of occurrence, depending on the colony and breeding stage. At Islas Blancas, the consumption offish and crustaceans was similar among breeding stages (incubation, young chicks and old chicks), while it was significantly different at Isla Arce. Overall contribution by frequency of occurrence showed that M. hubbsi was the most frequent prey at Islas Blancas (58%), and E. anchoita and Pleoticus muelleriwere more frequent at Isla Arce (48 and 45%, respectively). Also, overall contribution by mass of the main fish prey indicated differences between colonies. Given the commercial value of the main prey species, cormorant feeding requirements and spatial ecological needs should be included as considerations in coastal fisheries management and future development.
40660954|A discriminant function analysis (DEA) model was developed with DNA sex verification so that external morphology could be used to sex 203 adult California Gulls (Larus californicus) in San Francisco Bay (SFB). The best model was 97% accurate and included head-to-bill length, culmen depth at the gonys, and wing length. Using an iterative process, the model was simplified to a single measurement (head-to-bill length) that still assigned sex correctly 94% of the time. A previous California Gull sex determination model developed for a population in Wyoming was then assessed by fitting SFB California Gull measurement data to the Wyoming model; this new model failed to converge on the same measurements as those originally used by the Wyoming model. Results from the SFB discriminant function model were compared to the Wyoming model results (by using SFB data with the Wyoming model); the SFB model was 7% more accurate for SFB California gulls. The simplified DFA model (head-to-bill length only) provided highly accurate results (94%) and minimized the measurements and time required to accu rately sex California Gulls.
40660955|Archived Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) eggs (N = 16) collected in 1993 from three colonies on the Mississippi River in Minnesota were analyzed in 2007 for perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). One of the three colonies, Pig's Eye, was located near a presumed source of PFCs. Based on a multivariate analysis, the pattern of nine PFC concentrations differed significantly between Pig's Eye and the upriver (P = 0.002) and downriver (P = 0.02) colonies; but not between the upriver and downriver colonies (P = 0.25). Mean concentrations of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), a major PFC compound, were significantly higher at the Pig's Eye colony (geometric mean = 940 ng/g wet weight) than at upriver (60 ng/g wet weight) and downriver (131 ng/g wet weight) colonies. Perfluorooctane sulfonate concentrations from the Pig's Eye colony are among the highest reported in bird eggs. Concentrations of PFOS in Great Blue Heron eggs from Pig's Eye were well below the toxicity thresholds estimated for Bobwhite Quail (Colinus virginianus) and Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), but within the toxicity threshold estimated for White Leghorn Chickens (Gallus domesticus). The pattern of six PBDE congener concentrations did not differ among the three colonies (P= 0.08). Total PBDE concentrations, however, were significantly greater (P= 0.03) at Pig's Eye (geometric mean = 142 ng/g wet weight) than the upriver colony (13 ng/g wet weight). Polybrominated diphenyl ether concentrations in two of six Great Blue Heron eggs from the Pig's Eye colony were within levels associated with altered reproductive behavior in American Kestrels (Fal co sparverius).
40660956|Horseshoe Crab (Limulus polyphemus) eggs are an important shorebird food during the Delaware Bay spring stopover, and shorebird management plans aim to increase and monitor this resource. If shorebirds focus their foraging on Horseshoe Crab nesting depressions they may find richer food supplies than if they forage randomly on the beach. The amount of shorebird sign in quadrats centered on Horseshoe Crab nest depressions was compared with the amount of sign in paired beach areas with no Horseshoe Crab nests. Horseshoe Crab nest depressions had more pecks, probes, digit marks, Ruddy Turnstone excavations, Horseshoe Crab eggs and a greater coverage by shorebird sign than paired beach plots with no Horseshoe Crab nests. Foraging disproportionately within Horseshoe Crab nesting depressions may facilitate the rapid mass gain needed to prepare shorebirds for their flight to the breeding grounds. Horseshoe crab egg monitoring currently estimates mean egg abundance per beach. However, birds are able to find patches with high egg densities even when foraging on beaches with lower average densities.
40660957|With the exception of western Europe, little is known about foraging by White Storks on rubbish dumps. Information is presented on this phenomenon along the migration routes and wintering grounds of the White Stork. White Stork foraging on rubbish dumps is a common behavior in northern Africa and the Middle East and appears related to the wintering of European White Storks in new areas closer to their breeding grounds. South Africa, where a local breeding population has established, is another region where foraging on rubbish dumps has been observed. The development of rubbish dumps may have major consequences for the future ecology of White Stork.
40660958|The identification of predators of aquatic birds can be difficult. The Common Snapping Turtle (Chelydra serpentine) is considered a major predator of waterfowl and other aquatic birds, but the evidence for this reputation is based largely on circumstantial or indirect evidence rather than direct observations. Herein, the first documented observations of a snapping turtle attacking and killing an adult Western Grebe (Aechmophorus occiden talis) are described.
40660959|The Hooded Crane (Grus monacha) is a globally threatened waterbird. From October 2007 to April 2008, the time-activity budgets of the cranes were recorded in Shengjin Lake, the main wintering area for the crane in China. Instantaneous scan sampling was used to observe the behavior of the wintering cranes. Foraging and alerting were the most frequent diurnal behaviors, with average diurnal time-activity budgets of 60.4% and 15.5%, respectively. The time budgets for diurnal behaviors were significantly different from 07:00 to 18:00 for all behavior categories except for alerting and social behaviors. Over the winter period, the time budget for foraging increased from 56.2% in the early stages to 65.7% in the late stage. However, the percentage of time spent alerting decreased from 20.7% to 10.4% as winter progressed. In family groups, adults usually spent more time on maintenance, alerting, locomotion and social behaviors, and less time on foraging and resting than juveniles, in all wintering stages. In the early and middle of winter, the foraging time budget of adults was significantly different from that of juveniles, while at the late stage it was not. The alerting time budget of adults was significantly different from that of juveniles in the early and middle stages of winter, but the difference were less statistically significance in the late stage. The results imply that wintering cranes in Shengjin Lake exhibit different behavioral patterns over the different winter stages to adapt to the degraded and disturbed environment, and parental care of offspring should in crease juvenile survival.
40660960|Post-juvenile molt of Common Snipe was investigated during 2004-05 at thejeziorsko reservoir, central Poland. Body mass and mass of fat stores were dependent on the stage of post-juvenile molt. The body mass increased prior to the commencement of molt, but during the intensive stage of the process it decreased and returned to the previous level. Fat-free body mass increased during molt, which may be attributed to increased protein synthesis or the higher water content of growing feathers. Fat stores were similar in snipe before and in the initial stage of molt; however, they decreased significantly during the transition to the intensive stage of the process. In total, snipe lost approximately 57% of the mass of fat loads over the course of molt (4.9% of lean body mass). Being a highly energetic constraint, post-juvenile molt is suggested to affect certain life history traits of Common Snipe such as the length of the staging periods during the autumn migratory period.
40660980|Abundance indices of Black Scoters (Melanitta nigra americana) breeding in Alaska indicate a longterm population decline without obvious cause (s). However, few life history data are available for the species in North America. In 2001-2004, information was collected on nesting habitat and reproductive parameters (i. e. components of productivity) from a population of Black Scoters nesting on theYukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. A total of 157 nests were found over four years. Primarily, nests were among dense vegetation in shrub edge habitat, predominantly dwarf birch (Betula glandulosa) and Alaska spiraea (Spiraea beauverdiana) , an average of 58 m from water. Females initiated nests from 11 June and 17 July across years. Clutch size averaged 7.5 eggs and did not vary annually. Nest success was highly variable among years and ranged from 0.01 to 0.37. Duckling survival to 30 days old varied among years, and ranged from 0.09 -0.35. Nest success was poor in three of four years, likely due to prdation by Red Fox (Vulpes vulpes). Black Scoters appear to have low but variable productivity, consistent with life-history patterns of other sea duck species. Information gained will direct future demographic research on Black Scoters, and highlights knowledge gaps impeding management strategies needed for population recovery.
40660981|Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) occupancy surveys were conducted in the Arkansas Delta, USA, during April-July 2005-2006 to determine the proportion of area occupied and relate occupancy to habitat characteristics. Previous large-scale surveys indicated few Least Bitterns were present in the Delta. During surveys at 190 sites, Least Bitterns were detected at 15 sites in 2005 and at 16 sites in 2006. Several candidate models were tested to explain occupancy based on habitat variables. Emergent vegetation cover was positively related to occupancy while the proportion of forest within 400 m of a survey site was negatively related to occupancy. The study suggests that managing the breeding habitat of Least Bitterns for emergent vegetation cover and controlling forest cover near occupied sites may contribute to this species' recovery throughout its range.
40660982|Long-billed Curlew (Numenius americanus) populations have declined during the past 150 years in part due to destruction and fragmentation of grasslands used during the breeding season. Here, multiscale habitat characteristics best predicting number of Long-billed Curlews, detected during range-wide surveys conducted throughout the United States in 2004 and 2005, were determined. Long-billed Curlews were most often observed in habitats classified primarily as grassland habitat and secondarily as shortgrass or pasture/rangeland, all with low vegetation heights (i. e. 4-15 cm). Numbers of Long-billed Curlews were positively associated with wetland habitats on a local scale and hay/pasture areas on a landscape scale, but negatively associated with shrub/scrub on local and landscape scales and evergreen forests on a landscape scale. The study confirmed the importance of grassland, cropland, pasture and wetland habitats for breeding Long-billed Curlews across its geographic range in the United States. These results reinforce the need to conserve, manage, or create contiguous tracts of grasslands containing emergent wetlands for Long-billed Curlews throughout the breeding season and their range in the United States.
40660983|In Japan, the habitat range of Long-billed Plovers (Charadnus placidus) , a typical river-nesting species, has contracted by 17% over the past 20 years. In the Tama River, Kanto region, the Tama River Research Group created a gravel bar in 2001 and 2002 by removing an invasive and non-native woody plant, Black Locust (Robinia pseudoacacia) , to restore the biodiversity of the river ecosystem. The study investigated the effect of the gravel bar creation on Long-billed Plovers and their nest-site preference during the breeding seasons in 2001-2004 and 2006. After gravel bar creation, the mean number ( SE) of observed Long-billed Plovers increased from 0.4 ( 0.19) to 11.0 ( 1.54), which indicates that artificially constructed habitats have a potential to restore populations of Longbilled Plovers. The hatching rates in the study site varied greatly (19% to 100%) from year to year, and comparison with earlier studies was difficult due to incomplete information about the breeding conditions and differences in survey methods. Nesting probability was affected negatively by gravel size and positively by distances from forest edges, even after considering spatial auto-correlation caused as a result of having continuous sampling grids.
40660984|Although egg predation from aerial predators is one of the most important threats to ground-nesting seabirds, few populations conceal their nests under vegetation. However, little is known about the relationships between nesting habitat characteristics, nest densities and egg prdation. Dry Tortugas (DRTO) Sooty Terns (Onychoprion fuscata) nest on sandy substrate. However, a substantial shift in the onset of their breeding season has increased their exposure to aerial predators, which, in turn, may have triggered a change in nesting behavior. A Bayesian model was developed to determine the relationship between vegetation cover and nest numbers, and whether such a relationship has reduced the incidence of egg predation. Over eight years, data on the number of nests, incidents of egg prdation and on vegetation cover were collected from 132 survey plots. A clear non-linear relationship between vegetation cover and nesting numbers was found: thresholds of 65% cover of woody vegetation, such as shrubs, and of less than 13% of forbs, were shown to maximize the number of nests, and to significantly reduce egg prdation. These results have implications for nesting habitat management and demonstrate that Sooty Terns are capable of changing their breeding behavior in response to an increase in the risk of egg predation.
40660985|Body masses of over 1,500 adult and sub-adult Black-legged Kittiwakes Rissa tridactylawere measured during breeding seasons from 1954 to 1995 at colonies in NE England. There was little change between years in the mean mass of each sex, except for a 2% increase in the 1980s and a decrease of 4-7% in 1995. The relative constancy of mass, together with high breeding success throughout, suggested that periods of food shortage in the breeding season were absent hroughout the study period. Breeding males averaged 394g and were about 13% heavier than females (340g). reeding females showed a brief and temporary increase in mass prior to egg laying, and both sexes showed a small but non-ignificant increase in mass during incubation. There was an abrupt loss of about 6% of mass in adults of both sexes at the time the eggs hatched, and mass remained at this lower level through the nestling period. Masses of prospecting and breeding females were similar and both showed the abrupt decrease in mass in late May and in June. In contrast, prospecting males had a consistently lower mass (377g) than breeding males throughout. The pattern and timing of the loss of mass in breeding kittiwakes did not support the hypothesis that it is induced by stress arising from the need to obtain extra food for the brood, but that it can be regarded as an adaptation for more energetically efficient flight uring a period when increased flying activity is needed to obtain additional food for the brood. The assumption that a higher mass in an individual is always a useful measure of qual ity is probably unjustified.
40660986|A review of numbers and distribution of Red Knots (Calidris canutus) on the Massachusetts coast during southward migration indicates major declines beginning in the early 1970s. Overall numbers increased during the third quarter of the 20th Century, largely at mainland versus Cape Cod locations, and then declined early in the fourth quarter at the mainlandbut not the Cape Codlocations. Evidence suggests that both the mainland and the Cape Cod areas were historically used by knots having Patagonian destinations, but that recently the Cape Cod locations have increasingly been used by knots with wintering destinations in the southeastern United States, thus balancing out the declining numbers of knots with Patagonian destinations.
40660987|Fossil evidence indicates that diverse and abundant seabird communities were once found in the main Hawaiian Islands. However, these seabird populations have severely decreased, or even disappeared, as a result of human disturbance, habitat loss and prdation from introduced mammals. Today, the vast majority of Hawaii's seabirds nest on low-lying and uninhabited atolls in the Northwestern Hawaiian islands, some of which will not be able to withstand projected sea-level rises. As a result, populations of many seabird species will be further reduced unless suitable nesting habitat in the main Hawaiian Islands can be restored against predators. The history of seabird management in the Hawaiian Islands is examined, tracing three overlapping stages. The first emphasized exploitation, the second recognized the damage done by humans and developed methods to remove the causes. The third and current stage focuses on restoration, initially of seabirds, and most recently of ecosystems. Restoration will require a scientific approach and documentation of successes and failures, improving the chances of success for future interventions.
40660988|Flightless and post-molt survival and movements were studied during August-May, 2001-2002, 2002-2003 and 2006-2007 for 181 adult female Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) . Birds were radiotaggedjust before or early in their flightless period on four wetlands that differed in size on Klamath Basin (KB) National Wildlife Refuge complex. Flightless survival varied among years but was higher on two larger than two smaller wetlands; 30-day survival ranged from 11% (SE = 6.5%) on a small wetland in 2006 to 93% (SE = 6.5%) on a large wetland in 2001, and averaged 76.8% (SE = 6.1%). Most flightless mortality was from avian botulism (64%) and prdation (26%). Of the 81 radiotagged Mallards that did not die in KB, 80% moved to the Central Valley of California (CVCA) before 31 January, 16% wintered in unknown areas, and 4% remained in KB through 31 January. Mallards departed KB 21 August-13 January (average: 11 Nov 2001, 25 Oct 2002,19 Nov 2006). Post-molt survival during August-March in KB (20.7%, SE = 6.3%) was lower than in CVCA during this (62.9%, SE = 10.1%) and an earlier study. Survival in KB was consistently high only for females that molted in large permanent marshes, and although the impact of poor survival of molting females on Mallard population dynamics is unknown, KB water management plans should be developed that maintain these habitats.
40660989|Few studies have investigated the use of aquaculture-produced foods by piscivorous birds. American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) were collected from four locations (two aquaculture, one riverine and coastal) in the southeastern United States during winter and spring 1998-1999 to assess the contribution (biomass, frequency of occurrence) of aquaculture-produced foods and their effect on body condition. Pelican diets reflected opportunistic foraging across locations. Diet near catfish ponds consisted mostly of Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) . Diets along the Mississippi River had similarly high biomass of catfish, but otolith counts suggested lower use of catfish. Diets near crawfish (Pmcambarus spp.) ponds included shad (Dorsoml  spp.), crawfish and sunfish (Lepomis spp.); whereas diets from coastal Louisiana were predominantly salt water fish. Pelican body condition, as indexed by percent omental fat, was similar between seasons but higher at catfish ponds. Foraging at crawfish ponds did not improve body condition over foraging in natural conditions. The superabundant, large and vulnerable food source (i. e. catfish in aquaculture ponds) likely resulted in reduced energy expenditures by pelicans, which would improve body condition. Higher fat reserves could facilitate spring migration and reproductive success. American White Pelican use of catfish at aquaculture facilities is predicted to continue and likely increase.
40660990|The Torrent Duck (Merganetta armata) is a little-known species that feeds on benthic invertebrates in fast-flowing mountain rivers and streams from Venezuela to Tierra del Fuego. In Argentina the species is classified as Threatened but basic studies of its resource requirements are necessary for conservation. Prey selection by adult Torrent Ducks was investigated by comparing the proportion of prey species in duck faeces with the proportion available in the benthos. Faeces and benthos were sampled seasonally over one year, from four territories in the Manso River Basin, Nahuel Huapi National Park, northwestern Argentine Patagonia. Filter feeding Simuliidae larvae (Diptera, 41-76% number of total prey) were consumed in greater proportion than their abundance. In Arroyo Blanco, an oligotrophic stream, Simuliidae were absent and the most important prey were Gripopterygidae larvae (Plecoptera, 53%) and Blephariceridae larvae (Diptera, 23%). Simuliidae may be easy prey because, like other filter feeders, they feed in exposed places. However, where these filtering species are rare or absent (as in Arroyo Blanco), ducks consume other prey. The results show that Torrent Ducks exhibit a versatile feeding behavior, indicating that the species can adjust to changes in the benthos without disappearing in a given environment.
40660991|The Eskimo Curlew (Numenius borealis), now near extinction, was intensively hunted during fall migration along the Atlantic coast from Labrador to Long Island through the late 19 th century. Scores of post-1850 records from this region have been gleaned from the literature but the rate of population decline has never been assessed. George H. MacKay's shooting journal, which has been largely overlooked, includes quantitative data on curlew abundance trends from 1875 to 1897 on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts. MacKay observed 650 curlews and his party bagged 87 during 231 hunting days logged during the flight period (21 August-2 October) over 22 hunting seasons. The last major flights were observed in 1881. Although he continued to hunt enthusiastically through the early 1890s, annual totals of curlews observed by MacKay declined significantly (r s = 0.40, p < 0.05) from 1875 to 1897, as did annual bag totals (r s = -0.41, p < 0.05). Annual bag totals of American Golden Plovers (Pluvialis dominica), which often associated with Eskimo Curlews, also declined precipitously during the period (r s = 0.51, p < 0.01). Journal entries suggest that MacKay abandoned shorebird hunting after a string of disappointing seasons in the 1890s. MacKay's journal offers a unique historical perspective on the decline of the Eskimo Curlew, a species about which little additional historical information is likely to be learned.
40660992|Long-distance breeding dispersal is infrequent among seabirds and has rarely been quantified. Six adult Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) that had bred at colony sites in Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts, USA from 2004-2006 switched regions and moved 200-400 km to two colony sites in Maine between 2005 and 2007. Two of the emigrants presumably had nested for at least eight years in Massachusetts before moving to Maine, demonstrating that even long-time philopatric residents of one region may switch to another region.
40660993|Bridled Terns (Sterna anaethetus) have only recently been discovered breeding in New Caledonia, the previous nearest breeding colonies being in Eastern Australia. Bridled Tern breeding biology was investigated in a single, small (c. 100 pairs) colony during the 2003 and 2004 breeding seasons. Of 93 nests monitored, 82 were under cover (70 under rock and twelve under vegetation). Nesting location did not predict hatching success. Almost half (49%) of the 37 nests monitored in 2003 were reused in 2004. Egg-laying took place between late October and mid-January; egg volumes did not vary between the two breeding seasons. Chicks reached their asymptotic weight (132 g) at 37 d, faster than chicks in Australia (40-53 d). Wing length was the most reliable predictor of chick age. An equation based on density was generated to age eggs, and graphs to age chicks. An estimated 81% of clutches produced fledglings. Prdation of tern nests by Silver Gull (Laras novaehollandiae) was not observed, but Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) were observed hunting and catching adult terns.
40660994|Recent reports have suggested that hybridization occurs between Blue-footed (Sula nebouxi) and Peruvian (Sula variegata) Boobies in northern Peru, but none included morphometric or genetic analyses of apparent hybrids. Over three field seasons, morphological measurements and blood samples were taken from four apparent Peruvian x Blue-footed Booby hybrids on Lobos de Tierra Island, and one apparent hybrid on the Lobos de Afuera islands. Feather samples were collected from one representative of each parental species and one hybrid. Morphological variation of apparent male hybrids was compared to 25 male Peruvian Boobies and 140 male Blue-footed Boobies, and variation in 540 base pairs of the mitochondrial control region and 8 microsatellite loci for all hybrids was compared to 141 Peruvian Boobies and 168 Blue-footed Boobies. Molecular sexing indicated that four hybrids were male and one was female. Male hybrid boobies showed weak transgressive segregation, all hybrids possessed Peruvian Booby mitochondrial DNA and microsatellite aleles from each parental species. Hybridization between these species appears rare and restricted to the islands where both species breed, and pre and post-mating barriers appear well established.
40660995|Many animals of the Galapagos Islands are known for unusual foraging behaviors, often feeding in a way not typical for the taxon in question. In 2003, an adult Lava Heron (Butorides striata sundevallt) was observed feeding on an adult Small Ground Finch (Geospiza fuliginosa). The endemic Lava Heron had not been previously observed feeding on these finches that are common throughout the islands. The behavior could represent a valuable feeding strategy for herons in a situation where aquatic food resources are temporally unpredictable, as well as an additional mortality risk for Galapagos Finches.
40660996|Knock-down tags are often used to monitor population and nest attendance patterns of burrow-nesting seabirds. However, the accuracy of the knock-down method has not been considered in detail. Here, measurements of nest attendance patterns for Ancient Murreiets (Synthliboramphus antiquus) obtained by the knock-down and the radio telemetry methods were compared on a colony at Reef Island, Haida Gwaii, Canada. Radio transmitters and knock-down tags both indicated activity 79% of the time (range: 61-96%, N = 307), and the correlation between the two methods was significant. Hence, knock-down tags provide information that, although coarse, can provide an adequate indication of reproductive behavior in Ancient Murreiets without disturbance to the bird.
40660997|To test the effectiveness of patagial marking with cattle ear-tags for Australian White Ibis (Threskiornis molucca), 105 adults and 58 nestlings were fitted with tags on each wing. Resighting frequency of adults, survival of nestlings, breeding behavior and foraging movements were monitored. The resighting frequency of wing-tagged adults was compared with resightings of 160 adults marked with colored leg-bands. Survival rates of wing-tagged nestlings were compared with an equal sample of 58 nestlings fitted with colored leg-bands. Over six months, 96% of tagged adults were resighted and there was no indication of impaired flight, with foraging movements ranging up to 30 km. Wing-tagged adults were more likely (40%) than color-banded adults (28%) to be detected in a oneoff survey three months after marking and 65% of tagged birds were observed nesting. Higher mortality was observed among smaller nestlings (< 1100 g) compared with larger nestlings marked with wing tags, but not among those marked with leg bands. Inspection of the wings of two adult and two juvenile birds recaptured 6-8 months after marking indicated only minor feather abrasion, although further study is needed to assess long-term impacts. Because patagially-fitted cattle ear-tags are more visible than colored leg bands, can be fitted quickly with minimal trauma, and seem to have few adverse effects, they appear to be an effective technique for individually marking large adult birds.
40891037|Cormorants are desirable subjects for food web studies using stable isotopes (C and N) because of global fisheries conflicts, but no validated lipid-normalization procedures are currently available for any cormorant species. Accordingly, the effects of chloroform-methanol and petroleum-ether lipid extractions and three published lipid-normalization models on stable C and N isotope signatures in Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) muscle and liver tissues were investigated. The presence of lipids in cormorant muscle and liver decreased C values by approximately 1-2%o, more so than has been reported in other birds. Cormorants showed large variation in the relationship between the C: N ratio of bulk tissue and the change in C values after lipid extraction, violating a major assumption of published lipid-normalization models. Despite this violation, two of the three tested models performed reasonably well for correcting C values. The circumstances under which these models might fail are unknown, so caution is warranted when applying them to new species. Petroleum-ether lipid extractions did not reduce the C: N ratio of tissue samples to those of pure proteins (4.0 or below; over half of the samples ranged from 4.38 to 5.27); thus, lipid extraction using chloroform-methanol is recommended to ensure the greatest accuracy of carbon isotope analyses of cormorant tissues.
40891038|Empirical studies testing the predictions of theoretical models on interspecific competition are scarce. The present study focused on the effects of competition on trophic niche by: (1) analyzing temporal changes in the diet of Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) on a Brazilian mangrove swamp before and after its breeding site was colonized by two congeners, Little Blue Heron (E. caerulea) and Tricolored Heron (E. tricolor) ; and (2) comparing spatial changes in the diet of the three egret species at the study site with six additional localities from the literature. Nestling boluses were analyzed in the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons, when Snowy Egret was the only species in the area, and in 1995 and 1996, when the two other species were present. At the study site, although Snowy Egret consumed a greater proportion of molly fish (Poecilia spp.) than the two other egrets, all egrets fed mainly on mollies and shrimps, providing grounds for competition and trophic interference. However, contrary to the predictions of trade-off models, the Snowy Egret's trophic niche enlarged when the area was colonized by the other two egrets, suggesting that environmental variability is more relevant than competition in shaping trophic niche. The three egrets fed on similar resources to those found at other sites collated from the literature. Tricolored Heron appeared the most specialized species, showing a consistent, mangrove-related diet; Snowy Egret had a similar, but more variable diet, and Little Blue Heron showed the greatest trophic diversity, with a highly variable diet between sites. Overall, temporal and spatial variability in the trophic niches of egrets better match an independently-evolved pattern of resource use rather than predictions from competitive models of niche coevolution.
40891039|Near-threatened Black-tailed Godwits Limosa limosa and other shorebirds rely on non-tidal areas during their annual migration but understanding of stopover ecology in these areas is lacking. Here, field observations, analysis of droppings and prey abundance were combined to investigate diet and prey-size selection by Black-tailed Godwits during fall migration in salinas (also called salt works or salt ponds) of southern Europe. Although several potential macroinvertebrate prey species were available and abundant, godwits positively selected the chironomid Chironomus salinarius. The larvae and pupae of this prey represented>95% of the total number of items present in droppings during migration (July-September). Consumption of prey of a given size class was not dependent on its abundance. Thus, although larger size-classes of chironomid larvae were not necessarily the most abundant for some months (mean size of available larvae:8.2  0.2 mm, 6.4  0.2 mm and 8.4  0.2 mm in July, August and September, respectively), they were the ones most frequently consumed by the godwit (mean size of larvae predated: 9.9  0.8 mm, 9.2  1.7 mm, and 9.4  1.3 mm in July, August and September, respectively). The role salinas play as stopover foraging areas for godwits appears dependant not only on the abundance of salinarius but also on the abundance of large size-classes of this soft-bodied prey. Conservation and management of salinas that allows the production of high densities of chironomids during the peak of Black-tailed Godwit migration would assist the conser vation of this species.
40891040|Western Sandpipers and Dunlin are capable of grazing biofilm. As there has been no assessment of this dietary constituent in stomach contents, the stomachs of 89 Western Sandpipers and 56 Dunlin collected during breeding migration through the Fraser River delta, British Columbia, Canada, were examined. Invertebrates, traditionally regarded as the principal prey, comprised a minor fraction of mean stomach volumes (Dunlin: <25%; Western Sandpiper <10%). Three phyla accounted for most of these invertebrates: molluscs, annelids and arthropods. In comparison, sediment (a mixture of sediment particles, broken and unbroken diatoms plus organic detritus) comprised the major component of stomach volumes (Dunlin: >40%; Western Sandpipers: >75%). Although the mean volume of sediment was significantly greater in Western Sandpipers than Dunlin, there was no effect of sex for either species. Stomach sediment volume appears a convenient index of biofilm intake and sediment loads indicative of biofilm grazing have been reported in stomach contents from other shorebird species. Re-examination of shorebird diets appears necessary given that conditions promoting biofilm are not necessarily conducive for in vertebrate prey.
40891041|Existing hypotheses only partially explain male biased parasitism in mammals and birds. The present study examined whether male biased parasitism by a common trematode and nematode exists in breeding Doublecrested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) from Lake Erie and if any sex bias in parasitism could be explained by sex differences in body size and foraging ecology, evaluated using stable isotope profiles (based on C,N). Male cormorants had three times the abundance of Drepanocephalus spathans (a trematode) than females; however, there were no significant sex differences in abundance or intensity of Contracaecum spp. Relationships between body size and parasitism were either non-existent or inconsistent. Stable carbon isotope profiles indicated that male and female cormorants that foraged in more pelagic habitats had more Contracaecum spp. In summary, male biased parasitism was present in a sample of Lake Erie cormorants and differences in foraging ecology might affect the levels of parasitism in cormorants.
40891042|To face energetic demands of reproduction, female birds need to build up body reserves before breeding and/or feed while producing eggs and incubating. Five female Common Eiders were implanted with data loggers that recorded flying and diving activity for a year. The pre-laying period, defined as the interval between the end of spring migration and laying of the first egg, extended over eleven to 27 days and represented a period of intense foraging activity. Daily time spent diving (DTSD) during the pre-laying period averaged 159.6  16.0 min compared to an annual average of 91.4  37.8 min. Diving decreased to 69.8  7.4 min during laying and became almost negligible at the onset of incubation. Females showed hyperphagic behavior during follicular growth, suggesting that they may directly utilize ingested food for egg production and laying. Given the small number of instrumented females, available evidence was reviewed on foraging and time of arrival in various populations and subspecies. Despite large variations in migration distance, the pre-laying period was similar to other populations (16-28 days), as well as DTSD (160-211 min). Reduced take-off capability may constrain the timing of accumulation of body reserves and foraging effort. Further, the level of body mass required for nesting (laying and incubation) was estimated to be 543 g higher than in winter, of which about 41-72% would be accumulated on the breeding grounds. Protection of foraging areas during the pre-breeding period is important to maintain healthy populations.
40891043|Rice fields in southwestern Louisiana provide breeding habitat for several waterbird species; however, little is known about nest density, nest survival and the importance of landscape context of rice fields in determining breeding activity. In 2004, 42 rice fields were searched for nests, and 40 were searched in 2005. Land uses surrounding rice fields, including irrigation canals, trees, crawfish ponds, rice, fallow and soybean fields, were examined to determine influence on nest density and survival. Nest densities were 13.5-16.0 nests/km for Purple Gallinules (Porphyno martinico), 3.0-13.7 nests/km for Fulvous Whistling Ducks (Dendrocygna bicolor), 2.6-2.8 nests/km for Common Moorhens (Gallnula chloropus), 0.3-0.92 nests/km for Least Bitterns (Ixobrychus exilisi) and 0-0.6 nests/km for Mottled Ducks (Anas fulvigula) . Nest survival was 52-79% for Purple Gallinules and 39-43% for Fulvous Whistling Ducks. Apparent nest success of Common Moorhens was 73-75%, 83% for Least Bitterns and 33% for Mottled Ducks. Purple Gallinule and Common Moorhen nest densities were highest in fields with a larger proportion of irrigation canals surrounding rice fields. Purple Gallinule nest densities were greater in fields devoid of trees and landscapes dominated by rice fields and pasture, rather than landscapes containing soybean fields and residential areas. Fulvous Whistling Duck nest densities were higher in agriculturally-dominated landscapes with few trees.
40891044|Movements of adult Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrnus nivosus) tending broods were examined in coastal northern California. Chicks moved an average of 518  52m from their nests one to three days after hatch; thereafter, movements decreased. In their first ten days, there was no difference in distances moved or home range size between chicks that eventually fledged and those that died. Plovers consistently used the same areas of the beach each year, and these areas were positively associated with nest locations and negatively correlated with human activity. A fenced refuge for breeding plovers was created in the area most used by humans. Fledging success doubled in the refuge during the five years it was protected (37% chicks survived), compared to three years when the area lacked protection (15% chicks survived).
40891045|Trumpeter Swan nesting in Yellowstone was monitored from 1987-2007 to assess the effects of environmental conditions, density-dependent factors and habitat characteristics on two metrics of productivity: clutch size and fledging success. Average clutch size was 4.2 eggs per nest (range = 3-6, SE = 0.2) and a positive relationship was found between clutch size and area of wetland complex surrounding the nesting site. The probability of fledging success (survival until September of at least one cygnet per nest) was associated with an increasing metric of territory quality (measured as historical site use from 1931-1986) and decreasing April precipitation. The probability of fledging success was estimated to range from 0.062 (95% CI = 0.060, 0.064) for a nest located in a wetland occupied only one time historically to 0.275 (95% CI = 0.073, 0.466) in a wetland occupied 38 times historically. The need to protect and maintain high quality nesting areas is underscored by the variability among nesting territories. The importance of adult survival is highlighted by the low productivity of Yellowstone Trumpeter Swans because pairs likely need to survive and nest many times to replace themselves.
40891046|Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) populations in the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley (hereafter, LMAV) comprise the largest concentration of wintering Mallards in North America. Radiotelemetry techniques were employed to assess movements by female Mallards during winters of 2004-2005 and 2005-2006; 467 paired (diurnal and nocturnal) observations on 80 radiomarked females were attained to assess effects of date, female age, hunting regime and habitat type on distances moved and potential habitat switching. Distance moved increased with date for females diurnally located in RICE but decreased for females in FOREST. Median movement distance was 1.5 km, suggesting suitable habitats for all activities were in close proximity. Habitat switching varied among diurnal habitat types used by females. Females diurnally located in FOREST and REFOR switched habitats in 22% of paired observations, whereas females diurnally located in RICE switched habitats in 55% of paired observations. The decreased movement distances and less frequent habitat switching by females using forested habitats should reduce their energy expenditure and exposure to prdation risk. The results document the importance of forested wetlands to Mallards wintering in the LMAV and provide support for programs that protect and restore such habitats.
40891047|Southward migrating Red Knots (Calidris canutus) were surveyed on Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Unique markers, including ones applied to birds in wintering areas in North and South America, were found. Northern and southern-marked knots had different migration chronologies, plumage characteristics and flight feather molt. Knots from the two groups were found to have different foods and foraging habitats. Numbers of knots more than one year old were found to increase from mid-July to mid-August, decline during late August and then increase in September-October. As numbers declined in August, the proportion of knots from South America decreased and, by 1 September, all remaining marked birds had been tagged in North America. Average minimum stopover durations were found to vary according to original banding locations, e. g. 8.5 ( 2.6) days for South America, 14.2 ( 3.2) days for Delaware Bay, 16.1 ( 3.5) days for the U. S. mid-Atlantic coast and 49.5 ( 24.6) days for Florida. The proportion of knots with alternate plumage was higher in July-August than in September and by mid-October almost all had basic plumage. Also, low numbers (tens) of basic-plumaged knots probably one-year-old subadults were found during July-August; most had active flight feather molt. First-arriving juvenile knots were seen beginning in the third week of August and their numbers peaked in mid-September. Differential uses of foraging and roosting habitats were found to be related to migration destinations. Vital habitats that should be managed for protection of threatened Red Knots at this key southward migration stopover area were identified.
40891049|The Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) and the Pied-billed Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps) are secretive marsh bird species that breed in the Illinois and Upper Mississippi River Valleys. Marsh bird surveys were conducted on public and private wetlands in this region during the breeding seasons of 2006 and 2007. Detection probability () and site occupancy probability () were estimated for each species separately for each year. Candidate models including sampling and habitat covariates were compared using AIC C to determine what variables had the greatest influence on  and . Average  for Least Bitterns was 0.29 in 2006 and 0.18 in 2007, and varied throughout the 2007 survey season. Average  for Pied-billed Grebes was 0.44 in 2006 and 0.22 in 2007, and an observer effect was found in 2007. Overall  for Least Bitterns was 0.17 in 2006 and 0.14 in 2007. Least Bittern occupancy was positively related to tall emergent vegetation cover in both years and to water-vegetation interspersion in 2007, and was negatively related to woody vegetation cover in 2007. Overall  for Pied-billed Grebes was 0.21 in 2006 and 0.31 in 2007. Pied-billed Grebe occupancy was negatively related to woody vegetation cover in both years, and was positively related to areas of open water in 2006. Land managers targeting these species should provide wetlands free from woody vegetation with extensive areas of open water for Pied-billed Grebes, and tall emergent vegetation interspersed with small pools of water for Least Bitterns.
40891050|A reliable and effective technique for capturing rails would improve researchers' ability to study these secretive marsh birds. The time effectiveness and capture success of four methods for capturing rails in emergent marsh and agricultural wetlands in southern Louisiana and Texas were evaluated during winter and breeding seasons. Methods were hand and net capture from an airboat at night, an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) at night, an ATV during daylight rice harvest and passive capture using drop-door traps with drift fencing. Five hundred and twenty rails were captured (and 21 recaptures): 192 King Rails (Rallus elegans), 74 Clapper Rails (R. longirostris) , 110 Vir ginia Rails (R. limicola), 125 Sora (Porzana carolina) and 40 Yellow Rails (Coturnicops noveboracensis) . Methods used at night were effective at capturing rails: capture from airboats yielded 2.13 rails per hour each airboat was operated and capture from ATVs yielded 1.80 rails per hour each ATV was operated. During daylight, captures from ATVs during rice harvest (0.25 rails per hour each ATV was operated) and passive drop-door traps with drift fencing (0.0054 rails per trap hour) were both inefficient.
40891051|Open marsh water management (OMWM), a method of mosquito reduction through habitat alteration, is widely practiced in Mid-Atlantic salt marshes. The effect of these habitat modifications on obligate salt marsh breeding birds is poorly understood. The present study was conducted to quantify the extent of OMWM and determine if the technique affected Seaside Sparrow (Ammodramus maritimus) reproductive success and nesting ecology. Seaside Sparrow territory density, nest density, nest survival, productivity and vegetation cover was estimated on 19 plots (1-3 ha) within tidal marshes in Sussex County, Delaware in May-August 2006-2007. Plots were characterized as limited (N = 10) or extensive OMWM (N = 9) based on the amount of alterations and time since manipulations. Seaside Sparrow territory density and nest density were two times greater on limited OMWM plots than extensive OMWM plots. Also, the number of Seaside Sparrow eggs/ha and fledglings/ha were greater on limited OMWM plots. Seaside Sparrow nest survival rates did not differ between limited and extensive OMWM plots, but reproductive output (# nests/ha, eggs/ha, and fledglings/ha) was greater on areas with limited OMWM. OMWM may be an alternative means of mosquito control but should not be considered a method of habitat enhancement for Seaside Sparrows and possibly other obligate salt marsh bird species.
40891052|Loss and modification of tidal marsh habitat has contributed to the decline of marsh bird species. For many marsh birds that inhabit tidal ecosystems, little information exists on habitat use, particularly in relation to movement and response to prey availability. In this study, radio-telemetry was used to investigate home range size, movement patterns and response of Clapper Rails (Rallus longirostns) to prey availability within tidal marshes in coastal Mississippi. Mean fixed kernel 95% home range for breeding Clapper Rails was 1.37 ha  SE 0.27 (N = 10 birds) with a 50% core use area 0.32 ha  SE 0.07 (N = 10 birds), which are estimates similar to those obtained throughout this species' range. The extent of Clapper Rail movements during the incubation period was negatively correlated with density of fiddler crab burrows within 50 m of nest sites. Clapper Rails' use of marsh edge decreased relative to tidal height. Use of this habitat type may have been further restricted during the first few weeks of the parental-care period when adults were caring for recently fledged young. Collectively these results illustrate the importance of edge and interior marsh habitats and may provide an explanation for the variation in Clapper Rail densities found within and between tidal marsh systems.
40891053|Monitoring programs aimed at understanding the population trends of secretive marshbirds can be altered to benefit from the creative interplay between predictions, designs and models, and provide the template for doing so. Effective application of information to decision making typically requires integration of several types of information in a common framework, including "found" data and retrospective studies, innovative sampling designs and the use of hierarchical data structures. Hierarchical and state-space modeling provide a unified modeling structure for such designs and data. These ideas are illustrated with the problem of investigating and mitigating the effects of climate change on secretive marshbirds in coastal North America. How both ecological theory and available data can be used to provide predictions about the impacts of regional and local climate changes on these avian communities are illustrated.
40891054|A small, isolated population of Common Terns (10-30 pairs) has bred at Bermuda since at least the 1920s. In September 2003, a hurricane eliminated all the adult males; only females returned in 2004 and these paired together and laid clutches of three-seven infertile eggs. The breeding population was re-established in 2005-06 by four adult males that had been too young to breed in 2003-04. These males paired with females that were probably young and bred with high success (mean 2.6 fledged chicks/pair) through 2009. Two males apparently each mated with two females to form productive trios. The old females continued to pair together and lay infertile eggs, even though males were raising chicks on the same islets. Consequently, the effective population size at the 'bottleneck' was only four males and four females. Although the population is now increasing rapidly, it remains critically endangered.
40891055|The Dovekie (Alle alle) is a small colonial High Arctic-breeding seabird that lays a single egg clutch. Occasionally, two eggs have been observed in Dovekie nests although incubation of both eggs has not previously been documented. Here, the incubation of a two-egg clutch by both members of a pair over an extended period is described and the origin of the eggs plus value of the observation discussed.
40891056|A feather-loss disorder, first observed in captive African Penguin (Spheniscus demersus) chicks in a South African rehabilitation center in 2006, was found one year later in wild Magellanic Penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus) chicks in four colonies in Argentina. Two years later, it was found in African Penguin chicks in the wild. The featherless African Penguin chicks in the rehabilitation center (N = 176) lost their down and emerging juvenile feathers, remaining featherless for several weeks until they died (N = 31) or grew juvenile (N = 3) or adult plumage (N = 145) before being released. The featherless African Penguin chicks took 16 days longer to reach the rehabilitation center's standards for release than feathered chicks (t = -8.8, P< 0.00001). Likewise, the featherless wild Magellanic Penguin chicks (N = 13) lost their second coat of down, remaining featherless for several weeks; but those that survived to fledging all grew normal juvenile plumage (N = 4). Featherless Magellanic Penguin chicks grew more slowly and were smaller at fledgling age than most feathered chicks. The disorder in Africa and Argentina is new, rare, and more common in a rehabilitation center in Africa than in the wild. The cause of the feather loss is unknown, but the disorder results in slower growth, smaller fledglings, and appears to increase mortality in Magellanic Penguin chicks in the wild.
40985861|Jabiru Stork (Jabiru mycteria) is listed under Appendix I of CITES and considered threatened in Central America. The first population genetic analysis of Jabiru Storks was carried out using mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region sequences (520 bp) and five heterologous microsatellite loci. Samples were collected from the field (N = 49) and museum skins (N = 22) in Central (mainly Belize, Nicaragua and Costa Rica) and South America (Colombia, Venezuela, Peru and Brazil). A decline of mtDNA diversity was observed in comparisons between past (N = 20) and present (N = 40) samples collected in Central America and northern South America. Similar levels of microsatellite loci diversity were observed among contemporary samples. Lower levels of mtDNA variability were observed in samples from Central America and northern South America when compared to the Brazilian Pantanal region. Significant levels of genetic differentiation were found between contemporary locations sampled, whereas non-significant results were observed for historic samples. The non-geographic association of haplotypes observed at the cladograms and the recent divergence times estimated between locations are indicative of an evolutionary history of a large population size with limited population structure. Reconnection of populations via increased gene flow, particularly in Central America, is recommended if genetic structure and status are to be restored.
40985862|The need for better understanding of migratory movements of wild birds in Asia promoted an evaluation of the usefulness of deuterium in feathers (D f ) to assign origins. Feathers were sampled from Bar-headed Geese (Anser indicus), Whooper Swans (Cygnus cygnus), Mongolian Gulls (Larus vegae mongolicus), Curlew Sandpipers (Calidris ferruginea) and Pacific Golden Plover (Pluvialis fulva) in north-central Mongolia, from June to September 2007. Univariate statistical analyses were performed to test for differences between study sites for all species and between growing (blood) and previously grown (non-blood) feathers only for Bar-headed Geese. Values of D f in actively growing feathers generally agreed with those expected from integrated isotopic signals in precipitation expected for sampling sites. Values of D f from adult migrant birds also indicated varying degrees of movement from north to south expected from the movement of these species in Asia. These results show promise for the isotope approach for establishing origins of molt of migratory waterbirds in Asia in a cost-effective manner without the need for mark and recapture. Projects required to track movements of waterbirds in Asia could benefit by incorporating this approach into study design. However, greater refinement of the D f isoscape for Asia is now needed.
40985863|Information on when and where the Yellow-legged Gull (Larus michahellis lusitanius) population breeding in northern Iberia moves throughout the year is lacking. Here, distances and directions of gull movements during their first year of life were elucidated. Data on 2,776 sightings of 728 out of 2,421 gulls banded as chicks in the southeastern Bay of Biscay were analyzed. Overall, most (69.2%) gulls were found less than 50 km from their natal colonies and practically all gulls (95.9%) were found along the coast of northern Iberia, confirming the low mobility of this Yellow-legged Gull population. Distances at which gulls were found did not vary with time, suggesting that stable feeding resources exist across the area used by the population.
40985864|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) breeding in the Great Lakes and wintering in the southeastern United States were implanted with satellite transmitters to assess their movements. During 2007 and 2008, 26 cormorants from Georgian Bay, Ontario, Canada, were tracked in order to, variously, identify staging areas, characterize migration routes, winter habitat use, and home range size, assess philopatry of returning breeders, and test for a relationship between winter habitat use and arrival at the breeding ground. Females left summer areas earlier and spent more time in staging areas than did males. However, both sexes left the staging areas and arrived in the wintering grounds at approximately the same time. There was no difference in latitude between wintering males and females, or in winter residency time (n = 136 days for both sexes). The predominant winter habitat types were lakes and coasts with only seven of 26 (26.9%) birds wintering on aquaculture sites. Contrary to expectations, winter home ranges of birds on aquaculture sites (x = 2760 km) were significantly larger than birds on non-aquaculture sites (x = 81 km). A carryover effect of aquaculture was not detected; winter residency time was similar for birds on both aquaculture and natural winter habitats, with birds from both habitats returning north at the same time. Fidelity to the previous summer's location was observed in 15 of 20 returning individuals.
40985865|Foraging behavior, physiological state and site fidelity of resident (sedentary) and migratory American Dippers (Cinclus mexicanus) were compared to assess whether differences in over-wintering behavior or physiology explain the lower annual survival rate of resident individuals. Residents spent more time resting (23 vs. 14% of the time) and less time foraging (71 vs. 81% of the time) than migrants. However, there were no detectable differences in energetic intake (kJ/hr), foraging success (kJ/hr spent foraging), or physiological state (measured as size-corrected mass, hematocrit, leucocrit, total white blood cell count, and heterophil to lymphocyte ratio; immuno-globulin, triglyceride, and free glycerol levels; and total antioxidant capacity and total oxidative status of plasma). Foraging success, size-corrected mass and plasma triglyceride levels increased with date for both migrants and residents, indicating that both groups built up fat reserves as winter progressed. Resident individuals exhibited higher winter site fidelity than migrants (sighted on the same section of the river on 70 vs. 53% of weekly censuses). The lower site fidelity and, hence, greater movement of migrants may increase survival by allowing them to seek more suitable microhabitats during adverse conditions. Further work on the relationship between mortality rates, movement and winter home range size of migrant and resident dippers is needed to test the latter hypothesis.
40985866|Little is known about seabird distributions at night. Densities of Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus, hereafter "murrelets") and potential prey were determined along fixed-width transects in spring and summer of 2007 and 2008, and compared during night and day in two regions of Port Snettisham, near Juneau, Southeast Alaska. Murrelets moved from a shallower, more sheltered inner region, used during the day for foraging and staging for inland flights (2007 night densities = 15  13 murreletskm; 2007 day densities = 172  67 murreletskm), to a deeper, more exposed outer region, further from shore, during dark hours (2007 night densities = 113  61 murreletskm; 2007 day densities = 41  23 murreletskm). Prey school density and relative prey density were significantly higher at night in the inner region compared with the outer region (2.2 times higher prey school density and 3.8 times higher relative prey density), suggesting that murrelets were not redistributing themselves to forage on fish prey. A more likely explanation for why murrelets move from day use areas to night use areas is to avoid predators such as Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus) and mammals.
40985867|The spatio-temporal structure of the waterbird community on the Mar Menor coastal lagoon (SE Spain) was analyzed in relation to environmental gradients from October 2006-March 2008. Waterbirds were censused at 20 sampling stations according to a zonation scheme based on degree of confinement and primary production, and subsequently modified to match bird use at the landscape level. Multivariate classification and ordination techniques (MDS and SIMPER) identified indicator species and displayed their association with environmental vectors. Abundance of waterbirds increased latitudinally, southward in winter and vice versa in summer. Greater abundance and diversity were found in the southern half of the lagoon in winter, where grebes, gulls and cormorants predominated, and in the northern half in summer, where gulls and terns were dominant. A latitudinal distribution of species was observed; the northern half characterized by Black-headed Gull (Larus ridibundus) and the southern half by Great-crested Grebe (Podiceps cristatus) and Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo). Such distribution patterns seem to respond to internal functional gradients of the lagoon as well as physical structure of the habitat and human activities. The results show that waterbirds can be incorporated into a monitoring scheme as integrative indicators of spatial gradients of environmental deterioration in the lagoon. In addition, the interpretation of ecological preferences and the response of waterbirds to environmental pressures can serve to assess the conservation status of species at local or regional scales, and act as a warning tool for changes in similar ecosystems.
40985868|To determine how habitat structural complexity, which affects prey vulnerability, influences foraging habitat selection by wading birds, a habitat use versus availability study was conducted throughout the Florida Everglades in 2005 and 2006. Also, an experiment was conducted where structural complexity was manipulated and its effect on wading bird foraging efficiency quantified. Among-year differences in habitat selection were found, which corresponded to disparate hydrological conditions. In 2005, a poor hydrological year in terms of the seasonal recession, wading birds chose foraging sites that had less emergent vegetation, a thicker flocculent layer and higher prey density relative to random sites. In 2006, an optimal hydrological year, wading bird foraging locations were similar to random sites in all aspects. Submerged vegetation did not affect wading bird site selection in either year. The study indicated that hydrological conditions that affect prey density were more important to wading bird foraging success than fine scale variation in habitat characteristics. However, in years of poor hydrology factors that affect prey vulnerability may become increasingly important because the penalty for choosing low quality foraging habitat is greater than in years of more optimal conditions. Elucidating habitat characteristics which create high quality foraging sites will be beneficial in planning wetland restoration projects and gauging future restoration progress.
40985869|Information on nest-activity patterns and energetic costs during the breeding season may shed light on current population trends of Great Egrets (Ardea alba) . To address the issue, Great Egrets nesting in a mixed-species colony in Wichita, Kansas, were studied from May-July in 2008 and 2009. A total of 35 h of scan samples at 28 random nests resulted in 5,062 instantaneous records; a separate 62 h of observations recorded 75 food-provisioning intervals. Adults at the nest engaged mainly in low-cost activities such as sitting, standing and preening, but activity patterns differed significantly by nest content. Adults with eggs spent significantly more time sitting but less time standing, preening or away from the nest. Overall variation in activity patterns among the 28 study nests was not significant. Food-provisioning intervals ranged from 6-480 min, with a median duration of 180 min. Intervals declined significantly with chick stage, were longer during periods of high wind velocity, and varied by time of day. Food-provisioning intervals for adults with eggs averaged > 80 min longer than for those with chicks of all sizes. The results suggest that Great Egrets engage in low-cost activities and minimize energy costs while at the nest, and adjust the pattern of food-provisioning trips in response to proximate conditions and increased food demand.
40985870|Research on breeding American Oystercatchers has focused on identifying factors that affect reproductive success but little attention has been paid to parent behavior during chick-rearing. Parental attendance of American Oystercatchers was measured in Bulls Bay and along the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway (Waterway) within the Cape Romain Region, South Carolina, USA, during 2006. Parental attendance rates averaged 90.9% in Bulls Bay and 81.4% along the Waterway. Daily survival of chicks was higher in Bulls Bay (0.989  0.007) compared to the Waterway (0.966  0.012). The extent of shellfish reefs (i. e. foraging areas) adjacent to nest sites was greater in Bulls Bay (5,633  658 m) compared to the Waterway (3,273  850 m). Mean parental attendance in Bulls Bay was higher for successful broods (90.5%) compared to failed broods (79.8%). In contrast, mean parental attendance along the Waterway was higher for failed broods (93.4%) compared to successful broods (67.5%). Less extensive shellfish reefs adjacent to nest sites along the Waterway appeared to require parents to depart more frequently to forage and the resultant reduction in attendance may have negatively affected chick survival. Bulls Bay may provide higher quality nesting habitat compared to the Waterway with respect to proximity to food resources and parental attendance. Management and conservation efforts for American Oystercatchers should consider the relationship between foraging and nesting habitat and variability in behavioral attributes, such as parental attendance, in relationship to environmental conditions which ultimately affect reproductive success.
40985871|Annual apparent survival rates from 323 marked immature Magnificent Frigatebirds (Fregata magnificens) were estimated using mark-recapture models for live encounter data in a six-year study (1998-2003) at Isla Isabel, the largest breeding colony in Western Mexico. A time and age immature apparent survival pattern was found: high and variable as yearling-juveniles (mean   = 0.78  0.22) and, later, moderate and constant as juvenile-subadults and subadults (mean  = 0.62  0.11). Whereas resighting rate (p) increased with time (range = 0.00 [ 0.04] -0.87 [ 0.11]). The results suggest variation in true survival and emigration during the juvenile life phase, high true survival and high site fidelity of juvenile-subadults and subadults during the interval after marking, and constant and either low true survival or high emigration in the subsequent intervals. Frigatebird apparent survival was predominantly higher in yearling juveniles than in subsequent age classes, an uncommon occurrence in other seabirds but likely with important demographic implications for species with long post-parental care and de layed maturity.
40985872|Breeding success of the Arabian/Indian race of the Western Reef Heron Egretta gularis schistacea was studied in the Hara Biosphere Reserve, Persian Gulf, during 2008 and 2009, with 103 and 137 nests studied, respectively. Marked nests were checked at least twice a week to note egg-laying date, clutch size, brood size, egg loss and chick mortality. Also, hatching and breeding success were estimated. Egg-laying was from 21 March to 17 April in 2008 and from 28 March to 28 April in 2009. Mean clutch size in the two years combined was 3.4  0.05 and significantly greater in 2009 (3.5  0.07) than 2008 (3.2  0.07). Mean brood size was 2.0  0.1 for all clutches and was greater in 2008. The internal diameter of nests, the height of nests from the ground and the distance of nests from the mangrove forest border were important factors influencing breeding success. The percentage of successful nests varied significantly between the two years (80% in 2008 and 51% in 2009). Overall, approximately 64% of nests were successful in producing at least one fledgling. Mean hatching and breeding success were 0.6  0.02 and 0.5  0.02, respectively. Both measures of success were lower in 2009 than in 2008, probably due to weather and egg prdation by the Black Rat Rattus rattus which was responsible for about 50% of nest failures in the two years of the study. Mechanical control methods are suggested to reduce the negative effects of this rodent on breeding colonies of Western Reef Heron.
40985873|The Norwegian population of the nominate subspecies of Lesser Black-backed Gull, Larus fuscus fuscus, has declined strongly but the causes are unknown. The diet of these gulls breeding in two regions on coast of northern Norway was assessed over five years (2005-2009). In the southern region, chicks (n = 58) were fed predominantly gadoids (~ 75% ABP [aggregated percentage of prey biomass] and ~80% frequency; 70-130 mm length), probably sai the, Pollachius virens, whereas 0-group herring, Clupea harengus (40-50 mm length) accounted for ~20% ABP and were fed to ~20% of the chicks. In the northern region (n = 23), slightly larger 0-group herring comprised ~60% of the prey mass and were fed to 65% of the chicks. In this area, gadoids and sandeel, Ammodytes spp., each accounted for ~17% ABP of prey, and were fed to 20% and 30% of the chicks, respectively. Other species made up smaller proportions of chick diets. For adults, only regurgitated pellets (28 in the southern region) were available. Of 23 pellets from 2006 and 2007, 17 (74%) contained pipefish (probably Snake Pipefish, Entelurus aequoreus), whereas three contained herring, two gadoids, and one sandeel. In the poor breeding season of 2009, adult gulls also fed on blue mussels, Mytilus edulis, crabs (Brachyura), sea urchins (Echinoidea) and seabird eggs. Thus, Northern Lesser Black-backed Gulls are probably mainly piscivorous during breeding, and other prey are probably exploited only when fish are not readily available. Further, herring seems to be less important for L. F. fuscus than previously thought.
40985874|In the 1990s, flocks of tens of thousands of Razorbills (Alca torda), greatly outnumbering the local breeding population and, so of unknown origin were observed wintering off the island of Grand Manan, Bay of Fundy, Canada. To determine their origin, 39 radio transmitters were deployed on Razorbills at major breeding centers at Corossol Island (n = 10), Qubec, the Gannet Islands, Newfoundland and Labrador (n = 15), and a colony near the overwintering area at Machias Seal Island (n = 14) in 2007. From January-March 2008, flights around Grand Manan detected 19 transmitter-fitted birds -twelve from Machias Seal Island, five from Corossol Island and two from the Gannet Islands. The findings confirm that Razorbills making up the wintering flocks off Grand Manan are not only local birds but also birds from major centers of the North American breeding distribution. Therefore, North American Razorbills from all breeding areas are vulnerable to mismanagement of the Bay of Fundy ecosystem, already degraded by over-exploitation and threatened by pollution from a variety of energy developments.
40985875|While conducting research examining the impact of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) on the aquaculture industry in the southeastern United States, an apparent age and sex bias was observed among captured and collected pelicans. Data from 284 pelicans captured or collected at loafing sites located near aquaculture ponds during 1998 to 2009 were analyzed. A sampling bias could suggest segregation of pelicans by sex or age on wintering grounds. Captured pelicans were strongly biased towards immature males (73%) and collected pelicans were male biased (38% Adult Male, 47% Immature Male). Although the underlying mechanisms are not understood, observed pelican use of loafing areas may be related to numerous, readily available prey at aquaculture facilities.
40985876|American Coot (Fulica americana) behavior was observed and Water Hyacinth (Eichhomia crassipes) cover measured at Lake Chapala, Mexico, to determine whether site selection, habitat use, behavior within habitat types and selection of habitats for foraging were affected by the invasive aquatic plant. Water Hyacinth significantly affected habitat choice within selected sites but not site selection by coots. Coots spent less time in shallow water and more time in Water Hyacinth as site-level hyacinth cover increased. Water Hyacinth did not restrict coot movement and birds foraged significantly more in patch Water Hyacinth (28.7  2.3% of total time) than in open water (9.8  0.9%). Moreover, coots spent less time foraging in shallow water and more time foraging in hyacinths as cover increased. Coots used Water Hyacinth opportunistically and may have preferred it over other available habitat types. The positive relationships between Water Hyacinth and coots were likely attributed to the introduction of forage and refuge opportunities that were unavailable in Lake Chapala prior to Water Hyacinth invasion. Results suggest that efforts to control Water Hyacinth may indirectly affect the American Coot population.
40985877|Previous studies documented that Black Skimmers, Rynchops niger, tend to forage at night but did not examine which environmental variables explain nocturnal foraging. Foraging frequency and environmental variables were studied at a large breeding colony of skimmers on an urbanized barrier island on the west coast of Florida, USA. To determine which variables influenced foraging, the number of skimmers departing to forage was counted for 120, one-hour periods through the day and night from 30 May-29 August, 2007. Using generalized linear models, factors were most associated with skimmers departing to forage were identified. These models included: light level, temperature, wind, wind direction, relative humidity, tide height, tide stage (incoming, outgoing, or slack) and status of the colony (mostly eggs, chicks, or fledglings). Light level was the only factor to significantly influence the amount of foraging (Wald = 9.40, d.f. = 1, p = 0.002). The relationship was negative, as light levels decreased, the number of birds departing to forage increased. The average proportion of the colony foraging per hour at night was 38.2% (SE = 4.6) and during the day the average proportion was 13.6% (SE = 4.0). The likely cause is that small, planktivorous fish come closer to the surface and shoreline at low light levels, allowing the skimmer to employ its unusual foraging technique of "skimming".
40891063|Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the world's most important crops. The crop is grown in at least 114 countries, occupies over 156 million ha of land annually, is a primary source of nutrition for over half the world's human population and constitutes over a fifth of the global grain supply. Rice is generally grown under flooded conditions and, if managed appropriately, can provide important habitat for wetland species. Waterfowl, wading birds, shorebirds and other waterbirds use rice fields, foraging on a variety of prey, nesting in the crop and in fringing vegetation, and staging during migration. Conflicts also exist, with some cropping practices harmful to birds and some bird activity detrimental to yield production. Much early research on waterbirds in rice fields was conducted in Mediterranean Europe with only scattered work elsewhere. More recently, there has been a growing focus on the conservation value of rice fields, with studies from most of the major regions where rice is grown. The body of research has included: community studies of the range of birds that use rice fields, detailed studies of endangered species, behavioral studies of reproductive success, foraging ecology and movement, and applied studies of cropping techniques.As the world's natural wetlands diminish, researchers studying waterbirds in rice fields are working to globalize interactions with each other. Also, some researchers are working closely with conservation groups and rice growers to identify ways to maximize the benefits of agricultural wetlands while minimizing the agronomic costs.
40891064|Rice (Oryza sativa) is the main cereal grown in the Republic of Korea and Japan and is planted on 54% and 36% of agricultural lands, respectively. Information on the status of birds that use rice fields in these nations was reviewed. More than 30%, or 135 species of 430 native avian species, excluding 152 accidental visitors, use rice fields. The fields serve primarily as foraging habitat, providing aquatic prey for passage, summer and resident species and residual grains for winter visitors. Some species, such as the Grey-faced Buzzard (Butastur indiens), require a mosaic of rice fields and forests for successful breeding. However, most waterbirds prefer rice fields in wide, open plains rather than narrow rice fields surrounded by forest. At least 32 (24%) of 135 species that use rice fields are designated threatened at the global or national scale, and eleven (22%) of 49 globally threatened species found in Korea and Japan use rice fields. Populations of most granivorous and piscivorous waterbirds such as geese, cranes and herons tend to be stable or increasing. The Baikal Teal (Anasformosa) is an exception. The breeding ranges or populations of some carnivorous and insectivorous birds, such as the Ruddy-breasted Crake (Ponana fusca), Greater Painted Snipe (Rostratula benghalensis) and many shorebirds have shrunk in recent decades. Some agricultural and conservation sectors have succeeded in attracting many waterbirds by flooding fallow fields in the rice-growing season and post-harvest rice fields. Further research on the direct and indirect effects of agricultural practices and con servation measures is needed in Korea and Japan.
40891065|Data on wild birds in rice fields in China are scarce. The potential significance of Chinese rice fields, which represent about 6% of the world's wetland area, is considerable but whether this potential is met is largely unknown. In this review, traditional and modern Chinese rice agriculture are compared, including detailing historical changes and their implications for wild birds. Traditional practices, with one crop each year and long periods of fallow flooding, provide greater benefit to biodiversity and species such as the Crested Ibis (Nipponia nippon). The method and alternatives, such as rice-fish, duck-rice and swidden agriculture, are contrasted with modern techniques which, through associated water regimes and chemical use, have been implicated in the decline of biodiversity and of species such as the Black-faced Spoonbill {Platalea minor). Agrochemical use is particularly pertinent because China is likely to have been the world's largest pesticide consumer since the mid-1990s, with use greatest in rice ( Oryza sativa). However, few studies have measured the direct effects of agro-chemicals on wild birds in China.The most detailed information on birds in China's rice fields comes from charismatic species such as the Crested Ibis and Red-crowned Crane (Grus japonensis). Preliminary data from possibly the first systematic bird survey of a Chinese rural county are presented. More detailed and widespread studies of the implications of rice agriculture to wild birds in China are required.
40891066|The Indian subcontinent has the world's highest cropland cover per unit area with rice (Oryza sativa) being the second-most important crop, and is home to nearly 1,300 species of birds. The significance of rice fields as bird habitat in the region is not well understood and the subject is reviewed using a combination of published and secondary information. Rice fields in the subcontinent are used by at least 351 species, although only 2.7% of birds occurring in the subcontinent breed in rice fields. The spread of rice cultivation and its attendant secondary habitats may have contributed to the increase in range and population of 64 common species but is threatening hundreds of other species, many of conservation concern. Most work in the region has focused on birds as pests of rice. Few studies have been conducted on the habits of birds that use rice fields and fewer still have compared how rice fields and similar natural habitats differ. Although rice harvesting has caused nest mortality for breeding birds, there is no comparable information from natural habitats. The guild structure of birds in rice fields is similar to that overall in the region except for a higher representation of carnivores. Rice fields are used primarily by grassland and wetland species. There are large information gaps that require filling to be able to ascertain the utility or impact of rice fields to bird populations and, thus, many research opportunities.
40891067|Rice (Oryza sativa) growing in Australia occurs almost exclusively in the south-east, in the Riverine Plains of the Murray-Darling Basin, with an annual average of 110,000 ha. All crops are grown under irrigation using water abstracted from rivers. Rice fields are flooded between October and March and are dry otherwise. A large decrease in natural wetland extent and declines in most waterbird populations have been associated with the increase in irrigated agriculture since the 1960s. The ecology of waterbirds in rice fields has been studied in only one area, around Fivebough Swamp in southern New South Wales. Thirty-seven waterbird species were recorded in rice fields compared with 70 species on an adjacent natural wetland. Species diversity and the abundance of individual species declined as the rice crops developed so that most species used rice fields for only one to two months after flooding. An increase in water depths associated with the timing of panicle initiation of the rice plants was probably the main cause, but declines in most waterbird prey species also occurred as the crops developed. Rice crops were particularly important feeding areas for Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus) during November and December. Small numbers of the threatened Australasian Bittern (Botaurus poiciloptilus) were also recorded.
40891068|In southern Europe, rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the most important agricultural crops. Relationships between rice fields and bird occurrence are well studied for some taxa while quantitative data are lacking for other, more secretive, species. Rice cultivation may be important in the conservation of some threatened birds; for example, agricultural flooded areas in northwestern Italy support 25% of the Italian population of Eurasian Bittern (Botaurus stellarti) although variation in farming techniques affect the suitability of fields for birds. Agricultural practices that benefit birds include avoiding intermittent flooding or dry cultivation, maintaining stubble during winter, allowing some weed patches to persist inside fields and along ditches and conserving natural vegetation in rice field landscapes. Additionally, biological and alternative cultivation methods seem to provide better environmental conditions compared to traditional methods. To promote environmental and conservation values of rice fields, BirdLife International coordinates a project throughout Europe for expanding environmentally-friendly rice cultivation. In some regions, rice fields are the only habitat available for wetland birds due to the scarcity or poor quality of natural wetlands. Despite interest in African and Middle Eastern birds and the geographical proximity of these areas to Europe, knowledge of birds and rice fields there is extremely limited. The fact that these regions are located along some of the most important migration routes in the Old World suggests that their rice fields may be used by large numbers of waterbirds.
40891069|Rice fields in West Africa comprise mangrove swamp rice and rain-fed rice cultivations along the coast, rice fields in floodplains and river valleys, and inland irrigated cultivations. All these rice systems constitute important habitats for African and migratory Palaearctic waterbirds. Density counts reveal the presence of about 16 wetland-related birds per ha during the northern winter if the habitat is still damp or covered by water; this declines to about four birds/ha if the fields are dry. The coastal rice fields (South Senegal-Guinea-Conakry) harbour 1.17 million wetland-related birds during the northern winter, and the inland rice fields of Office du Niger (Mali) contain 730,000. In former floodplain areas, the high bird numbers in rice fields offer, to some degree, an ecological compensation for the loss of floodplains. In the Inner Niger Delta, for example, the construction of the Selingue Dam and the Office du Niger irrigation scheme resulted on average in the loss of 12% of the wintering waterbirds.However, the ecological loss is larger than these numbers suggest because most bird species in irrigated rice fields are common, while rare and endangered species are concentrated in the remaining West African floodplains that have not been converted to cultivated rice fields.
40891070|Rice (Oryza sativa) is cultivated in 21 countries throughout North, South and Central America, and the Caribbean. Waterbird and landbird use of rice paddies in the Americas was evaluated. Information was compiled on birds and rice habitats from Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Surinam, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, USA and Venezuela. At least 169 waterbirds belonging to 21 families and 166 landbirds have been recorded in the paddies of the region. Anatidae was the best represented family, followed by Scolopacidae, Rallidae and Ardeidae; 67% of species belonged to these four families. Western Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), Western Great Egret (Ardea alba), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), Lesser Yellowlegs (Tringaflavipes) and Greater Yellowlegs (Trnga melanoleuca) were reported in all countries, but relative abundances varied. During the rice-growing cycle, fields were most important for carnivorous birds during the sowing stage, whereas post-harvest flooded fields were most valuable for granivorous waterbirds. Of 92 genera recorded, 28 had sympatric species. In general, geographically proximate countries were most similar in the composition of bird species using their paddies. In all countries, rice fields are considered important feeding areas and heavily used as mi gratory stop-over and wintering sites.
40891071|Important and unique breeding bird communities occur in rice fields throughout the world, but little is known about breeding densities and nest success, and, therefore, the value of rice fields to breeding birds.Breeding bird use of rice fields is divided into five categories: 1 ) nesting in standing rice crop, 2) nesting on levees within fields or at field perimeters, 3) nesting in associated irrigation canals and ditches, 4) nesting in other wet areas that exist because of rice cultivation, and 5) use of fields for foraging, while breeding in adjacent habitats. Nest density and nest success vary greatly based on the region, management practices, and species' requirements. Birds commonly nesting in rice fields include ducks, bitterns, rails, shorebirds, terns and some passerines. Herons often use rice fields heavily while breeding in adjacent habitat. Research on nest densities, nest success, nestling and fledgling success, and microhabitat selection is needed to better understand the bird communities that use rice fields.
40891072|Worldwide, rice (Oryza sativa) agriculture typically involves seasonal flooding and soil tillage, which provides a variety of microhabitats and potential food for birds. Water management in rice fields creates conditions ranging from saturated mud flats to shallow (< 30 cm) water, thereby attracting different guilds of birds. Grain not collected during harvest (i. e. waste rice) is typically the most abundant potential food of birds in rice fields, with estimates of seed mass from North America ranging from 66-672 kg/ha. Although initially abundant after harvest, waste rice availability can be temporally limited. Few abundance estimates for other foods, such as vertebrate prey or forage vegetation, exist for rice fields. Outside North America, Europe and Japan, little is known about abundance and importance of any avian food in rice fields. Currently, flooding rice fields after harvest is the best known management practice to attract and benefit birds. Studies from North America indicate specific agricultural practices (e. g. burning stubble) may increase use and improve access to food resources. Evaluating and implementing management practices that are ecologically sustainable, increase food for birds and are agronomically beneficial should be global priorities to integrate rice production and avian conservation. Finally, land area devoted to rice agriculture appears to be stable in the USA, declining in China, and largely unquantified in many regions. Monitoring trends in riceland area may provide information to guide avian conservation planning in rice-agriculture ecosystems.
40891073|Literature is reviewed to determine the effects of landscape features on waterbird use of fields in regions where rice (Oryza sativa) is grown. Rice-growing landscapes often consist of diverse land uses and land cover, including rice fields, irrigation ditches, other agricultural fields, grasslands, forests and natural wetlands. Numerous studies indicate that local management practices, such as water depth and timing of flooding and drawdown, can strongly influence waterbird use of a given rice field. However, the effects of size and distribution of rice fields and associated habitats at a landscape scale have received less attention. Even fewer studies have focused on local and landscape effects simultaneously. Habitat connectivity, area of rice, distance to natural wetlands, and presence and distance to unsuitable habitat can be important parameters influencing bird use of rice fields. However, responses to a given landscape vary with landscape structure, scale of analysis, among taxa and within taxa among seasons. A lack of multi-scale studies, particularly those extending beyond simple presence and abundance of a given species, and a lack of direct tests comparing the relative importance of landscape features with in-field management activities limits understanding of the importance of landscape in these systems and hampers waterbird conservation and management.
40891074|The effect of rice cultivation on waterbird populations has rarely been assessed. A study in northwestern Italy estimated that breeding herons and egrets obtained 80% of their food from agricultural habitats. The estimate was checked by comparing the occupation of three contiguous sectors of northwestern Italy, one with mainly rice fields, a second with planitial rivers and a third with small upland rivers, from 1982 to 2002, a period in which breeding populations increased. During the increase, the breeders expanded into the second and third sectors only when their population exceeded a certain level, in accordance with predictions of the "ideal free" model of habitat selection. The initial estimate of the importance of rice cultivation is confirmed by this long-term comparison, with the "rice fields" sector hosting 76% of the population. The long-term analysis cautions against generalizations from instantaneous surveys, which can estimate the differential profitability of habitats but not their carrying capacity, unless habitat availability limits population size. Additional information is needed to predict waterbird population responses to environmental change; topics include: habitat use, particularly in Asia; landscape effects; prey availability, foraging intake and behavior; demographic parameters such as breeding success, survival, settlement patterns, site fidelity, and temporal variance; and population changes in relation to management practices.
40891075|Most literature on birds and rice (Oryza sativa) focuses on the non-growing period and little is known about the influence of management practices during cultivation. A review found that the main factors affecting species composition and abundance in rice fields during the growing season were water level, flooding period, rice plant structure and size, and pesticide use. Highest bird density and diversity occurred at intermediate water levels (10-20 cm). Early flooding and late drying favored waterbird density and diversity, and the stopover of migrating species. Taller plants, at higher densities, reduced prey availability to most waterbirds but favored smaller species.Pesticides and herbicides have been shown to be toxic to birds and reduce food resources. A case study is presented for the Ebro delta, Spain. Three management schemes were compared: organic, agri-environmental and conventional.Bird density, biomass and diversity throughout the growing and non-growing seasons were determined in three consecutive years. Bird biomass, density and diversity averaged higher in the organic rice fields, but only biomass was significantly different. The higher biomass reflects the presence of a higher biomass of prey items (fish, invertebrates and macrophytes) in the organic rice fields, likely due to the lack of pesticides. Further research should focus on a quantitative assessment of the effects of specific management practices.
40891076|Fields planted with rice (Oryza sativa) are used by a wide variety of bird species during the non-growing season and play an important conservation role in many parts of the world. Management of fields affects the variety and number of birds that use them, and a thorough understanding of these issues could improve the conservation value of rice farming. The challenge for conservation practitioners is identifying management actions that provide benefits, without adverse impacts on crop production. Harvest method, post-harvest straw management, winter flooding, food supplementation and hunting all influence bird populations. Also, field preparation methods, organic farming and the management of field margins and drainage ditches, probably influence the conservation value of rice agriculture but have received less attention. Current knowledge of these issues is reviewed in order to identify management practices thought to have conservation benefits and highlight topics that warrant additional research.
40891077|Waterbird use of agricultural wetlands has increased as natural wetlands have declined. Use of rice (Oryza sativa) habitats by some waterbird species is considered essential to sustaining populations. Although use of rice habitats by waterbirds has been documented throughout the world, little information is available on potential risks as a result of chemicals used in rice cultivation. The current review summarizes understanding of the use and consequences to birds of pesticide applications in rice habitats. Historically, organochlorine pesticides known to be applied for pest management in rice cultivation included dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), aldrin, dieldrin, endrin, heptachlor, technical hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH), toxaphene, endosulfan and sodium pentachlorophenate.Endosulfan and purified HCH (the gamma isomer lindane) are still in use. Cholinesterase-inhibiting insecticides currently used in rice include carbofuran, monocrotophos, phorate, diazinon, fenthion, phosphamidon, methyl parathion and azinphos-methyl many products known to cause acute poisoning in birds. In addition, herbicides, fungicides, molluscicides and other pesticide types are used in rice cultivation. Some of the chemicals are highly toxic to birds and associated with mortality; several have the potential of causing adverse reproductive effects. Because of the large area under rice cultivation worldwide, the volume of pesticides applied to rice fields is significant. Innovations within the past few decades in rice production have increased pesticide use resulting in biodiversity losses in production areas and pollution of water resources. Management practices that address adverse effects of pesticide use in rice fields include increased adoption of Integrated Pest Management principles and less toxic products.
40891078|Wild waterfowl are the reservoir for avian influenza viruses (AIVs), a family of RNA viruses that may cause mild sickness in waterbirds. Emergence of H5N1, a highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) strain, causing severe disease and mortality in wild birds, poultry and humans, had raised concerns about the role of wild birds in possible transmission of the disease. In this review, the link between rice production systems, poultry production systems, and wild bird ecology is examined to assess the extent to which these interactions could contribute towards the persistence and evolution of HPAI H5N1. The rice (Oryza sativa) and poultry production systems in Asia described, and then migration and movements of wild birds discussed. Mixed farming systems in Asia and wild bird movement and migration patterns create opportunities for the persistence of low pathogenic AIVs in these systems.Nonetheless, there is no evidence of long-term persistence of HPAI viruses (including the H5N1 subtype) in the wild. There are still significant gaps in the understanding of how AIVs circulate in rice systems. A better understanding of persistence of AIVs in rice farms, particularly of poultry origins, is essential in limiting exchange of AIVs between mixed-farming systems, poultry and wild birds.
40891079|Considerable work has been done to investigate linkages between the production of rice (Oryza sativa) and bird ecology and conservation. Rice is an extremely important crop globally and affects waterbirds in diverse ways. Rice fields are not substitutes for natural wetlands but are used by many species and can help mitigate the loss of natural habitats in areas where agriculture dominates. Most birds use rice fields primarily for foraging, but some including rare species also nest in rice. Field management affects birds in numerous ways, some of which have been studied in detail, but most of which have not. Increasing collaboration between researchers, farmers and agronomists provides opportunities to better understand how field management can be modified to increase the conservation value of fields without compromising the economic viability of farming. Such research would facilitate the development of well-designed agri-environment schemes and provide a solid basis for marketing "wildlife-friendly" rice products. Other major topics where future research is needed include: nesting and postfledging success; availability and value of foods other than rice grain that are found in fields; importance of field edges and water delivery infrastructure; influence of landscape features; effects of rice farming on population dynamics; experimental studies of management activities, especially at large spatial scales, in tropical regions, and during the breeding season; and an improved understanding of how socio-economic factors influence the ecology and conservation of the wetland birds that use rice fields.
23018362|Using constant-effort catch data, causes of annual variation in the timing of migration of Curlew Sandpipers (Calidris ferruginea) migrating through Ottenby, Sweden, as well as the trend in timing of migration from 1946-2005, was investigated. Variation in the timing of autumn migration of adult and juvenile Curlew Sandpipers was influenced by breeding success connected to predation pressure on the Arctic breeding grounds. Median migration date of adult birds was significantly later in good breeding years compared with poor breeding years while the migration of juveniles was earlier in good breeding years compared with poor breeding years. Also, adults migrated earlier when the average temperature in June was warmer. Median migration dates of adults have advanced by 23 days from 1946-2005, but the migration dates of juveniles have remained unchanged. Unchanged migration dates of juveniles indicate that earlier departure of the adult Curlew Sandpipers from the breeding grounds was not due to earlier breeding. Evidence suggests that declining breeding productivity as a result of increasing predation on broods of shorebirds might, over the years, be the reason for the observed pattern of early departure of adults from the breeding grounds. One possible consequence of earlier migration is a mismatch between timing of migration and periods of food abundance on migration routes and at the wintering grounds, leading to a decline in adult and juvenile survival and population size.
23018363|Spring-migration ecology of staging Northern Pintails, Anas acuta, was investigated in south-central Nebraska, USA. Habitat associations, local movements, settling patterns, arrival dates, residency times and survival were estimated from 71 radiomarked pintails during spring 2001, 2003 and 2004, and diet determined from 130 females collected during spring 1998 and 1999. Seventy-two percent of pintail diurnal locations were in palustrine wetlands, 7% in riverine wetlands, 3% in lacustrine wetlands, 6% in municipal sewage lagoons and irrigation reuse pits and 10.5% in croplands. Emergent wetlands with hemi-marsh conditions were used diurnally more often than wetlands with either open or closed vegetation structures. Evening foraging flights averaged 4.3 km (SE = 0.6) and 72% were to cornfields. In accord with these findings, 87% of 93 pintails collected during spring 1998 and 1999 returning to evening roosts consumed corn, which represented 84% dry mass of all foods. Pintails collected on non-cropped wetlands ingested invertebrates and seeds from wetland plants more frequently than birds returning to roost. Radiomarked pintails arrived in Nebraska on 7 March 2003 and 18 February 2004; average arrival date was six days earlier during 2004 compared to 2003. Residency time for individuals varied greatly (1-40 days) yet yearly means were similar and averaged 9.5 days within the region. No mortality was detected for 71 birds monitored over 829 exposure days. Conservation planners linking population dynamics and habitat conditions at spring-staging areas need to focus on pintail body condition during spring and its connection with reproductive success and survival during the breeding season.
23018364|Population structure of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) wintering in the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia, was evaluated by generating age, sex, paired status and distance-specific movement rates with multi-stratum mark-recapture analyses, and age and sex-specific movement distances through surveys of marked individuals. Annual movement distances and rates did not differ by sex, but only 2-4% of adults (third year and after-third year) compared to 7-11% of subadults (hatch year and second year) moved among locations per year and distance moved decreased with age. Adults were highly site faithful regardless of sex and paired status. The stepping stone gene flow model estimated the among population component of genetic variance (F ST ) at 0.005, suggesting that winter movement by subadults was sufficient to explain results of previous genetic analyses that detected no fine scale genetic structuring. Seasonal movement rates indicated that at least 95% of individuals molt and winter in the same location, and that annual aggregation at Pacific Herring (Clupea pallasi) spawning sites facilitates demographic mixing and gene flow. Low annual movement rates (0.001) between the northern and southern Strait of Georgia and dispersal by both sexes suggest that a metapopulation distribution may function within the Pacific Coast range, which is relevant to the geographic scale of management. Movement rates and distances suggest that subadult survival rates are particularly vulnerable to underestimation.
23018365|Ten geolocators (light-level data loggers) were attached to Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) at a breeding site in the northeastern USA in 2007 and 2008; six were retrieved (five with useful data) in 2008 and 2009. The birds wintered in four discrete areas on the north and east coasts of South America, from Guyana (6-7N) to northeastern Argentina (36-42S); three remained within restricted areas for most or all of the winter, whereas two ranged more widely. They left the breeding area at various dates between 1 August and 14 September; three migrated directly from the breeding area while two first moved southwest to stage near Cape Hatteras. All five birds flew directly to the vicinity of Puerto Rico, then moved along the north and east coasts of South America, staging at scattered locations for periods of 3-11 d, before reaching their winter quarters at various dates from 6 September to 26 October. Two birds left their winter quarters on 2 March and 4 April, staged in northern Brazil for 47 and 6 d, then traveled via the Bahamas to reach the breeding site on 1 May. During breeding and post-breeding periods, the birds spent a mean of 7 min each day and virtually no time at night resting on the water, but during the rest of the year they often rested on the water for up to 6 h by day and up to 11 h at night. Leg-mounted geolocators caused several adverse effects but did not reduce survival.
23018366|Two invertebrates, brine shrimp (Artemia franciscana) and brine flies (Ephydridae), occur in great densities in the Great Salt Lake (GSL) but it is unknown whether ducks forage extensively on them during winter or rely on freshwater food. Common Goldeneye (Bucephala clangula), Northern Shoveler (Anas clypeata) and Green-winged Teal (Anas crecca) were collected from the GSL during winters 2004-05 and 2005-06 to evaluate their food habits. Brine shrimp and brine flies comprised more than 70% of the winter diet of these ducks. Common Goldeneyes consumed mainly brine fly larvae (68% based on dry weight biomass), which live primarily along the substrate. Northern Shovelers fed on brine shrimp cysts (52%) and adult brine shrimp (20%) while Green-winged Teal consumed mainly brine shrimp cysts (80%). In some years, up to half of the brine shrimp cysts in the GSL are commercially harvested. Care should be taken so that this commercial harvest does not adversely impact ducks that depend on these brine shrimp cysts for winter food.
23018367|The incidence of lead shot ingestion in waterfowl has declined in the lower Great Lakes (LGL) following the 1999 Canada-wide ban on use of toxic shot for waterfowl hunting, but few data exist on ingestion frequencies of spent shot or fishing weights for sea ducks wintering at the LGL. Artifact ingestion was evaluated in 269 Buffleheads (Bucephala albeola), 224 Common Goldeneyes (B. clangula) and 256 Long-tailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) collected at Lake Ontario during winter 2002-03 and 2003-04. Long-tailed Ducks ingested total shot (lead and steel shot combined) more frequently (6.6%) than did Common Goldeneye (1.8%) and Bufflehead (0.4%). Lead shot was ingested by Long-tailed Ducks (5.1%) and Buffleheads (0.4%), but not by Common Goldeneyes. One Long-tailed Duck, 0.1% of all specimens, ingested one lead fishing weight. Substrate type influenced artifact ingestion frequency and diving ducks that specialize on prey associated with hard substrates may continue to ingest artifacts more than ducks using soft substrate marshes. The results suggest lead toxicosis from spent shotgun pellets is presently non-existent to low in sea ducks wintering at northeastern Lake Ontario and that further restrictions on use of lead fishing tackle may have little implication for sea ducks in this region.
23018368|A free-ranging Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) population was investigated during winter (December-January 1996-1999) below the Garrison Dam, North Dakota, USA, to relate diet to gut morphology variation in males. Four explanatory variables (fish consumption, male age, winter, and body size) were evaluated as to whether they influenced five response variables associated with gut characteristics of Mallards. Response variables were lower gastro-intestinal tract mass (LGIT), dry liver mass, dry gizzard mass, small intestine length, and ceca length. Diets of Mallards were comprised primarily of Rainbow Smelt (Osmerus mordax) and concomitantly variation in gizzard mass was small. LGIT mass of juveniles was larger than that of adults, greater for those that consumed fish, and greater during the coldest and snowiest winter. Liver mass and small intestine length of Mallards that consumed fish were greater than those that did not. Mallards may maintain lengthy intestines to increase digestive efficiency. Gut size variation was not entirely attributable to dietary composition but also influenced by body size and environmental conditions such that over-winter survival is maximized.
23018369|Access to human-derived food is thought the major cause of population increases in many gull species, and the degree to which urbanized gulls depend upon anthropogenic food may be resolved by isotopic benchmarks. Stable isotope ratios ( 13 C and  15 N) were compared between Silver Gulls breeding at a remote, non-urbanized site (Furneaux Island Group, Bass Strait) and those at an urban (Hobart) colony in Tasmania to distinguish potential differences in feeding regime. Analyses of whole blood stable isotopes revealed that non-urbanized gulls tended to have a mixed diet from several sources, while urban gulls fed on a separate food web from and a more freshwater origin. No differences in the stable isotope ratios were detected between sexes or among breeding periods. Birds from Hobart tended to feed at a higher trophic position after egg-laying than before, and reflected a change in food preference. These results provided critical baseline data to measure the degree of urbanization of Silver Gulls in Tasmania in order to study potential health impacts of anthropogenic food on birds.
23018370|The Crab Plover (Dromas ardeola) is a little-known shorebird that breeds colonially in self-dug burrows on islands in the north-western Indian Ocean. To test whether the "nest site limitation" hypothesis could satisfactorily explain the high nest density in this species, 21 colonies were studied in Eritrea from 2002 to 2009. The hypothesis was falsified by the following observations: across the study period, nesting colonies were relocated on the same sandbanks every year and most occupied no more than 4% of the area suitable for excavating burrows; colony size and area suitable for burrowing were not correlated; nest density and colony size were not significantly correlated; the area occupied by nests increased steadily throughout the nest-building period; nests were closely-spaced throughout the building phase rather than being scattered throughout the area eventually used for digging. These results indicate that the Crab Plover is not site-limited but a truly colonial species.
23018371|The breeding success of Common Murres (Uria aalge) and Pelagic Cormorants (Phalocrocorax pelagicus) at Triangle Island, off British Columbia, Canada, was high from 2003 to 2006; four years in which a pair of Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) nested in the vicinity. However, in three years when the falcon eyrie was inactive (2007 to 2009), adult murres were depredated on the colony by Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) and murre eggs were taken by Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) after eagles flushed incubating murres. Consequently, breeding success in both species was low in 2007, then in 2008 and 2009 no murres bred successfully and no cormorants built nests. That a single pair of falcons protected thousands of seabirds is noteworthy for its local conservation implications. Bottom-up control of seabird breeding success has been well documented, but there appears need for a better understanding of the role of top-down mechanisms as a result of both the direct (consumptive) and indirect (non-consumptive) effects of top predators.
23018372|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were not observed breeding in the inner coast of Washington and British Columbia until the 1920s and 1930s, whether the breeding was either a re-colonizing event or a new expansion was unknown. Archaeological evidence from Watmough Bay, a shell midden site on Lopez Island, San Juan Islands (Washington State), was analyzed to place the recent changes in breeding distribution in deeper historical context. The Watmough Bay faunal assemblage contains large numbers (n = 2,397) of cormorant bones. Of those specimens that could be identified to species (n = 358), 99.7% were identified as Double-crested Cormorants. The majority (97%, n = 2,336) of the cormorant remains are from juveniles or chicks, which were collected while still at the colony. Radiocarbon dating indicates the majority of the site accumulated between AD 300600. Evidence for a ca. 1,500-year-old Double-crested Cormorant colony near Lopez Island confirms that the species did breed in the region prior to the early 20th century. The study further documents the value of archaeological data for current wildlife management.
23018373|The Nebraska Sandhills are an important area for breeding ducks in the Great Plains, but reliable estimates of breeding populations are unavailable. Double-observer methodology was used to estimate abundance of breeding duck populations in the Nebraska Sandhills. Aerial transect surveys were conducted using methodology similar to the cooperative Waterfowl Breeding Population and Habitat Survey conducted by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Canadian Wildlife Service. Observations by two front-seat observers and one rear-seat observer were used to account for incomplete detectability. Transect-specific population size and detection probabilities were estimated using program SURVIV; estimates were species-specific by type of social grouping. Regional population sizes were obtained by extrapolating transects' estimates to the Sandhills. Detection probabilities were high (>0.75) for all species, but highest for Northern Shoveler (Anas clypeata) and Gadwall (A. strepera). Detection probabilities generally followed increases or decreases with duck densities. Uncorrected population estimates, on average, were <7% the population estimates obtained by correcting for detectability. Double-observer methodology should be considered for adjusting duck counts that cannot be corrected using additional aerial or ground surveys, particularly where water and ducks are well dispersed. Received 19 April 2010, accepted 24 August 2010.
23018374|Birds at-sea increase body mass as a consequence of food consumption and plumage wettability. However, little is known about the effect of maximum extra load on takeoff of aquatic birds. Experimental evaluation of maximum load-lift during takeoff was performed on a wing-propelled diver with high wing loading, Cassin's Auklet Ptychoramphus aleuticus, and on a surface feeder with low wing loading, Leach's Storm-Petrel Oceanodroma leucorhoa. Leach's Storm-Petrel supported a maximum extra load of 45% of its body mass, and that of Cassin's Auklet was 25%. The relation of maximal load to food transport and plumage wettability indicates that the storm-petrel and the alcid maintain safety load margins of 31% and 8% of the maximum supported extra load during takeoff, respectively. Load margin showed by storm-petrels suggests an enhanced flight performance, increasing specific lift during foraging; meanwhile that of auklets allows for reduction of specific buoyancy during diving.
23018375|Arctic Terns show large variations in colony attendance between breeding seasons, making comparable counts of colony size complex and population status estimates difficult. Here, three areas in two regions of Greenland were surveyed in consecutive breeding seasons between 2002 and 2009. Between-year variation in population size in the small and mid-sized Arctic Tern colonies in West Greenland was considerable (mean CV of individual colonies 117.5%, CV of total 49.6%). In the largest colony in Greenland, Kitsissunnguit, overall colony size showed minor variations (CV 14.6%), but variation in numbers was pronounced at the sub-colony level (mean CV 47.4%). When combining the surveyed colonies in West Greenland, the total population size varied little (CV 6.7%) and less than expected if colonies fluctuated independently (P= 0.023), indicating that local movements between the colonies took place and annual variation was linked to local rather than to large-scale phenomena. In Northeast Greenland, complete breeding failure, likely caused by Arctic Fox, was recorded in two out of four seasons. Future Greenland Arctic Tern colony monitoring should either 1) survey multiple colonies within the same season covering adjoining colonies over a larger area, or 2) survey one large, representative colony in multiple years in order to track potential changes in population size.
23018376|Effective conservation and management of Bar-headed Geese (Anser indicus) require data to determine migration routes and identify key sites for protection. Ten Bar-headed Geese were banded with satellite transmitters at Qinghai Lake in western China in July 2006 and 2007 to determine their migration routes. Of the tagged geese, eight left Qinghai Lake and began autumn migration. Of these eight, four completed their autumn migration, lasting 50 to 90 days, using one of two migration routes to their wintering grounds near Caohai Lake in Guizhou Province, Yarlung Zangbo valley in Tibet, and Kohima in India. The tagged geese each stopped at three to four sites and traveled 1,270 to 1,470 km from their breeding to wintering grounds. Wetlands at Muli Marsh, Zhaling, Eling and Galalacuo Lakes in Qinghai Province, Nagqu and Damxung in Tibet, and Ruoergai Marsh in Gansu and Sichuan Provinces were used as major stopover sites.
23018377|A Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) foraging on an Atlantic Stingray (Dasyatis sabina) was observed off coastal Mississippi. Although elasmobranchs have been previously reported in the diets of birds, this observation was the first documenting the attack and consumption behavior by a bird on an elasmobranch. The behaviors in the event mirror previous observations of A. herodias attacking large and unwieldy prey items. Consumption of a high trophic-level fish by A. herodias further emphasizes its role as a top predator in shallow marine food webs.
23018378|Various mitigation measures have been implemented to reduce incidental seabird mortality in longline and trawl fisheries but little attention has been given to artisanal fishing. In the 2008/09 breeding season, during a study of foraging of Humboldt, Spheniscus humboldti, and Magellanic Penguins, S. magellanicus, breeding on Puihuil islets, southern Chile, a Magellanic Penguin equipped with a time-depth recorder became entangled and subsequently drowned in a gill net set for Corvina Drum (Cilus gilberti). The device was returned by fishermen and the data appear to be the first documented case of such a drowning in a marine, air-breathing vertebrate. According to the data, while diving to a depth of more than 50 m, the bird became entangled and drowned, remaining below 60 m for nearly 21 hours until the net was hauled. Although only a single incident is reported, there are indications that incidental mortality of penguins, other seabirds and marine mammals is more common in artisanal fisheries than previously anticipated.
23018173|Modeling habitat selection of species with specific foraging requirements is an effective means to evaluate landscape quality for restoration and conservation purposes. Proportional hazards regression, a discrete choice model, was used to develop resource selection functions for breeding Wood Stork in the southern Everglades during the 2006 nesting season. Wood Storks showed the highest probability of habitat selection in a narrow range of shallow water depths. The quadratic form of water depth (depth+depth 2 ) was an important indicator of habitat selection with mean water depths between -25 and 25 cm receiving the highest probability of use (a negative water depth is below average ground elevation). Foraging sites within 20 km of nesting colonies were selected over farther sites. Shrub swamp, mangrove swamp and saltwater marsh vegetation types were used in higher proportions than they occurred in the landscape. Results exemplify the importance of shallow water depths near established stork breeding colonies throughout the breeding season.
23018174|Wetland-scale and landscape-scale descriptors were compiled at 123 wetlands where Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) have been detected in Qubec since 1986 to identify key attributes associated with Least Bittern occurrence. Land cover information extracted from Landsat-7 ETM imagery and road density were calculated for a 500-m buffer surrounding occupied wetlands and paired sites ten km away to compare to the regional landscape. Cattail (Typha spp.) was the dominant vegetation at 96 of 123 wetlands. Shrub swamps were used at eleven sites. Wetland area ranged from 0.5 ha to 983 ha and man-made impoundments accounted for 24% of occupied sites. The 500-m buffer surrounding occupied wetlands was dominated by urban areas, agriculture, forests or wetlands at four, 22,21 and 32 sites, respectively. Mean wetland cover was higher in the 500-m buffer (37%) than in the regional landscape (4%) whereas agriculture cover was greater at paired sites (55%) than around occupied wetlands (28%). Cover of anthropogenic and forest areas did not differ between wetland buffers and paired sites. Mean road density was higher in the 500-m buffer around occupied wetlands (29.5 m/ha) than in the regional landscape (18.4 m/ha) suggesting that wetlands near roads may be more easily accessible to surveyors. Habitat use in Qubec corresponds with known breeding habitat structure elsewhere in North America. Along with wetland creation and conservation initiatives of remaining small and large wetlands, Least Bittern conservation will benefit from regular monitoring of impoundments' operable conditions to prevent sudden habitat changes that may impact breeding birds. Received 13 August 2010, accepted 11 February 2011.
23018175|The Whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus) is one of a suite of sub-arctic- and arctic-nesting shorebirds for which encroachment of woody vegetation into previously open habitats may cause a reduction in breeding habitat. Whimbrel nesting habitat selection was studied at two spatial scales near Churchill, Manitoba, Canada, to determine habitat preferences and the degree to which the species avoided woody vegetation. Whimbrels occupied sites at the mesohabitat (territory) scale characterized by either high lichen cover, or high graminoid and standing water cover. No Whimbrels nested in mesohabitat with >17.5% tall shrub cover, and only one pair nested where >38 trees existed within 30 m of the nest. At the microhabitat (nest) scale, Whimbrels nested in two distinct habitats. In lichen-dominated sites, nests had less concealing vegetation than unused sites whereas in graminoid dominated habitats, nests were more concealed than unused sites. Sixty-eight percent of nests were on hummocks or lichen ridges. Hatching success was not predicted by habitat characteristics and was lower than previously reported (2007: 26%; 2008: 14%). Avoidance of woody vegetation by breeding Whimbrels suggests that shrub and tree encroachment would reduce habitat availability in the Churchill region.
23018176|Most studies of King Rail (Rallus elegans) have investigated habitat use during the nesting season, while few comparisons have been made between the nesting and brood-rearing seasons. King Rails were located during the nesting season in Missouri using repeated surveys with call playback, and systematic searches for broods were conducted during the brood-rearing season. King Rail adults were located at twelve points in 2006 and 14 points in 2007, and five King Rail broods were located in each year. Water depth was measured and dominant cover type determined for randomly sampled 5-m plots within used and unused habitats. Logistic regression models were fitted to the data and top models were selected from the candidate set using AICc. Nesting adults occurred more often in areas dominated by short (1 m) emergent vegetation ( = 0.77  0.27) and deeper water ( = 0.05  0.02). Broods occurred more often in areas dominated by short emergent vegetation ( = 1.19  0.37) and shallow water ( = 0.17  0.06), and avoided areas dominated by tall (>1 m) emergent vegetation ( = 1.15  0.45). A modified catch-curve analysis was used to estimate chick daily survival rates during selected 7-day periods for each year. Daily survival rate ranged from 0.92  0.008 in late June 2007 to 0.96  0.005 in late July 2006. Management plans for King Rails should include the different habitat types needed during the nesting and brood-rearing stages.
23018177|Increasing populations of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus; hereafter cormorants) are of concern regarding the displacement of other species from breeding colonies, but little is known about such interactions. Agonistic interactions between ground-nesting cormorants and American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos; hereafter pelicans) were investigated and compared to those involving cormorants and Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus). Also, a survey of cormorant eggs in nests of other ground-nesting species was conducted. Of 158 agonistic interactions between cormorants and pelicans, 83% were threat displays, 9% attempts to steal nest material and 8% involved some form of physical contact. Pelicans defended their nests less frequently and engaged in fewer physical contacts (8%) in colonies mixed with cormorants compared to areas with only pelicans (33%). Herring Gulls engaged in more physical contact (26%) with cormorants in a mixed colony than when nesting only with other gulls (4%). Cormorant eggs were found in 1-26% of Herring and Ring-billed Gull (L. delawarensis) nests searched in the Great Lakes, and 0.3% of Caspian Tern (Hydroprogne caspia) nests at one location. The results indicate cormorants routinely engage in agonistic interactions with other ground-nesting birds; however, the type and importance of interactions varies. Site- and species-specific evaluation of interactions involving cormorants and other birds is recommended before taking management steps to reduce nest site competition.
23018178|Thousands of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) migrate annually to the Teshekpuk Lake Special Area (TLSA), Alaska, to undergo the flightless wing molt on tundra lakes and wetlands. GPS transmitters were attached to Brant over two summers (2007-2008) to examine patterns of movement and habitat use of molting Brant, including variation by habitat type, year and body mass. Molting Brant were located an average of 31  1 m (SE) from shore and this distance did not vary across any of the explanatory variables. Brant moved an average of 123  3 m hr 1 while flightless. Movement rates varied by year, averaging 22  12 m hr 1 faster in 2008, and across habitat types, averaging 22  13 m hr 1 faster in inland versus coastal and estuarine habitats. Two kernel home ranges were estimated: entire home range, which encompassed the complete 95% probability contour, and shoreline home range, which included only shoreline areas used by molting Brant. Entire home range (x bar = 15.1  2.2 km 2 ) was negatively correlated with body mass, suggesting that heavier individuals have more body reserves to contribute to feather growth and thereby require less food and smaller home ranges. Conversely, shoreline home range (x bar = 4.3  0.6 km 2 ) did not vary by body mass, but rather by habitat type, being larger in estuarine habitats. The complex shorelines and numerous deltaic islands of estuarine habitats offer more shoreline per area than either coastal or inland habitats. Brant appear to have limited ability to adjust their home range size or forage further from shore in response to variable food resources across years or habitats, instead altering their movement rate. Given this apparent lack of behavioral flexibility, Brant may be sensitive to development-related disturbances or habitat losses at molt sites in the TLSA.
23018179|The lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley (hereafter LMAV) provides winter habitat for approximately 40% of the Mississippi Flyway's Mallard (Anas platyrhynhcos) population; information on winter survival rates of female Mallards in the LMAV is restricted to data collected prior to implementation of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. To estimate recent survival and cause-specific mortality rates in the LMAV, 174 radio-marked female Mallards were tracked for a total of 11,912 exposure days. Survival varied by time periods defined by hunting seasons, and females with lower body condition (size adjusted body mass) at time of capture had reduced probability of survival. Female survival was less and the duration of our tracking period was greater than those in previous studies of similarly marked females in the LMAV; the product-limit survival estimate (SE) through the entire tracking period (136 days) was 0.54  0.10. Cause-specific mortality rates were 0.18  0.04 and 0.34  0.12 for hunting and other sources of mortality, respectively; the estimated mortality rate from other sources (including those from avian, mammalian, or unknown sources) was higher than mortality from non-hunting sources reported in previous studies of Mallards in the LMAV. Models that incorporate winter survival estimates as a factor in Mallard population growth rates should be adjusted for these reduced winter survival estimates.
23018180|The interaction of aerial predators and migrant Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) was studied at Mary's Point in the upper Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick, Canada, during August of 2009 and 2010. Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) were locally reintroduced and increased from one active nest site in 1989 to 27 in 2010, which coincided with a decline of sandpipers roosting at Mary's Point from an annual mean of 161,000 in 1976-1982 to 15,000 or less during this study. Mean roosting time of flocks was 33 min (range = 10 to 40 min; N = 6). Sandpipers returned to the beach 1 h:36 min after high-tide (range = 1 h:10 to 2 h:13 min; N = 5), but were soon flushed again by falcons. On ten of 19 days, during part of the high-tide period, flocks of sandpipers remained in flight over the ocean. Termed Over-Ocean Flocking (OOF), this behavior was seen on days when spring tides inundated all beach habitat, and also at lower tides, which supports the hypothesis that OOF is an antipredator strategy intended to avoid surprise attacks by falcons near the shore. Raptors sighted during 128 hours afield included 226 Peregrines, 20 Merlins (Falco columbarius) and two Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus). At 1.0-3.2 Peregrine sightings/h 1 (mean 1.8) the level of disturbance is high and supports the hypothesis that the decline in roosting sandpipers at Mary's Point is linked to predation danger.
23018181|After near extirpation in the early 20th century, Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) are currently (2009) the most abundant colonial waterbird nesting on the Great Lakes. Nest count data are reported from four decadal censuses (1976-2009) conducted by the Canadian Wildlife Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Numbers increased from 305,790 nests (1976-80) to a peak of 718,887 nests (1989-90), then decreased to 652,664 (1997-2000) and to 585,984 nests (2007-09). Changes varied spatially after the second census with greatest losses (38.6%) at North Channel, Georgian Bay and northern Lake Huron colonies, and greatest gains (+324.2%) at Lake Michigan colonies. A total of 472 sites had nests in at least one census (Canada N = 319; U.S. N = 153). Eighteen (3.8%) colonies had >2,000 nests in all four censuses, and had 37.5-41.9% of all nests in each census. Site occupancy was fluid. A high proportion (56.8%, N = 268) of sites contained nests in only one of the four censuses, and few (N = 40, 8.5%) had nests in all censuses. Thirty-nine sites had >2,000 nests gains/losses between census periods; 14 (35.9%) were on urban/industrial lands with artificial substrates. Human management and predator activities at some colonies contributed to declines in nest numbers at these locations. Movement of breeding birds among colonies and changes in local food supply may have influenced changes in nest numbers elsewhere. Reasons for the overall nest losses across the Great Lakes after the second census are unknown.
23018182|The Commonwealth of the Bahamas is an important region to Reddish Egrets (Egretta rufescens); however, current status of this species in the Bahamas is lacking. From 2008-2010, a breeding survey of Reddish Egrets was conducted in Great Inagua to 1) document breeding status, 2) document breeding phenology, and 3) estimate the number of breeding pairs. A total of 87 Reddish Egret nests on Great Inagua over two breeding seasons were recorded; the proportion of white, dark and mixed-morph nesting pairs varied but averaged (S.D.) 68.4  7.5, 18.2  2.4, and 13.4  5.1%, respectively. Based on these surveys, the breeding season range extends from December to May, varying annually due to changes in precipitation. Territorial aggression of solitary nesting pairs in Reddish Egrets was observed, previously unreported for the Caribbean. Damage to mangrove islands from Hurricane Ike in September 2008 appeared to increase nesting concentrations on Lake Rosa; solitary nesting decreased from 36% before, to 10% after the hurricane. Because the surveys before and after the hurricane did not encompass the entire breeding seasons, increased concentration of nesting may have been influenced by other factors besides Hurricane Ike. Even with incomplete breeding season surveys, these estimates of nesting pairs indicate a >50% decrease in number of breeding pairs of Reddish Egret on Great Inagua since the 1980s; this is a conservation concern as the population is distinct.
23018183|American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) are reported to consume large quantities of commercial catfish in Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, negatively impacting aquaculture production. If pelicans consume a single item diet, such as catfish, nutritional deficiencies may result. Therefore, effects of monoand multi-species diets were examined to determine nutritional impacts on pelicans in addition to determining if preferences for certain fish species exist. Twelve American White Pelicans captured in northwest Mississippi were used for a seven day metabolism trial followed by a two day preference trial. In the metabolism trial, pelicans were assigned to one of three treatment diets (four birds/diet): catfish only, carp only, or both (50% catfish and 50% carp). Pelicans consuming only catfish metabolized less dry matter, organic matter and energy than those consuming only carp or both. Four pelicans were used to determine preference for carp or catfish. Pelicans ate more (P = 0.001) carp (89% of diet) and digested nutrients from carp more efficiently than they did from catfish. Pelicans can meet nutritional requirements by consuming a mono-species diet of fish; however, certain prey may be more beneficial and even preferred for consumption.
23018184|The Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) is at risk in several regions of North America and the effectiveness of multi-species marsh bird surveys to detect this secretive species has been questioned. A species-specific standardized survey protocol for Least Bitterns was developed to increase detection, quantify detection probability and improve knowledge of the species' distribution, abundance and habitat use. The protocol is a modification of the Standardized North American Marsh Bird Monitoring Protocol (Conway 2009), whereby only the Least Bittern call is broadcast repeatedly at fixed point count survey stations, and a second passive listening period is added after the broadcast period to increase detection. Vocalizations and behavior are noted on a minute-by-minute basis for each individual Least Bittern, along with estimated distance at first detection. The protocol has been implemented in Canada since 2006 and has resulted in Least Bitterns being detected in more sites and larger numbers than previously suspected. Adoption of the proposed protocol is recommended across the Least Bittern range when Least Bittern detection is the focus of a survey or monitoring program; therefore allowing direct comparisons of relative abundance and detection probabilities amongst sites.
23018185|The relationship between breeding site characteristics and breeding parameters of Little Egrets were investigated in the Sfax salt marshes (salina), Tunisia. Thirty colonies distributed among 14 breeding sites were monitored weekly during four breeding seasons (2004-2007). The number of breeding pairs varied among years in parallel with the number of detected colonies. Regressions were used to assess whether breeding site surface area, vegetation cover and inaccessibility to terrestrial predators affected the size and reproductive success of the colonies. Colony size was positively related to breeding site surface area and vegetation cover, while site isolation was the most important predictor of chick productivity. The results suggest that Little Egret colony size in the Sfax salina is determined by availability of nesting places, while chick productivity is controlled by accessibility of breeding sites to terrestrial predators, i.e. dogs. Given these results, an effective management action to conserve Little Egrets in Sfax would be to strategically place fences to protect large and densely-vegetated islets from these predators.
23018186|Although Sandhill Cranes (Gras canadensis) are considered as threatened in Mexico, there are no details on either their present winter distribution or descriptions of wetlands where cranes have been recorded. The objective here was to update the location of their wintering areas in Mexico and characterize the wetlands where they roost in winter. The wetlands were surveyed by ground and air, covering the Chihuahuan Desert in the states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Len, Durango, San Luis Potos, Zacatecas and Guanajuato. Sandhill Cranes were recorded in 31 wetlands, of which 13 were new locations and extended the present distribution 237 km south. Three possible hypotheses, acting either individually or in combination, are proposed to explain the new locations. The main threats to the wetlands are their proximity to urban centers, disturbances to roosting areas due to human activity and land-use change. Some wetlands where cranes have been recorded had not been considered as priorities for waterfowl but would have importance for cranes and other species during migration and winter. Further studies of crane migration and wintering are important for conservation and management of the wetlands.
23018187|Nestling diets of the vulnerable Chinese Egret (Egretta eulophotes) were analyzed at two breeding colonies on islands off Fujian, Southern China, in 2007 and 2008. Fish and shrimps were the main prey, comprising 87.5% and 35.4% by frequency of occurrence in regurgitations, respectively. Prey in the 4-6 mm size class occurred most commonly (80.4% of regurgitations). Compared with nestling diets of the Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) from other island heronries, nestlings of the Chinese Egret depended on prey that only occurred in coastal wetlands, whereas nestlings of the Little Egret consumed prey found in all aquatic habitats, including freshwater marshes; however, both species preyed on fish and shrimps and took prey of a similar size. The results suggest that coastal wetlands near the heronries need to be considered in habitat conservation for Chinese Egret.
23018188|A system was developed for the delineation of distance intervals in front of an observer during seabird surveys. Delineation is based on a coordinates system (x:y) with the vanishing point on the horizon being the origin (0:0), within a vertical plane in front of the observer. Coordinates of parallel interval limits can be calculated using y = H x/d p (H = height of the observer's eyes; d p = perpendicular distance between transect centerline and interval limit), and coordinates of radial interval limits using y = Hx2 + w2p/dc (w p = distance between the observer and the vertical plane in direction of interval limit; d c = observer's distance to the interval limit). The use of the delineation system will help reduce observer-induced variation in seabird at-sea surveys.
23018156|Sites where Barrow's Goldeneye (Bucephala islandica) undergo remigial molt and fall staging are poorly known, with only two major sites documented in Alaska and the Yukon Territory. Satellite telemetry, aerial surveys and ground surveys were used to identify previously unknown molting and fall staging areas in the Boreal Transition Zone (BTZ) of northern Alberta. Of 816 wetlands surveyed between 2004 and 2006 in the BTZ, 40-45% (105-127 lakes annually) had molting goldeneyes. Of these, 1.3-3.3% were used by large aggregations of goldeneyes (>100 birds). Two wetlands, Cardinal and Leddy Lakes, were particularly important, with an estimated 5,000-7,000 Barrow's Goldeneyes, primarily adult males, using these sites during remigial molt and fall staging. Birds used these sites up to five months or over one-third of their annual cycle. Half of adult males marked with satellite transmitters at a breeding area in interior British Columbia used Cardinal Lake for postbreeding activities. Discovery of these sites represents some of the largest concentrations of molting Barrow's Goldeneyes in North America, and the only major molting sites currently known for the intermountain breeding portion of the western population. Protection of Cardinal and Leddy Lakes, and other significant molting and staging sites within the BTZ, should be a priority conservation effort for this species.
23018157|Decline of the Dusky Canada Goose (Branta canadensis occidentalis; hereafter, Dusky Goose) population on the western Copper River Delta (CRD) prompted the establishment of an artificial nest island (island) program in 1983. A retrospective analysis of the program was conducted to examine general trends in island use and nest success from 1984-2005. A series of candidate models was generated to determine how habitat, island and biological variables were associated with island use and nest success from 1996-2005. Use of islands by Dusky Geese increased between 1987 and 2005 from 10% to 44%; apparent nest success averaged 64  4% and showed no trend with year. Island use was consistently and strongly associated with the previous year's island status. The odds of nesting on an island that contained a successful nest the previous year were four times greater than for islands not used the previous year. Likelihood of island use was highest at moderate shrub cover and increased with shrub height. Likelihood of nest success increased on islands further from shore. The influence of year suggests the presence of alternate prey and predator abundance is more important to nest success than island features. The increasing use of islands while the CRD Dusky Goose population has been declining indicates that islands may be increasingly important to population productivity. However, quantifying the contribution of the island program requires a better understanding of other population metrics, such as gosling mortality.
23018158|Habitat use, diet and foraging activity of male Red-breasted Mergansers (Mergus serrator) undergoing flightless wing molt along the shores of Anticosti Island, Gulf of St. Lawrence, Canada, were studied in 2005 and 2006. Red-breasted Mergansers used clear, shallow waters (12 m depth) that were near shore (<850 m) and over a sand-rock substrate with stands of rockweed (Fucus spp.) and kelp (Laminaria spp.). Foraging flocks used intertidal and shallow subtidal areas (<4 m depth), whereas nonforaging flocks often used deeper subtidal waters farther offshore. Eighty percent of esophagi from 30 collected Red-breasted Mergansers contained 1 fish. Grubby (Myoxocephalus aenaeus) and sandlance (Ammodytes spp.) were in 43-53% of esophagi, and their relative abundance in an esophagus averaged 29-36%. Birds spent an average 23% of the diurnal period foraging, but foraged nearly 70% of the time when the tide was low in the morning and evening. The proportion of time that males devoted to foraging during the first half of the flightless season (18%; 19 July-12 August) was nearly half that in the second half of the season (30%; 13 August-5 September). The shallow waters along the shores of Anticosti Island are of particular importance to Red-breasted Merganser populations in eastern North America because 1) >3000 males undergo wing molt at the island and 2) these habitats are generally free of human disturbance during the flightless period.
23018159|Total annual seabird bycatch in the U.S. Atlantic pelagic longline fishery was estimated from observer data by means of alternative methods to address the low frequency and uneven distribution of bird bycatch observations. Models used for estimation included generalized additive models (GAM), generalized linear models (GLM) and GLM with spatial or spatio-temporally autocorrelated bycatch observations (s-GLM). Models were fitted separately to the probability of non-zero seabird capture (presence/absence) and to the numbers of seabirds per non-zero capture (positive bycatch); final estimates were obtained as the product of the two. Best-fitting models included latitude, longitude and quarter of year as covariates for presence/absence, and numbers of hooks per set for positive bycatch. Among the models compared, GLM gave the most consistent predictions of annual total seabird captures. For 2008, the most recent year modeled, GLM predicted 81 seabirds caught in 8,862 sets. The number is small on an Atlantic-wide or world-wide scale but is concentrated in an area of high species diversity that includes relatively small populations. GLM was recommended to be used in future Atlantic pelagic longline seabird bycatch estimation.
23018160|To find morphological characteristics that might identify the sex of Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica), body morphometrics (wing chord, culmen length, bill depth, number of bill grooves, and head-bill length) and presence or absence of a brood patch were compared in a sample of 195 adult Atlantic Puffins of known genetic sex caught on Machias Seal Island, in the Bay of Fundy, Canada. Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) was performed on 98 birds, and then tested on a separate, independent dataset of 97 birds. The measurements that best predicted sex were culmen length, bill depth, and head-bill length, which correctly classified 81% of our sample. The second-best function included only bill depth and head-bill length, which classified 77% of our sample correctly. Testing the three-predictor discriminant function on a second dataset resulted in a 73% correct classification for the first discriminant equation, and 79% for the second. Classification success was improved to 81% by removing younger birds (with <1.5 grooves), and to 90% by further excluding non-breeding birds (those without a broodpatch).
23018161|Individualized markers that allow organisms to be identified without recapture are invaluable for studies of survival, movement, and behavior. Nape tags consisting of brass safety pins with unique combinations of two or three colored plastic beads were used to mark 5,868 American Coot (Fulica americana) chicks and 331 Ruddy Duck (Oxyura jamaicensis), 157 King Eider (Somateria spectabilis) and 664 White-winged Scoter (Melanitta fusca deglandi) ducklings. These markers allowed for documentation of parent-offspring interactions, post-hatching survival, brood movements and brood-mixing behaviors. Nape tags were inexpensive, easy to make, easy to observe with binoculars or spotting scopes and provided over 100 two-bead or 1,000 three-bead color combinations for individual identification. For costs, there was no evidence of color biases affecting parental care or offspring survival, although some colors (white, yellow) were easier to detect than others (brown). The only observed problem was marker loss, with tag loss rates reaching 20% near fledging age. Nape tags worked effectively on coots and ducklings and may be useful for other precocial waterbirds.
23018162|Little is known about the population status of many marsh-dependent birds in North America but recent efforts have focused on collecting more reliable information and estimates of population trends. As part of that effort, a standardized survey protocol was developed in 1999 that provided guidance for conducting marsh bird surveys throughout North America such that data would be consistent among locations. The original survey protocol has been revised to provide greater clarification on many issues as the number of individuals using the protocol has grown. The Standardized North American Marsh Bird Monitoring Protocol instructs surveyors to conduct an initial 5-minute passive point-count survey followed by a series of 1-minute segments during which marsh bird calls are broadcast into the marsh following a standardized approach. Surveyors are instructed to record each individual bird from the suite of 26 focal species that are present in their local area on separate lines of a datasheet and estimate the distance to each bird. Also, surveyors are required to record whether each individual bird was detected within each 1-minute subsegment of the survey. These data allow analysts to use several different approaches for estimating detection probability. The Standardized North American Marsh Bird Monitoring Protocol provides detailed instructions that explain the field methods used to monitor marsh birds in North America.
23018163|Whimbrels (Numenius phaeopus) were monitored during spring migration across a network of ten aerial transects within the barrier island-lagoon system along the lower Delmarva Peninsula, Virginia, USA. Transects were surveyed weekly from the last week of April through the first week of June (1994-1996, 2008-2009). Whimbrel numbers increased to a peak during the first and second weeks of May then decreased sharply during the third and fourth weeks of May in all years. Between the 1990's and 2000's, peak numbers declined by 50%, corresponding to a 4.2% annual rate of decline. A similar decline was detected in accumulated, season-wide numbers. Though similar in pattern, migration phenology was significantly different between the decades. The phenology difference resulted from a greater reduction in numbers during the first half of the study period compared to the last. Habitats used by Whimbrels (N = 31,314) included mudflats (95%) and salt marshes (5%). Habitat-specific densities (birds/km 2 ) were 443  26.6 and 9  1.6 (mean  SE) for mudflat and marsh patches, respectively, during the 1990's and 222  11.1 and 8  4.6 during the 2000's. These results support suggestions that Whimbrels are declining on the Hudson Bay breeding grounds and perhaps at major Atlantic Coast wintering sites.
23018164|Long-jump migrant shorebirds have brief windows during spring stopover to acquire the energy needed to complete migration. Red Knots (Calidris canutus) refueling on Horseshoe Crab (Limulus polyphemus) eggs in Delaware Bay can meet their energy needs foraging only by day. In nearby Virginia, thousands of Red Knots stop over, but primarily low-quality, hard-shelled prey are available. One tactic Red Knots may use to meet their energy demands with such prey might be to extend their foraging time by feeding at night. To estimate the length of the foraging day in Virginia, daylight feeding was studied during three spring stopover periods (2008 to 2010), and night feeding was studied in 2010. Red Knots foraged 76  3 SE% of the time in 2008 and 2009 combined, and 59  3% of the time in 2010, during 3-minute observations. In 2010, Red Knots foraged 51  7% of the time during a continuous 7-h daytime observation and 77  5% of the time during a continuous 8-h night time observation on the same island. Given constraints on energy intake, night foraging by Red Knots in Virginia may be necessary for birds to attain sufficient mass to complete migration.
23018165|Studying the diet of top marine predators, such as seabirds, is important in understanding their place in the trophic network and effects of global climate change, but knowledge of the diet of several procellariiformes remains anecdotal. The diet of Bulwer's Petrel (Bulweria bulwerii) in the Azores was studied over two consecutive years using stomach flushings from 85 birds. The frequency of occurrence of prey taxa (%O) was similar in both years ( 2 = 5.396, d.f. = 5, p = 0.370), with squid being the most common. Fish and squid were of similar occurrence by number (%N) in the diet (49% and 51%, respectively) in 1998 but in 1999 fish were more numerous (62% against 38% for squid). Squid lower beaks from five families and fish otoliths from six families were identified, representing 20 taxa. The most abundant prey in both years were squid Pyroteuthis margaritifera and the mesopelagic fish Electrona risso. The maximum standard length of fish and squid consumed was 7 cm and 11 cm, respectively. Given most of the identified prey are luminescent, the findings corroborate earlier studies suggesting Bulwer's Petrel feed on small mesopelagic prey that migrate to the surface at night.
23018166|The Yellow-breasted Crake (Porzana flaviventer) is a poorly-known Neotropical rail found in densely vegetated freshwater wetlands; a single nest record exists for Puerto Rico. In May 2001, the crake was detected in managed impoundments of the Humacao Nature Reserve, located in southeastern Puerto Rico. Yellow-breasted Crakes were regularly observed during monthly surveys of the impoundments with as many as nine individuals detected during an April 2002 survey. Systematic nest searches during 2001-2002 located fifteen nests in approximately 13 ha of newly created wetlands. The nests were more common in Eleocharis mutata, Cyperus ligularis, and Paspalum vaginatum. Nests had an average clutch size of 3.7 (0.31) eggs and brood size of 2.7 (0.5) chicks; hatching success was 65% and nesting success 40%. Six nests were depredated. The nesting activity of Yellow-breasted Crake at the Humacao Nature Reserve suggests wetland management in abandoned sugarcane areas of coastal Puerto Rico may benefit waterbird species of concern. Future research should determine abundance estimates and habitat relationships for this secretive species.
23018167|The coast of the state of Paraba, northeastern Brazil, was surveyed for migratory shorebirds during northern summer and the southward migration period, late May through October 2010. Shorebirds were counted along beaches and rivers mouths. A total of eleven species was recorded. The most common were Semipalmated Plover (Charadrius semipalmatus), Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla), Whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus) and Black-belled Plover (Pluvialis squatarola). The highest richness, diversity, abundance and frequency of birds occurred on the two largest estuaries, Paraba do Norte and Mamanguape, during southward migration period.
23018168|As the importance of the Black Sea for wintering waterbirds is poorly known, the species composition and abundance of waterbirds wintering on the Crimean Peninsula coast (Northern Black Sea) was investigated in two habitat types: urban areas and open sea coast. Of 27 waterbird species, 25 were recorded in urban areas, and the dominants were Coot (Fulica atra), Black-headed Gull (Larus ridibundus) and Common Gull (Larus canus). On the open sea coast, fifteen species were recorded, the dominants being Coot, cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo and Phalacrocorax aristotelis) and Great Crested Grebe (Podiceps cristatus). The species structure of the wintering waterbird community differed significantly between habitats. A trait of the open sea coast community was the high diversity and domination of diving ichthyophagous species. Waterfowl were recorded only in urban areas, which increased species diversity in this habitat. The number of birds wintering on the open sea coast was significantly lower than in the urban areas. Males dominated among ducks, and adult birds dominated among Black-headed and Common Gulls wintering in urban areas. The age structure of Caspian Gulls (Larus cachinnans) differed significantly between the two habitats, with adults dominant on the open sea coast, and immature birds making up more than half of all recorded Caspian Gulls in urban areas. The importance of the Black Sea for wintering waterbirds has been underestimated. Marine and coastland ecosystems with concentrations of waterbirds should be designated and protected as Important Bird Areas (IBAs).
23018169|Bird surveys were carried out from 1973 to 2010 in Mar Chiquita, an extensive saline lake and associated Dulce River marshes in central Argentina. The wetland has had marked fluctuations in water level and salinity over the past four decades. At the beginning of the 1970s, Mar Chiquita experienced a large drop in level and there were no waterbirds on the Segundo River mouth. By 1974 the lake had recovered its level and the Segundo River estuary had formed, harboring large concentrations of local waterbirds and Nearctic shorebirds. From mid-1977, a rise in water level led to the disappearance of the Segundo River estuary and by 2003 the lake area had expanded by about 3.5 times and covered half of the Dulce River marshes. Consequently, the wetland, especially the river estuaries, became less important for local waterbirds and Nearctic shorebirds. Since 2003 Mar Chiquita has fallen 4 m, beaches have formed and salinity has increased, but currently there are no Nearctic shorebird concentrations. For the site to recover its importance for birds, Mar Chiquita should continue dropping and salinity continue increasing.
41432452|Snowy Plovers (Charadnus nivosus) nesting on edges of saline lakes within the Southern High Plains (SHP) of Texas are threatened by habitat degradation due to reduced artesian spring flow, making many saline lakes unsuitable for nesting and migrating shorebirds. Factors influencing nest success were evaluated, current nest success estimates in the SHP of Texas were compared to estimates obtained ten years prior, and causes and timing of nest failures determined. Overall, 215 nests were monitored from three saline lakes in 20082009, with nest success estimates from Program MARK ranging from 7-33% ( $\bar x$ = 22%). The leading causes of nest failures were attributed to prdation (40%) and weather (36%). Nest success was negatively influenced by number of plants within 707-cm plot, positively influenced by percent surface water availability, and at one saline lake, negatively influenced by day during the nesting season (i.e., nest success declined later in the nesting season). When compared to estimates ten years prior (1998-1999), mean nest success has declined by 31%. If nesting Snowy Plovers continue to experience increased prdation rates, decreased hydrological integrity, and habitat alterations, populations will continue to decline throughout this region.
41432453|Clutch size and nest survival of Cackling Geese (Branta hutchinsii hutchinsii) nesting among light geese (Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens) and Ross's Geese (C. rossii;)) were examined at Karrak Lake, Nunavut, in Canada's central arctic, 1999-2009. Islands of Karrak Lake and adjacent Adventure Lake were selected by Cackling Geese for nesting instead of mainland habitat. Cackling Geese increasingly nested on islands during the study, while light goose nesting declined. Clutch size varied by year (range: 3.4-4.4 eggs), and declined with nest initiation date ( $\hat \beta $ NID = -0.177 (95% CI: -0.228, -0.126)). Nest survival during incubation varied among years (range: 8.6-88.2%), and was lowest during early and late incubation, although 95% CI of slope estimates with nest age included zero ( $\hat \beta $ Age = 0.156 (95% CI -0.072, 0.383), $\hat \beta $ Age  = -0.006, (95% CI -0.027, 0.014)). Nest survival declined with individual nest initiation date ( $\hat \beta $ NID = -0.431 (95% CI: -0.680, -0.182)). There was little support for nest survival models that included individual covariates of synchrony with light geese or weather during incubation. A posteriori analysis revealed that annual nest survival was greater in warmer years with less wind ( $\hat \beta $ YearWeather = 1.738 (95% CI: 1.272, 2.205)), but spring phenology, intraspecific synchrony, or abundance of Cackling or light geese were not important. Reduced access to island-nesting geese by terrestrial predators, and predator satiation from high densities of nesting light geese on the surrounding mainland may result in islands within light goose colonies that are productive nesting habitats for many avian species, particularly if islands themselves are sparsely inhabited by light geese.
41432454|In the last few decades, Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) have become established in metropolitan areas throughout North America. From 1984 through 2009, Canada Geese in New Haven County, Connecticut, were banded as goslings (HY geese) and adults (AHY), and their movements and recruitment into the local breeding population were documented. During this period, the number of Canada Geese increased several fold in Connecticut. Geese were non-migratory; most recoveries (85%) of banded Canada Geese came from Connecticut, and 76% came from New Haven County. Dispersal rates outside of Connecticut peaked during 1990-1994 when 23% of all reported geese were shot outside of the state; more recently (2005-2009) only 3% of reported geese were shot outside of Connecticut. The proportion of dispersing geese that moved northward in the Atlantic Flyway has increased in recent years. Similar proportions of AHY females (23%) and AHY males (22%) were recruited into the local breeding population. Among HY geese, more females (22%) than males (5%) were recruited because HY males were more likely to disperse out of the county than HY females. Non-migratory populations of geese in metropolitan areas are causing nuisance problems; the restricted movements of these geese indicate that efforts to reduce their populations will have to be conducted at the local level.
41432455|Understanding daily movements of waterfowl is crucial to management of winter habitats, especially along the Gulf Coast where hunting pressure is high. Radio-telemetry was used to investigate movements of female Mallards (Anas platyrchychos) wintering in southwestern Louisiana. Movement distances were analyzed from 2,455 paired locations (diurnal and nocturnal) of 126 Mallards during winters 2004-2005 and 2005-2006 to assess effects of winter, female age, areas closed (Lacassine National Wildlife Refuge [LAC], Cameron Prairie National Wildlife Refuge [CAM], Amoco Pool [AMOCO] or open to hunting [OPEN]), and habitat type, including all interactions. Movement distances from the various land management categories were not consistent by age, date, or by winter. Flight distances from LAC increased with date, whereas those from CAM and OPEN did not vary significantly by date. Female Mallards moved short distances between diurnal and nocturnal sites (ranging from 3.1 to 15.0 km by land management category), suggesting that they are able to meet their daily energy requirements within a smaller area than Northern Pintails (Anas acuta, hereafter Pintails), and thus minimize transit energy costs.
41432456|Habitat use by wintering Mallards (Anas platyrhychos) on the Gulf Coast Chenier Plain (GCCP) has received little study and quantitative data is needed for management of GCCP waterfowl. Radio-telemetry techniques were used to record habitats used by 135 female Mallards during winters 2004-2005 and 2005-2006 in southwestern Louisiana. Habitat use was quantitatively estimated for areas open and closed to hunting, by general habitat types (i.e., marsh, rice, idle, pasture, or other), and for specific marsh types (i.e., freshwater, intermediate, brackish, or salt). Variation in these estimates was subsequently examined in relation to individual female, female age (adult or immature), winter (2004-2005 or 2005-2006), and hunt periods within winter (second hunting season [SHUNT] or post hunting season [POST]). Diurnal use of areas closed to hunting was greater during hunted time periods in winter 2005-2006 than in winter 2004-2005. Nocturnal use of areas closed to hunting was 3.1 times greater during SHUNT than during POST, and immatures used areas closed to hunting more than adults. Diurnal use of marsh was 3.3 times greater than that of any other habitat during both winters. Nocturnal use of marsh, rice, idle, and pasture were similar during both winters. Females used freshwater marsh habitats extensively (64.6-99.8% proportional use), whereas brackish and salt marsh combined was used less frequently (0-35.8% proportional use). These results suggest that freshwater marsh is important to Mallards and a high priority for restoration and management efforts.
41432457|Wading bird foraging success and habitat preference can be greatly affected by prey availability, which encompasses both prey density and the vulnerability of prey to capture. Two components of prey vulnerability, water depth and emergent vegetation, were manipulated within 10 m x 10 m enclosures to determine the relative effects on foraging habitat preference for eight species of wading birds and foraging success for a subset of four species that strike their prey. All species showed a strong preference for shallow water, and within this water depth showed a preference for the sparse vegetation density treatment. The preference for foraging habitat with a sparse or intermediate vegetation density has been documented in other studies, and may represent a tradeoff between selecting more heavily vegetated areas, which have a higher prey density, and more open areas, where prey are more vulnerable to capture. Almost all foraging occurred in the shallow water treatment, suggesting that preferred water depths constituted high quality habitat for wading birds. The weaker selection for sparse vegetation density and lack of an effect of vegetation density on capture rate and capture efficiency (p>0.05 for all tests, except Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) capture efficiency) suggested that emergent vegetation is of secondary importance to water depth as determinants of wading bird habitat quality.
41432458|The value of foraging studies in developing conservation strategies for storks is important because their breeding is often limited by food distribution. The foraging behavior and trophic specializations of the Painted Stork (Myctena leucocephala), a flagship of wetlands and listed as near threatened, is reviewed here. Trophic adaptations among Myctena and other storks, the importance of prey capture by tactolocation and various aspects of foraging behavior including diet, prey size, foraging and nesting correlates, variations in foraging activity, nocturnal foraging and kleptoparasitism are examined. Also, an account of the foraging behavior of a close congener, Milky Stork (M. cinerea), and the manner in which the foraging activities of Painted Stork, particularly biomass removal by prdation and enrichment of the waters by droppings impact the ecosystem, is included. Since nesting of Painted Stork and other species of colonial waterbirds is closely linked to the performance of the monsoon, the primary driver triggering their food cycles, points for further studies are listed.
41432459|As little is known about specific factors influencing wetland birds during migration, the effects of time period, hunting pressure, and year on wetland bird behavior were evaluated during spring migration. Avian behavior was quantified on 36-40 playa wetlands in the Rainwater Basin region of Nebraska, during springs 2002-2004. Multivariate analysis of variance was used to test for differences in behavior among time periods, hunting categories (closed to hunting, hunted wetlands in-season, and hunted wetlands post-season), and years for geese, dabbling ducks, diving ducks, and shorebirds, as well as among two species of management concern; Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons) and Northern Pintails (Anas acutd). Overall, goose behavior did not differ among time periods or years; however, a greater percentage of geese were observed feeding in wetlands closed to hunting (11%) than on hunted wetlands in-season (5%). A smaller percentage of dabbling ducks was observed feeding on hunted wetlands in-season (19%) than on wetlands closed to hunting (24%) or on hunted wetlands post-season (28%). Diving duck and shorebird behavior did not differ among time periods, years, or hunting categories. Although spring hunting was implemented to reduce the light goose population, it may also be negatively influencing habitat quality at migration stopover sites for geese and dabbling ducks. Managers should consider limiting spring hunting disturbance on temporary and seasonal wetlands, where dabbling ducks spend more time foraging, than on semi-permanent wetlands.
41432460|Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus) spend a substantial portion of their annual cycle at migratory staging areas. Despite the potential importance of staging areas to conservation of Eastern Population (EP) Tundra Swans, few data are available to assess life-history strategies of the species during migration. During 1999 and 2000, 48 adult Tundra Swans were collected during peak periods of spring and autumn migration at Long Point, Ontario, Canada, to establish baselines on nutrient reserve levels and morphology of digestive organs. Results were compared to nutrient reserve data for EP Tundra Swans collected at a major wintering area in North Carolina, USA. Lipid reserve levels did not differ between sexes nor varied with body size, but lipid reserves were approximately two times greater in autumn than spring. Males had greater protein reserves than females, and protein reserves were similar during autumn and spring. Although digestive organs were predicted to be longer and heavier during autumn, no seasonal variation in digestive organs was detected. Lipid reserve levels of Tundra Swans at Long Point during spring were similar to those recorded for wintering birds in North Carolina, suggesting that lipid reserves catabolized from autumn through winter were not replenished prior to arriving at this initial spring staging area. The results highlight the importance of managing quality aquatic and terrestrial foraging habitats at staging areas for conservation EP Tundra Swans.
41432461|Through the use of conspecific models and vocalizations, populations of conservation concern can be established in locations where limiting factors may be controlled or mitigated, assuming managers can both identify and create high-quality locations. From 2003 to 2008, conspecific attraction was used to establish populations of the state-endangered Forster's Tern (Sterna forsten) in northeastern Illinois, USA. In 2009 and 2010, similar techniques were used with the federally-threatened Least Tern, (Sternula antillarum) near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers in Missouri, USA. At both locations, managers attempted to control factors that may limit tern reproductive success. While in most cases nesting populations were established, in some cases resulting in the greatest documented reproductive success in the region for decades, nest prdation the year after the colonies were established was significantly higher than in the year the colony was established. The establishment of colonies attracted a variety of predators, some of which gained access to the colonies and predated tern nests. Conspecific attraction behavior may be a strategy used by birds to stay "one step ahead" of nest predators, and the repeated use of conspecific attraction by managers may result in individuals nesting at a site with high rates of nest predation. As a conservation tool, conspecific attraction should only be used in situations where nest predators can be effectively controlled.
41432462|Ducks are unusual because males of most Holarctic species acquire brightly-pigmented breeding plumages in autumn and winter and not spring as with most other birds. Based on an evaluation of molt phenology of ducks under the system of molt terminology by invented Humphrey and Parkes (1959), Pyle (2005) concluded that, for most North American duck species, the molt that produces bright plumages is basic in nature, the molt that typically produces a short-lived, dull "eclipse" plumage in spring or summer is alternate in nature, and the annual wing molt that largely occurs between these two molts is part of the subsequent recharacterized prebasic molt. For various reasons, it appears more likely that the timing of conventional prealternate molts in most Holarctic duck species has accelerated forward over time to autumn and winter in response to selection for early courtship and pairing, with resulting changes in the duration of alternate and basic plumages. These reasons include acceleration in the timing of the prealternate molt in sea ducks after they reach the age of first breeding. An accelerated timing of prealternate molts can explain why certain ducks exhibit an ephemeral, limited first prebasic molt, which appears to be a lost molt and not a virtually nonexistent, unique preformative molt as maintained by Pyle (2005). The accelerated timing hypothesis also can explain why the extent of prealternate molts may have become more complete and the extent of prebasic molts may have become less complete in certain ducks. The accelerated timing hypothesis appears more parsimonious from an evolutionary perspective than the system of Pyle (2005), and does not require the categorical rejection of plumage color and pattern in molt homology analyses, as advocated by Pyle (2005).
41432463|The food provided to South Polar Skuas (Stercorarius maccormicki) chicks was determined at two sites where South Polar Skuas breed sympatrically with Brown Skuas (S. antarcticus). At Harmony Point on Nelson Island, 16 samples of regurgitated stomach contents were analyzed, all contained remains of penguin chicks (mostly soft tissues), which constituted the bulk of the contents, while only two samples had fish or krill remains. These South Polar Skuas had access to penguin colonies, where they hunted chicks or fed on fresh carcasses. However, at Half Moon Island, only two out of nine samples contained minor amounts of penguin remains while fish were the major dietary resource. The high fish content in their diet may indicate a preference for marine rather than terrestrial resources or be the result of competition with Brown Skuas. The variability in food items evidenced by the differences in regurgitated stomach contents indicates that South Polar Skuas may have a trophic plasticity that allows them to change their feeding habits from one resource to another one according to availability. Such may make them less vulnerable to a reduction in the availability of a particular food item.
41432464|Population growth of piscivorous species raises concerns when it could affect aquaculture activities. In this study, an increase of the Neotropic Cormorant (Phalacrocorax brasilianus) population in the Ecuadorian Andes was documented using census data from three high Andean lakes (Yahuarcocha, San Pablo and Yambo) for 2004-2010. In the 20th Century, only one record of the species existed for the study area. From 2005 onward, the species occurred regularly at all three lakes. At Yahuarcocha, the wintering population (October-February) grew at an annual rate of 0.382 0.05, reaching 307 in 2010. The population consists mainly of non-breeding migrants, and at the present time, the wintering distribution range of cormorant populations in Ecuador includes the high Andes. Given reports of cormorant prdation at fish farms, potential conflicts on account of cormorant expansion are discussed.
41432465|The health of wildlife can be affected by the ingestion of non-edible, anthropogenic debris that mimic prey. First evidence of localized, massive ingestion of rubber bands is provided for an earthworm consumer, the White Stork (Ciconia ciconia), using nest contents and necropsies recorded in France. In 2003-2004, the prevalence of rubber bands and other debris in nests (N = 227) differed between the nine regions analyzed and decreased as distance from the nearest rubbish dump (distED) increased. Hence, ingestion of rubber bands would occur only at some rubbish dumps. Nests with rubber bands contained 6.5  2.5 units (max: 27; independent of distRD). The number of chicks was not related to the presence/absence of rubber bands in their nest. In 2008-2010, 26% of necropsied storks (N = 57: Alsace region) had rubber bands in their digestive tract. Seven instances of death due to gut occlusion by rubber bands are reported. Immature birds may be more exposed to rubber band ingestion than adults because of their lower ability at discriminating and regurgitating non-edible items, as well as their higher frquentation of rubbish dumps. The disposal of used rubber bands in a form that prevents ingestion by earthworm consumers is recommended.
41432466|Sound management of the Mandarin Duck (Aix galenculata) requires an understanding of its survival and cause-specific mortality, yet these parameters have not been studied in Taiwan. From January 1999 to December 2002, a study was conducted along the Tachia River, in central Taiwan, where the largest population of Mandarin ducks resides. The sex ratio was male-biased for adults (average 2.10:1) but not for juveniles (average 0.92:1). Ducks (34 males and 42 females) were radio-tagged and monitored two to three times per month for 1-47 months. Annual survivorship was 0.80 and 0.44 for male and female ducks, respectively; lower female survival may lead to a male-biased sex ratio. Forty-three ducks died, the greatest proportion from unknown causes, followed by avian predators, mammalian predators and anthropogenic activity. Mortality occurred year-round, but female mortality was greatest from spring to fall, 9-10 carcasses, while male mortality (seven) was greatest in the winter.
