wildsocibull2011.35.1.15|Noise pollution can mask or distort bird songs, which can inhibit mating success, predator detection, and parental response to begging calls. Using an impact assessment design, we examined the potential influence of road construction and road noise on territory placement, reproductive success, and density of the federally endangered golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.35.1.2|Online education has moved into the mainstream in the United States higher learning educational system, with enrollments increasing more rapidly than on many university campuses. The Department of Fisheries and Wildlife at Oregon State University began offering a Bachelor of Science (BS) Degree in Fisheries and Wildlife Science (FWS) completely online in autumn 2009, which resulted in numerous questions from potential students, educators, and fish and wildlife professionals. We provide an overview of our distance education (DE) degree and characterize our DE learners. The DE degree itself is the same as the on-campus major but the curriculum is slightly different; online students have fewer choices in classes and hands-on activities, but engage in more discussion than on-campus students. Our DE students differ from on-campus majors: they are on average 9 years older, 40% have a college degree, and 20% are employed by a natural resources agency. The value of our online FWS BS ultimately will be gauged by the success of our graduates and feedback from stakeholders.
wildsocibull2011.35.1.20|In the ruling to list Canada lynx (
wildsocibull2011.35.1.27|Aerial surveys can be used to detect and monitor lesser prairie-chicken (
wildsocibull2011.35.1.32|Mortalities from collisions with vehicles have created concern for the welfare of the San Clemente Island fox (
wildsocibull2011.35.1.40|Woodpecker damage to utility poles results in significant monetary losses to utility companies worldwide. Most techniques for repelling woodpeckers from utility poles are costly, difficult to install, effective for a limited time, or ineffective. We evaluated the Sonic Dissuader for detecting and deterring pileated woodpecker (
wildsocibull2011.35.1.45|Intensive deer management characterized by high fences and supplemental feeding and, in some instances, selective breeding programs, has increased dramatically across North America (NA) over the past several decades. This new management philosophy is not, however, without controversy. At several levels intensive deer management is incompatible with the NA Model of Wildlife Conservation including the fact that it promotes the privatization of wildlife and creates markets that sell public wildlife resources. Lastly, deer hunting under the intensive deer-management model violates the fundamental concept of fair chase, which is a cornerstone principle of hunting in NA.
wildsocibull2011.35.1.9|Direct and indirect contact through fences at cervid farms with only a single perimeter fence may play a role in transmission of diseases such as chronic wasting disease or bovine tuberculosis (
wildsocibull2011.35.2.101|Radiocollars represent a significant investment of financial resources, particularly global positioning system (GPS) collars, and loss of data imposes analytical limitations from reduced sample sizes. Radiocollars on large, terrestrial mammals are seldom lost in the water. However, several instances in Oklahoma, USA necessitated a reliable and cost-effective technique for retrieving GPS collars from underwater to salvage the financial investment and data. We designed an underwater telemetry antenna to find and retrieve collars in 3 m of water. We describe field simulations under varying environmental and water conditions, and provide a list of materials along with instructions and considerations for building and using an underwater telemetry antenna. We successfully used our underwater antenna to locate and retrieve our submerged collar that was disposed of in a pond after illegal harvest; we also located and retrieved all collars used for field simulation (
wildsocibull2011.35.2.105|Canids can be difficult to detect and their populations difficult to monitor. We tested whether hair samples could be collected from coyotes (
wildsocibull2011.35.2.112|A set of interrelated social and environmental changes have accelerated the transmission of wildlife-associated infectious diseases around the world. Emerging infectious disease (EID) events take a heavy toll on human health and have significant global economic impacts. In the risk-averse society of the United States, EID events associated with wildlife, particularly zoonoses, have potential to diminish the value of wildlife for society, depress interest in wildlife-related activities and decrease support for wildlife conservation. Messages about wildlife-associated zoonotic diseases should promote human and animal health, while avoiding development of exaggerated risk perceptions that can have deleterious effects on participation in wildlife-related outdoor activities or support for wildlife conservation. We outline 3 categories of negative consequences arising from current communication conditions with respect to zoonoses. We then describe key communication links that the wildlife profession needs to address to obviate these consequences. Finally, we propose a number of actions the wildlife professional community can take to improve communication about zoonotic diseases. In this regard, we discuss the One Health concept and other opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration on communication between wildlife health, wildlife management, and public health professionals. We conclude that a foundation for effective communication about zoonotic diseases needs to be built on stronger interdisciplinary collaboration between the wildlife profession and the public health profession. Starting from a solid foundation of collaboration among wildlife veterinarians and wildlife biologists and managers, wildlife professionals should build strong bridges with the public health profession. We suggest that the latter can be spanned by wildlife veterinarians.
wildsocibull2011.35.2.54|Explanations for variation in fetal sex ratio are needed to better understand the white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.2.59|Natural resource agencies in the United States continue to design and expand technical and financial assistance programs that benefit private landowners managing for wildlife. Cattle ranchers, one of the primary stakeholders, are well poised to benefit from these programs, especially if they can easily integrate wildlife management activities into cattle operations. A key component to implementing successful wildlife management programs on ranches is to understand how ranchers perceive wildlife management and assistance programs. It is also important that conservation agency personnel working with these ranchers are able to assess rancher perceptions of wildlife management accurately so they can tailor programs that meet rancher needs and foster strong working and interpersonal relationships. We surveyed 1,634 ranchers to understand their perceptions of wildlife benefits and problems, attitudes toward wildlife, and likeliness to participate in financial and technical assistance programs. We also surveyed 52 natural resource-agency personnel regarding their perceptions of ranchers on similar topics, to allow for direct comparison of responses. Rancher and agency responses were similar for many wildlife benefits and attitudes toward wildlife, yet agency personnel overestimated rancher perceptions of wildlife problems and the economic benefits of wildlife enterprises. We suggest ways conservation agencies can improve current assistance programs for cattle ranchers based on both rancher and agency employee perceptions of wildlife management. This includes emphasizing programs that feature preferred species and better integrating wildlife management with routine cattle operations.
wildsocibull2011.35.2.69|We used a markresight design to calculate density estimates of fisher (
wildsocibull2011.35.2.76|Mourning dove (
wildsocibull2011.35.2.85|Estimates of goose harvest by the National Harvest Survey (NHS) in Canada are based on the assumption that species composition of harvest by non-Canadians that hunt in Canada is equivalent to that of Canadians. Non-Canadian hunters are not sampled for composition of species harvested, so differences in proportions harvested per hunter could lead to biased harvest estimates; bias would increase with increasing proportions of unsampled non-Canadians in relation to sampled Canadian hunters. My objective was to test the assumption of equality of species composition between these 2 strata of hunters for Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba using recoveries of cackling (
wildsocibull2011.35.2.93|Estimates regarding population parameters are often based on data from surveys. To ensure that such estimates are as accurate as possible, it is important to know the detectability resulting from the particular survey method used. We used radiotelemetry to measure detectability of ornate box turtles (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.126|Fontenelle Forest (FF) is a 16.5-km
wildsocibull2011.35.3.137|The Borough of Fox Chapel, Pennsylvania, USA implemented an urban deer-management program in 1993 consisting of archery hunting, sharpshooting by police officers, and trapping and euthanasia. Over the following 15 years, 2,980 deer were removed using these methods with most (68%) being harvested by archery hunters. However, over the duration of the program the number of bowhunters and number of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.142|Safe and effective contraceptive agents are needed to manage overabundant populations of cervids in settings where traditional management methods such as hunting are prohibited or impractical. We used GonaCon
wildsocibull2011.35.3.149|We evaluated the health effects of GonaCon Immunocontraceptive Vaccine in individual white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.161|Effective management of formerly scarce and now abundant game species has been identified as a considerable challenge facing the North American model of wildlife conservation. White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.168|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.177|Estimating the population density of deer is an essential task for public agencies that plan a herd reduction. Distance sampling has been increasingly utilized to estimate population density, and is used by the National Park Service to estimate white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.185|Declines in hunter recruitment coupled with dramatic growth in numbers of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.195|Populations of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.201|Modification of habitat has the potential to be both less costly and less controversial than direct management of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.209|We monitored 142 radiocollared adult (1.0 yr old) white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.220|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.227|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.235|Several wildlife biologists have developed models of habitat suitability for white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.243|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.252|Winter-feeding of mule deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.261|It is important to consider how human activity might influence behavior (e.g., space use and movement) in animals because such influences could have consequences for animal distribution or population performance. We documented and compared annual space use and daily movement patterns (i.e., movement distance and tortuosity) of female elk (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.270|Highways constitute barriers to wildlife passage, or permeability, which fragment populations and habitats. The degree of barrier effect caused by roadways varies by wildlife species, highway type and standard, and traffic volume. We assessed deerhighway relationships along a 27-km stretch of highway in central Arizona, USA. Our research objectives were to 1) assess white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.282|Although roadside fences have been proven effective at reducing deervehicle collisions (DVCs), information on how these fences alter deer behavior is lacking. We evaluated the effects of a traditional and a novel fencing design, constructed alongside a roadway, on movements and home ranges of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.291|Increasing collisions with deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.296|Deervehicle collisions (DVCs) are the primary source of mortality for the endangered Florida Key deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.303|Aircraft incidents with ungulates cause substantial economic losses and pose risks to human safety. We analyzed 879 white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.310|Given an increase of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.316|The Indiana Division of Fish and Wildlife created urban deer zones in 1996 that liberalize opportunity and bag limits for Indiana (USA) hunters in areas experiencing increased conflict between humans and deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.323|Wildlife managers are often confronted with a policy paradox where a majority of the public supports an outcome, but there is no agreement on specific management strategies to achieve this outcome. Previous research has also reported a link between regulatory acceptance, hunter satisfaction, and hunter participation rates. Thus, human dimensions research aimed at understanding hunter motivations and behavior is needed for effective management. In 2005, we surveyed Minnesota (USA) deer hunters (
wildsocibull2011.35.3.330|Over the last decade, wildlife professionals in the New York City (NY, USA) metropolitan area have increasingly turned to controlled archery hunts to reduce overabundant suburban deer populations. The success of these deer management programs (DMPs) depends on a willing pool of hunters motivated to meet harvest goals. This requires maintaining hunter satisfaction both now, and in the future when successful herd reduction will result in fewer opportunities for deer harvest. With the goal of providing local deer managers with feedback from hunters partaking in DMPs, we used surveys designed to evaluate why members hunted, why they joined DMPs, members' views on deer management, and ultimately, their satisfaction with controlled hunts. Members were primarily motivated to hunt by the chance to see wildlife, opportunities for recreation, and a passion for archery. Most (71%) reported that their enjoyment had increased since first joining a DMP and satisfaction was not linked to harvest opportunity or success. Nevertheless, we documented several trends that threaten the long-term sustainability of DMPs. First, 78.2% of survey respondents were over the age of 40, possibly suggesting fewer younger recruits into DMPs. Second, the opportunity to hunt previously unhunted land, a transitory incentive, was the most common reason for participating in DMPs. Third, respondents whose DMP doe harvest was limited by choosing to spend time on private, non-DMP land were also more likely to have seen fewer deer on DMP lands (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.343|Locally abundant feral horses (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.353|Upland habitat buffers (i.e., strips of noncrop, herbaceous vegetation) that are established adjacent to wooded fencerows offer landowners an economical option to provide wildlife benefits within intensive agricultural landscapes. However, being located near a wooded edge may increase grassland bird vulnerability to edge effects through reduced nest survival. We examined nesting bird communities in field margins adjacent to wooded field edges with no buffer (i.e., control), narrow (approx. 10-m) buffers, and wide (approx. 30-m) buffers in an intensive agricultural system in the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley, United States. Dickcissel (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.362|Assessing the impacts of manipulative research can be hard when few animals are affected in any one study. Collating information across studies, however, can identify vulnerable organisms and allow researchers to tailor research to reduce, and possibly eliminate, adverse effects. Relatively few studies have documented radiotransmitter impacts on passerine birds. We hypothesized that many studies do not publish problems, and that this lack of reporting hampers improvement of methods. We used an online survey to gather information from researchers about the species affected and the nature of any impacts. Sixty respondents provided information concerning 63 passerine species. Negative transmitter impacts were reported for 1 bird for 38% of species. Entanglement with vegetation or body parts and nonentanglementrelated injuries affected 27% and 19% of species, respectively. Simultaneously, 29% and 33% of species were reported to have caused transmitter damage and lost transmitters, respectively. Only 2 respondents indicated that they had documented these problems in the peer-reviewed literature. The occurrence of negative transmitter effects was similar for adults and juveniles, for transmitters attached with glue or harnesses, and regardless of bird mass. Ground-foraging passerines were significantly more likely than other passerines to have experienced transmitter loss, entanglement, and nonentanglement injuries. Our study suggests a clustering of problems in grassland passerines. We make suggestions to identify and collate problems related to negative transmitter impacts in passerines to help reduce harmful effects on birds and wasted research effort.
wildsocibull2011.35.4.368|Prescribed fire is an important, ecology-driven tool for restoration of grassland systems. However, prescribed fire remains controversial for some grassland managers because of reported reductions in bird use of recently burned grasslands. Few studies have evaluated effects of fire on grassland bird populations in the northern mixed-grass prairie region. Fewer studies yet have examined the influence of fire on nest density or survival. In our review, we found no studies that simultaneously examined effects of fire on duck and passerine nesting. During 19982003, we examined effects of prescribed fire on the density of upland-nesting ducks and passerines nesting in north-central North Dakota, USA. Apparent nest densities of gadwall (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.377|Rice seed remaining in commercial fields after harvest (waste rice) is a critical food resource for wintering waterfowl in rice-growing regions of North America. Accurate and precise estimates of the seed mass density of waste rice are essential for planning waterfowl wintering habitat extents and management. In the Sacramento Valley of California, USA, the existing method for obtaining estimates of availability of waste rice in harvested fields produces relatively precise estimates, but the labor-, time-, and machinery-intensive process is not practical for routine assessments needed to examine long-term trends in waste rice availability. We tested several experimental methods designed to rapidly derive estimates that would not be burdened with disadvantages of the existing method. We first conducted a simulation study of the efficiency of each method and then conducted field tests. For each approach, methods did not vary in root mean squared error, although some methods did exhibit bias for both simulations and field tests. Methods also varied substantially in the time to conduct each sample and in the number of samples required to detect a standard trend. Overall, modified line-intercept methods performed well for estimating the density of rice seeds. Waste rice in the straw, although not measured directly, can be accounted for by a positive relationship with density of rice on the ground. Rapid assessment of food availability is a useful tool to help waterfowl managers establish and implement wetland restoration and agricultural habitat-enhancement goals for wintering waterfowl.
wildsocibull2011.35.4.394|Understanding the relative hazards of wildlife to aircraft is important for developing effective management programs. We used Federal Aviation Administration National Wildlife Strike Database records from 1990 to 2009 in the United States to rank the relative hazard of wildlife to aircraft. We summarized data for 77 species or species groups with 20 records where collisions occurred 500 ft (152 m) above ground level. We also assessed the effects of avian body mass, body density, and group size on relative hazard scores. The 3 most hazardous species or species groups were mule deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.403|We compared efficiency and selectivity of 2 cable restraints with a 10.8-cm-(larger) or 8.9-cm-(smaller) diameter minimum loop stop to live-capture coyotes (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.409|Global Positioning System (GPS) data collected using radiocollars have allowed researchers to identify sites where predators have killed prey, but this method has yet to be compared with scat analysis, a more traditional method of determining diet composition. We analyzed 211 scat samples and compared composition of prey items with 266 kill sites found using GPS radiotelemetry data on cougars (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.416|Differentiation between scats of sympatric canid species is important for determining speciesspecific presence and movements, but distinction in the field is difficult. We calculated upper and lower thresholds of scat diameters to distinguish between scats of red wolves (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.421|The nine-banded armadillo (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.430|Effective management of harvested wildlife often requires accurate estimates of the number of animals harvested annually by hunters. A variety of techniques exist to obtain harvest data, such as hunter surveys, check stations, mandatory reporting requirements, and voluntary reporting of harvest. Agencies responsible formanaging harvested wildlife such as deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.438|Wildlife managers of harvested big game species, such as white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.445|Jacobson et al.'s (1997) individual branch-antlered male (IBAM) method is a popular camera technique for estimating white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.452|Contact frequency and duration estimates between individuals are important to understanding the behavioral ecology of wildlife species and the epidemiology of infectious diseases. A new technology uses proximity data loggers to record time and duration of contacts. We conducted an experiment at Sandhill Wildlife Management Area, located near Babcock, Wisconsin (USA) to compare probabilities of detecting intraspecific contacts among white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.461|A review of the Pennsylvania Game Commission's (PGC) deer management program and public concern about predator impacts on deer (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.469|Ultrasonic bat detectors and radiotelemetry are 2 methods used to examine habitat selection for bats, but no one has empirically examined if conclusions drawn from these 2 methods are comparable and, although previous work has presented concerns regarding the basic assumptions of inferring habitat selection with acoustic surveys, these assumptions have not been tested. Therefore, during summer 2008, we examined use of bat detectors and radiotelemetry to infer habitat selection among 4 forest habitat types in southwestern Georgia, USA by simultaneously radiotracking evening bats (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.475|We compared 4 external radiotransmitter attachment techniques to determine the optimum attachment method on chicks of 2 galliform species. The attachment methods included tissue glue, silicone gel, suturing, and leg harness. The study was conducted in captivity with a 2-phase assessment: first with northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.481|We present a protocol for using temperature records from external thermosensitive radiotransmitters recorded by data-logging receivers to identify bouts of rest and activity in mammals that sleep in a curled-up posture. We illustrate the protocol using eastern chipmunks (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.489|We describe an automated system for monitoring multiple very high frequency (VHF) transmitters, which are commonly employed in wildlife studies. The system consists of a microprocessor-controlled radio-frequency monitor equipped with advanced signal-processing capabilities that communicates with, and relays information to, a user interface unit at a different location. The system was designed for a capture-and-release snow leopard (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.494|Highly territorial species such as coyotes (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.498|Some animals exhibit call-and-response behaviors that can be exploited to facilitate detection. Traditionally, acoustic surveys that use call-and-respond techniques have required an observer's presence to perform the broadcast, record the response, or both events. This can be labor-intensive and may influence animal behavior and, thus, survey results. We developed an automated acoustic survey device using commercially available hardware (e.g., laptop computer, speaker, microphone) and an author-created (JS) software program (HOOT) that can be used to survey for any animal that calls. We tested this device to determine 1) deployment longevity, 2) effective sampling area, and 3) ability to detect known packs of gray wolves (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.504|The ocelot (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.508|Natural resource managers are tasked with assessing the impacts of climate change on conservation targets and developing adaptation strategies to meet agency goals. The complex, transboundary nature of climate change demands the collaboration of scientists, managers, and stakeholders in this effort. To share, integrate, and apply knowledge from these diverse perspectives, we must engage in social learning. In 2009, we initiated a process to engage university researchers and agency scientists and managers in collaborative learning to assess the impacts of climate change on terrestrial fauna in the state of Wisconsin, USA. We constructed conceptual Bayesian networks to depict the influence of climate change, key biotic and abiotic factors, and existing stressors on the distribution and abundance of 3 species: greater prairie-chicken (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.514|Herein, we examine the hypothesis that relatively low densities of snowshoe hares (
wildsocibull2011.35.4.519|The management implications (MI) section of articles in
wildsocibull2011.36.1.100|Wildlife biologists require density estimates for white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.107|Understanding the factors that influence timing of reproduction can be of value to wildlife managers. We used estimated breeding dates of captive individual white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.115|Assessing ungulate reproduction is important to biologists for managing populations and predicting trends. We compared efficacy of trans-abdominal ultrasound and pregnancy-specific protein B (PSPB) white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.119|We used and evaluated the effectiveness of a hand-capture technique to capture and mark neonatal vicuas (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.124|The tooth eruption and wear (TEW) technique for aging wild European fallow deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.130|Feral swine (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.139|Tracking animal movement using Global Positioning System (GPS) technology is an increasingly popular method for studying animal ecology, behavior, and conservation. To date, most GPS location schedules have been set at regular intervals. If intervals are too long, they undersample the details of movement paths, and if too short, they oversample resting sites and deplete the unit's battery without providing new information. We address this problem by creating a dynamic GPS schedule that is linked to the activity level of the animal via an accelerometer onboard the tracking tag. We deployed traditional and accelerometer-informed GPS tags on northern tamanduas anteater (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.147|Ecosystem-based forest management requires long planning horizons to incorporate forest dynamics changes resulting from vegetation growth and succession and the periodic resetting of these by natural and anthropogenic disturbances such as fire, wind, insects, and timber harvests. Given these dynamics, ecosystem-based forest management plans should specify desired conditions such as tree species composition, age class, tree density and structure, size and density of snags and course woody debris, and the size, shape, and juxtaposition of trees, groups of trees, and stands in order to create and sustain habitats for wildlife. The management recommendations for the northern goshawk (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.153|Several years ago we tested whether goshawk (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.155|To guide monitoring of burrowing owls (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.16|We assessed the effects of using a broadcast caller during surveys and increasing survey duration to estimate northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.161|Implantation of radiotransmitters in juvenile carnivores allows researchers to study littleknown life stages. In the field, we successfully implanted 7mountain lion (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.167|Plague, the disease caused by the bacterium
wildsocibull2011.36.1.176|Reduction of livestock losses from predators is a complex problem that requires the integration of lethal and nonlethal management tools. During 2005 and 2006, we tested shock collars for conditioning wild wolves (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.185|We developed a blunt, sticky blowgun dart to collect genetic samples from mammals, and used the technique on the variegated squirrel (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.189|Radiotelemetry is an important tool for wildlife management and research, but in some cases attachment of neck collars can be problematic. An alternative in large mammals is to attach transmitters to the ear, though little is published about ear-tag radiotransmitter integrity (i.e., how long a transmitter emits a useful signal) and retention (i.e., how long a transmitter remains attached to an animal). Here we report eartag transmitter integrity and retention from 2 studies monitoring free-ranging calves (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.194|Although many aspects of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.199|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.21|Point-count surveys are widely used to infer avian presence and estimate species richness. Advancements in bioacoustic technology enable automated surveys that can supplement human-based pointcount surveys with expanded temporal and spatial coverage. We surveyed birds in 13 Sierra Nevada and Cascade Range (CA, USA) montane meadows from May to August 2006 using 8 point-count surveys and automated audio recorders (ARU) to compare species richness between the 2 methods and evaluate the use of ARUs as a monitoring tool. We analyzed species richness using 30 minutes of ARU data per point and 2 point-count surveys. Automated audio-recorder data revealed 14 species per meadow (56 species total) while point counts detected 16 species per meadow (67 species total). Automated audio recorders provided >1,100 additional hours of data with personnel effort similar to 2 point-count surveys. An asymptote in species richness was reached for every meadow using ARU data and 8 of 13 meadows using 2 point-count surveys. We detected 81 species during all 8 point-count surveys. We used SonoBird (DNDesign, Arcata, CA) software to search for 24 species detected by point-count surveys but not in the manually sampled subset of audio files. We detected 22 additional species, bringing the total audio-file species detections to 85, 4 more than detected by 8 point-count surveys. We conclude that audio recordings and analysis provide an alternative to avian point-count surveys or as a supplement to increase their accuracy, particularly over larger temporal and spatial scales, or for species with low detectability.
wildsocibull2011.36.1.30|Monitoring of forest songbirds via auditory detections during point surveys can be enhanced by using preprogrammed recording devices. During MayJuly 2008, we compared boreal forest bird surveys conducted with SM-1 bird song recorders (Wildlife Acoustics, Inc.) with field surveys by observers and surveys recorded with the E3A Bio-Acoustic Monitor Kit (River Forks Research Corp.) in Ontario, Canada, to evaluate the utility of the SM-1 to generate reliable detections of forest birds. The SM-1 surveys identified, on average, 8.95 species, 0.76 fewer species per 10-min point count than field surveys
wildsocibull2011.36.1.40|Studies of songbird breeding habitat often compare habitat characteristics of used and unused areas. Although there is usually meticulous effort to precisely and consistently measure habitat characteristics, accuracy of methods for estimating which areas are used versus which are unused by birds remains generally untested. To examine accuracy of spot-mapping to identify singing territories of golden-winged warblers (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.47|Three migratory subspecies of sandhill crane (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.54|The golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.6|The 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill resulted in the death of 3,0006,000 sea otters (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.61|Island loggerhead shrikes (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.70|Estimating the catfish aquaculture production losses that can be attributed to double-crested cormorants (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.78|Bird and bat mortality resulting from collisions with manmade towers is well-documented, and our understanding of this phenomenon is increasing, particularly for taller structures (61 m) with guy wires and the obstruction lighting required by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. However, shorter, monopole tower designs remain underinvestigated. We report the results of a 3-year study (20062008) on the effects of 2 existing telecommunication (cell phone) towers on migratory bird and bat mortality in Rock Creek Park (ROCR), Washington, D.C., USA. The towers in ROCR are the shorter (30.9 m and 39.6 m in ht), monopole design and lack obstruction lighting and guy wires. We conducted mortality surveys on a daily basis during spring and autumn migrations, and conducted weekly surveys during the summer. Bird carcasses were collected, but we were unable to attribute any avian or bat mortality to the towers at these sites.
wildsocibull2011.36.1.85|Wyoming big sagebrush (
wildsocibull2011.36.1.94|Chickasaw plum (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.208|Neck snares have been considered valuable for the control of canids and to catch canids for scientific purposes, but they have been criticized for perceived low target selectivity and poor animal-welfare. In 2006, we designed an experimental passive neck snare for live-capture of red fox (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.220|The British Government's contingency plan for the control of wildlife rabies is based on oral vaccination around a focal outbreak, with the option of the targeted lethal control of foxes (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.226|Berry-producing shrubs are culturally, economically, and ecologically important for both people and animals in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. We examined huckleberry (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.232|Throughout northern Arizona, USA, forest thinning in ponderosa pine (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.240|Where carnivore species exist at low densities, are cryptic, and inhabit forested habitats where detection is low, survey approaches commonly rely on observation of tracks. Recent advances in probability sampling for aerial surveys of track networks in snow show promise for improving density estimates, but they are not applicable when continuously following a track network is not possible. Occupancyabundance modeling is an alternative survey approach for wide-ranging carnivores, but past models may not be appropriate when using tracks because tracks of one individual or group of individuals may extend across several survey units.We derived an occupancyabundance relationship by simulating the intersection of wolf (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.248|Aerial surveys using line-intercept methods are one approach to estimate the extent of prairie dog colonies in a large geographic area. Although black-tailed prairie dogs (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.257|Although genetic and analytical methods for estimating wildlife abundance have improved rapidly over the last decade, effective methods for collecting hair samples from terrestrial carnivores in a markrecapture framework have lagged. Hair samples are generally collected using methods that permit sampling of multiple individuals during a single sampling period that can cause genotyping errors due to cross-contamination. We evaluated a modified body snare as a single-sample method to obtain bobcat hair samples suitable for individual identification using DNA analyses to estimate population size. We used a systematic grid (2.5  2.5 km) overlaid on a 278.5 km
wildsocibull2011.36.2.264|Citizen science programs that use trained volunteers may be a cost-effective method for monitoring wildlife at large scales. However, few studies have compared data collected by volunteers versus biologists. In Glacier National Park (GNP), Montana, USA, we assessed whether citizen science is a useful method to monitor mountain goat (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.277|Attitudes and motivations of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.286|There has been widespread speculation that breeding activity places adult female mallards (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.291|Predation can be a factor in preventing prey population growth and sustainability when prey populations are small and fragmented, and when predator density is unrelated to the density of the single prey species. We conducted monthly raptor surveys from February 2007 to May 2009 in adjacent areas of the Texas Southern High Plains (USA) that do and do not support lesser prairie-chickens (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.297|Collision with infrastructure such as fences is widespread and common for many species of grouse. Greater sage-grouse (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.304|Band recoveries provide requisite data for evaluating the spatial distribution of harvest relative to the distribution of breeding stocks for a wide variety of migratory species. We used direct and indirect band-recovery data to evaluate the distribution and derivation of harvest of white-winged doves (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.313|We investigated the spatial response of 20 bird species to a group-selection timber harvest within a 40-ha forest stand over a 20-year period (5 yr preharvest and 15 yr postharvest). To characterize the spatial response of each species, we examined trends in 3 metrics: proportion of harvest-created canopy-gap area that occurred within the area used by a species in each year, average distance to the nearest gap of all observations of a species in a year, and distribution of distances between observations and gaps for each species in each year. Eight species (eastern wood-pewee [
wildsocibull2011.36.2.328|We evaluated the data from 2 autumn mist-netting stations for monitoring passerine population trends and measuring the timing of migration. Migration-monitoring stations were operated during autumn from 1993 to 2009 at 2 interior Alaska locations: in Fairbanks (6450N, 14750W) by the Alaska Bird Observatory (ABO) and near the Tetlin National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), Alaska, USA (6322N, 14313W) by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The location of these 2 stations, near the north and western limits of the continental landmass, provides information from the initial stages of long-distance migration. The timing of migrant passage through ABO and Tetlin NWR were similar when all 17 years were combined. Juveniles preceded adults in 10 of 14 species at ABO and in 13 of 14 species at Tetlin NWR. Relative capture rates (log of weather-corrected capture rates) from the ABO and Tetlin NWR stations from 1996 to 2009 were correlated for 2 of 7 species: ruby-crowned kinglet (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.336|Electric utility structures occur widely in natural and human-dominated landscapes and are often used by birds for nesting. Nests can cause power outages, fires, and electrocution of birds and their young, particularly if nests occur directly above energized equipment and incorporate metal wire. Chihuahuan raven (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.342|Worldwide, approximately 168 bird species are captive-bred for reintroduction into the wild. Programs tend to be initiated for species with a high level of endangerment. Depressed hatching success can be a problem for such programs and has been linked to artificial incubation. The need for artificial incubation is driven by the practice of multiclutching to increase egg production or by uncertainty over the incubation abilities of captive birds. There has been little attempt to determine how artificial incubation differs from bird-contact incubation. We describe a novel archive (data-logger) egg and use it to compare temperature, humidity, and egg-turning in 5 whooping crane (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.350|We studied the occupancy dynamics of breeding crawfish frogs (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.358|Electroshocking has long been employed as a survey technique for fish, but has not been directly tested against rock rolling as a survey methodology for stream-dwelling amphibians. Electroshocking has the potential to reduce habitat disturbances that result from surveys, improve abundance estimates, and reduce injuries and effort in collecting data. Furthermore, accurately quantifying species and survey techniquespecific estimates of detection probabilities is critical for appropriately interpreting survey results and employing occupancy analyses. We tested the efficiency and sensitivity of rock rolling and electroshocking in detecting Idaho giant salamanders (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.365|For many species of animals, obtaining basic life-history data is difficult and even some common aspects, such as diet choice, remain unknown. To overcome this problem, we deployed what is, to our knowledge, the first successful application of a terrestrial high-resolution animal-borne video camera with on-board long-term recording and an associated Global Positioning (GPS) unit. Five cameras recorded video and audio and associated GPS locations of woodland caribou (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.371|There is a paucity of information concerning northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.376|Disruption associated with nest visits during the hatch period of waterfowl can cause partial abandonment of hatchlings, potentially causing bias in the survival of marked birds. We evaluated the use of a mesh clutch-containment bag to capture and mark entire broods of 151 resident Canada goose (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.380|We tested antlers of Coues white-tailed (
wildsocibull2011.36.2.383|To assist management and conservation needs, researchers have called for active kairomones to be elucidated and synthesized directly from animal exudates. However, the existing literature does not provide guidance on how to initiate this complex process. To our knowledge, composite synthetic predator scents that incorporate multiple compounds to accurately mimic the natural signal have not been produced. One approach to improve the accuracy of synthetics is to identify and recombine all major infochemicals within a benign solvent. Therefore, we tested 2 natural, pre-existing matrices for their potential as vehicles for delivery of a predator scent, dingo (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.401|Wildlife biologists are undoubtedly familiar with the decades-long debate over the Endangered Species Act and the conflicts that often arise among people of differing interests when a species is listed as federally threatened or endangered. One example that made local and national headlines in the 1990s was the golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.408|We review the history of population and ecological knowledge of the golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.415|Using the golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.423|In 2005, Fort Hood Military Reservation (Fort Hood, TX, USA) staff sought assistance from the Texas Department of Agriculture and several partner organizations to develop a mitigation approach that included the ability to mitigate temporary impacts to habitat through temporary mitigation agreements with private landowners. Fort Hood, which is home to the largest known population of the federally endangered golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.432|Conserving habitat is increasingly challenging as human populations grow. Remote-sensing technology has provided a means to delineate species' habitat on large spatial scales. However, by combining habitat delineations with predictions of species' occurrence, habitat models can provide additional utility applications for conservation by allowing us to forecast how changing environmental and landscape conditions affect species' occurrence and distribution. We demonstrate how a spatially explicit habitat occupancy model for the golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.440|Research conducted near the time a species is listed as threatened or endangered can help inform management guidelines. However, these studies are typically limited in temporal and spatial scope and typically address a limited set of ecological questions. Application of such information can result in misleading management guidelines or ineffective conservation if specieshabitat relationships vary across space or if preliminary information fails to provide reliable assessments of habitat quality. We evaluated existing management guidelines that addressed reproductive success of the golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.450|Impact assessments are a valuable tool for investigating the effects of human-induced and natural perturbations on ecosystems and wildlife, including species of conservation concern. The breeding range of the golden-cheeked warbler (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.457|National Wildlife Refuge System policies reference both historical condition and naturalness, but these concepts may not be valid management goals in a world with rapid climate change. Currently, within the refuge system, managers and biologists can individually decide whether management actions to maintain historical condition (retrospective) or actions to promote and enhance future condition (prospective) are appropriate. In February 2008, we surveyed 203 refuge system managers and biologists (via email) about climate change and management strategies to facilitate adaptation to climate change. Our goal was to explore factors that influence preference for retrospective or prospective strategies. Most managers and biologists (76%) believe that climate change has already influenced their refuge, but land-use change and invasive species were considered more important landscape drivers. We did not find evidence that refuge purpose or inclusion of climate change in planning documents influenced individual preferences about strategies to facilitate adaptation. However, managers and biologists who conceptualize climate change as anthropogenic in origin were more likely to prefer retrospective strategies. Written responses indicate that managers and biologists prefer historical condition, but believe that retrospective strategies will be costly or impossible. Written comments also indicate that managers and biologists prefer strategies that allow species to adapt naturally and without intervention. Weconclude that landmanagement agencies need to provide the rationale for how climate change should be conceptualized in the short and long terms. Explicitly addressing conservation values may help to refine agency priorities in a rapidly changing world and to build the consensus necessary to strategically coordinate management across individual units in conservation reserves.
wildsocibull2011.36.3.469|More than 75% of endangered species in the United States rely on private lands for habitat. Although this habitat has long been regulated under the Endangered Species Act, there is now broad agreement that economic incentives are also needed for effective protection on private land. Many different mechanisms for incentive programs have been proposed and tested. For example, recovery credit systems use term-duration market-based contracts to engage landowners in endangered species conservation. We examined how market-mechanism design influences interest in endangered species habitat conservation using a survey of North Carolina Farm Bureau county advisory board members in 93 of the 100 North Carolina counties (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.477|Although healthy wildlife populations are often a goal of wildlife management, ambiguity over the meaning of the term health may limit its effectiveness in guiding management objectives. Health is a complex concept with empirical and normative qualities; if it is to convey more than simply metaphorical value in wildlife conservation, clearer articulation of the meaning of wildlife health is needed. We provide a brief overview of the evolution of wildlife disease and health management; we discuss important philosophical themes relevant to developing a clarified understanding of wildlife health; and we share perspectives on wildlife health and disease from a Delphi exercise involving North American wildlife health professionals. The Delphi group conceptualized wildlife health as a multidisciplinary concept marked predominantly by population sustainability and resilience. Disease was considered to be a specific abnormal condition that is a part of the broader concept of health. We suggest improved integration of the descriptive and normative elements of wildlife health and greater inclusion of societal values in developing wildlife health objectives as a means to broaden the scope and effectiveness of wildlife health management.
wildsocibull2011.36.3.483|Nongame conservation is insufficiently funded at local, national, and global levels. Despite campaigns and reforms over the past 30 years in the United States, adequate and consistent federal funding has failed to materialize and shifted the focus to state-level initiatives.We surveyed North Carolina residents during AprilMay 2010, to assess public willingness to fund nongame conservation, preferred nongame conservation funding mechanisms, and key predictors of support for nongame funding. We estimated a model of willingness-to-pay (WTP) using interval-censored data modeling and compared models using the Akaike Information Criterion. The mean WTP was US$98.80/year/household when respondents were allowed to choose their own tax vehicle, thus removing any payment vehicle bias; an additional sales tax on outdoor recreation equipment was the most preferred funding mechanism. In a follow-up question, respondents indicated a mean WTP of US$32.92/employed adult (equivalent to about $65/household) annually via a flat income tax. The importance of nongame conservation to respondents, frequency of watching and/or enjoying wildlife, and education were positively related to WTP, whereas age was negatively related to WTP. Prisons were the most popular source from which to reallocate funds to nongame conservation (48%), and respondents believed an average of US$545,000 should be reallocated. Our findings suggested that while the general public indicated that they valued nongame conservation and were amenable to tax increases or reallocations for nongame conservation, they believed that taxes should be user-based and specialized (e.g., outdoor equipment taxes). These findings highlighted public WTP for nongame conservation even during an economic recession.
wildsocibull2011.36.3.492|Wildlifevehicle collisions pose a major safety concern to motorists and can be a significant source of mortality for wildlife. Additionally, roadways can impede movements and reduce habitat connectivity. For migratory ungulates, these problems can be exacerbated when roadways bisect migration routes, as is the case in Southwest Wyoming, USA, where a 21-km section of U.S. Highway 30 overlaps with a critical winter range and migration route used by thousands of mule deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.499|Protection of humans and livestock from disease has been used to justify many aggressive and costly wildlife control programs. Recent regulatory changes on livestock carcass disposal aimed at controlling the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy in Canada have led to substantial increases in exposed livestock carcass dumps. Such boneyards are known to attract grizzly bears (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.506|Elevated selenium (Se) concentrations have been detected in tissues of greater (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.512|Managed moist-soil wetlands are important habitats for waterfowl and other waterbirds in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV) and elsewhere in North America. These wetlands often contain abundant food resources, but they also contain tall and dense (i.e., robust) vegetation that may constrain use and foraging by waterbirds. During winters 20062009, we estimated densities of waterbirds, seeds and tubers, and aquatic invertebrates following autumn, preflooding treatments of disking, mowing, and no manipulation (control) of robust vegetation in 26 moist-soil wetlands in and near the MAV. In late autumn, seed and tuber dry mass was greater in control (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.524|Populations of temperate-nesting Canada geese (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.531|Urbanization is one of the main drivers threatening biodiversity. Together with the direct effects of exurban sprawl (e.g., habitat loss), the behavior of new residents may have important implications for species conservation. This manuscript addresses the effects of exurban sprawl on the collection and captivity of the endangered spur-thighed tortoise (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.538|Wildlife monitoring plays a critical role in evaluating the management and conservation of biodiversity. During monitoring activities in Chinese nature reserves dedicated to giant panda conservation, indirect sign surveys along fixed transects are the standard methodology used to monitor large-mammal populations. Camera-trapping has been recently introduced to these reserves as an additional monitoring tool. We present a case study of comparing current sign-transect monitoring with camera-trapping in Wanglang National Nature Reserve, China, from September 2004 through October 2005, and we assess the effectiveness of both methods in detecting terrestrial fauna. Camera-trapping detected 21 mammal species, while sign transects detected 16 species. We found no significant difference in the animal community detected by each method; however, sign transects were weighted toward detecting large-sized animals. Each survey technique had different strengths; therefore, a combined sampling of camera-trapping (800 cameradays) and sign transects (80 km) was sufficient to detect 95% of detectable large, terrestrial mammal species within this 323-km
wildsocibull2011.36.3.546|Effects of visual obstruction on white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.554|We studied the presence of linear enamel hypoplasias (LEHs; tooth defects associated with physiological stress) in caribou (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.561|The role of top predators in structuring ecosystems is receiving substantial attention from ecologists. Ripple et al. (2011) recently posed a tentatively supported hypothesis that wolves (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.567|Ripple et al. (2011) proposed a hypothesis that the recovery of gray wolves (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.572|We recently wrote an opinion piece (Ripple et al. 2011) hypothesizing that the presence of wolves (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.578|Difficulties in recapturing radiomarked birds often prevent wildlife researchers from replacing transmitters and continuing to collect data over long time periods. We developed an effective, inexpensive capture technique for radiomarked mountain quail (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.582|Radiotelemetry is frequently used to measure habitat use, movements, and survival in birds; presumably, outfitting adult females with radiotransmitters does not influence juvenile survival, but this critical assumption is rarely tested. We evaluated whether the timing or type of transmitter deployed on adult female mallards (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.587|Accurate, reliable, and efficient monitoring methods for detecting changes in the distribution and abundance of wildlife populations are the cornerstone of effective management. Aerial surveys of active burrow sites and ground counts of open burrows have been used to estimate distribution and abundance, respectively, of a number of rodent species. We compared the efficacy of these and other methods for estimating distribution, abundance, and population growth of the endangered giant kangaroo rat (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.594|Clouded leopards (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.600|Over the past 20 years a set of methods for home-range estimation and analysis of animal observation data have been developed. Whereas comparisons among the estimation methods and different estimation software are available, only the adehabitat analysis toolbox for R is under a free and open-source software license and includes established and new home-range estimation approaches, such as Kernel Density Estimation, Brownian Bridges, and Local Convex Hulls. However, R and adehabitat are command line based, which some may perceive as not very user-friendly, and provide only a limited set of functions for the analysis of home ranges with environmental geospatial data (e.g., land cover and elevation data). This article presents a free and open-source home-range analysis toolbox that focuses on the evaluation of global positioning system collar data, and integrates with a desktop geographic information system to allow data analysis beyond the creation of home ranges. The software is distributed under a free and open-source license, so research can also benefit from the toolbox because implemented algorithms can be tested directly and improved.
wildsocibull2011.36.3.609|Social structure and behavioral interactions between individuals shape basic biological processes, such as breeding; foraging and predator avoidance; movement and dispersal; and disease transmission. We used a targeted trapping strategy to capture kin groups of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.3.615|An understanding of the prevalence of diseases in free-ranging populations of felids is limited, and there is even less known about the overall health and diseases of wild felids that inhabit or utilize urban areas. We collected serum samples from 9 radiocollared mountain lions (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.631|Ungulate ecological studies often include components of reproduction because of its demographic importance and the ecological factors affecting it. Pregnancy status, in particular, is key because it represents a starting point for succeeding measurements of vital rates. Here, we present a case study using wild bison (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.641|Analysis of voided feces has become a popular method of monitoring physiological parameters of many wildlife species. During the breeding seasons of 20062007 and 20072008, we collected fecal samples to determine concentrations of fecal glucocorticoid (FG) and fecal testosterone (FT) metabolites in a fenced population of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.647|Rural residential development in the Rocky Mountain West of North America is resulting in increased conflict between ungulate habitat and infrastructure. Subdivisions, houses, and roads affect ungulates both behaviorally and demographically and reduce management options available to agencies. These habitat alterations need to be addressed if wildlife species are to coexist with humans. We reviewed literature (using 7 search engines and 16 key words) on the effects of land-use change (especially residential development) on elk (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.658|Elk (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.669|Public support of hunting is a key to sustaining this socio-economic activity that contributes to control of game populations. Previous studies have suggested that experience with hunting and hunters may determine acceptance of hunting. An untested assumption is that consumption of game meat is a causal factor in generating positive attitudes toward hunters and hunting. Here we used a survey, sent during 2009 to a random sample of 1,067 Swedish residents, to test the association between non-hunters' frequency of gamemeat consumption and their attitudes toward hunting. We found that game meat was consumed at least once per year in 65% of non-hunters' household, and that 80% of non-hunters expressed favorable attitudes toward hunting. Game-meat consumption and social relationships were the key factors associated with positive attitudes toward hunting. Our findings suggest game-meat consumption to be an important reason that hunting is well accepted in the Swedish society. We suggest that increased distribution and availability of game meat to non-hunters will increase the likelihood that positive attitudes toward hunters and hunting will be sustained. Our findings are from Sweden, where meat from wild game can freely be distributed and traded; yet, the results can be considered as catalysts for discussion about sale of game meat in countries where it now is illegal.
wildsocibull2011.36.4.676|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.685|Most Americans support legal hunting for food or as a population management tool, but there are strong concerns about illegal hunting activities such as poaching. Poaching may negatively impact animal populations by causing local extinctions, reducing genetic variability, reducing trophy size and hunting opportunities, and altering sex ratios and age structures. One approach to help mitigate poaching is to identify patterns of reported poaching activity and to document poaching arrests to help facilitate the efficiency of future surveillance for poachers. Our goal for this manuscript was to analyze temporal, spatial, and environmental patterns associated with poaching activity reported for white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.693|Loblolly pine (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.704|Growing stakeholder expectations along with decreased traditional funding have prompted state fish and wildlife agencies throughout the United States to develop alternative mechanisms to fund nongame programs. During MarchMay 2010, we collected responses from 42 state natural-resource agencies to assess characteristics of nongame checkoff initiatives, evaluate recent levels of funding procured, and identify marketing efforts used during fiscal years 20042008. We found that 32 of the respondent states used tax checkoffs to secure nongame funding, and that the total donations they received exceeded US $7 million/year. Annual nongame checkoff contributions declined from 2004 to 2008. Reported levels of nongame checkoff funding varied among states, ranging from about US $20,000 to >US$ million in annual donations. Number of tax checkoffs per state ranged from 1 to 27, but we found no evidence of a significant relationship between the number of checkoffs in a state and nongame funding procured. Additionally, we failed to observe a correlation between nongame checkoff funding and per capita income or population density among states during 2008, but we did find a positive correlation between nongame checkoff funding and state population size during 2008 (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.713|Human expansion into core habitat of the Florida panther (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.722|Black-backed woodpeckers (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.729|Hooded crows (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.735|Providing supplemental feed is a common practice for the management of northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.741|Many different types of traps have been developed to increase feral swine (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.747|Long-term physiological stress in individual animals may be an important mechanism linking ecological change with impaired wildlife population health. In the Southern Hudson Bay (SH) subpopulation of polar bears (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.759|The American pika (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.765|Bats use large (69 cm mean diameter) ponderosa pine (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.773|The wind-energy industry is rapidly developing worldwide as a viable renewable power option to offset high economic and environmental costs of fossil fuel consumption and nuclear power generation. Evidence suggests bats are more likely to be negatively affected by wind facilities than are birds. Studies have shown that significant bat mortality occurs at wind facilities, yet our understanding of the concomitant drivers of these events is limited. Our objectives were to assess the impact of a wind facility in southeastern Wisconsin, USA, on migratory and non-migratory and/or short-distance migrant bats by 1) estimating mortality, 2) recording species composition of mortality cases, and 3) determining the correlative variables associated with bat mortality events. We estimated 4,454 total bats, 3,019 migratory and 912 non-migratory and/or short-distance migrant bats were killed, respectively, over 277 search days during two spring and two autumn study periods, 20082010. We found bat mortality was strongly linked to migration. Approximately one-quarter of all bat mortality consisted of non-migratory big brown bats (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.784|Estimating wildlife abundance is central to many resource and ecosystem management problems. Early statistical work on wildlife abundance estimation focused on small-scale problems, but there is a growing need for such information at large spatial scales. An emerging area of research is the optimization of survey designs and methods for large-scale inference, given that agencies need to manage over large scales but operate within tight logistic and financial constraints. We used a geographic information system to explore how candidate regional-scale sample survey designs performed with regard to bias, field efficiency, and potential disturbance using a case study where biological and logistical constraints were severe (a regional-scale ground survey of Adlie penguins [
wildsocibull2011.36.4.796|Traditional natural resource programs in higher education tend to target biota, habitat, and human users and/or values as interacting components of a system. In the 2007
wildsocibull2011.36.4.802|Feral goats (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.807|We developed a novel small-volume (24-L) conical-shaped isoflurane anesthesia induction chamber for use in a den chamber and tested it along with 3 conventional stand-alone induction chambers (2 clear acrylic plastic chambers and a cylindrical-shaped chamber) to determine utility for daily short-duration manipulations of captive raccoons (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.813|Environmental variables can affect performance of global positioning system (GPS) telemetry; however, similar assessments have not been reported for Argos satellite telemetry. We used a stratified random design and linear mixed-effects models to evaluate the influence of 2 environmental variables (canopy cover and topographic obstruction) on 2 metrics of Argos satellite telemetry performance, observation rate and mean location error. Our results indicated that an Argos transmitter moving from minimal (i.e., 20%) to maximal (i.e., 95%) topographic obstruction and canopy cover would experience, on average, only a 12.4% decrease in observation rate (approx. 1.3 fixes/24 hr of operation), and mean location error would decrease by 3.4% (7.8 m). We concluded that these environmental variables have little practical effect on Argos telemetry performance, a finding that markedly contrasts similar evaluations of GPS telemetry. We documented a substantial increase in the number of high-quality locations compared with values reported previously in the literature; this is likely due to recent improvements in satellite and transmitter technology. Although Argos telemetry location errors continue to exceed those reported for GPS telemetry, the system should be considered as a telemetry tool when avoiding data bias associated with missed fixes is more important than location accuracy.
wildsocibull2011.36.4.820|The use of low-cost, advanced global positioning system (GPS) telemetry devices for wildlife tracking is growing in popularity, especially use of systems that can communicate with each other to track contacts or transfer data. We evaluated the communication and data-transfer capabilities of a low-cost, custom-built GPS telemetry system with an on-board wireless sensor network using human subjects and captive bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.36.4.828|Rapidly evolving electronic technology enables wildlife researchers to collect previously unobtainable data. To explore possibilities of using deer-borne cameras (DBCs) to collect behavioral data from an animal's point of view, we constructed DBCs and deployed them on 26 adult male whitetailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.101|Female mallards (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.107|We used structured decision-making to develop a 2-part framework to assist managers in the proactive management of disease outbreaks in Montana, USA. The first part of the framework is a model to estimate the probability of disease outbreak given field observations available tomanagers. The second part of the framework is decision analysis that evaluates likely outcomes of management alternatives based on the estimated probability of disease outbreak, and applies managers' values for different objectives to indicate a preferred management strategy. We used pneumonia in bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.115|Communication programs are a tool available to wildlife managers for managing risks associated with wildlife diseases such as bovine tuberculosis (TB). Evaluating these communication efforts is vital for successful disease management planning; yet, systematic evaluations of wildlife disease-related communication programs are lacking. To this end, we analyzed the content of 41 print and electronic TB risk communication materials (e.g., brochures, handouts, websites) available to stakeholders in Michigan and Minnesota, USA, during April 2010 to 1) describe and compare the materials; 2) make data-based recommendations to improve existing messages; and 3) highlight the ability of the extended parallel process model (EPPM), a well-known health communication theory, to serve as a framework for evaluation of wildlife disease issues. All message components central to the EPPMwere identified in our sample of TB risk communication materials. More than 80% of materials promoted 1 behaviors believed to reduce the risks of TB transmission among and between wildlife and livestock in Michigan and Minnesota. Messages conveying severity and susceptibility of TB-related risks were present in 73% and 56% of the materials, respectively; whereas, efficacy messages promoting the ease and effectiveness of recommended behaviors were far less prevalent. Results provide insights for future TB and wildlife disease-related risk communication efforts (e.g., design messages that enhance stakeholder perceptions of efficacy) and demonstrate the utility of the EPPM as a framework to evaluate risk communication materials and messages for wildlife disease-related stakeholders.
wildsocibull2011.37.1.122|Emotions play a key role in our experiences with and our responses to wildlife. We examined the effectiveness of situational and emotional variables in predicting acceptability of management actions for wolves (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.129|Effective deer management must consider diverse stakeholder values. From 2006 to 2011, the Pennsylvania (USA) Game Commission implemented citizen advisory committees (CACs) to measure deerhuman conflicts and tolerance for deer populations in each wildlife management unit. There was a general lack of public interest in participating in CACs. Key stakeholder groups were often absent and CACs exhibited a strong hunter bias. Although the CAC process seemed to benefit those involved, the scope was limited and likely did not represent the values and attitudes of the entire citizenry within the wildlife management unit. As a result of this CAC experience, the Pennsylvania Game Commission moved to a citizen survey in 2011 to ensure all interests are represented as the future success of deer management depends on greater understanding of the values and attitudes of every stakeholder.
wildsocibull2011.37.1.137|Hunting has been the primary white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.146|Although wildlife biologists need reliable estimates of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.155|Locally overabundant white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.162|Ketamine and xylazine are an effective chemical combination for white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.168|Habitat fragmentation is considered a contributing factor to declining populations of northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.177|The northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.189|Open pinegrasslands are one of the most threatened ecological communities in the southeastern United States and provide essential habitat for many regionally declining bird species. While open pinegrassland forests have diminished, acreage of pine plantations has increased throughout the Southeast, in part because of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Farm Bill conservation programs. To understand whether fire and herbicide treatments would be effective in creating pinegrassland structure in plantations suitable for a suite of declining early successional and pinegrassland adapted species, we evaluated combined effects of selective herbicide and prescribed fire on plant and bird communities in thinned, mid-rotation pine stands established under the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) in Mississippi, USA. Within each of the 12 replicate sites, we assigned 2 paired 8.1-ha plots to either treatment (herbicide + prescribed fire) or control in a randomized complete block design.We applied treatments during autumn and winter of 20022003. During 20032006 breeding seasons, we characterized the bird community using repeated (46 repetitions/yr), standardized, 10-minute point counts from which we estimated species richness, total relative abundance, total avian conservation value, and density of select species. Managed plots exhibited reduced hardwood midstory and a greater abundance of grasses and forbs in the ground layer. Although avian species richness and total relative abundance were similar in treatment and control stands, we observed a shift in the bird community from closed-canopy forest species to early successional and pinegrassland adapted species, many of which are experiencing population declines. We recommend thinning, hardwood midstory control, and prescribed burning within CRP pine plantations to provide habitat for a suite of regionally declining bird species.
wildsocibull2011.37.1.19|Estimates of bird and bat fatalities are often made at wind-energy projects to assess impacts by comparing them with other fatality estimates. Many fatality estimates have been made across North America, but they have varied greatly in field and analyticalmethods, monitoring duration, and in the size and height of the wind turbines monitored for fatalities, and few benefited from scientific peer review. To improve comparability among estimates, I reviewed available reports of fatality monitoring at wind-energy projects throughout North America, and I applied a common estimator and 3 adjustment factors to data collected from these reports. To adjust fatality estimates for proportions of carcasses not found during routine monitoring, I used national averages from hundreds of carcass placement trials intended to characterize scavenger removal and searcher detection rates, and I relied on patterns of carcass distance from wind turbines to develop an adjustment for variation in maximum search radius around wind turbines mounted on various tower heights. Adjusted fatality rates correlated inversely with wind-turbine size for all raptors as a group across the United States, and for all birds as a group within the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area, California. I estimated 888,000 bat and 573,000 bird fatalities/year (including 83,000 raptor fatalities) at 51,630 megawatt (MW) of installed wind-energy capacity in the United States in 2012. As wind energy continues to expand, there is urgent need to improve fatality monitoring methods, especially in the implementation of detection trials, which should be more realistically incorporated into routine monitoring.
wildsocibull2011.37.1.198|In New York State, USA, the abundance of ruffed grouse (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.209|Field borders established for wildlife conservation have been recognized as a possible venue for also promoting beneficial insect populations, such as parasitic wasps and pollinators, on agricultural lands. However, traditional fallow field borders lack nectar sources required to sustain beneficial insect communities, and their value to smallmammals is not well-understood. In OctoberNovember 2009, we trapped small mammals in four field-border treatments (planted native, warm-season grasses and prairie flowers, planted prairie flowers only, fallow vegetation, and frequently mowed vegetation) replicated around nine organic crop fields, and developed closed-population models in Program MARK to estimate abundance in each border. We also measured vegetation cover within each border treatment from June to August 2009. We captured 491 individuals of two species, the hispid cotton rat (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.216|Genetic markers play an important role in elucidating taxonomic uncertainties for a wide range of organisms. We present a set of specific primers to distinguish between
wildsocibull2011.37.1.220|We explored a one-step method of extracting plant cuticular hydrocarbons for the analysis of diet composition, intake, and passage rate of herbivores. Alkanes (waxes produced by plants) and long-chain alcohols (LCOHs) have traditionally been extracted via a sequence of saponification and esterification (S/E) separation techniques, which are labor- and time-intensive. We improved upon the alkane method by extracting samples in hexane using Dionex's Accelerated Solvent Extractor (ASE
wildsocibull2011.37.1.226|In 2008, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service was petitioned to list the Pacific walrus (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.236|Distance sampling during aerial surveys has been used extensively to estimate the density of many wildlife species. However, practical issues arise when using distance sampling during aerial surveys, such as obtaining accurate perpendicular distances. We assembled a computerized, electronic system to collect distance-sampling data (e.g., transect length, detection location, and perpendicular distance) during aerial surveys. We tested the accuracy of the system in a controlled trial and a mock survey. We also evaluated the electronic system during field surveys of northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.34|With the expansion of wind-energy generation, there is a growing need to develop accurate and efficient methods to detect bat casualties resulting from turbine collision and barotrauma. We conducted a formal blinded trial comparing the abilities of search dogs and human observers to locate bat carcasses. Dogs located 73% (46/63) of bats, whereas humans found 20% (12/60).We therefore recommend search dogs as an effective means of monitoring bat fatalities, particularly when a high degree of search accuracy is important. This includes surveys for rare species, or cases where searches are limited in extent or duration, because the application of correction factors is problematic where very few or no casualties are found. The dogs averaged 40 min to complete a survey, which was <25% of the time taken by humans. At large sites, the high initial set-up costs for search dogs can therefore be offset by the increased number of surveys that can be conducted within a given time. However, care must be taken with the selection and training of the dogs and handlers to produce consistent results. To allow fatality rates to be estimated from the number of casualties located, it is essential that assessments of the accuracy of the doghandler team are made at each site.
wildsocibull2011.37.1.41|Worldwide expansion in wind-energy generation has raised concerns about bird collisionsin particular, protected species. Bird collision studies are common in Europe and USA, but none had been done in Japan to date. We studied bird fatalities at 42 turbines (52.8 MW) in Tomamae, northern Hokkaido, Japan. For 17 months from July 2007 to November 2008, we performed 24 fatality surveys at an average 21-day interval and 100 m from the wind turbines. We found 52 fatalities, including 4 white-tailed eagles (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.49|Understanding the interaction between eagles and wind farms is essential for the development of strategies to minimize collision risk, and to quantify avoidance rates for collision risk modeling. The purpose of our study was to measure the avoidance rates of Tasmanian wedge-tailed eagles (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.5|Wind-energy generation is expanding globally, largely in response to climate change predictions, in an attempt to reduce our dependency on fossil fuels. The increasing demand for locations with suitable wind resource places pressure on bird species and sites of conservation importance. Our understanding of the effects of wind-energy generation on birds is growing, but ambitious targets for wind-energy production mean that we need to apply best available information in smarter ways now, refining our approaches as evidence accrues. This applies especially to the offshore windrush, which is taking place in Europe, notably the United Kingdom, which currently leads the world in installed capacity offshore. This paper presents UK experience and European studies, onshore and offshore, to consider lessons learned, especially in view of the fledgling offshore industry in the USA.
wildsocibull2011.37.1.59|We describe the model of Biosis Propriety Limited for quantifying potential risk to birds of collisions with wind turbines. The description follows the sequence of the model's processes from input parameters, through modules of the model itself. Aspects of the model that differentiate it from similar models are the primary focus of the description. These include its capacity to evaluate risk for multidirectional flights by its calculation of a mean presented area of a turbine; its use of bird flight data to determine annual flux of movements; a mathematical solution to a typical number of turbines that might be encountered in a given bird flight; capacity to assess wind-farm configurations ranging from turbines scattered in the landscape to linear rows of turbines; and the option of assigning different avoidance rates to structural elements of turbines that pose more or less risk. We also integrate estimates of the population of birds at risk with data for numbers of their flights to predict a number of individual birds that are at risk of collision. Our model has been widely applied in assessments of potential wind-energy developments in Australia. We provide a case history of the model's application to 2 eagle species and its performance relative to empirical experience of collisions by those species.
wildsocibull2011.37.1.66|Evidence is increasing of bird mortality due to large-scale wind-energy development. Soaring raptors, such as the white-tailed eagle (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.75|On average, 7.8 white-tailed eagles (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.84|Environmental impact assessment allows for compensation of environmental injuries in the form of resource-based restoration projects. Given that compensation is a desired policy at a given site, this study suggests an interdisciplinary scaling method (Resource Equivalency Analysis) that relies on a non-monetary bird-year metric to quantify and value the impact on human welfare from ecosystem service loss. The lost value associated with white-tailed eagle (
wildsocibull2011.37.1.94|The changing demographics of rural landowners have the potential to affect wildlife management on private land and therefore, there is a need to determine what factors influence landowner participation in wildlife management. We surveyed 1,368 North Carolina, USA, private landowners to determine socio-demographic factors predicting participation in a variety of wildlife management practices. Wildlife management practices most commonly implemented by landowners were providing supplemental feed (21.8%), mowing to improve habitat (16.2%), erecting nesting boxes (14.7%), and planting food plots (14.6%). Ecologically valuable management activities such as prescribed burning (2.3%) were among the least practiced. Hunting or having a family member that hunted was the most consistent predictor of participation in wildlife management practices. Landowners who hunted, resided on their property, were younger and were male were more likely to implement wildlife management practices than their counterparts. Resident landowners, especially those who hunt, may be the most receptive to outreach efforts promoting wildlife habitat management on private lands. Our results indicate outreach efforts should target habitat management practices with longer term wildlife benefits (e.g., prescribed fire, controlling invasive plants), because practices with immediate short-term benefits (e.g., food plots, supplemental feeding, mowing) are currently 34 times more prevalent.
wildsocibull2011.37.2.248|The Yellowstone ecosystem is a hotbed of environmental issues and conflicts such as endangered species management. The Yellowstone grizzly bear (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.256|Ponderosa pine (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.267|With >70% of the United States held in private ownership, land-use decisions of landowners will ultimately dictate the future of bird conservation in North America. However, land-use objectives of landowners vary considerably and present opportunities and challenges for bird conservationists. Innovative strategies incorporating proactive approaches to address educational, financial, social, and economic needs of landowners are required to garner participation in conservation programs and practices to create or enhance bird habitat on privately owned working lands. Farm Bill conservation programs and practices provide unprecedented opportunities to facilitate bird conservation at regional and national scales and frequently serve as the primary vehicle for many non-governmental organizations to accomplish their bird conservation goals. We identify current challenges and opportunities for bird conservation on private lands and present 4 case studies whereby partnerships with federal agencies, mainly the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation Service, have proven successful in eliciting positive, measurable outcomes to bird conservation efforts on private lands spanning many North American physiographic regions. The future of bird conservation will increasingly rely upon the ability of federal agencies to prioritize and allocate additional resources to deliver bird conservation programs on private lands and a greater awareness by conservationists of the role of economics in the decision-making process of landowners.
wildsocibull2011.37.2.278|Ring-necked pheasant (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.281|Brood parasites can appreciably decrease fecundity of susceptible songbird hosts, which can often cause a decrease in host abundance. Wildlife managers use brown-headed cowbird (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.287|Mourning dove (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.293|Millions of Americans and Canadians participate in the feeding of wild birds. We surveyed hobbyists about their bird-feeding experience, and examined demographic and regional differences in responses, to determine the types of bird-feeding practices taking place and to identify themes important for wildlife managers to communicate with people who feed birds. Between autumn 2005 and winter 20082009, we recruited a non-random sample from the interested public though both print and electronic media. We had 1,291 individuals from 48 states (USA) and 7 Canadian provinces who completed our mail and website survey. Survey respondents were primarily female (67%) and 45 years old (77%). Most respondents offered alternative foods in addition to traditional bird seed (82%) and provided other resources besides food to attract birds (75%). Our respondents fed birds because it brought nature (84%) and accompanying sound (81%) to the area, as a hobby (79%), and to help the birds (79%). Respondents felt attracting more bird species (69%), a greater number of birds (41%), and no pests (35%) would make their bird-feeding experience more satisfying. Given the interested public's desire to increase bird diversity at their feeders and to help birds, managers have the opportunity to develop messages promoting habitat enhancement in addition to feeding, and provide suggestions for reducing the risk of disease transmission and pest species at feeders.
wildsocibull2011.37.2.301|The greater sage-grouse (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.311|Concerns regarding the potential negative impacts of regulated furbearer trapping to reintroduced Mexican gray wolves (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.319|Riparian zones are important to bats, which use them for foraging, roosting, and drinking. To predict effects of timber harvests in riparian areas on bats, more information is needed on the functional width of riparian zones for bats, and how bats respond to forest removal near small perennial streams. From May to August (20042007), we studied bat presence and activity in 1 unharvested site and 3 harvested sites with different riparian-buffer sizes (0 m, 10 m, and 30 m) in the southern Appalachian Mountains of the United States. We measured activity at 3 distances from the stream in each site (0 m, stream; 23 m, mid; and 46 m, far), classified bat calls by phonic group, and tested the effect of harvest on overall activity, detection, and nave occupancy rates for 4 phonic groups. Pre-harvest activity was higher at the far versus stream or mid positions. Position, harvest, and interactions affected post-harvest change in activity in the treatment sites. Pre- and post-harvest activity was similar at all positions in the 30-m site. Activity increased significantly in the 0-m and 10-m sites, likely due to the presence of edge after harvest. Detection probabilities were higher post-harvest for larger bats and occupancy of 0-m and 10-m sites was higher post-harvest for all phonic groups except
wildsocibull2011.37.2.327|Forests are potential sources for a wide range of alternative fuels, which could reduce dependency on fossil fuels and carbon emissions, but sustainability of producing biofuels from forests has not been well-studied. Therefore, we investigated effects of woody biomass harvest, intercropping perennial grasses, and combinations of these treatments on herpetofauna in loblolly pine (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.336|The jaguarundi (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.342|In Oregon, USA, bobcats on either side of the Cascade Mountain Range are recognized as distinct subspecies, with
wildsocibull2011.37.2.352|We documented survival of elk (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.360|The parcelization of exurban landscapes creates a matrix of intermediately sized and privately managed land parcels, presenting a unique challenge to wildlife managers. During 20102011, we studied the correlates between land parcelization, deer density, and hunting patterns in exurban northwestern Virginia, USA. We estimated October deer densities (no. deer/km2) and conducted landowner surveys of deer harvest in 13 study blocks of mean size 34.8 km
wildsocibull2011.37.2.368|The Key Largo cotton mouse (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.375|In the Unicoi Mountains of southwestern North Carolina, USA, a 2 lane scenic byway created a barrier to dispersal for the federally endangered Carolina northern flying squirrel (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.380|Current waterfowl populations provide liberal hunting seasons, but waterfowl hunter numbers have declined since the mid-1990s. We hypothesized that trends in waterfowl hunter numbers, as indicated by Federal Migratory Bird Hunting Conservation Stamp (duck stamp) sales, have become independent of breeding duck populations, and we assess the impacts on habitat conservation. The relationship between duck breeding populations and duck stamp sales changed between 19551994 (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.389|Previous tests of the automated acoustic device, referred to as a howlbox, effectively identified the presence of wolves (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.394|We explore the feasibility of collecting microsatellite genotypes of non-invasively collected hair from free-ranging polar bears (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.402|The reconstruction of 90.6 km of U.S. Highway 93 from Evaro to Polson, Montana, USA, includes 41 wildlife crossing structures and 13.4 km of road with wildlife fencing. These measures are aimed at reducing wildlifevehicle collisions and increasing human safety, while allowing wildlife to traverse the landscape. In the fenced road sections, gaps in the fence for side roads are mitigated by wildlife guards (similar to cattle guards). We monitored wildlife movements with cameras for 2 years from mid-July 2008 to mid-July 2010 at 2 wildlife guards and in 1 large crossing structure adjacent to one of the wildlife guards. We investigated how effective these wildlife guards were as a barrier to deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.409|Recent research suggested greater sage-grouse (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.416|Electronic training collars, or shock collars, have received relatively little application as a non-lethal management tool for reducing livestock losses caused by gray wolves (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.423|Collecting blood samples is an important aspect of wildlife studies where data on physiological parameters are required. To avoid stress to the test animals and its potential influence on the test parameters, minimally invasive blood sampling offers numerous advantages. Here, we describe using the African tsetse fly (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.428|Ground-penetrating radar (GPR) is an innovative and non-invasive method that uses radar to penetrate the ground and develop three-dimensional digital images of the top several meters of the earth. Ground-penetrating radar has been used extensively in the fields of engineering, military science, forensic science, archaeology, and environmental remediation, but has received little attention by wildlife professionals. We demonstrated a possible application of GPR for wildlife studies for mapping burrow systems using maritime pocket gophers (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.433|For those vertebrate species that create sufficiently complex footprints, identifying individuals from their footprints promises to be a noninvasive technique of great potential for wildlife studies and conservation, but with statistical challenges. Various approaches to employing footprints for identification appear in the literature, but doubt often remains as to the information contained in the footprints and therefore of the reliability of the procedures. For footprints represented by landmarks, we propose using pre-assigned measures of shape and size of configurations of landmarks to quantify the variation in footprints amongst individuals relative to the variation in each individual's footprints. Our method provides a relatively simple means of assessing when footprints (represented by landmarks) from individuals of a population will be useful for identifying individuals, independent of any particular identification algorithm, and is also a tool for exploring footprint landmark data to aid development of discrimination routines. We illustrate the method using footprints collected from a population of white rhinoceros (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.439|Monitoring mammalian carnivores at den sites with human observers to document behavior, fecundity, litter size, and natal survival is commonplace when compared with monitoring den sites with cameras. However, no published studies exist comparing the effectiveness of human observers versus cameras in a quantitative manner. Obtaining complete and reliable counts of adult and pup kit foxes (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.444|Despite widespread use of fecal pellet-group counts as an index of ungulate density, techniques used to convert pellet-group numbers to ungulate numbers rarely are based on counts of known individuals, seldom evaluated across spatial and temporal scales, and precision is infrequently quantified. Using DNA from fecal pellets to identify individual deer, we evaluated the relationship between pellet-group count and count of Sitka black-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.451|The ability to age white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.2.458|Antler characteristics are a measure of phenotypic quality and are used by wildlife managers and hunters to assess herd characteristics of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.469|In recent years, there have been declines of varying severity in many vertebrate species across much of the sparsely populated savannas of northern Australia, and adding to the dismal record of extinctions from arid and semi-arid central Australia since European colonization. It is likely that multiple factors are responsible for the current wave of extinctions, but they are occurring in areas of sparse human population in extensive, seemingly unmodified landscapes. Habitat change is one likely contributing factor, with invasive exotic grasses an important component in some regions. Historically, conservation of native vertebrates has been poor in Australia, with many species being considered vermin under legislation. As late as the 1960s much scientific research was aimed at controlling species that are now considered threatened under legislation. Through the 20th century substantial efforts to introduce exotic pasture species saw the introduction for trial of twice as many species of grasses and legumes as occur naturally on the whole Australian continent. The legacy of these programs is the spread of grasses that, through a range of processes, lead to simplification of floristic structure and reduction in plant species diversity and habitat suitability for many native mammals. Management of these invasive species should focus on preventing their spread into and establishment in new regions, and controlling them where they are established. State and transition models may provide a framework for considering the management and environmental triggers that could lead to re-establishment of native grasses.
wildsocibull2011.37.3.478|There are almost 400 naturalized grass species in Australia and most terrestrial and many freshwater ecosystems are subject to invasion by one or more species. Some species can dominate the ground stratum of the vegetation and thus radically transform the structure, composition and ecological functioning of the ecosystem. In these situations, the species richness of the herbaceous vegetation typically declines as the grasses out-compete native grasses and forbs for water, nutrients, and light. In terrestrial environments, invasive grasses often modify disturbance regimes, especially the frequency and intensity of fire. These effects on vegetation structure and composition and water and nutrient cycling are habitat-altering for the fauna of the invaded systems. Although some wildlife species do well in vegetation transformed by invasive grasses, there are many negative effects on wildlife through reduced resource availability and unsuitable fire regimes. There are few cost-effective, broad-scale options for reversing the effects of invasive grasses on radically transformed systems.
wildsocibull2011.37.3.486|The Northeastern section of the United States, known as New England, has seen vast changes in land cover and human population over the past 3 centuries. Much of the region is forested; grasslands and other open-land cover types are less common, but provide habitat for many species that are currently declining in abundance and distribution. New England also consists of some of the most densely populated and developed states in the country. The origin, distribution, and spread of exotic species are highly correlated with human development. As such, exotics are common throughout much of New England, including several species of graminoids (grasses and grass-like plants such as sedges and rushes). Several of the more invasive grass species can form expansive dense mats that exclude native plants, alter ecosystem structure and functions, and are perceived to provide little-to-no value as wildlife food or cover. Although little research has been conducted on direct impacts of exotic graminoids on wildlife populations in New England, several studies on the common reed (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.497|Little is known about the impacts and effects of exotic, invasive grasses on wildlife in the Southeast United States. We selected 3 species of exotic grasses common to the Southeast and review the literature on their regional distribution, ecosystem impacts, wildlife impacts, and management. These grasses have the potential to harm indigenous wildlife species, such as northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.503|Exotic grasses dominate rangelands in parts of the South-central United States. We reviewed the literature on the effects of exotic grasses on wildlife functional groups and species, and examined the state of the art of managing exotic vegetation in the South-central United States. In cases where researchers reported that exotic grasses reduced wildlife species abundance or diversity, the exotics were dominants in the grassland community. In a few cases, plant communities dominated by exotic grasses appeared to provide desirable habitat for a wildlife species. Giant reed (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.510|Grasslands of the Northern Great Plains of North America are in the midst of extensive human-driven loss and redistribution of important species. Invasive plants contribute to degradation of this ecosystem and present monumental challenges for natural resource managers. Widespread decreases in populations of grassland-dependent wildlife, particularly birds, have been documented, but relatively little research has been focused on direct responses of wildlife to invading plants relative to native vegetation. Smooth brome (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.517|Non-native plant invasions can change communities and ecosystems by altering the structure and composition of native vegetation. Changes in native plant communities caused by non-native plants can influence native wildlife species in diverse ways, but the outcomes and underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we review and synthesize current information for the Intermountain West of the United States, to develop a general mechanistic understanding of how invasions by non-native plants affect wildlife, and we identify important information gaps. In this region, most species of recognized conservation and management concern are non-native forbs (e.g., leafy spurge [
wildsocibull2011.37.3.527|Like all grasslands across North America, the distribution of desert grasslands has been reduced markedly, and remnants have been altered extensively by humans. In Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, USA, and in Mexico, desert grasslands have been invaded by dozens of non-native plants, especially perennial grasses that evolved in arid systems with similar climate and disturbance regimes. In desert grasslands invaded by non-native plants, biomass, richness, and diversity of native plants typically decrease, whereas plant density, biomass, and litter typically increase. These changes in composition and structure of the plant community affect animals that inhabit grassland ecosystems, with the direction and magnitude of effects reflecting the resource needs of each species, the degree of plant invasion, and the contrast in structure between invading and native plants. When non-native plants present similar structural cues but provide different levels of resources than native plants, cues that trigger habitat selection by animals may be decoupled from the resources linked evolutionarily to that cue, creating the potential for an ecological trap. Plant invasions also influence the ecological drivers that maintain grasslands in an open condition, which will alter the long-term dynamics of plant and animal populations. Specifically, by increasing fuel load and continuity, fires in invaded grasslands increase in frequency and intensity relative to those in native grasslands. Although eradication is unlikely once a non-native plant has naturalized, retaining patches of native vegetation within a matrix of non-native plants may provide a strategy to reduce effects of plant invasions on wildlife in grasslands.
wildsocibull2011.37.3.537|Seeding exotic grasses remains a common practice to increase forage production for cattle in northern Mexico. Even while interest in wildlife conservation and management has been increasing since the late 1990s because of the economic value of wildlife for sport hunting, cattle production still represents an important part of the ranch income. Our objective was to review the available information on exotic grasses and its effect on native rangelands and wildlife. To obtain the information included in this article, we reviewed the published information and personal information and observations. Ranchers need to balance and make commitments to optimize cattle and wildlife economic output. In general, the negative perception of biologists, ranchers, and the general public toward exotic grasses is less pronounced than in the United States even when the ecological benefits of maintaining healthy native rangelands is well-understood. Differences in primary productivity and domestic animal production between exotic and native grasses are well-documented; however, information on impacts of exotic grasses on wildlife is extremely limited. The preservation of native rangelands is important; however, exotic grasses will continue to be seeded in northern Mexico as long as cattle production remains an important economic activity. Exotic grasses inmany cases will be impossible to eradicate; therefore, management will be necessary to ensure optimization of habitat for livestock and wildlife species. In this context many research questions need to be answered to optimize domestic livestock production and maintain healthy wildlife populations. Governments, non-governmental organizations, and other entities interested in conservation should combine efforts and develop incentive programs for ranchers to preserve native rangelands in Mexico and to avoid seeding exotic grasses.
wildsocibull2011.37.3.546|We assessed attainability of landscape-level conservation planning goals in the United States portion of the Prairie Pothole Region by summarizing and analyzing data on status, trends, and potential future of grasslands and wetlands. All published literature and new data analyses consistently indicate declines in grassland and wetland area. When we incorporated time as a conservation planning metric, the importance of seemingly small wetland (0.050.57%) and grassland (0.41.3%) annual loss rates became apparent. Moreover, we highlighted large differences in the amount of future grassland (3067%) and wetland (47 93%) resulting from seemingly small changes in loss percentages. Our analyses clearly demonstrate that time, along with current status and trends of target habitat(s), must be incorporated when setting habitat conservation goals, otherwise goals may be unrealistic. Prairie Pothole Joint Venture (PPJV) partners protected an average of 0.20% of the 3.3 million ha extant wetlands and 0.26% of the 10.7 million ha extant grasslands/year. Consequently, PPJV partners cannot reach stated conservation goals given current habitat loss rates unless 1) increased funding is secured for land conservation, 2) landowner interest and acceptance of conservation programs remains high, and 3) wetland and grassland loss rates are decreased via public policy, particularly through agriculture programs, or other mechanisms. Otherwise, PPJV habitat conservation goals, and ultimately species population goals, will need to be reduced accordingly. Our comprehensive assessment may help the PPJV and other landscape-level planning efforts discriminate between goals they would like to attain versus goals they are likely to achieve.
wildsocibull2011.37.3.564|Wildlife managers use spring prescribed burns to set back succession in managed grasslands throughout the prairie pothole region. Yet, prescribed burns are expensive and weather dependent. Autumn biomass harvest of native prairie plants may also simulate natural disturbances and help prevent the invasion of woody species. As such, biomass harvest can be an attractive management option that can augment, and in some cases, replace spring burning programs. We compared vegetation characteristics (vegetation ht and density, and residual litter depth) and changes to the plant community (e.g., species richness, relative abundance of native and exotic plant species) in restored native grasslands of Minnesota, during 20072009, in response to spring prescribed burns and autumn biomass harvest. We used a randomized block design to control for site-to-site variability, and compared treatments using mixed models that accounted for this source of variation as well as within-plot repeated measures. This framework also allowed us to consider additional variables (e.g., Julian date, yr effects) thought to influence response patterns, and also additional fields that were treated with an autumn biomass harvest during the same time period. Vegetation characteristics exhibited substantial site-to-site and temporal variability, but, with the exception of litter depths, vegetation characteristics were largely similar in biomass harvest and burned subplots. We conclude that autumn biomass harvests deserve more consideration as a potential grassland management tool.
wildsocibull2011.37.3.571|High levels of bat activity have been reported at forest edges worldwide, but few studies have examined the ecological function of edges as a linear landscape feature. Patterns of association of bats at edges between old and young forest stands (hard edges) could be a result of edges acting as either a semi-permeable barrier or a filter to movement into the forest between different-aged forest stands for bats (or their insect prey), causing an accumulation of bat activity along the edge. Alternatively, edges may be a linear landscape feature similar to roads and riparian corridors that bats use as flight conduits as they move from one place to another. Using ultrasound microphone arrays and recording equipment, we were able to determine flight patterns of bats at hard edges within a landscape of intensively managed loblolly pine (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.577|Savanna and woodland were historically prevalent in the midwestern United States, and managers throughout the area are currently attempting to restore these communities. Better knowledge of the responses of breeding and non-breeding birds to savanna and woodland restoration is needed to inform management. We surveyed abundance of winter resident birds across a gradient of tree stocking encompassed by savannas, woodlands, and non-managed forests in the Missouri Ozark Highlands, USA, and assessed the effect of stocking on bird densities. We conducted point counts at 560 locations along 42 transects on 10 sites across 2 winters between December and February, 20092011. We estimated detection probabilities and densities of birds using hierarchical, distance-based abundance models that incorporate covariates into estimation of both detection probabilities and densities. We fit models for 12 species with >49 detections and met model assumptions. Detection probabilities were affected by observer, temperature, wind speed, and stocking, and there was some level of support of the effects of stocking on the densities of all 12 species. Densities of black-capped plus Carolina chickadees (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.585|The Singing-ground Survey (SGS) is the primary monitoring tool used to assess population status and trends of American woodcock (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.596|Radiocollars are an increasingly important tool in wildlife research. Yet, as with all remotely compiled data, measurement error is inherent in the technology. We directly compare radiocollars with low measurement error (Global Positioning System [GPS]) with radiocollars with high measurement error (Argos satellite). Specifically, we compare how differences in precision between GPS and Argos satellite technologies affect the estimation of resource selection functions (RSFs). We estimated RSF models from GPS and Argos satellite radiocollar data collected in December 2008 through April 2009 from wolves within the same pack in southwestern Alberta, Canada, and used Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) to identify the most parsimonious models. In general,  coefficients were closer to zero and coefficients of variation were higher for models estimated using Argos data. But even more serious, AIC identified different top models between the Argos and GPS data sets because measurement error alone can induce attenuation bias, which leads to erroneous conclusions on selection of habitats. GPS radiocollar data were more precise and more accurate, resulting in RSF models that were a better representation of true habitat selection by each wolf pack.
wildsocibull2011.37.3.603|Noninvasive genetic sampling is an essential tool for studying elusive and endangered species. However, the DNA from noninvasive genetic sampling tends to be low in quantity and quality, which leads to poor DNA amplification. Using fecal pellets of pygmy rabbits (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.608|Black-tailed prairie dog (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.616|We translocated and released a total of 90 (55 F and 35 M) wild American martens (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.623|Recently, island fox (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.631|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.639|Wildlife authorities and conservationists are working to improve attitudes toward elephants (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.649|Setting aside habitat is a common strategy to maintain viable wildlife populations, but underlying assumptions or effectiveness are rarely evaluated. The Tongass National Forest prioritized habitat management for sensitive species in Southeast Alaska's rainforest, and standards and guidelines were established for northern goshawks (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.659|Identifying predators of threatened and endangered species is important for understanding and reducing the impacts of predation. Visible evidence collected from a carcass alone is often insufficient to accurately identify predator species. The DNA from the predator left on the carcass allows for a definitive identification of predator species associated with the carcass, but DNA can be difficult to isolate independently from the prey. We developed field collection and molecular protocols for amplifying canid and felid predator DNA from saliva on fisher (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.664|In 2008, we studied simulated toxicant efficacy to control invasive brown treesnakes (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.674|The reintroduction, recovery, and management of gray wolves (
wildsocibull2011.37.3.680|Cougar (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.690|Large wild carnivore predation on domestic livestock and the associated financial losses may increase efforts toward lethal control of carnivore populations. Livestock-guarding dogs could provide an effective alternative to such lethal control by mitigating depredation losses. Although this information is available in North America, the cost-effectiveness of guarding dogs has not been studied in other areas experiencing large carnivore depredation such as South Africa, where the socio-economic context is very different from that of North America. We assessed the costs and benefits of 97 livestock-guarding dogs working on 94 farms in South Africa between 2005 and 2011 by reviewing data collected from questionnaires on perceived depredation losses prior to and during guarding dog placement, rates of guarding dog behavioral problems, removals, and pre-senile mortality. Perceived livestock depredation ceased in 91% of guarding dog placements, with gross mean annual financial savings US$ 3,189/farm. Estimated annual program costs per year of the livestock-guarding dog program were US$ 2,780. However, 16% of guarding dogs had reported behavioral problems, with inattentiveness cited as the most common problem. Twelve percent of guarding dogs were removed from the program because of behavioral problems. Premature death was observed in 22% of guarding dogs, most often due to snake bites. Participating farmer tolerance toward cheetahs (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.698|To study potential effects of recreation activity on habitat use of desert bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.707|Across ponderosa pine(
wildsocibull2011.37.4.714|Most population goals for white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.725|Extensive conversion of natural areas for agricultural production has had many consequences, including reduced habitat for nesting birds. Increasing focus on habitat re-establishment has led to the establishment of patches of perennial herbaceous vegetation in these agricultural landscapes, although these often consist ofmonotypic grass fields with little vegetation diversity. In 2001 and 2002, we assessed songbird responses to mowing followed by a soil disturbance (disking) meant to increase vegetation diversity and abundance of arthropod food resources in conservation easements in East-central Iowa, USA.We randomly assigned fields to disking and control treatments and collected data on breeding bird density and species richness in these habitats before and after treatments were applied. Disking increased density of all species combined, several individual species including dickcissel (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.733|In response to the decline of northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.741|Lesser prairie-chickens (LEPCs;
wildsocibull2011.37.4.750|The distribution and range of lesser prairie-chicken (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.759|The lesser prairie-chicken (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.766|Spruce grouse (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.778|Ecology of mallards (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.787|About 600 burrowing owls (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.796|Overhead power lines can pose collision risks to birds. Risks may be mitigated through marking lines with high-visibility devices, but the effectiveness of line marking remains unclear. Effectiveness is particularly poorly described for lines bisecting open water, where detection of carcasses can be difficult. We marked 3 of 9 spans (lines between adjacent structures) along a causeway crossing open water and 2 adjacent spans over lake shores between Lake Sakakawea and Lake Audubon near Audubon National Wildlife Refuge, North Dakota, USA. Over 3 years, we found 1,186 avian carcasses, including 276 attributed to power-line collision. American coots (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.805|Information on fisher (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.815|Mountaintop removal mining, a large-scale disturbance affecting vegetation, soil structure, and topography, converts landscapes from mature forests to extensive grassland and shrubland habitats. We sampled salamanders using drift-fence arrays and coverboard transects on and near mountaintop removal mines in southern West Virginia, USA, during 20002002. We compared terrestrial salamander relative abundance and species richness of un-mined, intact forest with habitats on reclaimed mountaintop removal mines (reclaimed grassland, reclaimed shrubland, and fragmented forest). Salamanders within forests increased in relative abundance with increasing distance from reclaimed mine edge. Reclaimed grassland and shrubland habitats had lower relative abundance and species richness than forests. Characteristics of reclaimed habitats that likely contributed to lower salamander abundance included poor soils (dry, compacted, little organic matter, high rock content), reduced vertical structure of vegetation and little tree cover, and low litter and woody debris cover. Past research has shown that salamander populations reduced by clearcutting may rebound in 1524 years. Time since disturbance was 728 years in reclaimed habitats on our study areas and salamander populations had not reached levels found in adjacent mature forests.
wildsocibull2011.37.4.824|Wound ballistics is a science that has been gaining attention in wildlife management because of the movement toward non-lead bullets for hunting and wildlife management projects. Wildlife biologists and managers are interested in evaluating new bullet technologies and using traditional bullets outside of their initial design parameters; however, much of the background and science that is involved in a wound ballistic study is outside of a typical wildlife biologist's training. I present a review of major wound ballistic history and background, including theories of how bullets wound and kill, and I review the primary techniques used for wound ballistic research. I found that most of the wound ballistic literature is found in a wide range of publications in both gray and primary literature; however, little work has been published that uses these techniques to investigate wound ballistics for wildlife management. Many of the techniques described for assessing the terminal ballistic for medical, military, and law enforcement purposes can be applied in the wildlife management field.
wildsocibull2011.37.4.832|Though normal antlers are branched and bilaterally symmetrical, male white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.838|Capturemarkrecapture (CMR) approaches are often used in the management and conservation of wildlife species and effective approaches to estimate populations rely on accurate datacollection techniques. Unfortunately, sampling errors can arise at several steps in the CMR process. We designed and applied a mobile application (app) for field-collected data from a CMR study on herpetofauna. Entering data into a digital format in the field using the mobile application eliminated timely steps to process handwritten data sheets and double-checking data entries. Applications were developed for mobile devices on the iOS and Android operating systems. Both platforms have similar user interactions via data entry on a touch screen using pre-programmed fields, checkboxes, drop-down menus, and keypad entry. Our mobile application includes features to insure collection of all measurements in the field through pop-up messages and can proof entries for valid formats. The application can assign unique numbers to newly captured individuals by querying the database for unused codes and eliminates the potential to assign 2 individuals with the same unique code. Technicians can query a database to view histories of previously captured animals from the field. During a 2-month project, we estimated that using the mobile application instead of manual data entry and proofing via data sheets reduced our total project time by 10%. To our knowledge, this is the first application developed formobile devices for biologists using CMR techniques and could be developed for use in other areas of field data collection.
wildsocibull2011.37.4.846|Vaginal implant transmitters (VITs) are small radiotransmitters implanted in the vaginal canal of adult female ungulates following the breeding season. Immediately prior to parturition, the VIT is expelled and a temperature sensor causes the pulse rate to change from 40 pulses/minute to 80 pulses/minute, thereby indicating a parturition event to researchers. Climatic conditions can affect the performance of VITs; therefore, in collaboration with Advanced Telemetry Systems, we developed and evaluated a VIT equipped with both temperature and photo sensors. We used publicly available data on ambient temperature and daylight during JuneAugust 2011 (i.e., the generalized ungulate parturition season) for 35 sites across the United States to predict improvement in performance achieved by the inclusion of a photo sensor. Mean predicted improvement below the 40th and 35th parallel of latitude is 33% and 43%, respectively. Unlike the temperature sensor, the photo sensor activates immediately when ambient light is 0.01 lux, improving the resolution of temporal parturition data and associated neonate search protocols.
wildsocibull2011.37.4.851|Recording and interpreting thermoregulatory patterns is important in determining many aspects of animal ecology and behavior. Externally attached radiotransmitters are a relatively non-invasive method to continuously monitor skin temperature as a proxy for core body temperature. However, the effects of ambient conditions, such as wind or rain, on the accuracy of externally attached radiotransmitters are often overlooked. We investigated the effect of wind speed on the accuracy of radiotransmitters. We found that the accuracy of radiotransmitter readings was correlated with wind speed, with higher wind speeds resulting in underestimations of skin temperature. These effects may result in misinterpretations of recorded data, and ultimately may lead to inaccuracies in describing behavior.
wildsocibull2011.37.4.855|Telemetry is a fundamentally important tool for studying animal movements. Traditional telemetry systems have provided time-specific information on locations of individuals; however, recent developments in instruments allow for the tracking of networks of interactions among individuals. Currently, these devices rely on very high frequency (VHF) radio technology, and cannot precisely gauge where interactions occurred without on-site triangulation. Furthermore, although commercially available devices can log successful communication attempts between collars as little as 1 m apart, researchers cannot accurately determine distances within the pre-set detection (contact) threshold of these units. Data loss from proximity-logging devices, and even traditional telemetry devices that are lost or damaged in the field, poses another obstacle to monitoring wildlife social networks. We have developed a prototype proximity-logging Global Positioning System (GPS) collar that offers greater spatial resolution of social interactions, and reduces probability of data loss. In this study, we used captive bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.862|The detectability of nocturnal carnivores is very low, because such data on many species can be difficult to acquire. Here, we design an automatic thermal video recording system for studying cryptic mammalian predators at food and water resources in Australia. We trialed different sampling procedures in contrasting environments between August 2005 and February 2006 to identify aspects of survey design that influenced video interpretability. We then compared the accuracy of the remote recording system to that of direct human observation. We found our system to be most effective when temperature settings were correctly adjusted and procedures were adapted for the sampling environment. We identified that the presence of vegetation and the distance between the target species and camera were the most important factors in video interpretability. The remote recording system was found to be as effective at recording both visits and behavior as direct human observation at a focal point. We propose that the automatic thermal video capture system has the potential to be an extremely useful tool for monitoring otherwise difficult to observe species.
wildsocibull2011.37.4.872|Raptor trapping and banding at migration stations rely upon the use of live lure birds to attract hawks to the trapping area. The use of these lure animals may present raptor researchers with legislative, regulatory, ethical, and logistical challenges. We developed and tested a mechanical alternative to reduce the demands imposed by the use of live lures. The mechanical lure was able to withstand the rigors of field use and was as effective at attracting hawks to the trapping station as live lures during tests in the Marin Headlands, California, USA, 2001. Although resulting in significantly fewer captures, the use of a mechanical lure may be an appropriate alternative in situations where the regulatory and/or ethical environment prohibit the use of live lures and where the logistical demands of maintaining a captive colony of live lures is impractical.
wildsocibull2011.37.4.877|Alternatives to bait-trapping waterfowl are often necessary when studying health or body condition, when targeting species that are not easily attracted to bait or those that occur in deep-water habitats where bait-trapping can be difficult. We designed an active netting method for capturing diving and sea ducks, which we deployed at 8 sites in Lake Ontario, Canada from 2006 to 2007 and 2011 to 2012. Amist net suspended horizontally 0.5m below the water surface was lifted out of the water when ducks swam over the capture area. The technique requires a stationary structure to anchor one end and is lifted out of the water by hand or using a vehicle on the non-anchored end using attached ropes. We used structures including docks and walls of a shipping channel to secure ropes, but other structures could be used. Catch rates were 0.63 birds/hr for greater scaup (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.881|Virginia rails (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.887|It is a challenge to use collars on male cervids because their neck size can increase substantially during the rut and also because of growth as the animal matures. We describe how to build a self-adjusting expandable collar for yearling or adult male Rocky Mountain elk (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.893|Reducing coyote (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.901|The New England cottontail (
wildsocibull2011.37.4.906|Management of large herbivore populations requires assessment of both the quality and quantity of habitats available to the animals. Classifying and quantifying their habitats, particularly the availability of forage, is often challenging because of the time and expense associated with collection of the appropriate data over large landscapes. Land-cover maps generated from remote-sensing imagery generally provide only qualitative information regarding species composition of the vegetation, and do not adequately quantify forage species availability. Our objective was to determine the feasibility of mapping important forage species for moose (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.103|Despite recent increases in conservation interest, the distribution, habitat needs, and conservation priorities remain poorly understood for many animal species, including forest bats. In some cases, little quantitative information exists about appropriate survey methods to determine occupancy or abundance of bats in forest systems. We quantitatively compared detection probabilities between 2 commonly used survey techniques for 2 bat species that are closely associated with bottomland hardwood stands in the southeastern United States. Passive acoustic surveys of echolocation calls were more likely than systematic roost searches to detect both Rafinesque's big-eared bats (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.111|In the Sacramento Valley in California, USA, burrowing activities of California ground squirrels (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.116|In Alberta, Canada, number of cougar (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.122|External marking of American beavers (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.127|Dams created by American beavers (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.134|Annual conferences of The Wildlife Society (TWS) are important venues to advance wildlife science research through the presentation of papers and posters. However, no longitudinal analysis has been conducted of publication rates of TWS conference presentations. We classified all conference presentations from 1994 to 2006 by publication status, publication outlet, lead author affiliation, and elapsed time between presentation and publication to analyze presentation and publication trends. Of the 6,279 presentations reviewed, 1,771 were published (28.2%), primarily in the
wildsocibull2011.38.1.14|Annual ground surveys of mid-continent waterfowl may provide a monitoring framework for other wetland-associated species. We used a repeated-counts method to estimate detection probabilities (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.142|Considerable discussion and theoretical reviews of forest certification systems have been published that outline the potential impact of forest certification on biodiversity and wildlife habitat. Three common approaches to forest certification used in Canada include the Forest Stewardship Council, the Canadian Standards Association, and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. In this study, I reviewed forest management plans in Ontario, Canada, and compared the plans' potential impact on habitat for 6 species of birds that use mature and older forests: pileated woodpecker (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.148|Natural rock pools, tinajas, and constructed catchments in the Sonoran Desert provide water for a wide variety of organisms. In 2012, we monitored water quality and amphibian and dragonfly use of wildlife waters in southwestern Arizona, USA. We measured ammonia concentrations that exceeded the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's guidelines for aquatic life and were well above concentrations that cause mortality in amphibians and other aquatic organisms. Both amphibians and dragonflies had lower species richness in catchments than in the tinajas, and amphibian species richness was negatively associated with ammonia concentration. These concentrations of ammonia alone cause concern for the management of biodiversity, specifically for wetland-dependent organisms. Furthermore, ammonia concentrations may be high enough to impact terrestrial organisms of economic and conservation importance including humans.
wildsocibull2011.38.1.152|Trapping and handling is stressful for wild animals andmay result in injuries. Minimizing stress and injuries is important not only for the welfare of the animals, but to assure integrity of research using trapped wild animals. By recording injury rates associated with trapping and handling, it is possible to assess the welfare performance of trapping and handling methods. Although the International Organization for Standardization published a standardized scale for the type and severity of injuries caused by trapping and handling (ISO 1999), it does not provide guidelines for acceptable standards of animal welfare; that is left to the researchers themselves to determine. The purpose of this paper is to measure the level of injury to wild squirrels caused by trapping and handling using minimally disruptive methods. We report our injury rates from several studies conducted in California, USA, that used various trapping and handling methods and the refined procedures we have adopted. Our data set on multiple Sciuridae species provides values for comparison with other studies. We found that using a canvas cover for traps minimized stress and injuries in captured squirrels. We also found that using a cone handling bag minimized handling time and stress associated with handling and eliminated the need for chemical immobilants. Further, we found that covering the animals' eyes during handling appeared to reduce visible signs of stress.
wildsocibull2011.38.1.160|We evaluated a cable neck-restraint for live capture of coyotes (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.165|Low lamb recruitment is a major challenge facing managers attempting to mitigate the decline of bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.175|Lethal removal by trapping is frequently the most cost- and time-effective means for managing wild pigs (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.18|More people feed birds and other wildlife than hunt and fish combined. Despite its popularity, many bird-feeding traditions lack scientific data. We examined seed and feeder use by wild birds in the United States and Canada, and how seed use may change by season and geographic region. Between 2005 and 2008, 173 individuals from 38 states and 3 provinces in Canada made 20,077, 45-minute observations at bird feeders, recording 106 species and 1,282,424 bird visits. Of the 10 seed types most commonly used in bird seed blends, 3 are most attractive to birds: black-oil sunflower, medium sunflower chips, and white proso millet. Other seeds such as red milo are less attractive. Chickadees (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.182|The distribution of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem grizzly bear (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.188|The whooping crane (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.196|Using photographs to identify individual animals and monitor populations is becoming more common. However, photographic identification methods where measurements of morphological traits (e.g., horn length) are compared have received little attention. We present an approach for aiding with the identification of individual animals from photographs. The approach incorporates measurement data, metadata from photographs, and multiple sources of error, and calculates a matching score between pairs of photographs using a likelihood-based algorithm. We tested and identified the false-rejection error rate using 91 photographs, representing 33 known free-ranging bison (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.2|In many states, case law, statutes, or constitutions establish a public trust in wildlife, a derivative of the public trust doctrine. Although interpretation differs across jurisdictions, the underlying principle of wildlife as a public trust resource, explicitly expressed or not, carries with it broad obligations and standards of trust administration by government to ensure benefits of wildlife are available to all citizens, present and future. The standards for execution of responsibilities by trustees (elected officials or their appointees, such as commissions) and trust managers (e.g., wildlife professionals working for state wildlife agencies) require understanding beneficiaries' varied interests in the wildlife resource, which in turn requires effective public input and involvement, following the precepts of good governance, such as inclusiveness, openness, fairness, transparency, and accountability. Managing wildlife resources as public trust assets entails providing sustainable net benefits from the existence of wildlife and its co-existence with humans. Wildlife managers need an approach to wildlife management that is philosophically consistent with the benefitsproduction focus of trust administration. We explain that impacts management is such an approach, essentially tailor-made for fulfilling trust-management responsibilities because of its focus on diverse, stakeholder-value-defined outcomes (desired impacts) and its reliance on stakeholders' input for identifying and weighing competing outcomes desired by them. Impacts management is a wildlife resource management approach for providing sustainable, highly relevant public trust administration.
wildsocibull2011.38.1.205|The individual identification of animals from photographs is increasingly used to obtain density estimates not only for animals with distinct natural markings but also for species with little or no distinct markings, such as coyotes (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.211|The barred owl (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.217|Sodium cyanide (NaCN) ejectors for coyotes (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.26|The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service conducts an annual Waterfowl Parts Collection Survey to estimate composition of harvested waterfowl by species, sex, and age (i.e., juv or ad). The survey relies on interpretation of duck wings by a group of experienced biologists at annual meetings (hereafter, flyway wingbees). Our objectives were to estimate accuracy of age assignment at flyway wingbees and to explore how accuracy rates may influence bias of age composition estimates. We used banded mallards (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.33|Managers of commercial forests are increasingly expected to incorporate conservation of biodiversity in forest management plans, but a paucity of information exists regarding herpetofaunal responses to mid-rotation release practices of dormant-season prescribed fire and selective herbicide in intensively managed pine (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.43|Adult gopher tortoises (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.51|We conducted feeding experiments on Canadian Inuit sled dogs (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.60|We report the first abundance and density estimates for American black bears (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.71|We documented the temporal and demographic recovery of a black bear (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.78|There is a trade-off between the frequency of telemetry locations (fix interval) and battery life when using Global Positioning System (GPS) collars. In general, decreasing the fix interval lowers the effective battery life of the collar. However, the strong relationship between fix interval and movement metrics is often underappreciated. Mean movement rates, maximum movement rates, total distance estimates, and some screening algorithms change dramatically with different fix intervals, particularly for highly mobile animals such as caribou (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.89|One tool used for wildlife management is the deployment of radiocollars to gain knowledge of animal populations. Understanding the influence of individual factors (e.g., species, collar characteristics) and landscape characteristics (e.g., forested cover, shrubs, and fencing) on retention of expandable radiocollars for ungulates is important for obtaining empirical data on factors influencing ecology of young-of-the-year ungulates. During 20012009, we captured and radiocollared 198 white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.9|Environmental contaminants such as dichloro diphenyl trichloroethane (DDT), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and mercury are associated with physiological problems in wildlife. DDT and PCBs were banned in North America in the 1970s, but these contaminants sometimes persist in the environment and can cause reproductive problems, including eggshell thinning. In contrast, mercury deposition from anthropogenic sources is a continuing if not growing concern globally. We measured thickness of common goldeneye (
wildsocibull2011.38.1.96|Visually estimating age of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.221|Intensive grazing by Atlantic Flyway Resident Population Canada geese (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.229|Tidal freshwater marshes of the Maurice River, New Jersey, USA, have been long renowned for robust stands of wild rice (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.237|LiDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) is an emerging remote-sensing tool that can provide fine-scale data describing vertical complexity of vegetation relevant to species that are responsive to forest structure. We used LiDAR data to estimate occupancy probability for the federally threatened marbled murrelet (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.250|As technology and energy development increase, undeveloped land and land traditionally used for agriculture now host structures not part of the historical landscape. These structures (e.g., communication towers, transmission lines) are taller than many objects in natural landscapes. Concerns have been raised regarding the effects of tall structures on birds, primarily functional habitat loss due to avoidance. Two hypotheses have been advanced to explain observed patterns of birds near tall structures: increased perceived predation risk and neophobia. We examined the literature (19692013) and used a vote-counting methodology to document 1) the reported direction (positive or negative) of a potential tall-structure effect, 2) whether the effect of tall structures can be isolated from other effects of development, 3) whether the study design lent itself to drawing a supportable conclusion, and 4) whether the authors suggested a causal mechanism for any observed pattern. We did not detect any consistent response to tall structures, nor did we find evidence to support the two hypotheses. In addition, a structure's tallness could not be isolated from other factors associated with development such as human activity. Understanding causal mechanisms is important for management and conservation because observed effects might not be related to the tallness of the structure but to other factors that could be managed, such as timing of construction. Our results suggest that the effect of tall structures on birds is not well understood, and focused studies that examine before-andafter effects and specific causal mechanisms are needed to support effective project siting and conservation planning.
wildsocibull2011.38.2.257|Native herbaceous vegetation cover along row-crop field edges (i.e., field buffers) increases breeding densities of many bird species. However, the effect of field buffers on bird species during the nonbreeding season is less understood. We compared density, avian richness, and avian conservation value on row-crop fields containing buffers strategically designed for wildlife versus fields without buffers in 3 southeastern U.S. states during winter 2007 and 2008. Fields with buffers were enrolled in U.S. Department of Agriculture, Conservation Reserve Program practice Habitat Buffers for Upland Birds (CP33), which targets restoration of northern bobwhite (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.265|Closed-canopy, upland hardwood forests with limited understory development provide suboptimal habitat for wild turkey (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.273|Age classification is important in understanding aspects of population productivity and dynamics, and making informed harvest management decisions. Since 1994 the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has, via the Parts Collection Survey, annually collected a wing from a sample of hunter-harvested band-tailed pigeons (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.279|Oak wilt is a fatal forest disease caused by the fungus
wildsocibull2011.38.2.288|Research suggests the presence of oak wilt in Ashe juniperoak (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.297|We tested a recent Habitat Suitability Index (HSI) model proposed for the Swainson's warbler (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.305|Relative nestling condition, typically measured as nestling mass or as an index including nestling mass, is commonly purported to correlate with fledgling songbird survival. However, most studies directly investigating fledgling survival have found no such relationship. We weighed feces and stomach contents of nestling golden-winged warblers (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.311|Wildlifeaircraft collisions (wildlife strikes) with civilian and military aircraft pose notable risks and economic losses. The 4 military services within the U.S. Department of Defense maintain records regarding wildlife strikes with military aircraft. Although rotary-wing aircraft operations comprise important mission components within all 4 military services, no assessment of wildlife strikes to military rotary-wing aircraft has been conducted. The objectives of this project were to 1) conduct a comprehensive analysis of data available from all military services regarding wildlife strikes with rotary-wing aircraft, and 2) provide recommendations to reduce the frequency and negative impacts of these strikes. We acquired all available wildlife strike records and parsed our database to include only wildlife strikes to military rotary-wing aircraft occurring within the contiguous United States, Alaska, Hawaii, or within near-shore areas along the coasts. We assessed the effects of year, month, time of day, event location (i.e., on-or off-airfield), and wildlife group involved on the frequency of wildlife strikes with rotary-wing aircraft. The frequency of wildlife strikes was highest during autumn (SeptNov; 41.6% of all strikes) and lowest during winter (DecFeb; 10.4%). Wildlife strikes occurred most often when aircraft were traveling en route (38.3%) or were engaged in terrain flight (28.9%). Raptors and vultures were commonly associated with wildlife strikes that caused damage to aircraft. Wildlife strikes to military rotary-wing aircraft during flight operations within the United States are both costly (averaging US$12,184$337,281/strike event among the military services) and deadly (2 pilots were killed). Published 2014. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.
wildsocibull2011.38.2.321|Respiratory disease epidemics are considered a primary factor limiting bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.332|Eighteen bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.341|Cougar (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.348|Observation bias from methodological inconsistencies plague many long-term ecological monitoring studies, leaving land managers to question the validity of apparent population trends over time. Furthermore, some species are cryptic and have low detectability, so assessments are naturally imprecise. We assessed the utility of aerial surveys for woodland caribou from 1972 to 2009 at a Canadian national park in detecting a reliable population trend for this threatened species. The surveys varied in flight patterns, total distance flown, observer experience, speed, altitude, timing, temperature, and snow depth. Of these, distance and the speed/altitude index influenced the population estimates, whereas no variables influenced the calf: female ratio or winter range size. Year was included in all plausible models for population estimates, and the majority of plausible models for calf:female ratio and winter range size. Population size, recruitment and winter range size all declined over time in the respective models with the lowest AIC
wildsocibull2011.38.2.358|Mule deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.366|Invasive Burmese pythons (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.370|During the summer of 2008, 6 documented attacks and close encounters with brown bears (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.377|In 1995, California established the first conservation banking program in the United States to provide a new financial mechanism to conserve wildlife and natural communities in rapidly developing regions. Conservation banks are lands protected and managed for conservation of species of concern. Developers may purchase species credits from a conservation bank to offset adverse impacts of development at another site. Conservation banks facilitate pooling of mitigation resources from multiple development projects to protect planned habitat reserves of greater ecological value than can be achieved with project-byproject mitigation. In this study, we conducted the first ever assessment of the ecological performance of the California Conservation Banking Program. Specifically, we investigated to what extent conservation banks contribute to achieving regional conservation objectives.We hypothesized that conservation banks within a region should have similarly high ecological values if they are appropriately evaluated and prioritized based on principles of conservation planning. We created a new ecological value metric to evaluate and rank conservation banks and used it to compare potential conservation banks or reserves within a region. We found the ecological value of banks within regions varied and concluded that maximizing the ecological contribution of conservation banks requires prioritization of lands for potential bank sites and reserves. Our analysis identified circumstances where conservation banking is not an appropriate mitigation mechanism to protect rare species and natural communities. We concluded that limited funding for conservation planning should be directed toward regions where species of concern are wide-ranging, biodiversity is highly variable, threats to species of concern are highly varied, and there are many potential conservation bank sites.
wildsocibull2011.38.2.386|The need for wildlife climate change vulnerability and sensitivity assessments has increased over the past decade. Use of these assessments by wildlife and land managers has increased due to concern for potential effects of climate change on species and landscapes. Although many approaches exist for assessing sensitivity and vulnerability to climate change, little is known about the similarity of results between methods. We compared outputs of 3 widely available assessments for the western United States: the NatureServe Climate Change Vulnerability Index, the U.S. Forest Service System for Assessing the Vulnerability of Species, and the Climate Change Sensitivity Database. We performed a broad categorical comparison and examined correlations across rankings to compare assessment outputs. We found little agreement in species rankings between pairs of assessments. There is no apparent pattern within, or between, taxa or habitat associations that could explain this poor correlation. Disparities likely result from differences in question format, choice of data input, or how vulnerability or sensitivity is calculated. Consideration of vulnerability quantification is needed, particularly regarding species sensitivity and adaptive capacity, because of limited understanding of species and community responses to climate exposure. Our results indicate it is extremely important to be aware of the specific goal and the quality, quantity, and variety of data used in each individual assessment in order to adequately use these assessments as tools for management planning. With the increasing need to include climate change scenarios in management actions and decisions, we suggest that increased cooperation among assessment developers could greatly aid in eliminating this discrepancy.
wildsocibull2011.38.2.395|The plenary theme at the 2008 annual conference of The Wildlife Society was, Thriving within limits: toward a scenario of hope. Wildlife professionals are still grappling with how wildlife management relates to sustainability as global limits, especially energy, become more obvious in affecting resource management. Sustainability as used in this paper is derived from the commonly cited, Brundtland Report definition of sustainable development as, development thatmeets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Further, it is activity that simultaneously addresses the interlinked aspects of economy, environment, and social well-being. To be effective in the future, natural resources agencies and organizations (NGOs) will be compelled to 1) reduce energy use by increasing efficiency of unavoidable uses and reducing optional energy uses; 2) anticipate how energy costs will affect resource use by various stakeholders; and 3) mitigate climate change by reducing combustion processes and thereby greenhouse gases. Because of their fundamental missions, natural resource entities have a special obligation to employ exemplary conservation practices. Challenges are great, but opportunities are significant. Higher fuel costs will constrain some management practices, but may limit further development of more rural and underdeveloped lands, thereby reducing habitat fragmentation and often wildlife damage complaints. Will energy costs promote smaller vehicles, reduction of some management practices, greater focus on recreational areas closer to population centers, consolidation of offices with other entities, and more video-conferencing of meetings? Will wildlife management be effectively integrated into landscapes where energy crops are produced along with food and where life-cycle analysis measures the full ecological footprint of land management? Agencies and NGOs can partner with stakeholders to design landscape use that is more sustainable (less pollution, conserving of energy and soil, more biologically diverse), provides better connections to nature, and enhances overall resource conservation. Educational institutions have a critical role because they are instrumental in preparing future resource managers.
wildsocibull2011.38.2.401|Handling songbird nestlings is often necessary to investigate a variety of basic and applied research questions, but this may also introduce observer effects that could compromise indices of reproductive success. To test for potential observer effects while measuring nestling condition in a study population of dickcissels (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.407|Recent advances in animal tracking technology have increased interest in the field of animal movement ecology. Numerous methods have been developed to extract information from animal movement paths that can be used to link movement behavior to external stimuli such as habitat and climatic conditions. Given the recent development of Global Positioning System (GPS) technology suitable for use on wild turkeys (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.414|Declines in Allegheny woodrat (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.419|Population monitoring requires techniques that produce estimates with low bias and adequate precision. Distance sampling using ground-based thermal infrared imaging (ground imaging) and spotlight surveys is commonly used to estimate population densities of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.428|During a study of least chipmunks (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.433|Necklace-style radiotransmitters are widely used in galliform research and management, but their influence on galliform flushing behavior has not been evaluated. We evaluated the hypothesis that greater sage-grouse (
wildsocibull2011.38.2.439|We compared 2 net-propelled devices to capture eastern wild turkeys (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.445|This year marks the 100th anniversary of the passenger pigeon's (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.451|Urbanization and other threats to hunting culture have inspired growth in research that addresses the role of hunting in western society today. This literature addresses the juxtaposition of non-subsistence hunting and modern western models of wildlife management associated with either the public trust doctrine or market economics. Insights for understanding this juxtaposition can be drawn from the historical efforts to frame hunting as a symbolic, versus subsistence, activity in ancient Hellenic (Greek) culture. For the ancient Hellenes, hunting offered the opportunity to acquire edification, test skills, and to enjoy a feeling of freedom, and did so for all citizens, even for women. Edification meant more than knowledge about hunting to the ancient Hellenes. It referred to respect for the purity of nature and a hunting ethic, and strict adherence to hunting norms. Testing skills dictated fair chase, where tools and techniques used should not eliminate the need for physical and mental dexterity. Feeling of freedom meant that hunters became useful for themselves and for society through skills acquired by hunting; a modern society might define this as self-sufficiency or independence, which contributes to a greater societal good. These symbolic dimensions of hunting developed in ancient Hellas could provide guidelines for the social identity that hunters hope to develop in our modern world by improving hunting education, promotion, and management.
wildsocibull2011.38.3.458|We used both experimental and observational approaches to investigate sub-lethal effects of capture and radiocollaring on pygmy rabbits (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.466|Historically distributed throughout North America, most populations of elk (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.473|Many soybean (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.480|Although many aspects of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.486|Feral wild boar (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.495|The Amur tiger (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.503|Wildlife management can be for conservation, sustainable utilization, and pest control. This study describes broad-scale patterns in the annual population growth rate (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.513|Successful recovery of populations of rare and cryptic species requires accurate monitoring of changes in their distribution and densities, which in turn necessitates considering detection rates. Development of population monitoring protocols is needed to aid recovery of the New England cottontail (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.524|The European wild rabbit (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.530|Pitfall-trapping used in conjunction with drift-fence arrays is a common and effective means for detecting herpetofauna and small terrestrial mammals. A concern when using less-selective trapping methods is the impact of capture on target and non-target species. We compared capture and mortality rates of non-target species during a herpetofaunal study of temporary wetlands on forested lands in Mississippi, USA, March 2004March 2006. We compared rates from pitfall traps, double-ended funnel traps, and pitfall traps combined with anti-predator wire exclusions along drift-fence arrays in 4 isolated upland and 6 floodplain ephemeral pools. We monitored traps daily for 23 510-day trap periods over a 2-year period. We captured 10 small mammal species (216 captures) on upland sites and 8 species (256 captures) on floodplain sites. Southern short-tailed shrews (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.536|We flew aerial line-transect surveys to estimate the range-wide population size of lesser prairie-chickens (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.547|Annual productivity of great gray owls (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.557|Satellite telemetry has become a leading method for studying large-scale movements and survival in birds, yet few have addressed potential effects of the larger and heavier tracking equipment on study subjects. We simultaneously evaluated effects of satellite telemetry equipment on captive and wild mallards (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.566|Historically, biologists used brood-pair ratios (BPRs) as an index to waterfowl productivity to help guide management decisions and evaluate conservation practices. However, BPRs are biased by imperfect detection probabilities, especially for broods. We conducted roadside surveys for breeding waterfowl pairs on 78 study sites in the springs of 20062008 in northeastern North Dakota, USA. Later each year, we conducted replicate counts of broods on the same wetlands and used markrecapture methods to estimate sightability-adjusted BPRs (SA-BPRs). Traditional roadside brood surveys detected only 3045% of the available broods, depending on species. We explored the potential for using SA-BPRs to measure hen success (i.e., the probability a female hatches 1 egg across all nesting attempts) for mallards (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.574|Although grassland birds are declining throughout their North American range, and these declines are associated with agricultural land conversion or intensification, no broad-scale market-based conservation plan has been enacted. This gap is especially apparent in the northeastern United States, where remnant grassland habitat is predominantly on privately owned agricultural lands. However, in this region, dairy cow-based agriculture has also declined significantly. I explored the relationship between grassland-bird declines and dairy cow-based agriculture from 1966 to 2007. The declining number of dairy farms and increasing human population best explained variation in population trends for 4 of 6 grassland-bird species. Bird population trends were not explained by the total amount of corn acres, number of pasturegrazing farms, or the average farm size. I suggest a long-term conservation method using buy local campaigns where the local community supports a spatially linked network of cow-based farms, in part because these farms support grassland birds
wildsocibull2011.38.3.580|The baited hoop-net is one of the most heavily used sampling tools for monitoring freshwater turtle populations. In the past several years, we have published a series of studies that tested potential biases associated with this sampling method. For this paper, we used a new experiment to directly test the influence of trap-mouth opening size on both captures and escapes. We also summarized the results from previous studies to direct future research on this topic and provide a useful guide for managers and researchers using this sampling device. In our experiment during May 2013 in Texas, USA, we found that traps with larger mouth-openings were more efficient at capturing turtles, while escapes were minimal for both mouth sizes. Thus, at least within the boundaries we tested here, increasing mouth-opening size is an effective way to increase captures without introducing biases caused by differential escape probabilities.
wildsocibull2011.38.3.586|The golden-winged warbler (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.591|We conducted a field study to compare the effectiveness of acoustic recordings coupled with automated sound recognition versus traditional point counts in terms of their relative abilities to detect 3 bird species-at-risk in southwestern Ontario, Canada. The comparison was made in 50 woodlots, each of which contained a standard Forest Bird Monitoring Program plot of 5 point-count stations. An automated recording device was present at one of the point-count stations. We found that the automated recording and analysis system worked at least as well as the more traditional point-count method in identifying woodlots containing acadian flycatcher (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.599|Methods for accurately determining pair status of male ducks during the breeding season are necessary for further understanding the roles of paired and unpaired males in waterfowl breeding populations. Previous studies assigned pair status based on behavioral observations of randomly captured and marked birds, but this method limits control over sample sizes of paired and unpaired individuals. We evaluated 8 criteria for determining breeding-pair status (i.e., paired, unpaired) of male mallards (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.605|The capture of birds is a common part of many avian studies but often requires large investments of time and resources. We developed a novel technique for capturing gulls during the non-breeding season using a net launcher that was effective and efficient. The technique can be used in a variety of habitats and situations, including urban areas. Using this technique, we captured 1,326 gulls in 125 capture events from 2008 to 2012 in Massachusetts, USA. On average, 10 ring-billed gulls (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.611|Control of brown-headed cowbirds (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.619|When evaluating richness and diversity of small mammal communities, it is important to consider the impact that trap efficacy may have on these indices. The objectives of our study were to determine species-specific trap efficacy relative to Sherman traps and pitfall traps, assess the impact of trap efficacy on measures of species richness and diversity, and compare mortality rates between trap types and whether pitfall covers reduce trap mortality. In the summers of 2009 and 2010, we trapped throughout Wisconsin, USA, in 5 vegetation communities. We used 180 transects (190 m long) of 20 Sherman live traps spaced every 10m and 10 pitfall traps spaced every 20 m for 4 consecutive nights. We trapped 3,261 small mammals of 23 species in 34,235 combined trap-nights. Pitfall traps were more effective at capturing shrews and voles, whereas Sherman traps captured more mice (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.628|The pocket gopher (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.634|As a result of the increasing popularity of remotely triggered (trail) cameras among hunters, amateur naturalists, and field biologists, a large variety of equipment and technologies have become available. Among various models of cameras, such features as the size of detection zone, trigger speed, and sensitivity of infrared-motion detector can influence performance, including animal detection rates. Variation in detection (or photographic) rates among cameras may be problematic in studies where several models of cameras are used, especially when performance differences are not incorporated in the study design. To evaluate this potential source of sampling bias, we conducted head-to-head field trials with 2 cameras (Cuddeback
wildsocibull2011.38.3.639|Population assessment is a primary component of ungulate management, but managers are continuously under pressure to reduce survey cost. Another concern in aerial surveys is accounting for undetected animals (i.e., visibility bias). Currently, a stratified random block-survey design (hereafter, block-surveys) is used to develop moose (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.650|Duration of efficacy and prevalence of side-effects associated with GonaCon Immunocontraceptive Vaccine (GonaCon) in free-ranging female elk (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.657|Use of global positioning system (GPS) transmitters provides opportunities to evaluate ecological questions associated with fine-scale animal movements. One important application is to evaluate how animals acclimate to new surroundings after translocation. Our objective was to quantify temporal acclimation for low-elevation, non-migratory bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.38.3.664|Use of naturally occurring stable isotopes to estimate assimilated diet of bears is one of the single greatest breakthroughs in nutritional ecology during the past 20 years. Previous research in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE), USA, established a positive relationship between the stable isotope of sulfur (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.672|Resource management agencies must be able to integrate current research into their decision-making to effectively address climate change impacts. In this study, we investigated the capacity for climate-adaptive management by surveying the community of researchers, administrators, and field managers who are responsible for wildlife conservation in the state of Wisconsin, USA. We specifically measured differences in how these sectors perceive climate change risk, communicate, and make decisions to represent barriers in how they transmit and use research. We frame these barriers within the literature on evidence-based and adaptive management and risk psychology, as principles that underlie climate change adaptation. Almost all respondents agreed that the climate is changing (223/224), but 22% of the respondents were unsure whether climate change is negative for wildlife and field managers dominated this group (68%). Field managers also reported using components of adaptive management more frequently than did other sectors, but all three questioned the importance of one specific component: predicting the consequence of management before implementation. When seeking information, researchers preferred communicating via published literature, but managers and administrators reported a preference for in-person communication. Although only 29% of the respondents were currently involved in climate change work, 77% said they would get involved without additional incentives or direction at work. These results confirm a common pattern of barriers between research and management sectors across all scales of decision-making. Overall, results suggest that in-person and problem-based communication that is focused on real decisions and that utilizes social networks are a way to enable resource management communities to effectively confront these barriers.
wildsocibull2011.38.4.682|We used >40 years of data on golden eagles (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.689|Predation risk has a profound influence on prey behavior and habitat use. The Rio Grande Plains ecoregion of Texas, USA, provides a unique opportunity to investigate changes in prey behavior because the ecoregion experiences a high influx of raptors every year during autumn migration. We used an 8-year data set (20002008) of radiocollared northern bobwhites (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.697|We summarized the cause of death for 2,980 bald eagles (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.705|The use of private land by owls has long been of interest to wildlife managers in the Sierra Nevada, California, USA, because private lands could contribute to owl conservation if it is used extensively. Therefore, we studied the use of private lands for foraging by 14 California spotted owls (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.710|Greater sage-grouse (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.721|Greater sage-grouse (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.728|We expanded the Nebraska Light Goose Conservation Order (LGCO) harvest survey (NE, USA) in spring 2012 to assess migratory bird hunter opinions regarding future management strategies for controlling light goose populations. Although hunters strongly agreed that population control of light geese was an important wildlife management issue, they were generally unsupportive of wildlife officials using forms of direct control methods to control light goose populations. Respondents who indicated participation in the 2012 LGCO were also less supportive of any form of direct control compared with migratory bird hunters who did not participate in the LGCO. When presented with alternative methods by wildlife officials for future light goose population control, respondents were most supportive of wildlife agencies selectively shooting light geese on migration and wintering areas and least supportive of wildlife officials using bait with approved chemicals to euthanize light geese. A clear understanding of public perception of various potential direct-control options will likely assist wildlife biologists in making informed decisions on how to proceed with population control of light geese.
wildsocibull2011.38.4.734|Achieving an adequate hunter harvest of game animals that meets wildlife-disease management objectives is a challenge if hunters perceive too few animals relative to expectations. Persuasive communication is a strategy commonly used to influence human perceptions, attitudes, and behaviors in public health. Research on effectiveness of persuasive communication in the context of wildlife-disease management is limited, however, which reduces the utility of communication as a management option. To gain insight into the effectiveness of persuasion in wildlife management, we experimentally evaluated a communication campaign aimed at influencing hunters' perceptions and behavioral intentions to harvest more antlerless white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.741|Artificial roosts designed to attract bats have been used to increase populations, aid seed dispersal, and control insects. More important from a conservation perspective, artificial roosts provide habitat where natural roosts have been lost. Although artificial roosts have been widely used, much of the information on species that use artificial roosts, roost design, and placement is anecdotal and poorly reported. We reviewed the existing literature on artificial roosts to summarize current research and inform research and management decisions. From 47 publications and reports, we identified 48 types of structures used by 59 species. Roosts were constructed from wood (66.7%), concrete (8.3%), or other materials (25.0%) and varied in size and shape from small-volume wood boxes (0.002 m
wildsocibull2011.38.4.752|Sex and age data are fundamental vital statistics used to characterize wildlife populations, often integral to models used to assess population responses to harvest or make other management decisions. Misidentification errors could ultimately result in poor management decisions by misrepresenting harvest or population structure. We compared field examination and genetic identification of sex of bobcats (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.757|Despite the absence of direct observation of live foxes in the Tasmanian environment, a recent study concluded that foxes are now widespread on the island and proposed a habitat-specific model incorporating 9 cases of physical evidence presumed to confirm their unique presence. We briefly review the history of fox incursions into Tasmania and then assess the quality of putative physical evidence against a defined evidentiary standard. Overall, 14 of 17 incidents described since 1998 were associated with between 1 and 4 criteria indicative of unreliable data or were not associated with adequately documented physical evidence. Anonymous and anecdotal information was fully or partially relied upon in 10 of 17 cases and of these 5 were widely acknowledged to be hoaxes. We conclude that opportunistically acquired evidence is a poor substitute for data obtained by properly designed and independent wildlife surveys for confirming unique fox incursions and as the basis of ecological models predicting true habitat-specific fox distribution. Species rarity decreases the reliability of wildlife surveys and population models; thus validation of unique incursions in particular requires appropriate rigor in evidentiary standards and data quality. Precautionary management that may be considered in response to uncertain information, or opportunistically collected specimens of doubtful provenance, does not imply that such information should be treated as scientific data. We suggest that an eradication program is justified as a precautionary measure only after rigorous qualitative analysis reveals data capable of rejecting the null hypothesis that the species of interest is absent.
wildsocibull2011.38.4.767|The ability of physically restrained and anesthetized wolves to thermoregulate is lessened and could lead to reduced survival, yet no information is available about this subject. Therefore, we analyzed rectal temperatures related to survival 1 year post-capture from 173 adult (non-pup) gray wolves (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.773|Long-term effects of anthropogenic disturbance to wildlife, and whether such effects have population-level consequences, often are difficult to determine. In 1996, a recreational hiking trail (Maah Daah Hey Trail [Trail]) was constructed by the U.S. Forest Service through 4 geographic areas, each occupied by a distinct sub-population of bighorn sheep (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.783|Humanbear conflicts may contribute to population declines of Asiatic black bears (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.791|Population estimates of tigers (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.797|Large carnivores are considered a primary source of mortality for many ungulate populations, but harvest by hunters is the primary means of population management. However, research is needed to evaluate how human predation risk influences observability (a surrogate to harvest susceptibility) of ungulates. We determined how hunting intensity and duration influence observation rates of white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.806|Evaluating how management practices influence the population dynamics of ungulates may enhance future management of these species. For example, in mule deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.812|White-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.821|We surveyed random and convenience samples of Louisiana, USA, waterfowl hunters after the 20092010 season, and asked identical questions about waterfowl-hunting effort, success, satisfaction, regulatory alternatives, and demographics. We received 727 usable responses to our random mail survey, and 949 usable responses to an on-line web survey that was accessible to the general public. Compared with the random mail survey, respondents to the web survey hunted more frequently, harvested more waterfowl, and placed greater importance on waterfowl hunting. However, we noted similarities in attitudes toward regulatory alternatives across survey methods. Binary logistic regression of 13 variables measuring effort, success, satisfaction, and demographics accurately predicted the survey method of 75.5% of respondents. Similar analysis of 10 variables measuring attitudes toward regulatory alternatives categorized only 63.1% of the respondents into their correct survey mode, and failed to meet conservative standards for predictive accuracy. Polar reclassification of attitudinal responses into bichotomous categories led to identical managerial conclusions, irrespective of survey method. Based on our results, we believe responses from the random mail survey more accurately represent the demographics, effort, and success of Louisiana waterfowl hunters; however, the attitudes of respondents did not differ between random mail and convenience web samples, especially in regard to regulatory alternatives. The ease and low cost of web surveys are important advantages over traditional mail surveys. We suggest survey methodology be carefully linked to survey objectives, and that open web surveys may be used to supplement random surveys in investigations of stakeholder attitudes to inform development of natural resource policy.
wildsocibull2011.38.4.827|Automated sound broadcast systems have been used to address a variety of ecological questions, and show great potential as a management tool. Such systems need to be reliable because treatments are often applied in the absence of a human observer and system failure can cause methodological ambiguity. During the breeding seasons of 2012 and 2013, we used a sound broadcast system previously described by Farrell and Campomizzi (2011) in an experiment evaluating the use of post-breeding song in forest-bird habitat selection in southern Indiana, USA. This system incorporates a portable compact disc (CD) player where the play button is permanently depressed using manual compression so that when a timer connects an electrical current to the unit, the CD player automatically starts. Despite exhaustive efforts to find a reliable way to manually compress the play button on numerous CD player models, play button failure was the most significant source of broadcast system failure (88%) in 2012. We attempted to resolve this problem in 2013 by removing the need for manual compression and soldering the play button contact poles on each CD players' integrated circuit boards. Though we did experience broadcast system failures during <5% of treatment periods in 2013, none of those were attributable to play button failure. By removing all possibility of failure from manual play button compression we improved our system reliability. Thus, soldering the CD player play button on such broadcast systems represents a methodological improvement that can be used by researchers and managers interested in sound broadcast.
wildsocibull2011.38.4.831|We tested whether temperature loggers (iButtons
wildsocibull2011.38.4.837|Little is known of the greater roadrunner's (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.842|The Sonoran pronghorn (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.849|The age structure of harvested animals provides the basis for many demographic analyses. Ages of harvested white-tailed deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.857|We present the retention rate of expandable radiocollars that can be used on juvenile cervids. These collars permit investigations into a previously understudied segment of cervid populations. We captured 60 male sika deer (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.862|The bush dog (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.874|Age estimates are often needed to make good management decisions. We assessed the accuracy and precision of the cementum annuli analysis (CAA) technique for aging coyotes (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.878|Management of wolves (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.884|Thermal imagery is a relatively new technology to the wildlife field. Researchers have begun testing whether this tool can be used to increase detection rates for various wildlife species. Little research has been conducted on roost-site selection of eastern wild turkeys (
wildsocibull2011.38.4.887|Camera traps have increased our knowledge of animal distribution, activity, and behavior, but they are rarely used for small mammal research. This is likely because there are few techniques to that allow for species identification, reduce disturbance of bait from non-target animals (e.g., raccoon [
wildsocibull2011.38.4.892|Wild pig (
