23416269|An on-going, integrated project concerning modern pollen/vegetation/land-use relationships in south Sweden is outlined. Some preliminary results and their potential uses in palaeoecological reconstructions are discussed. Moss polsters were collected from 92 examples of vegetation/land-use areas of south Sweden (e.g. nonfertilized grazed areas, burned and grazed heaths, traditionally managed fodder-producing meadows, etc.). A total of 23 land-use (e.g. management type) and environment variables (e.g. soil chemistry) is available for 84 sites. The 84 sample data-set was analysed by canonical correspondence analysis and associated statistical testing using Monte Carlo permutation tests to explore and test patterns of modern pollen variation in relation to the environment, and by weighted averaging regression and calibration to derive local-scale environmental and land-use reconstructions from fossil pollen assemblages preserved in a soil profile.
23416270|Palynological studies and investigations on macrofossil remains have been carried out on two profiles of the Holocene sediments of Lake Arkutino situated near to the Black Sea coast of SE Bulgaria. Lake Arkutino is a freshwater lake with shallow water. The lake is separated from the Black Sea by a dune barrier. Sedimentation started at about 6100 B.P. No marine or brackish influence could be traced in the sediments although the lake level is around sea level. The history of vegetation does not display major fluctuations except for the lake vegetation itself and for the swamp forests (Longos forests) surrounding the lake. Forests on normal mineral soils were mainly occupied by deciduous oaks throughout the last 6100 years. Deciduous oaks are represented in the pollen diagrams by the Quercus robur type and the Quercus cerris type. Until about 5800 B.P., one of the two pollen diagrams indicates that forests still contained more Pinus and Corylus than afterwards. After 5800 B.P., Fagus and a hundred years later together with Carpinus betulus became more important in addition with submediterranean elements as Carpinus orientalis, Fraxinus ornus and Phillyrea. After 5200 B.P., Carpinus betulus became somewhat less important. Indicators for human influence are rare. The archaeological record speaks for a small population in the area under study since the 12th century B.C. Swamp forests of the so-called Longos forests type started to develop at about 3000 B.P. The macrofossil record offers possibilities to trace hydrological changes by tracing the history of hydrophyte and reed plant comminties. From about 5100 to at least 4000 B.P., the record for Lemnetea and Potametea communities is poor and the processes of terrestrialization was interrupted. It can be assumed that the highest Black Sea transgression which is dated to 5700-4000 B.P. and which showed a sea level 3-4 m higher than today heavily influenced Lake Arkutino. That may have resulted in a higher lake level and in some water supply from the nearby river Ropotamo which would explain certain changes in the sediments and in the composition of hydrophyte communities.
23416271|Palynological records from the annually laminated sediments of Lake Gosciaz are presented for the period ca. 7600-3900 conventional B.P. Indications in percentage and influx diagrams of Mesolithic and Early Neolithic human impact on the natural environment around the lake are discussed and compared with the archaeological evidence. The first indications of human disturbance start at ca. 6700 B.P. and in the following period four disturbance phases with interruptions are distinguished. A relationship between the Elm Decline and an increasing thickness of annual sediment layers as a consequence of increased soil erosion is suggested. Some hitherto unrecognized or incompletely known microfossils are identified and figured, and their palaeoecological significance is discussed. The records of akinetes of Aphanizomenon probably indicate increasing eutrophication of the lake. Charred fragments of grass epidermis are possibly indicative of openings in the forest.
23416272|Megaspores, microspores and massulae of the free-floating fern, Azolla nilotica, were found in Late Holocene sediments obtained by coring in the eastern Nile Delta. Nowadays, the nearest station for this fern is southern Sudan. The determination of the species is based on spiny projections on the megaspore body and on the verrucate microspores. Palynological studies reveal that the habitat of the fern consisted of extensive papyrus marshes, now disappeared. Several causes for the disappearance of the fern from the Nile Delta are proposed amongst which the most probable is human influence which has completely modified the vegetation and the hydrology.
23416273|A total of 110 publications of 1989 and 1990 on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected. A list is given of the finds according to species, country and age.
23416221|Sections of two pollarded parkelms (Ulmus glabra) from Damsgaard, Bergen, west Norway have been studied. Changes in annual ring-width are attributed partly to management, namely pollarding, and partly to pathogenic attacks, probably by Ceratocystis ulmi. The oldest attack on the trees dates back to 1826: so far the oldest known record of Dutch elm disease in Norway. Pollarding may be an important factor in attacks by the pathogen within parkelms. A possible relationship between pollarding, the pathogen and the Neolithic elmfall is suggested.
23416222|At present the central part of the Elbe-Saale area is characterized by subcontinental climatic conditions. Palynological investigations at Zschen show that, even in pre-Neolithic times, the composition of the primeval forest in this part of Germany had its own distinctive features. On the basis of the palynological results, the existence of natural steppe Holocene is improbable, the region being covered by forests since ca. 9 500 B.P., i.e. the Preboreal. The appearance of anthropochores or culture dependent plants and the beginning of flood loam sedimentation as a result of soil erosion indicate human impact from ca. 6 000 B.P., i.e. the end of the older Atlantic. At Eilsleben changes of tree and shrub frequencies are combined with the occurrence of anthropogenic indicator herb species. These palynological features suggest agricultural expansion phases that are interrupted by regression phases in the early and middle Neolithic (ca. 6 500-2 500 B.P.).
23416223|The early vegetation history of the island Hailuoto, Finland, was investigated by means of pollen analysis. Pollen diagrams from three shallow peat profiles close to the postulated A.D. 1150 shoreline are interpreted with reference to modern pollen rain values, features indicative of occupation, routeways and cultivation being delimited. The differing settlement histories of the western and eastern parts of the present farmed area are distinguished and explained in terms of the changing coastline and availability of cultivable land. The historical evidence for changes in forest and farming conditions since the 16th century is also compared with the pollen evidence for the same period. Emphasis is placed on methodology and the development of investigation techniques applicable in sparsely settled boreal forest situations.
23416224|Charred cereals were recovered from a Bronze Age storage vessel excavated from a settlement in Menorca. The cereals may have been charred by accident or connected with some ceremony or ritual. Most of the cereal was hulled and naked barley, although a small amount of wheat representing a wide range of different morphologies was also present.
23416225|The value of radiographic investigation of peat cores for detecting deposited mineral particles on peat surfaces in the past is demonstrated. In small peat bogs this mineral deposition often reflects sand erosion associated with human activity in the vicinity of the bog. The technique provides important additional stratigraphic and environmental information. The methods are described and illustrated with reference to investigations of human impact on past vegetation in the area of Kosel, Schleswig-Holstein, Northern Germany. Results of radiography and measurements of ash content are compared with the anthropogenic indicators in the pollen record.
23416226|Pollen analytical results from a littoral profile taken in Lake Constance compared with pollen profiles from small kettle holes nearby form the basis for conclusions concerning human population density, the economy and environment from the Neolithic period to the Middle Ages. Early Neolithic human impact is implicated in a lime decline and also the expansion of beech. The late Neolithic lakeshore settlements caused a decline of elm, beech and lime and, by shifting cultivation, considerably changed the forest cover. The settlements were abandoned after less than 100 years. There were long periods without distinct human impact in the middle and towards the end of the late Neolithic period. Since at least the Late Bronze Age there has been permanent habitation in the region. Human impact was greatest in the High Medieval period and later, and was also substantial in the late La Tne and Roman periods. Distinct declines in human impact can be observed between the La Tne and Roman periods and in the Migration and Merovingian periods. In these intervals, open land and grazed oak forest were replaced by birch and later on by beech forests. The decreases in human impact are not of the same intensity in all diagrams.
23416227|Radiocarbon dates from the terrestrial Weichselian standard profile of Oerel are presented. The end of the Early Weichselian (WE IV, corresponding to isotopic stage 5a) is dated by two independent analyses to around 61 000 years B.P. The two subsequent interstadials, Oerel and Glinde, which have been described from this locality in an earlier publication, are dated to ca. 58 000 - 54 000 B.P. and 51 000 - 48 000 B.P., respectively. The dates of both interstadials are in good agreement with the chronology available from the deep sea record. The chronology of the younger part of the Pleni-Weichselian is briefly reviewed.
23416111|A radiocarbon-dated pollen profile provides the first evidence for the vegetation history of the north-west Burren, a karstic region in Co. Clare, western Ireland. The profile, which spans the period ca. 3200-0 B.P., shows that Corylus was the main woody species and that, apart from the later eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, when woody species were almost totally cleared, it constituted a more important element in the landscape than at present. The data indicate that small populations of Quercus, Fraxinus, Betula, Alnus and possibly Ulmus were also present until at least the mid seventeenth century. Exceptionally high values of Plantago lanceolata (mostly in excess of 20% total terrestrial pollen) suggest intensive pastoral farming over most of the period. Between A.D. 200-580, a lull in activity is recorded during which woody species and, in particular, hazel scrub regenerated. The separation of pollen of cereal origin from large cereal-type pollen produced by non-cultivated grasses proved particularly problematic. Reliance has therefore been placed on the weed pollen flora as a guide to arable activity. This flora indicates that arable farming was of some importance in the Burren from A.D. 1000 onwards. The implications of the various findings for the longer term history of the rarer elements of the Burren flora and the relationship between the pollen record and the archaeological and historical evidence for settlement and land use are discussed.
23416112|During recent years finds from several prehistoric and medieval periods have thrown new light on the history of the spread of rye. It is now proven that wild rye is indigenous to Anatolia and was already domesticated there by the early Neolithic at the beginning of agriculture. Secale migrated to Central Europe as a weed among other cereals, and single grains of weed rye have been recorded there since the early Neolithic. The number of finds increased during the Bronze Age and Iron Age, and the status of rye changed from weed to crop plant, probably in the course of the early Iron Age. This acculturation of Secale cereale in central and eastern Europe was obviously independent of the earlier one in Anatolia. The first stages towards deliberate cultivation happened unintentionally through harvesting close to the ground, so that the rye was permanently represented in the seed corn. From this point rye was able to take advantage of its competitive strength on poor soils and in areas with unfavourable climate. The start of rye as a crop in its own right during the pre-Roman Iron Age and Roman period presumably took place independently in different areas. The expansion of intensive rye cultivation occurred in the Middle Ages. However, new finds from north-west Germany, which are presented here, show that in this area rye has been cultivated as a main crop on poor soils since the Roman period. In two maps all rye finds up to 1000 A.D. are shown, which after critical consideration can be regarded as cultivated rye.
23416113|Charred flower-head remains of Carthamus tinctorius recovered from an Early Bronze Age site in northern Syria indicate that safflower was used as a dye plant. The kernels of Prunus mahaleb probably served as a flavouring agent.
23416114|Palynological data of the marine core M 16415-2 show latitudinal shifts of the northern fringe of the tropical rain forest in north-west Africa during the last 700 ka. Savanna and dry open forest expanded southwards and tropical rain forest expanded northwards during dry and humid periods, respectively. Until 220 ka B.P., the tropical rain forest probably kept its zonal character in West Africa during glacials and interglacials. It is only during the last two glacial periods that the rain forest possibly fragmented into refugia. Throughout the Brunhes chron, pollen and spore transport was mainly by trade winds.
23416115|During the excavation of an early medieval lakeside settlement at Fonyd-Blatelep, Balaton (7th-9th century A.D.), remains of cultivated and wild plants were found in the culture layer. The main cereal crops of the Avar culture were Hordeum, Triticum and Secale. Panicum also played an important role. In addition to the cereals, 13 species of fruit trees were present. It appears that fruit cultivation survived from Roman times into the early medieval period.
23416116|Of the former extensive peat bog in West Friesland, only small, buried and often cutover remains are left, scattered over a wide region. The results of pollen and macrofossil analyses of the most complete peat profile found to date in this district is presented in this paper. The vegetation development during the final stage of marine sedimentation in the vicinity of the analysed profile is reconstructed in some detail, as well as the subsequent formation of the lower layers of the mire, including the ombrotrophic peat. Apart from these aspects, the study also contributes to our knowledge of the Holocene palaeogeography of the coastal region of the Netherlands.
23417098|Archaeobotanical results from the investigations of cereal finds in southwestern Germany and northern Switzerland have been mapped. Seven phases are distinguished, from Roman to early modern (Post-medieval). Methodological problems are discussed concerning sampling, identification, preservation, type of site, feature and assemblage, which influence the representation of the results. The main results are as follows. In the Roman period, Triticum spelta was the main crop, except in the upper Rhine valley (Oberrheinebene) where T. aestivum was more abundant. In the Migration period and Early Medieval period several crops are of similar importance. The reason was a rather simple economic system, a subsistence economy for each village, and perhaps cereal and grassland rotation (Feld-Gras-Wirtschaft). In the High Medieval period, Secale cereale was the dominant grain in the northern part of the region up to the Danube (Donau). In Switzerland, T. spelta dominated. In the landscape in between, from Lake Constance (Bodensee) to the upper Neckar valley, there was a mixture of both. These rather clear spectra, commonly dominated by one cereal species, express the changed economic system: the three field system (Dreifelderwirtschaft) and an increasing role of the market economy. Even in the Late Medieval and Post-medieval periods S. cereale and T. spelta remained the main crops. The present dominance of T. aestivum and Hordeum vulgare is a very recent development, less than a century old. The less important cereals, T. monococcum and Panicum miliaceum, occur regularly until Post-medieval times. T. dicoccum was very rare in this region from the Roman period onwards.
23417099|In June 1988, a 50-m-deep boring was made in the lacustrine infilling of the explosion crater of Ribains (Haute-Loire). On the basis of pollen analyses the following chronology is proposed for this sequence: 0-5.10 m, Holocene and Lateglacial (hiatus); 5.70-17.48 m, last pleniglacial; 17.48-27.70 m, early glacial; 27.70-31.55 m: last interglacial, referred to as the Ribains Interglacial; 31.55-53.50 m, penultimate glaciation. The zone between 32.0 and 22.5 m, corresponding to a thick diatomite layer, provided a detailed record of the last interglacial and the early glacial vegetation succession. This enabled precise correlations with the neighbouring site of Lac du Bouchet and other long European sequences, confirming the proposed chronology. In particular, the temperate phase correlated with the St-Germain I of Grande Pile is well characterized, as at Lac du Bouchet, by the presence of an abrupt cooling corresponding to the Montaigu Event. In contrast, the last pleniglacial deposits contain great amounts of reworked pollen from earlier temperate phases, this making a comparison with Lac du Bouchet impossible. The thick sequence representing the penultimate glaciation is also affected by sediment loss during coring. However, several cold episodes are recorded that are characterized either by a total absence of vegetation or by a treeless steppe vegetation or a Pinus woodland, like the successions observed in the last pleniglacial at Lac du Bouchet. En juin 1988 un sondage de 50 m a t ralis dans les dpts lacustres qui comblent le cratre d'explosion de Ribains (Haute-Loire). Les analyses polliniques conduisent  proposer pour cette squence la chronologie suivante: 0-5,10 m, Holocne et Tardiglaciaire (hiatus); 5,70-17,48 m, dernier Pleniglaciaire; 17,48-27,70 m, glaciaire prcoce; 27,70-31,55 m, dernier Interglaciaire, nomm 'Interglaciaire de Ribains'; 31,55-53,50 m, penultime glaciation. Entre 32,0 et 22,5 m, l'enregistrement des successions de vgtation du dernier interglaciaire et du glaciaire prcoce est excellent car cet intervalle correspond  un pais dpt de diatomites. Ceci permet d'tablir des corrlations prcises avec le site voisin du Lac du Bouchet et avec d'autres longues squences europennes, qui justifient la chronologie adopte. En particulier, la phase tempre corrle avec St-Germain I de la Grande Pile est bien caractrise, comme au Lac du Bouchet, par la prsence d'un court refroidissement abrupt correspondant  l''vnement de Montaigu'. Au contraire, les dpts du dernier plniglaciaire contiennent des quantits importantes de pollen secondaire remani  partir des phases tempres antrieures, rendant impossible toute comparaison avec le Lac du Bouchet. De mme la trs paisse squence correspondant au pnultime glaciaire est perturbe par de nombreuses pertes au sondage. Cependant sont individualiss plusieurs pisodes froids sans vgtation,  vgtation steppique non arbore ou avec boisement en Pinus qui voquent les successions observes dans le dernier plniglaciaire au Lac du Bouchet.
23417100|Pollen analytical investigations have been carried out on the sediments of five profiles from a former lake exposed at the Krlich clay-pit, Middle Rhine region, of Germany, with the aim of clarifying the stratigraphic position of the Krlich Interglacial (Middle Pleistocene) within the European Pleistocene. The pollen sequence starts with a QM (Quercetum mixtum) phase followed by a Carpinus phase. After the interglacial period there are oscillations (Mhlheim I and II Stadials, and the Kettig Interstadial) and the sequence ends with a cold steppe phase. Parallel with these developments, conditions in the lake changed from meso- to eutrophic and back again to meso-oligotrophic. The lake was finally filled in by silty and organic sediments and then covered by loessic material, with evidence for oscillations between limnic and telmatic phases. Numerous macrofossil remains in the interglacial sediments allowed reconstruction of plant communities mainly from the lake itself, but also from the surrounding forests. The pollen analytical results indicate a warm stage that belongs to the Cromerian Complex. That is corroborated by a good conformity with the upper part of the Cromerian interglacial (Rhume Interglacial) from Bilshausen, Lower Saxony, Germany, which is considered to belong to the youngest part of the Cromerian Complex. 40Ar/39Ar laser dates of the Brockentuff (39620 ka), a basaltic tephra deposited during the early QM phase of the same warm stage, enable the interglacial sequence to be correlated with oxygen isotope stage 11. On account of biostratigraphic arguments and old-palaeolithic artefacts within the interglacial sediments, the Krlich Interglacial is considered to have its stratigraphical position between the Cromerian IV (based on the Dutch stratigraphy) and the Holsteinian sensu stricto.
23416027|The economy of predynastic Maadi, situated on a Pleistocene terrace, was largely based upon the exploitation of the Nile valley close by. Wheat and barley were the main crop plants. Melon (Cucumis melo) was also grown, but there is no firm evidence of local pulse crop and flax cultivation. The identification of wheat grains posed problems; it is not clear whether in addition to Triticum dicoccum, free-threshing wheat (T. durum/aestivum) is also represented. Both two-rowed barley (Hordeum distichum) and the six-rowed form (H. vulgare) could be demonstrated. The arable weed flora included Lolium (temulentum), Vicia spp., Rumex (dentatus), Phalaris (paradoxa), Lathyrus hirsuta and Medicago (tuberculata). A concentration of Acacia seeds including pod segments points to the use of Acacia pods for tanning. The Nile valley produced most of the timber used by the Maadi inhabitants: Acacia, Tamarix, Salix. Scarce remains of coniferous wood (Cedrus, Juniperus, Pinus) are evidence of foreign trade.
23416028|The results of pollen analyses from the top 8 m of sediment retrieved from Quidenham Mere, Norfolk, UK are presented. These, together with the results of charcoal analyses and the numerical classification of the pollen and spore taxa into 'recurrent groups' using simple discriminant function analysis, are used to reconstruct the vegetation history of the Quidenham Mere catchment over approximately the last 8000 years and to infer anthropogenic effects on the landscape. After some minor woodland clearance in the Bronze Age and further clearance in the Iron Age, it was only in the Anglo-Saxon period that most of the woodland was cleared. Although arable farming was important, it appears that there was also a considerable amount of land used for grazing, with grazed woodland and wood pasture. Towards the top of the sequence, within the past 200 years, there is evidence of the foundation and development of the Quidenham Hall parkland adjacent to the site, with the planting of native and exotic species of trees. A comparison is made between the vegetation histories and anthropogenic effects on the landscapes of Quidenham Mere and Diss Mere, a similar lake about 10 km from Quidenham. Both sites reflect the agricultural practices occurring in their catchments from early times. Exceptionally high values of Cannabaceae grains are indicative of retting of hemp during the past 1500 years. Rarefaction analysis is used to compare the pollen richness of the two sites.
23416029|Pollen diagrams from nine mire sites in the Hadrianic-Antonine frontier area have been constructed to assess the record of human impact on vegetation over the last 3,000 years. Of particular interest is the effect of the Roman invasion and occupation of northern Britain on vegetation, especially that related to the construction of the Hadrianic and Antonine walls, forts and roads. Pollen analysis was undertaken to investigate whether the impact was widespread across the frontier zone or was confined to the proximity of Roman walls and forts. The results of high-resolution pollen analysis, supported by radiocarbon dates, have demonstrated that there was little woodland clearance during the Bronze Age and that the first major and permanent clearance of vegetation at certain sites occurred during the Iron Age. This is followed by a second clearance relating to the Roman occupation. At Fozy Moss, Northumbria, minimal Iron Age clearance occurs and the first major clearance occurs at the time of the Roman occupation. The dramatic response of the grass pollen curves and the relatively low level of agricultural indicators is in accord with the archaeological evidence for the Roman impact being one of woodland clearance for military purposes rather than for settled agriculture.
23416030|The Federsee mire in the Alpine Foreland of south-western Germany contains a record of a remarkable archaeological landscape. Since the first excavations in the 1920's, botanists and mire geologists have studied the relationship between landscape development and settlement at this site. In a new study, funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, various disciplines embracing both archaeology and the natural sciences have come together to address outstanding questions and problems. Pollen analysis can only be carried out within the Federsee mire since no other suitable mires are found in the vicinity. Because of the size of the Federsee basin (30 km2 at the end of the last glaciation), the regional pollen component, consisting predominantly of arboreal pollen, prevails over the herbaceous component which mainly reflects activity associated with settlements. Nevertheless, phases of settlement are clearly reflected in the radiocarbon-dated pollen diagrams and can be correlated with Neolithic and Bronze Age settlements that are dated either by dendrochronology or radiocarbon. In addition, some settlement phases were identified for which no archaeological evidence is yet available. As a consequence of human impact during the Atlantic and Subboreal periods, a gradual opening-up and change in structure of the forests is recorded. There is evidence for an exceptionally high level of human impact associated with two Bronze Age settlements that were present in the central part of the Federsee mire. Each of the five transgressions of the Federsee so far identified occurred at the end of a settlement phase. These may have resulted from anthropogenic activity rather than climatic change.
23416031|A total of 151 publications from 1990 and 1991 on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected. A list is given of the finds according to species, country and age.
23417051|There are five major hypotheses to explain the apparently synchronous, widespread, spectacular, specific, and sudden elm decline in north-west Europe - climatic change, soil change, competition, human impact, and pathogenic attack. The first four hypotheses predict slow declines (ca. 50-250 years), whereas the pathogen hypothesis predicts a rapid decline (ca. 10-20 years). Pollen analyses of annually laminated sediments from Diss Mere across the elm fall show that the Ulmus decline occurred within 7 years but that there was human impact in the surrounding forest for at least 160 years, including local cereal cultivation for at least 120 years, prior to the elm fall. At the time of the elm decline, there is no evidence for particularly warm or cold seasons or for any additional human interference. The magnitude and rate of the elm pollen decline are consistent with O. Rackham's hypothesis of a pathogenic attack taking place within woodland where the elm trees were already damaged as a result of human activity.
23417052|The eastern part of the region of West Friesland (The Netherlands) was densely inhabited in the Middle and Late Bronze Age (Hoogkarspel culture). In the whole of this area, Iron Age settlement has only been found around Opperdoes. Carbonized plant remains from features associated with a pre-Roman Iron Age house near Opperdoes are discussed and compared with Bronze Age data from the region. The evidence suggests that the Iron Age food economy was different from that in the Bronze Age. Barley and linseed were possibly imported, while gold-of-pleasure was cultivated at the site.
23417053|Detailed pollen analytical investigations at a Neolithic lake dwelling site on Lake Chalain, Jura, France, show very characteristic variation in the Plantago lanceolata and P. major/media pollen curves in the period during which settlements are recorded (3030-2630 cal. B.C.). At first, P. lanceolata is the more important taxon but P. major/media representation gradually rises, to become the more important taxon in the uppermost settlement phase. After considering the present day ecology and phytosociology of the Plantago species in question, i.e. P. lanceolata, P. major and P. media, and the available archaeozoological and archaeological information, it is suggested that the changes in the representation of these two pollen taxa are the result of a change in the farming economy, at ca. 2800 cal. B.C., which involved a substantial rise in the numbers of domesticated grazing animals and more intensive land use.
23417054|There are few historical analyses quantifying impacts of human activity in Australia. This paper compares vegetation change, fire regime, erosion and eutrophication rates between the European period and the recent prehistoric past in two lake systems on the south coast of New South Wales. The variance in pollen abundance and hence species population changes increased markedly in the historical period, especially amongst understorey taxa, and this could be related to changes in the local fire regimes and to the effects of grazing. Local fire activity decreased from the prehistorical period at both sites. Erosion rates increased in the historical period and both organic and inorganic components were deposited in the lakes. Erosion episodes could be related to fire during some periods but are clearly controlled by forest disturbance and land-use at other periods. The trophic status of the lakes was increasing from before European settlement but accelerated in the recent past. This was in part due to the increased erosion rates and in part due to fertiliser application. The results suggest that lower rates of erosional and eutrophic change occur in catchments with basaltic than with Holocene sand substrata.
23417055|Pollen, phytolith, and plant macrofossil analyses were carried out on the cultural layers of Helsinki Old Town excavated by the Helsinki City Museum and dated to the 15-17th centuries. Cultural mineral soil layers, a former ditch, a well, one waste pit, one waste heap and three house areas were investigated. The results show that - within certain limits -pollen in the mineral soil reflects the cultural changes of the local settlement from rural to urban. Among the main anthropogenic indicators, the high NAP (non-arboreal pollen) frequencies, the low pollen concentration values, and especially the high frequencies of Cichoriaceae (Liguliflorae) pollen should be emphasized. The macrofossil data were used to determine the species list of the herb pollen and to make a more detailed reconstruction of the local vegetation at Helsinki Old Town.
23416254|Four elm declines were found in a pollen diagram from a small lake in northwest Denmark. Matching consecutive radiocarbon dates with the dendro-chronological calibration curve indicated a reservoir effect of 120 years, and dates for the four elm declines were obtained (4530, 4130, 3870, 3410 cal B.C.). The occurrence of apophytes (native plants encouraged by human activities) and increased vegetation diversity during the four elm declines indicates human disturbance. The first and second elm declines coincide with traces of early agriculture in northern Germany. The third and fourth elm declines are contemporary with the transitions to the Early Neolithic and the Middle Neolithic Funnel Beaker Culture in Denmark. The possible influence of outbreaks of elm disease is discussed.
23416255|Pollen data are presented for the pine forest region around Lake Inari in eastern Finnish Lapland. The region has traditionally been the home of the Saami people who, until the 19th century, followed a seasonally nomadic way of life with an economy based on hunting, fishing and gathering. Although the Saami had no permanent centres of settlement, they did gather together at specific sites every winter, revisiting them year after year over several decades. A pollen diagram is presented from a peat area adjacent to one such winter village, Einehlammet. This shows a clear interference phase characterized by a peak in Ericales followed by a small but distinct peak in Poaceae and the slight, sporadic occurrence of pollen types that can be shown to be connected with human presence. At the same time Pinus values fall and, at the end of the phase, there is a strong increase in Betula pollen. This evidence is compared with that from actually within a dwelling (kota) at another winter village, Nukkumajoki, and is seen to follow exactly the same pattern. Such changes in forest composition in this situation could not be attributed to climatic change. The results demonstrate that, peoples pursuing a purely hunting and gathering economy and moving in the forests in a manner designed to preserve rather than destroy their environment can, nevertheless, cause vegetation changes that are discernable by pollen analysis within a distance of 50 m.
23416256|Palaeoecological investigations of a small mire in tztal, Tyrol, Austria, situated about 50 m above the potential tree-line, indicates that human impact on the landscape started with burning of heath at approximately 5300 B.P. At about 4800 B.P. a weak increase in important apophytes may reflect the local presence of domestic animals. Between 4000 and 3500 B.P. a clear decline in pastoral activity occurred. From 3000 B.P. a strong increase in the representation of apophytes suggests local summer settlement, while in the interval 2600-2200 B.P. anthropogenic activity declined. After 2150 B.P. there was a marked increase in summer farm activity. Fresh information is presented on tree-line fluctuations during the Holocene: Pinus cembra forest ascended above the present potential tree-line by more than 50-100 m between 9000-8000 B.P., 6000-5500 B.P., and 3800-3000 B.P. A Betula maximum between 7000 and 5500 B.P. is probably due to succession in nearby avalanche tracks, as well as to a higher tree-line. Low humification and low loss-on-ignition values around 6000 B.P. may reflect the Frosnitz stadial (6900-6000 B.P.). The Rootmoos I stadial (5400 B.P.) and probably the early Sub-Atlantic stadial maximum (3000-2300) are also reflected in the physical properties of the peat profile.
23416257|Samples from moss polsters taken over three consecutive years during a controlled grazing experiment in a nature reserve in the Netherlands were analysed for their pollen content, particularly grass pollen. Samples were also taken in the year following the experiment, with grazing pressure strongly diminished. This yielded data regarding the effect of grazing on the pollen production of grasses in open habitats, plantations, and unproductive and productive woods under different grazing pressures.
23416258|Palaeocarpological (archaeobotanical) analysis of Neolithic and Bronze Age levels of the Buraco da Pala site (Bragana, Portugal) provides evidence of considerable agricultural activity. Triticum, Hordeum and Vicia predominated, though Pisum, Lens, Vitis, Linum and Papaver were also found. Most wheat grains were spheroidal and were identified as Triticum aestivum subsp. sphaerococcum, in disagreement with recent suggestions that taxa with spheroidal grains have never been present in the Iberian Peninsula. Quercus and Pinus seed indicated that gathering activities supplemented agricultural production.
23416259|The composition of a seed flora always differs from actual vegetation. For archaeobotanists, who try to reconstruct former communities on the basis of plant macrofossils extracted from soil samples, this is a serious handicap. This difference can be explained by dispersal processes and by differences in preservation. Seeds that are incorporated into the soil may originate from both local and regional vegetation. Once incorporated, differences in preservation may result in a seed flora from a mixture of communities. The comparison may be further confounded when seeds that are transported over long distances are also of subfossil or even fossil origin. Both wind and water are effective agencies for long-distance dispersal. This study deals with the dispersal of botanical macro-remains by water. Water may be considered an important dispersal agent, especially in sites situated in the vicinity of running water, or liable to contact with water during storm surges or river floods. Therefore, the interpretation of seed assemblages from sediments that may have been in contact with running water needs special attention. In order to obtain information about the dispersal potential of plant remains by water transport, litter which had been transported by the river Rhine, and litter which had been washed ashore on the North Sea coast of the Netherlands was examined.
23416261|Palynological investigations have been carried out on a sediment core from ancient Lake Lerna, a former fresh water lagoon in the western part of the Argive plain, Peloponnese, southern Greece. The sequence starts at 6800 B.P. (5700 cal B.C.). The lowest part of the pollen diagram shows a period of open deciduous oak woods, which may have been influenced by human impact already (Zone I). It is followed by a period of dense deciduous oak woods (Zone II), which lasted until the beginning of the Bronze Age ca. 4800 B.P. (3500 cal B.C.). Later, the diagram indicates strong human influence such as woodland clearance, the spread of maquis, phrygana and pine in Zones IIIa-IV. During the Archaic, Geometric and Classical periods after ca. 2700 B.P. (800 cal B.C.) there is evidence of a phase of extensive olive farming (Zone IIIb). In the same zone, after a period of scattered finds, there is an almost continuous Juglans curve. Zone IV is characterised by high pine values. In Zones I-II the evidence of evergreen Mediterranean plants is surprisingly small. In times with no discernible human influence (Zone II), deciduous oaks dominate, with no evidence for a climax vegetation of the Oleo-Ceratonion alliance. Olea europaea is the only species of that alliance traceable by its pollen in the diagram, while Ceratonia pollen is totally absent.
23416262|Charcoal remains were analysed from copper ore smelting at Khirbet en-Nahas, an Iron Age site in the region of Feinan between Wadi Arabah and the highland of Edom. For the first time, a section was dug into a stratified slag heap and separate charcoal samples were taken from each layer. Radiocarbon dates from the charcoal range from the 12th to the 9th century B.C. The main aim of this work was to find out whether the fuel species spectra change or remain constant over the period of metallurgical activity covered by this slag heap. Twelve samples totalling 2257 pieces amounting to 340.58 g of charcoal were analysed. The species composition is more or less the same in all samples. 14 species were identified. Approximately 50% of the material consisted of Tamarix species, 40% was Retama raetam, Phoenix dactylifera and Haloxylon persicum. Thus, the rapidly regenerating shrub vegetation within walking distance of the smelting place was used as fuel and remained unchanged during at least two to three centuries. Trees from the highland of Edom such as Juniperus phoenicea or Quercus calliprinos were not found here, although they were identified from Early Bronze Age sites a few kilometres up the wadis.
23416263|The second part of a pollen profile from Hornstaad/Lake Constance (Germany), containing the Atlantic and Subboreal (6400 cal B.C. to 700 cal B.C.) is presented. The diagram has a sampling interval of 1 cm and an average time resolution of 10 years. The cereal curve provided the basis for cereal zones, which are used to classify the human impact. Twenty-six cereal zones can be distinguished, most of them divided into subzones, from 5500 cal B.C. to 700 cal B.C. They correspond to both known and, mostly, unknown settlements in the surrounding landscape from the Early Neolithic to the Late Bronze Age. Charcoal and chemical analyses as well as sediment accumulation, confirmed by accelerator dates, provide evidence for human impact on the environment.
23416264|In 1985 archaeological excavations at Stavanger Airport, Sola, south-western Norway, revealed evidence for five phases of human activity ranging in age from the Mesolithic to the Late Bronze Age. The two youngest phases, namely 4 and 5 which reflect agrarian activity, are considered in detail in this paper. The fourth phase, which dates to ca. 3500 B.P., contains the first evidence of animal husbandry at the site and, in the fifth phase, there is evidence for a mixed farming economy. Physical evidence of cultivation includes intersecting patterns of plough-marks and, at seven sites, pollen assemblages indicative of arable farming have been recorded. The arable fields, in which weed-rich crops of Hordeum and Triticum were grown, date to ca. 2550-2200 B.P. The fields were subsequently covered by a thick layer of aeolian sand.
23416276|As part of a new research programme, studies of peat bogs in Brittany are being carried out to trace the changes that have occurred in the course of time, and to determine the different regional stages related to the human activities of land clearance and agriculture. In this context, a palynological study of the Kerfontaine peat bog was undertaken to consider changes in local and regional vegetation dating from after about 7800 B.P. Local vegetation history from Neolithic times until the Middle Ages involved a succession of twelve pollen zones clearly related to variations in water level resulting from natural or anthropogenic influences. The dominant vegetation was alder carr, bog-myrtle mire and birch woods. Heath vegetation, which appeared at the end of the Iron Age, developed during the Gallo-Roman period, finally invading the entire bog in the Middle Ages. Regional vegetation history was characterised, among other things, by the presence of beech woods which developed after 3000 B.P. and then declined during the Middle Ages in conjunction with an increase of cultivation between the 8th and 11th centuries A.D., an indication of great activity during the Carolingian period. Human activity reached its peak around 1800 A.D. at the time of the first pine plantations.
23416277|In this paper, we present the results of four pollen diagrams obtained from the northeastern coast of the Iberian Peninsula. These data, together with a set of 11 radiocarbon dates, allow us to make some suggestions about human activity in this area mainly during the last 6000 years. We have established four main stages of this activity. Phase I (7000-3000 B.P.) shows some sporadic human clearance without qualitative and/or quantitative changes inside the natural woodland, except for slight oscillations in AP values. These clearances are synchronous with Neolithic and Bronze Age settlements. Phase II (3000-1500/1300 B.P.) demonstrates a different human action on the landscape along the Catalan coast. Sampling sites located in rich agricultural plains and close to urban centres show continuous woodland clearance during the Iberian period and especially during Roman times. In contrast, at boring sites far from these towns, the irregular and sporadic woodland disturbances continue, although these become more common. Phase III (1500/1300-850 B.P.) shows further woodland clearance fires along the coast. Pollen, archaeological and historical evidence allow us to relate this to the introduction of grazing in the coastal area, connected with seasonal transhumance between the littoral and mountain regions. Phase IV (850-300/150 B.P.) is characterised by the final clearance of woodland and the development of olive farming. During this phase the agrarian Mediterranean landscape was definitively formed.
23416278|Abies alba (Mill.) is native only to some parts of central Europe. The tree is indigenous to the Alps, the Black Forest, the Vosges, the Bayerischer Wald, and to some hilly and mountainous areas north of the Alps. A number of pollen diagrams from these regions demonstrate a clear Abies decline dating to the Roman period, and it appears that this Abies decline is a good time marker in central European pollen diagrams from the area mentioned. Firs were felled where they grew and their trunks were transported by the rivers Rhine and Danube to regions where Abies timber was needed for the construction of houses and bridges. During the excavation of sites situated far from indigenous fir stands, Abies needles and wood were found, indicating that the fir trunks were transported to these Roman towns by river. Fir timber is extremely valuable for the construction of large buildings, boats, and bridges. It is apparent that long distance transport on the central European rivers began in Roman times. Transport of timber was, of course, only a part of the new river commerce: building stone, wine, and crops were also transported for long distances.
23416279|A total of 422 publications from 1991 and 1992 on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected. A list is given of the finds according to species, country and age.
23417105|On the basis of distribution maps showing the first pollen occurrences in the Holocene of the well-known climate indicators Hedera, Ilex and Viscum as well as data for Corylus, a series of maps have been prepared that show summer and winter isotherms at various time intervals during the Holocene. From these maps climate curves for Amsterdam, the Netherlands have been set out. These were compared with curves for the Eemian at the same site. In both of these warm periods there is evidence for increased seasonality in the early phases which were relatively continental. Changes in insolation could account for such differences. Summer optima occurred earlier than winter optima. Changes in land-sea distribution are important, especially with regard to the patterns in winter climate. During the latter half of the Eemian, the climate was distinctly more oceanic than in the Holocene. Early in the Holocene, an influx of warm ocean water resulted in higher winter temperatures in the Gulf of Biscay, the Irish Sea, and areas east of Skagerrak-Kattegat. Temperature decline after the climatic optimum was greatest in the north, i.e. at 60N, where a depression in the order of 2C in summer and 2-3C in winter occurred. Temperature decline was less farther south, i.e. at ca. 50N, where a distinct west-east gradient in temperature change can be observed.
23417106|In Ostrobothnia, western Finland, the Viking period (A.D. 800-1050) in contrast to the rich Migration period (A.D. 400-550/600), is poor in archaeological finds. Archaeologists have interpreted this as indicating a break in settlement continuity. Palaeoecological investigations using pollen analyses and radiocarbon dating of peat cores from ten sites show that field cultivation and animal husbandry have taken place continuously throughout the entire Iron Age in Ostrobothnia. Slash-and-burn cultivation was not of importance in the studied area, but small-scale cereal cultivation occurred on permanent, tilled and manured fields. The Iron Age agriculture was largely dependent on animal husbandry and therefore was located close to the sea because the natural, highly productive shore meadows were an indispensable fodder resource. As a consequence of the progressive rapid change of the natural environment caused by the flat topography and land upheaval, the settlements were regularly relocated to keep pace with the westwards retreating sea. Settlement continuity in Iron Age coastal Ostrobothnia has to be looked upon in a regional rather than a local perspective because of the changing landscape. The results of this palaeoecological study, in which investigations were carried out in several parts of the region, demonstrate regional settlement continuity throughout the Iron Age.
23417107|The mapping of Weichselian late-glacial interstadial (13-11 ka B.P.) and Younger Dryas stadial (11-10 ka B.P.) pollen percentages for selected taxa demonstrates vegetational and hence climatic differentiation in Western Norway during these times. In the south, early interstadial Salix dominance was replaced by Betula woodland development. During Younger Dryas time, Betula pollen declined to values consistent with a modern vegetational analogue of the vegetation at the upper forest limit. In the inner fjord areas north of Stavanger, the interstadial vegetation contained scattered birch trees, the density depending on local topography and soils. During the Younger Dryas, vegetation resembling the modern mid- and low-alpine vegetation developed. On the outer coast, the interstadial vegetation was probably treeless, and dominated by Salix spp., including S. herbacea, and herbs. The vegetation became even more open during the Younger Dryas, resembling that of the modern mid- and high-alpine zones. The spatial ecotones delimiting the three areas of different vegetation development during both the interstadial and the Younger Dryas can be placed north of Stavanger, separating the southern region, and between the outer coast and inner fjord areas to the north. The Younger Dryas drop in temperature in all areas was up to about 5C, enough to pass ecotonal thresholds in time in all areas.
23417108|Artefacts made of Staphylea pinnata seeds have been found in a grave dated to the late Roman period discovered in Pruszcz Gdaski (northern Poland). This record is discussed against the background of the present-day distribution range of this species and its Holocene fossil localities. The role of man in the extension of the primary area of occurrence of the species has been emphasised.
23416230|In the Vercors uplands, south-west of Grenoble, the Val-de-Lans syncline is filled with thick lacustrine and glacio-lacustrine Pleistocene deposits. Artifacts discovered on its surface indicate an age older than the last glaciation. Pollen analytical investigations of five sediment sequences, including lake marls, has enabled the reconstruction of the interglacial vegetation cycle (La Cte Interglacial) which, taking into account the rle played by Abies and a Pterocarya expansion towards the end of the interglacial, may be correlated with the Holsteinian Interglacial. At the site Lolette, this interglacial is followed by two short stadials which alternate with interstadials characterised by Picea forests. Oxygen isotope studies, including 18O investigations, provide additional evidence for climate changes during the interglacial.
23416231|On the basis of pollen analytical investigations of two cores from Lake Varna and Lake Beloslav, the vegetation history of the Lake Varna region is traced back to the beginning of the 6th millennium B.C. A two-fold zoning system is used whereby the pollen diagrams are divided into pollen zones, based on tree migration patterns, and settlement periods. Pollen zone 1 is characterised by the absence of Carpinus betulus and Fagus sylvatica. The spread of hornbeam started at ca. 6500 B.C. (pollen zone 2) and beech at ca. 6200 B.C. (pollen zone 3), the latter being the last tree to spread into the region and considerably enrich the forests of the study area. Of the many pollen taxa representing plants that are favoured by open habitats and hence potentially indicative of human impact, only a few taxa are regarded as reliable indicators of human activity. These include above all Triticum-type, and also Secale and to a certain extent Plantago lanceolata, Rumex and Polygonum aviculare. The spatial pattern of settlements is somewhat different in the areas represented by the two profiles. At both sites the first period of settlement occurred during the 6th millennium B.C. (early Neolithic). After the Neolithic period, the main settlement periods of the Eneolithic and the Early and Middle Bronze Age are recorded. On the other hand, land-use history during the Greek and Roman periods is poorly recorded. Studies on the stratigraphy, diatoms and molluscs indicate that the sixth Black Sea transgression (6500-5800 B.C.), which reached -10 m, had considerable influence on the limnological environment.
23416232|Charcoal analysis reveals various palaeo-ecological phases from the Neolithic to the Bronze Age. Agriculture starts about 7000 B.P. in favourable ecological conditions. Most of the charcoal spectra from sites on the coast represent thermomediterranean holm-oak forest; those from the inland mountains represent mesomediterranean holm-oak forest. The Neolithic I Impressed Ware people were the first to clear the forest to plant their crops. This clearance of primary woodland resulted in the development of secondary vegetation of pine woods or scrub. The scrub reached its maximum during the Bell Beaker phase and Bronze Age in the Cova de les Cendres. In the Neolithic II open air sites, the percentages of Quercus ilex/coccifera remain high. This may be the result of a different exploitation of the land, or suitable conditions for the growth and survival of the vegetation.
23416233|In 1988, a well-preserved shipwreck was discovered during work on drainage channels in Bt Nor, a former arm of the Baltic Sea on the island of Falster. The ship was built in the Nordic style with a single central mast. It was radiocarbon dated to the second half of the 13th century A.D. and is thus Scandinavia's best-preserved medieval ship. The ship's hull was lined with wattle, over which lay a thick layer of organic material, interpreted as animal dung. Microscopic examination revealed a tangle of well-preserved stems, lengths of straw, leaf fragments, lengths of cereal rachis, crushed grains and numerous other seeds and fruits. The ship had apparently been used to transport animals and the wattle had served to protect the hull and give the animals a firm footing during the voyage. Prior to the voyage the animals had grazed various habitats in the vicinity of the coast - coastal pasture, other grasslands, open woodland, newly-harvested cornfields, fallow land and marshy areas; they had drunk water from ponds. The fact that all the seeds in the material, including the cereals, were mature and well-developed, suggests that the dung comes from animals which had grazed in the late summer or early autumn. The archaeobotanical investigations suggest a location in southeastern Denmark or more generally the southern Baltic.
23416234|The historical use of Scots Pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) inner bark by the Saami near Lake Sdvajaure, N. Sweden was studied with dendro-ecological methods. Damming of the lake for hydroelectric power enabled destructive sampling of all pines with scars from bark peeling in an area of 870 ha. A total of 111 dead and live pines with 136 bark peelings were found. Stem-sections were taken for cross-dating to determine the precise peeling year and season. The oldest peeling was dated to 1618, which is the oldest reported evidence of Saami use of inner bark. No bark peelings were made after 1870 in the studied area which coincides with a shift to more extensive reindeer herding, and with colonization by Swedish farmers in the area. The regular use of inner bark over time and the absence of peeling peaks in known agrarian famine years support the hypothesis that inner bark was used regularly, and not only as an emergency food. Changes in spatial peeling activity around the lake is interpreted as temporal changes in nomadic fishing activity. We conclude that tree ring studies can provide valuable information about former mobile use of natural resources by Saami in boreal forest landscapes.
23416033|This paper describes the results of the archaeobotanical examination of early medieval occupation deposits (8th to 11th centuries A.D.) at Douai, northern France. Carbonized as well as waterlogged seeds and fruits were recovered in great numbers. In addition to the macrofossil analyses, a palynological examination of occupation deposits was carried out. Bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) was the most common cereal, followed by rye (Secale cereale). Common oat (Avena sativa) and hulled barley (Hordeum vulgare) must have played a fairly modest role. In addition to cereals, field pea (Pisum sativum) was an important crop plant. Four types of plum (Prunus domestica) fruitstones are distinguished. Sweet cherry (Prunus avium) as well as sour cherry (P. cerasus) were cultivated. Other cultivated fruit trees included peach (Prunus persica) and medlar (Mespilus germanica). Sloe (Prunus spinosa) fruits, including those of the var. macrocarpa, were gathered from the wild. The palynological data suggest that the Douai area had virtually been cleared of forest. A comparison between pollen and seed proportions points to serious discrepancies between the macrofossil and microfossil plant records. Weeds of arable land (Secalietea, Polygono-Chenopodietalia) and vegetations of ruderal habitats (Sisymbrietalia, Artemisietalia vulgaris) are well represented. Molinietalia vegetations in the valley of the Scarpe river were probably exploited as hay meadows; good pasture land was provided by the Arrhenateretalia grasslands.
23416034|Physical and chemical analyses of beer residues recovered from a vat site at Hierakonpolis (Upper Egypt) were carried out. Radiocarbon dates of the residues suggest a dating of 3500-3400 cal B.C. and are believed to represent the oldest known beer in the world. Macroscopic and microscopic examinations of the residues revealed the presence of intact remains of grains and spikelets of wheat and barley, as well as fragments of dates and grape pips. Chemical analyses included percentages of sample ingredients, pH and total soluble ions, quantitative determinations of sugars, carboxylic acids and free amino acids. A total of 25 compounds were identified, which are components of fermentation processes that are believed to have formed in connection with the preparation of what is called Nekhen-Hoffman beer.
23416035|Detailed palynological studies in two adjoining French Pyrenean valleys, complemented by the study of archives, demonstrate that under similar climatic conditions, the forest history of each valley from the Bronze Age to present time was essentially determined by socioeconomical constraints, possibly modified by natural characteristics such as topography. The studies show why the expansion of Fagus (beech) at c. 4000 B.P. was asynchronous on the northern slope of the Pyrenees and emphasize the effects of the human impact on the recent lowering of the tree-line.
23416036|A pollen profile from Marais du Sagnas at the northern edge of the Etang de Berre lagoon, west of Marseille, is compared and correlated with a profile (C10) from the southern margin of the lagoon. This new profile extends the pollen record for the area to recent times. The palaeoecological data now available indicate distinct phases of marine influence in the lagoon from about 900 A.D. (non-calibrated) to the 16/17 century. These correspond to historically known drier periods during which it appears that reduced freshwater input facilitated increased influx of saline water.
23417974|In the Lourdes Basin, pollen analytical results and 41 14C dates from three sites (four profiles, 538 spectra) have enabled a coherent biostratigraphy to be established from the last Pleniglacial to the present. The end of the Wrm Pleniglacial is characterised by a long phase dominated by Poaceae that extended from ca. 20 000 to ca. 15 000 B.P. Another phase with Poaceae, in the context of a treeless environment, is recorded during the late-glacial between the Juniperus optimum (ca. 13 000 B.P.) and the Betula optimum (after ca. 12 500 B.P.). A marked decline in Betula and a rise in Artemisia values suggest a significant cooling of the climate during the Younger Dryas, an event which is now clearly recorded at several sites in southern Europe. The beginning of the Holocene is characterized by the minor role of Pinus and the early arrival of Quercus which achieves an absolute maximum before the arrival of Ulmus and Corylus. A critical assessment of previously published data is made in the light of these new results.
23417975|Palynological investigations on a 3.36 m core from El Atrun, Nubia, show vegetation development and climatic change during a period from approximately 9800 to 7000 uncal B.P. From a dry period with a steppe-like vegetation at about 9800-9500 B.P. (zone A), a change to a period with a more favourable climate and a tree covered savanna-like vegetation can be observed in zone B (about 9500-8900 B.P.). In zone C (8900-8400 B.P.), a climatic setback is indicated, with spreading of steppe vegetation and an increase in swamp vegetation as a result of a low lake level. For zone D (about 8400-7000 B.P.), renewed spreading of wooded savanna is inferred.
23417976|A pollen diagram from Oursi in Burkina Faso is compared with anthracological (charcoal analysis) results from three sites in northeast Nigeria (Konduga, Gajiganna, Lantewa). The present-day vegetation at all four sites is Sahelian or Sahelo-Sudanian and under heavy human impact. At Oursi, a closed grassland with only few trees and almost no Sudanian elements can be reconstructed for the middle Holocene. At the Nigerian sites, on the other hand, Sudanian woody plants were present during this period. We assume that the Sahel was not a uniform zone during the middle Holocene but rather a mosaic of different vegetation types according to local site conditions. In the light of these results, a simple model of latitudinally shifting vegetation zones is not applicable. Around 3000 B.P. the closed grassland at Oursi was opened by agro-pastoral activities, and at Gajiganna, plants characteristic of pasture lands can be directly related with the presence of cattle. Human impact seems to have been the dominant factor in the vegetation history of the Sahel from 3000 B.P. until today, masking possible effects of climatic change. Les donnes d'un diagramme pollinique d'Oursi (Burkina Faso) sont compares  celles de l'tude anthracologique de trois sites du NE du Nigeria (Konduga, Gajiganna, Lantewa). La vgtation actuelle des quatre sites est de type sahlien ou soudano-sahlien sous fort impact anthropique. A Oursi, la vgtation de l'Holocne moyen a d tre une couverture graminenne ferme avec peu d'arbres et la quasi-absence d'lments soudaniens. D'autre part, sur les sites nigrians, des espces ligneuses soudaniennes sont prsentes  la mme poque. Nous prsumons par l que le Sahel,  l'Holocne moyen n'tait pas uniforme mais consistait en une mosaque de types de vgtation divers selon les conditions locales. A la lumire de ces rsultats, un simple modle de fluctuation latitudinale des zones de vgtations ne peut tre retenu. Vers 3000 ans B.P., la formation graminenne ferme d'Oursi est ouverte sous l'effet d'activits agro-pastorales, tandis que  Gajiganna, des plantes indicatrices de pturage peuvent tre mises en relation avec la prsence de btail. Depuis 3000 ans B.P., la vgtation du Sahel semble voluer essentiellement sous l'effet dominant de l'action de l'homme qui peut masquer d'ventuelles contributions des changements climatiques.
23417977|Weed assemblages from late medieval cornfields have been studied for the first time in northern Switzerland. Eleven samples from at least two different grain stores were investigated. The samples were collected from the carbonised remains of six wooden houses built in the late 13th century A.D. and which burnt down in the middle of the 15th century. The weed floras found in the spelt (Triticum spelta) and oats (Avena sativa) indicate a high botanical diversity in the cornfields at harvest time. Although oats are normally a summer crop and spelt a winter crop, both summer and winter crop weeds (as well as many different present-day grassland taxa) were found in each type of grain. Most of the weeds found were perennial plants, which was interpreted as an indication of both extensive tillage of the arable land and application of the three-field rotation system (Dreifelderwirtschaft). The spectra of the two palaeophytocoenoses (assemblages of ancient plant remains) studied suggest that the phytosociological method may not be reliable for classification of the late medieval remains into "summer" and "winter" crop weed communities. These findings should provide a better understanding of the development of anthropogenic plant communities, and in particular, the development of crop weed communities.
23417978|Publications on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected, mainly from 1992 and 1993, with some earlier and later ones. A list is given of the finds according to taxon, country, site and age.
23417548|Pollen, plant macrofossils and charcoal were analysed from a lake-sediment sequence, including a refuse layer, from the Late Mesolithic settlement at Bkeberg III, southern Sweden. The chronology was established by means of AMS-dated plant macroremains. The results of the biostratigraphical studies indicate two settlement phases (A and B), at ca. 6650-6400 B.P. (5560-5320 cal. B.C.) and ca. 6150-5800 B.P. (5200-4680 cal. B.C.), respectively. The two settlement phases are associated with periods of low lake-level contemporaneous with the second major period of low lake levels during the Holocene in southern Sweden, and thus with a period of generally drier climate. The pollen analytical data suggest only minor human impact on the local vegetation during the two settlement phases. Three elm declines at ca. (1) 6200 B.P. (5200-5100 cal. B.C.), (2) 5450 B.P. (4340 cal. B.C.), and (3) 5150 B.P. (3980 cal. B.C.) are discussed. Elm decline 3 is synchronous with the classical north-west European elm decline. Elm declines 2 and 3 may be due to outbreaks of elm disease rather than to strong human impact or climate change. The charcoal analyses show that wood of a wide range of species was collected for fuel or other purposes. During phase A, plants used included acorns, hazelnuts and, possibly, Cornus sanguinea, and also Prunus spinosa, Sorbus aucuparia and Rubus idaeus. There is convincing evidence that Cladium mariscus was used for thatching. The second occupation phase, B, is characterised by the use of hazelnuts for food. The possible use of several other identified species is discussed.
23417549|Vegetation and environmental change from late Bronze Age to the Roman period in north-west Portugal is reconstructed on the basis of charcoal analyses. The site was occupied by people of the Castrejo culture, i.e. an Iron Age culture that developed in the north-west Iberian peninsula. The pattern of exploitation of natural wood resources by local populations during this period appears to be similar during the three phases of occupation. The frequencies of light-demanding plant species, mostly Leguminosae, testify to considerable destruction and degeneration of the climax woodlands. The preference of particular wood for specific uses, such as roofing, is discussed and the Holocene history of selected trees within the wider region is considered.
23417550|Charcoal recovered from middens and graves in the neolithic site of Kadero, north of Khartoum, Sudan was analysed. The site lies within the semi-desert vegetation zone at present. During the occupation period (5960-5030 uncal B.P.), a scrub and thorn savanna grew around the site. It is further suggested that the vegetation during the neolithic period at Kadero was already under strong human impact through controlled fires, felling and grazing.
23417551|The woodland history of the northern mountainous parts of Greece is considered in the context of pollen profiles from bogs in Rhodopes, Lailias-Vrontou, Paiko, Voras and Pieria. In the time period covered by these diagrams (only those from Voras and Lailias extend back to the 7th millennium B.P.) the overall trends in the woodland history at the particular sites are comparable but there are also substantial differences that are attributed to the effects of human influence which varied in time, intensify and extent. The earlier phase, which corresponds to the Atlantic period of Firbas, is characterized by mixed deciduous woodlands with Quercus or Tilia the main components. This is followed by the phase (Subboreal) in which coniferous woodlands, which consisted of Abies and Pinus, dominated. In this time, Fagus gradually expanded. In the final phase (Subatlantic), Abies becomes more or less extinct and Fagus has a dominant role. These developments broadly correspond with those recorded in pollen profiles from Central Europe.
23417552|The structure of the Dutch Relational Archaeobotanical Database (RADAR) is presented. RADAR is a rather compact archaeobotanical database that is controlled centrally, but can be distributed to individual scientists. For this reason RADAR contains only the most important archaeobotanical data. For detailed archaeological, botanical and regional palaeoenvironmental information, links can be established with the national archaeological database (ARCHIS), the national botanical database (BBR) and the European Pollen Database (EPD). The software used for manipulation of the database is PARADOX for reasons of its highly visible nature, its control facilities for data entry and the ease of importing and exporting data from and to many other programs. The potential of the database is demonstrated with query examples.
23417538|Palynological studies have been carried out on three highland peat bogs, and one situated on the Atlantic coastal plain. In the highlands, the late Pleistocene (14,000 - 10,000 uncal B.P.) vegetation was dominated by campos (grassland). Scattered stands of Araucaria forests were preserved in deep valleys. In the region of the sites at Morro da Igreja and Serra do Rio Rastro, the dominance of campos vegetation continued until about 1000 B.P. while at the Serra da Boa Vista site there was an expansion of Atlantic pluvial forest elements followed by Araucaria forests at the beginning of the Holocene. A general expansion of A. angustifolia, clearly related to a change towards an increasingly moist climate, can be dated to the present millenium. On the coastal plains, the late Pleistocene vegetation was dominated by Myrtaceae which were replaced by tropical taxa in the Holocene. The lowland profile (Poo Grande) also covers part of the upper Holocene, where the rich flora of the Atlantic pluvial forests can be characterized by taxa including Alchornea, Urticales and Rapanea. Close to the coring site, there was a repeated alternation between two different dune communities (4840 - 4590 B.P.), followed by a lake stage with aquatic plant succession (4590 - 4265 B.P.), plant communities dominated by Rapanea (4265 - 4230 B.P.) and the spread of Alchornea (4230 - 3525 B.P.). Late Pleistocene climate conditions (14,000 - 10,000 B.P.) can be described as cold and relatively dry, possibly including an equivalent of the Younger Dryas period. In the Holocene, there were changes from a warm and drier climate (10,000 3000 B.P.) to a cool and more moist regime (ca. 3000 ca. 1000 B.P.) and finally to a cool and very moist period (from around 1000 B.P.).
23417539|The rapid industrialisation of agriculture and forestry during the last century has contributed to a transformation of the forested landscape in southern Sweden. Palaeoecological investigation revealed how the Medieval forest-meadow system was created about 900 years ago from a deciduous forest type that had been rather stable for the previous 3000 years. The study site was a forest hollow close to where Linnaeus was born and brought up. The species-rich forest-meadow system suffered from over-grazing during the human-population peak of the nineteenth century, and was abandoned about one hundred years ago. The recent forest succession in southern Sweden has led to reduced floristic biodiversity and created conservation problems related to disappearance of open landscape, even though the remnant vegetation is moving towards the near-natural forest type. Spatially detailed palaeoecology permits documentation of baseline conditions, and places conservation debates in a valuable temporal perspective.
23417540|A combined palynological and phytosociological methodological approach was used in the reconstruction of precultural forest vegetation in a small model area of Bl K-Jank in the Moravskoslezsk Beskydy mountains (northwest Slovakia). Two pollen diagrams show the predominance of Fagus sylvatica, Abies alba and Picea abies in past natural mixed forests. The present-day occurrence and distribution of forest herbs allow the differentiation of five past vegetation types with above mentioned forest climax trees covering the area before the beginning of human interference. A map of reconstructed natural vegetation is presented which can be used for revitalization of present secondary spruce plantations, heavily affected by air pollution.
23417541|Archaeological charcoals from Puritjarra rock shelter provide the first direct information about the vegetation of central Australia during the late Pleistocene and early Holocene. During the late Pleistocene there appears to have been a more open vegetation than today with fewer trees and shrubs, though with many of the taxa that are important in the modern central Australian flora. The persistence of species such as Acacia macdonnelliensis, Callitris glaucophylla and Eucalyptus opaca throughout the time of the last glacial maximum and the presence of appreciable quantities of wood charcoal in the archaeological deposits at this time indicate that the region was not a tree-less steppe even during full glacial aridity. From 13,000 B.P. onwards, acacias are strongly represented in the charcoal assemblage both quantitatively and in terms of the number of species present. Acacia aneura is for the first time a major component of the assemblage indicating that it had by this time become a significant element of the local vegetation. These changes coincide with evidence elsewhere in the Australian arid zone for the onset of wetter conditions in the early Holocene.
23417542|Cereal crop plants at Asikli Hyk included einkorn wheat (Triticum monococcum), emmer wheat (T. dicoccum), free-threshing wheat (T. cf. durum), hulled two-rowed barley (Hordeum distichum) and naked barley (H. vulgare var. nudum). As for pulses, bitter vetch (Vicia ervilia), lentil (Lens culinaris) and probably pea (Pisum sativum) were grown. Hackberry (Celtis tournefortii) fruits were gathered intensively. In addition, fruits of pistachio (Pistacia cf. atlantica) and almond (Amygdalus spec.) were collected from the wild.
23417543|Evidence of the terrestrial pollen precipitation in the Van area, obtained from the marsh of Stl, is compared with the lacustrine record from Lake Van, eastern Turkey. The radiocarbon chronology of the vegetation history of the Van area is compared with that from varve counting. The first method produced the most probable results, supported by palynological investigations in other parts of Turkey and Iran. The combination of radiocarbon dating and palynological correlation dates the sediments of Lake Van 1100 to 2200 years older than the varve dating. The indicator value of Cerealia-type pollen as evidence of prehistoric agriculture is discussed and compared with results from observations on modern crops. In the present study, Cerealia-type pollen may have been produced by wild grasses growing in the marsh.
23417804|Pollen records from the island of New Guinea, spanning the last 60 000 years, show a vegetation system sensitive to global climate change and strongly influenced by anthropogenic activity. The evidence for anthropogenic activity in pollen diagrams has focused on indirect indicators such as forest clearance, burning and increases in arable weeds. Tracing individual cultivars has proven to be very difficult as the major cultivated plants, in this case dominated by root crops, have low pollen production, are insect-pollinated or are harvested before flowering occurs. The identification of some cultivars is further restricted by limited information on pollen morphology. The pollen morphology of selected species from two genera (Pandanus and Colocasia), known to include important cultivated species, have been studied. Five pollen taxa are recognised after examination by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. It is shown that these can be easily distinguished on the broad criteria of pollen class, grain size and size of echini. The taxonomic and dispersal characteristics of the pollen morphology of these taxa are discussed and the implications of improved identification of cultivated species in late Quaternary pollen records are considered.
23417805|A 9200 14C year fossil pollen record from a small kettle lake in central Maine, northeast U.S.A., records the development of nearby upland vegetation throughout the Archaic, Ceramic, and Historic periods of human history. The Early Archaic period (9000 to 8000 B.P.) began as open woodland dominated by Picea, Populus, and Larix, which was replaced by Pinus forest. During the Middle Archaic (8000-6000 B.P.) Tsugadominated forest, which developed ca. 7400 B.P., was followed by Pinus forest (ca. 6400 B.P.) The Late Archaic (6000-3000 B.P.) was a period of great transition; Tsuga forest developed again ca. 5700 B.P., but was abruptly replaced by northern hardwood forest ca. 4700 B.P. That Late Archaic expansion of hardwoods would have provided better forage for beaver. Coincidentally, boreal wetland mammals such as beaver (Castor canadensis) and muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) increase in faunal assemblages of local archaeological sites, while remains of anadromous fish decrease. We postulate that the apparent increase in human populations throughout the region during the Late Archaic may be attributed to an increase in the resource base within both upland and wetland areas resulting from the development of hardwood forest in response to climatic cooling.
23417806|The results of pollen analysis, magnetic measurements (SIRM), and archaeological and historical investigations, in the Axlarp area are presented. With respect to natural conditions and the distribution of prehistoric features, this area is typical of the higher parts of the Smland uplands, which, agriculturally, is a marginal region of southern Sweden. The study shows that farming in the Axlarp area began at ca. 700 B.C. (dates in calibrated/calendar years). The period 700 B.C.-A.D. 500 was characterized by shifting cultivation of Hordeum and Triticum and much pasture. Between A.D. 500 and A.D. 1200 farming declined but some pasturage was still practised, possibly on a seasonal basis. Two farms were established in the Middle Ages, probably between A.D. 1200-1300. Cereals were sown in stone-cleared fields and pastoral farming and hay making was carried out. One farm was deserted during the 15th or early 16th century and the other developed into the hamlet Axlarp whose farmers practised a three-course cropping system. Land-use history as recorded in the pollen diagram can be related to activities associated with these farms. Cereals grown after A.D. 1200 included Hordeum and Avena, and possibly Triticum and Secale. There are no indications of slash-and-burn cultivation in the area.
23417807|The pollen diagram from Tarnowiec concentrates on human impact on vegetation, and is supported by the archaeological background. The earliest evidence of human activities dated at ca. 6500 B.P. was probably connected with the Neolithic Linearbandkeramik culture. Further periods of settlement are recorded at ca. 5200 B.P. and at 4800 B.P. The next very distinct period of intensification in human impact at ca. 4200-3800 B.P. was most certainly connected with the presence of the Corded Ware culture. The next period of settlement occurred during the late Bronze Age, in connection with the development of the Lusatian culture from ca. 3200 B.P. but is recorded only faintly in the pollen diagram. The next colonization phase at ca. 2600 B.P. is possibly the result of Scythian invasions. The widest expansion of human impact came during the period of Roman influence. After this, anthropogenic indicators decreased during the Migration period. The youngest part of the pollen diagram reveals an intensification of anthropogenic indicators connected with early Medieval settlement.
23417808|Macroremains of late Neolithic cultivated plants are reported from the archaeological site of Maliq, Kora District, south-eastern Albania. The material comprises einkorn (Triticum monococcum L.), emmer (Triticum dicoccon Schrank), barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) and bitter vetch (Vicia ervilia (L.) Willd.). These are the first remains of cultivated plants described from an archaeological site in Albania.
23417809|The interpretation of subfossil records of wild plant species with respect to both environmental conditions and past vegetation is complicated by the following: (1) production and dispersal of plant remains including diaspores, (2) the formation of the soil flora, (3) taphonomic processes and differential preservation that act on subfossil assemblages and (4) methods applied to produce subfossil records. Whereas the similarity between recent plant communities and seed banks is often weak, the relationship between past vegetation and subfossil assemblages is still more complicated. It is therefore unlikely that macrofossil assemblages derived from soil samples can be considered as pure samples representing particular palaeobiocoenoses. The assumption that plant communities, in the past, may have been in some way aberrant with respect to composition and that the ecological ranges of species varied during the Quaternary has to be rejected, if not based on well considered assumptions or evidence from pure samples. Only if a sufficient number of suitable studies is available, which enable evaluation between all kinds of plant communities and their respective seed floras, can progress be made with regard to the reconstruction of past vegetation and environmental conditions. As long as these data are not available, the ecological interpretation of particular subfossil assemblages isolated from soil samples has to be carefully evaluated within their particular context.
23417517|In the Late Pre-Roman Iron Age an underground granary in the village of Overbygrd was destroyed by fire and the contents were carbonised. Almost 2000 years later, analyses of the macroremains of the granary, which included a range of processed and unprocessed crops and weed seeds, showed that naked barley (Hordeum vulgare var. nudum) and bread wheat (Triticum aestivum s.l.) were the main crops cultivated, hulled barley (Hordeum vulgare) and flax (Linum usitatissimum) also played a role, whereas emmer (Triticum dicoccum) and gold of pleasure (Camelina sativa) were present as weeds or contaminants. The arable weed flora suggests that crops were sown in spring and that ecological conditions in the arable fields were very variable. The crops were harvested on the straw and may have spent some time drying and maturing in the fields before being transported home to be stored as severed ears in pest-proof granaries. Winnowing or, more probably, casting appears to have been used to clean the crop after threshing. It could not be ascertained if the crops had been sieved. Large collections of weed seeds in the granary were apparently the result of intentional gathering for food, rather than by-products of crop processing. In the light of the investigation it is suggested that future research into Iron Age agrarian practices should include both the analysis of archaeobotanical finds and a programme of practical experiments. This dual approach will give us a much better understanding of arable agriculture, not only in the Iron Age, but in prehistory as a whole.
23417518|Lyme-grass (Elymus arenarius L.) was harvested and processed for human consumption along the southern coast of Iceland until the beginning of this century. The origin of this exploitation is not known, but lyme-grass may have been gathered for this purpose already in the Viking Age. The system of processing lyme-grass is complex, and special implements and facilities are needed. The method is similar to traditional processing methods for cereals. Extensive research on Icelandic ethnographic observations was undertaken to establish the exact methods and sequence of operations that was involved. On the basis of this, a set of archaeological experiments was performed to test the viability of the processing techniques outlined in the written records. A model describing the harvesting and processing of lyme-grass is presented.
23417519|Plant remains from the 15th century drains at Paisley Abbey, Scotland include medicinal plants which may have grown in the abbey's physic garden. They are Chelidonium majus, Conium maculatum, Euphorbia lathyris, and Papaver somniferum. Plants with both medicinal and culinary uses are Rumex pseudoalpinus and cf Armoracia rusticana. Other vegetables are represented by Allium sp. and Brassica spp. Malus domestica and Prunus domestica ssp. insititia would have been grown in the abbey's orchard. Juglans regia, represented by nut and wood fragments, was either grown in the orchard or imported. Ficus carica was certainly imported as dried fruit from the Mediterranean region. Myristica fragrans as mace came from Indonesia. Locally grown plants are Avena strigosa, Hordeum, Triticum/Secale, Linum usitatissimum and the dye plant Reseda luteola. It is known that spices and other foodstuffs were purchased at fairs at Berry, Bruges and Antwerp and imported into Scotland at the end of the 15th century.
23417520|Caowanie site, which supported hunter-gatherer populations from ca. 11 38095 until 8270100 B.P., is the major terminal Palaeolithic and early Mesolithic occupation complex of the North European Plain. The archaeological layers are intercalated with biogenic sediments. The remains of plants that probably served as food were recovered from terminal Palaeolithic and early Mesolithic layers. Most of the charred plant remains, apart from wood charcoal, derives from vegetative parenchyma which forms a major part of organs such as root and tuber. Two taxa have been identified on the basis of the anatomy of parenchymatous tissue, namely Sagittaria cf. sagittifolia and Polygonum sp. In addition, several charred seeds and fruits were recovered. This is the first evidence for the probable use of plant foods, other than hazel nuts or water-chestnuts, in the diet of hunter-gatherers in the North European Plain during the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic.
23417521|Two hundred and seventy carbonized naked wheat ears from the Neolithic pile dwelling at Hornstaad-Hrnle IA/Lake Constance (Germany) were analysed. The characteristics of internodes and glumes show that only tetraploid naked wheat types were cultivated. Following the history of free-threshing wheats it seems conceivable that the tetraploid naked wheats spread from their point of origin in the Middle East (7th/8th millennium B.C.) via a Mediterranean route to southwest Europe, reaching the northern foothills of the Alps about 4000 B.C.
23417522|A large area investigation was undertaken of the plant remains from a Michelsberg Culture (late Neolithic) settlement. The charred macroscopic remains and imprints in pieces of daub were expected to show both the spectrum of the cultivated plants there, and also the degree of their cultivation and use. The loess covered hill-top lies in a landscape with favourable climatic and soil conditions and is blocked off by two parallel ditches running in an arc. Ditches and pits filled with different sediments were investigated. The daub, unearthed in several pits, had been deliberately mixed with chaff of the glume wheats einkorn and emmer to temper it when it was originally made. The investigated imprints and charred plant remains give hints of spatial distribution of crop processing activities. To determine the amounts of the crops that were cultivated and used, it is necessary to study the charred remains. The degree of ubiquity (frequency of occurrence) of grains in the pit sediments seems to be the best indicator of the representation of cereals. Four main cereals were found: Triticum monococcum, T. dicoccum, T. aestivum/T. durum and Hordeum vulgare var. nudum. Pisum sativum also was an important cultivated plant, much more than Lens culinaris. The role of Linum usitatissimum and Papaver somniferum is less clear.
23417523|Botanical on-site and off-site data relating to Late Neolithic and Bronze Age settlement phases in south-western Germany are compared with a view to reconstructing economic and environmental change. The large differences between the Neolithic and Bronze Age as regards forest composition, crops and crop weeds, and charcoal input are explained in terms of different types of agronomic systems and hence cultural landscape. In the Late Neolithic, shifting cultivation, involving slash and burn, was practised with the result that the landscape was largely dominated by tall shrubs. In the Bronze Age there were more or less permanent arable fields with only short fallow phases. The agronomic system and the resulting cultural landscape was already similar to that of the medieval period and, especially, early medieval time.
23417524|A large number of weakly germinated hulled barley grains was found during archaeobotanical analyses from the early Celtic settlement excavations at Eberdingen-Hochdorf in southwest Germany (ca. 600 400 BC). These grains seem to represent deliberate germination, due to the purity of the find and its unusual archaeological context. The possibility of deliberate malting which could be connected with beer brewing is discussed. Recent germination and charring experiments show that the consistently weak traces of germination on the charred subfossil grains from Hochdorf are enough to indicate malted grains. A comparison of the archaeobotanical remains with the written and archaeological sources shows that evidence of beer brewing from excavations is very scarce. There is practically no clear proof of brewing, while written sources and indirect suggestions are abundant. Neither archaeological finds nor either written or iconographic sources give exact details about the prehistoric brewing technology of the early Celts. The archaeological finds from Hochdorf seem to be the result of deliberate malting of hulled barley for the purpose of Celtic beer brewing.
23417525|Recent rescue excavations at Bercy (Paris), a site on the alluvial plain of the Seine valley, yielded plant remains which are associated with the recent occupation phase dating from the middle Neolithic II (Chassen), when a village was established on the former channel of the river Seine. Various contexts (the channel, the flat lower part of the bank, and several archaeological features) have been studied and 84 taxa have been identified. Cultivated plants are represented by Triticum aestivum/durum, T. dicoccum, T. monococcum and Hordeum vulgare. Among the wild plants with potentially edible fruits or seeds, only very few satisfy the various criteria for association with human activities: Corylus avellana, Vitis sylvestris, Cornus sanguinea, Quercus sp. and Prunus spinosa of which carbonized fruits were also present, were found in archaeological features and were very abundant. Though not found in archaeological features, we consider that Crataegus monogyna (carbonized and well represented) and Rubus spp. (especially abundant) were not deposited there naturally and had also been intentionally collected. Finally, it is suggested that the allochthonous (varied) origin of these taxa is the reason why there are no concentrations of their fruits in the channel. The exploitation of wild seeds and fruits appears to have been very selective. All other wild taxa can be attributed to natural deposition.
23417526|This paper presents the results of the study of the macroscopic plant remains found in the granary of a La Tne D1 native farm situated on the plateau overlooking the river Oise, near Compigne, northern France. The composition and the deposition of the harvest in the storage building are discussed. Some evidence of agricultural practices are deduced from the weeds associated with the grain.
23417527|Two single assemblages of cereals and chaff from the oppidum Bibracte, (Burgundy, France), give evidence of cereal trade, food supply and crop processing in late Celtic and early Roman times. The first deposit consists mainly of Triticum dicoccon chaff which was buried in a wooden box near the sanctuary of La Terrasse. The second assemblage was a store of different wheats and barley excavated in a Roman cellar at the Pture du Couvent. The analyses of these finds are presented, and recent archaeobotanical research at Mont Beuvray is summarized.
23417528|Serris-Les Ruelles is an early medieval demesne (manor house) showing the bipartite structure which is typical of this kind of landed property. The organisation is based on social difference: on the one hand the lord in his manor house, on the other the peasants in their village. The difference is apparent from the inorganic remains. Two out of four possible criteria were applied to investigate whether the difference is also apparent in plant food. The result of the investigation was negative. The reason might be that the spatial and economic separation between lord and peasant was not yet wide enough where food was concerned.
23417529|The analysis of archaeological charcoal is used to reconstruct the wood resources in north-west Portugal from the late Bronze Age to the Roman period. In this paper, the results obtained from 12 sites are considered, and their implications for interpreting historical human behaviour towards the natural environment and vegetation are discussed. The results indicate a similar kind of exploitation of the vegetation by different populations which used a similar range of wood resources. Fifty-one taxa are identified and three main natural biotopes are distinguished, including mixed oak forest, wasteland vegetation and riparian forest. The large number of taxa identified seems to testify to the existence of a good sampling of the woody vegetation growing in the proximity of the settlements. Both dry and fresh wood were used, and the value and possible uses are suggested for some of the most frequent taxa identified.
23417530|The botanical macrofossils (charcoals, seeds and fruits) found during the archaeological excavation of the middle Neolithic site of Rivaltella Ca'Romensini near Reggio Emilia, northern Italy, have been analyzed. Among the charcoal fragments 11 different taxa have been identified, with a clear predominance of oaks. The relative frequencies of the different taxa probably do not reflect the real frequencies in the forest, but suggest that firewood had been gathered selectively. Among the seeds and fruits, four different Gramineae, a small wild apple and some hazelnut shells have been identified. These results indicate that the food economy of the Neolithic Rivaltella inhabitants was partially based on agriculture and on fruit gathering.
23417531|A rich assemblage of primarily desiccated plant remains has been recovered from the Roman quarry settlement of Mons Claudianus in the Eastern Desert of Egypt. These remains indicate that the food supply to the site was well organized despite its remote location and that both staples and luxury foods were imported. It has also been established that straw and chaff were imported in large quantities, highlighting the fact that the presence of the by-products of the early stages of the crop processing sequence cannot necessarily be interpreted as implying that the cereals were cultivated locally.
23417532|Archaeobotanical results based on a limited number of samples from three aceramic sites dating from 9800 to 7800 B.P., which are under excavation in the valley of the Middle Euphrates, are discussed. The finds are presented simply by presence, and are compared to the contemporary vegetation and finds from similar sites. Carbonised plant remains recovered by flotation from levels dated to between 9800 and 9200 B.P. (Dja'de and Jerf al Ahmar) indicate that wild cereals (einkorn wheat, rye and barley) and pulses (lentils, pea and bitter vetch) were exploited. Other plants such as wild grasses, Pistacia, wild almond and oak, suggest that the local vegetation provided a rich diversity of resources. A study of possible weed taxa is being carried out in order to see whether this assemblage could be used to identify the cultivation of morphologically wild cereals for this period. Ninth millennium B.P. levels at Halula see the appearance of domestic crops such as emmer, naked wheat and barley, but wild-type cereals persist. The cultivars appear to have been introduced from elsewhere and later ninth millennium B.P. species include olive and flax. Ash, vine, maple, plane, alder and elm from the gallery forest, wild rye, wild einkorn, deciduous oak, wild almond, Pistacia, and Pyrus, from the hinterland, indicate cooler conditions.
23417533|Results of experimental retrieval of plant remains (both charred modern and fossil) from three sediment types (clay, gravel and sandy loam) carried out by environmental archaeologists from the Ancient Monuments Laboratory and the Central Archaeology Service, English Heritage, are reported. For each sediment type, six different treatments were carried out using three flotation machines of the Siraf type, two other machines in use in two archaeological units and one experimental machine. The results show that there is invariably considerable discrepancy between the amount of plant material present and that recovered, that the Serif-type machine is among the best currently available and that pretreatment of particular mineral soils may improve recovery of plant macrofossil material.
23417534|Small legume seeds are commonly recovered from Epipalaeolithic and Early Neolithic sites in north Africa and south-west Asia, often as a high proportion of the total plant remains. Their role is uncertain, but it is thought that small-seeded legumes may once have been a human food resource. They are difficult to identify. The gross morphology and testa surface micromorphology have been investigated in fresh seeds of members of the tribe Trifolieae and some related tribes in the same subfamily Faboideae. The separation of the four genera Medicago, Melilotus, Trifolium, and Trigonella has been attempted by multivariate analysis of seed characters that can be seen in experimentally charred seed specimens. The characters used have also been observed in well-preserved ancient charred small legume seeds, and so can be readily used for the purpose of identification. Although identification to the level of species is rarely possible, identification to generic level could provide information useful for the interpretation of this category of ancient plant remains.
23417535|Publications on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected, mainly from 1994, with some earlier and some later ones. A list is given of the finds according to taxon, country, site, and age.
23417322|Methods of preparative centrifugation eliminate many of the difficulties involved in preparing pollen concentrates from deposits rich in resistant organic material. Density centrifugation for the separation of pollen from a gyttja sample rich in resistant organic matter was tested. Combining centrifugations in two CsCl solutions, one of higher density and one of lower density than pollen, a pure pollen fraction was successfully prepared. Data on the isodensity and sedimentation rate of 'fossilized' recent pollen from twelve tree taxa are also presented, and the potential for separating a single taxon from pollen assemblages is demonstrated.
23417323|Palynological investigation of the marine core, GeoB 1008-3, from near the mouth of the Congo river (635.6S/1019.1E), provides information about the changes in vegetation and climate in West Equatorial Africa during the last 190 ka. The pollen diagram is divided into zones 1-6 which are considered to correspond in time with the marine isotope stages 1-6. Oscillations in temperature and moisture are indicated during the cold stage 6. During stage 5, two cooler periods (5d and 5b) can be shown with an expansion of Podocarpus forests to lower elevations on the expense of lowland rain forest. Extended mangrove swamps existed along the coast in times of high sea level (stages 5 and 1).
23417324|Pollen analysis was carried out on gyttja from the small lake Femtingaglen in the Smland Uplands, southern Sweden. The interpretation of the pollen diagram focused on land-use history and comparisons were made to archaeological and historical information from the area. An absolute chronology, based on AMS dates from terrestrial plant macrofossils, was complemented by inferred dates. The pollen analytical data suggest interference with the woodland cover from ca. 1700 B.C. onwards. Intensified grazing and forest clearances resulted in semi-open pastures between ca. A.D. 400-600 which was followed by forest regeneration (chronology based on AMS 14C dates and cross-correlation with other well dated profiles). The landscape became more open again between A.D. 800 and 1400. Animal husbandry was complemented by small-scale shifting cultivation during the Iron Age. Permanent arable fields were probably not introduced until the Late Iron Age or the Middle Ages. Hordeum and Triticum were grown during the Iron Age, Hordeum, Triticum, Secale and Cannabis sativa during the Middle Ages and early Modern time, and Hordeum and Avena in the recent past. Sandy and silty soils, where stone clearance was not necessary, have probably been used for cereal growing in prehistoric and historic time.
23417325|Principal components analysis of 7 size and shape variables measured on 154 modern fruit bodies of Betula species and hybrids shows that B. pubescens and B. nana can be distinguished from each other on the basis of their fruit bodies, and that B. pubescens ssp. tortuosa and hybrids either fall within the range of B. pubescens or have an intermediate position on PCA axes 1 and 2. Passive positioning on the modern PCA axes of fossil fruit bodies from late-glacial sediments at Eigebakken, south-west Norway, shows that only B. nana was locally present in the Allerd. This contradicts earlier inferences from pollen analyses alone of birch woodland development in the Allerd in south-west Norway. There is no macrofossil evidence for tree-birches in the Allerd near Eigebakken. The relatively large amounts of Betula pollen, including B. pubescens, at Eigebakken are thus probably derived by long-distance transport from tree-birches in Denmark, south Sweden, and Britain, whose presence is proved there by macrofossils. Consequently, earlier estimates of mean July temperature during the Allerd in southwestern Norway should be reduced to around 7.5-10C. In contrast, the PCA shows that fruit bodies from Holocene sediments at Eigebakken and at Krkenes, western Norway, are mostly derived from B. pubescens. Birch trees were able to spread quickly and effectively across Norway in the early Holocene.
23417326|Palynological studies on late Quaternary lake sediments from the region of the Amazon estuary, 100 km north-east of Belm, Par State, Brazil, enable reconstruction of lowland Amazonian rain forest during the Late-glacial and Holocene periods. Late-glacial forests included populations of Podocarpus which suggests a distinct climatic cooling. Ilex was abundant in the early Holocene. Records of the mangrove taxon, Rhizophora, indicate rapid Atlantic sea-level rise in the beginning of the Holocene. High charcoal representation may reflect the first arrival of Amerindians in the Amazon coastal area, probably about 10 800 B.P.
23417327|This paper reviews the evidence from terrestrial palaeoenvironmental records in north-central Europe and, in particular, central Germany, which relates to the controversial proposition that there were strong climate oscillations during the last interglacial (oxygen isotope substage 5e). In contrast to the evidence from the GRIP ice core at Summit, Greenland, and a recent palaeoclimate reconstruction based on the pollen profile from Bispingen, Germany, the evaluation of the palaeobotanical and the stable isotope data presented here strongly suggests relatively stable temperature for most of the Eemian and with instability confined to the beginning and end of the interglacial. High amplitude temperature variations can be seen in both the Early Weichselian pollen and isotope records. It is argued that this pattern of climate development is applicable to most of continental north-central Europe.
23417511|Modern pollen assemblages from the major vegetation units (both natural and anthropogenic) on the island of Hailuoto, Finland are studied from 29 surface moss samples. A total of 59 pollen and spore taxa are recorded. The pollen data-set is related by redundancy analysis (RDA) to six external synthetic variables that characterize in general terms the different major ecological situations relevant to the land-use on the island (sand, humus, forest, field, deforested, treeless). Weighted average (WA) optima are calculated to identify which pollen taxa are most indicative of four of these external variables. Two fossil pollen diagrams from Hailuoto are re-interpreted by positioning their samples on the RDA plot of the modern data-set and by classifying the modern and fossil spectra together in a minimum-variance cluster analysis. The RDA plot shows that the strongest features in the modern pollen assemblages are the contrast between spectra from dry sandy soils and those from damper soils with more organic content, and between assemblages from forested and unforested areas. For anthropogenic situations the numerical analyses detect a distinction in the pollen assemblages characterizing fields from those representing farms and trackways but is less successful in separating the latter two. The WA optima indicate that most pollen taxa considered as indicator types primarily represent a mixed field/farm category of land-use. The RDA and minimum-variance cluster analysis confirm that the two fossil sites have had different vegetational histories. In neither is there any phase equivalent to the modern farm situation on Hailuoto. The initial phase in each diagram represents shore meadows and fields but because Poaceae pollen is identifiable only to family level it is not possible to separate these two habitat types.
23417512|Pollen and spores from a deep-sea core located west of the Niger Delta record an uninterrupted area of lowland rain forest in West Africa from Guinea to Cameroon during the last Interglacial and the early Holocene. During other periods of the last 150 ka, a savanna corridor between the western - Guinean - and the eastern - Congolian - part of the African lowland rain forest existed. This so-called Dahomey Gap had its largest extension during Glacial Stages 6, 4, 3, and 2. Reduced surface salinity in the eastern Gulf of Guinea as recorded by dinoflagellate cysts indicates sufficient precipitation for extensive forest growth during Stages 5 and 1. The large modern extension of dry forest and savanna in West Africa cannot be solely explained by climatic factors. Mangrove expansion in and west of the Niger Delta was largest during the phases of sea-level rise of Stages 5 and 1. During Stages 6, 4, 3, and 2, shelf areas were exposed and the area of the mangrove swamps was minimal.
23417513|Carbonized grains of sorghum, with consistent radiocarbon dates of ca. 8000 B.P., have been excavated at an early Holocene archaeological site (E-75-6) in Nabta Playa near the Egyptian-Sudanese border. The objective of the investigations reported here was to classify these early sorghum grains within the known wild or domesticated races or working groups of sorghum through the use of image-analysis procedures. Image-analysis is a non-destructive analytical method that can provide rapid, repeatable, and accurate measurements of ancient cereal grains. Measurements were taken on samples representing the five major domesticated sorghum races, eight wild relatives, and samples from the Nabta Playa and Jebel et Tomat excavation sites. Statistical and clustering techniques indicated significant differences existed among the sorghums with respect to the various measurements made. Sorghum from Nabta Playa was significantly smaller, with respect to most measurements, than either the wild relatives or the five cultivated sorghums. Smaller grain size and the lack of any spikelets containing attached branchlets of the inflorescence or rachis fragments suggest that the material harvested and eaten at the Nabta Playa site were of a wild type.
23417514|Compared with most parts of Europe, northern Sweden is essentially a sparsely populated wilderness. There is, however, an ever increasing body of archaeological and palaeoecological information that shows that the region has a long cultural history. In this paper, results of pollen analytical investigations from four lakes with varved lake sediments, in the province of ngermanland, are presented. These investigations have yielded evidence of continuous and sedentary agriculture from the 6th century in the region close to the Bothnian coast and near the mouth of the large river ngermanlven. This early agriculture appears to have been based on animal husbandry and cereal, mainly barley, cultivation. During a second farming expansion phase at ca. A.D. 1200, rye cultivation became more important. The increased farming activity during this period was most pronounced at the coast and in the river valley, but more peripheral regions away from the river valley were also exploited. During the period A.D. 1600-1800, arable farming assumed greater importance. In the first decades of the 20th century, the area under cultivation declined, cereal cultivation mostly ceased and the fields were used for pasture.
23417316|On the Taymyr Peninsula and Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago, Central Siberia, a joint German/Russian multidisciplinary research project focuses on the Late Quaternary history of climate and environment. Within the scope of this project, palynological studies were carried out on a 10.8-m core from Lama Lake, situated in the south-west of the research area. The core, which did not reach the base of the lacustrine sediments, reveals the vegetation and climate history of the last 17 000 years and demonstrates that this area was not glaciated during that time. The Pleistocene/Holocene transition is, as elsewhere in the northern hemisphere, characterized by increased temperatures during the Blling, Allerd and Preboreal with interruptions during the Older (post-Blling) and Younger Dryas events. The Holocene climate optimum at Lama Lake probably occurred within the Boreal period, when dense larch forests developed. The Atlantic period was characterized by warm conditions that favoured the establishment of larch-spruce forests, though a climatic deterioration is also recorded. During the Subboreal, spruce fluctuated in importance, on the basis of which it is suggested that there were two cool periods with an intervening warm period. Since 3000 B.P., the climate has become considerably cooler and forests have degenerated. During the last 1000 years, unfavourable climate conditions have resulted in a forest tundra and widespread tundra communities developing in the Lama Lake region.
23417317|Past lake-level changes in Lake Kalvsjn are reconstructed and compared with the changes recorded in nearby Lake Bysjn. The two major lowerings of lake level noted in Lake Bysjn are also recorded in Lake Kalvsjn, the older lowering taking place between ca. 9500-9200 B.P. and the younger occurring between ca. 6500-3000 B.P. A distinct decrease in the frequency of Ulmus, corresponding to the classical Elm Decline, is recorded in the pollen diagram from Lake Kalvsjn. The high rapidity of the decline strongly suggests that a pathogenic attack was primarily responsible. However, both human interference and palaeohydrological change may have interacted by disturbing the surrounding forests and increasing the susceptibility of elm to pathogenic attack. In the Lake Kalvsjn area, the disturbance resulting from palaeohydrological change is assumed to have been more influential in pre-disposing the forest to an outbreak of elm disease than any human interference.
23417318|Archaeobotanical finds in Spain show differences in the representation of the different wheats and barleys. From the beginning of agriculture (around 5000 B.C.) onwards, all wheats and barleys can be found at the sites of the eastern Peninsula. But in later periods of the early Neolithic, free-threshing wheat becomes more important in the northeast and the southeast, compared to the hulled wheats (emmer and einkorn). Nevertheless, both naked and hulled barleys can be found in similar frequencies in this period. Seed analyses in the southeast and the east of Spain show the importance of naked barley compared with hulled barley in the third millenium uncal B.C. This is not the case in the northeast, where hulled barley has a similar frequency in this period until the Iron Age, when both hulled barley and free-threshing wheat are the most important taxa. The substitution of naked barley for hulled barley in the south-east Iberian Peninsula is very significant in the period of greatest growth of the Argar culture. Free-threshing wheat can be found at a similar frequency throughout the study area, and was an important human food source together with the barleys. Hulled wheats seem to have played a secondary role as food in all periods, although they are constantly present in our samples. Nevertheless spelt wheat does not appear until the Roman period, when it is only found on the Cantabrian north coast, where it is important.
23417319|Publications on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected, mainly from 1995, with some earlier and some later ones. A list is given of the finds according to taxon, country, site, and age.
23417345|Logn, one of three raised bogs (Hochmoor) in the Massif Armorican, was officially designated as a nature reserve in 1987 and is of considerable ecological interest from botanical, ornithological and herpetological aspects. Palynological investigations reveal the history of local and regional vegetation during the last ca. 4000 years. From the end of the Neolithic Age to the present day, changes in the bog appear to have been considerably influenced by variations in local watertable level that may be of natural origin or caused by human activity. Alder carr with Osmunda regalis, which was the dominant vegetation around the periphery of the bog at ca. 4200 B.P., underwent many changes. Its final demise occurred in Gallo-Roman times when the local landscape took on a distinctly open appearance. The first clear evidence for cereal cultivation relates to the Bronze Age. After a decline in farming at the beginning of the Iron Age, there was a strong renewal of farming in the La Tne period, which included a distinct arable component and also records for Juglans and Castanea pollen. The timing of the introduction of walnut and chestnut to the Massif Armorican is discussed.
23417346|A pollen record from a small alder carr located in the centre of a Fagus stand near the hamlet of Flahult in southern Smland has shown that Fagus became established in a semi-open cultural landscape about 900 B.P. Human disturbance seems to have controlled the local establishment of Fagus at this site through an expansion of pastoral farming. The Fagus dominance in the present stand seems to be of recent origin, as Fagus pollen percentages and influx values have increased considerably only during the last 50 years. The modern composition and structure of the Fagus stand are probably an effect of changes in land-use and decreased human activity at the end of the last century. Today, only occasional Picea individuals occur in the studied stand, and Picea does not appear to have been more abundant in the recent past. The regional expansion of Picea has probably occurred during this century and has been favoured by modern forestry during the last 50 years.
23417347|A core from Tlnlahti, a bay close to the central business district of Helsinki, the capital of Finland, was analysed for its pollen stratigraphy. The extrapolated age-depth curve based on 137Cs dating, sphaeroidal carbonaceous particle analysis and historical data suggests that the core goes back to the 17th or early 18th century. Four local pollen assemblage zones (LPAZ) were identified. Detrended correspondence analysis was used to detect the main phases of change represented by these zones. The basal LPAZ indicates that the vegetation was characterized by forest dominated by Pinus sylvestris and Picea abies during the early history of the city of Helsinki and that human impact remained relatively minor until the end of the 19th century. A drastic change in vegetation took place at the turn of the 19/20th century when both Pinus and Picea declined rapidly while pollen values of several anthropogenic indicators rose. These changes were synchronous with the rapid expansion of population and urban area in Helsinki. Rarefaction analysis shows that palynological richness was highest during the early phase of increased human impact but then started to fall. During the 20th century the main vegetational trend has been the proliferation of introduced park trees. Palynological richness has decreased.
23417348|A variety of well-preserved plant remains was recovered from a pond and two cesspits from late medieval and post medieval Gttingen. Cultivated plants included cereals, oilseeds and fibre plants, vegetables, fruit, nuts and spices. Rice and spices were imported from India and Africa and point to the relative wealth of the users of one of the pits. Additionally, a number of wild fruit, including Sorbus torminalis (wild service), was gathered from woods, clearings or hedges. Gardens were situated in the town or around its walls. Hops and grapevines were grown in special gardens in favourable places out of town. Apart from human (and sometimes animal) faeces, mostly kitchen refuse and waste from cleaning grain and processing flax in the town were deposited in the pits. Thus weeds of arable land are well represented, some of them indicating mainly basic soil conditions on the cornfields. Short-lived as well as persistent ruderals found suitable growing conditions. Poor grasslands were grazed, those on more fertile soils were also used for haymaking. Swampy areas were exploited for litter. A number of the recorded plants, especially some arable weeds or ones needing damp conditions, are nowadays threatened or extinct in the region.
23417349|A continuous palynological record from the marine core GeoB1016-3 from the Angola Basin reveals the regional vegetation and climate history of the last 300 ka. Pollen and spores found at the studied site have their source areas in the different vegetation zones of the adjacent part of the West African continent. Those vegetation zones comprise tropical rain forest, coastal mangrove swamp, Miombo woodland, dry forest, Afromontane forest, desert and semi-desert. The main pollen transport agent is the southeast trade wind system. Ocean currents also partly play a role in transporting pollen and spores. During the interglacial periods, ocean currents also transported palynomorphs southward. During the glacial periods, increased trade winds are indicated by high influx of pollen and spores and high pollen percentages of Poaceae and taxa from desert and semi-desert vegetations. Reconstruction of the geographical position of palaeo-vegetation zones shows that the northern boundary of the Namib Desert did not move north of 12S during the last 300 ka. This implies that northward shifts of the Angola-Benguela Front did not pass the latitude of 12S.
23417330|The Lomond Hills of Fife, an isolated upland area rising to over 500 m, provide an opportunity to investigate the effect of altitude on vegetation and climate in an area otherwise dominated by lower-lying land. The West Lomond site contains sediments of the Devensian Late-glacial period; they reveal a well-defined sequence of Blling-Older Dryas-Allerd-Younger Dryas events, commencing ca. 12 190 radiocarbon years B.P. and a probable Amphi-Atlantic Oscillation between ca. 11 040 and 10 800 B.P. The Holocene record is constrained by low sediment input but does reveal a woodland presence at this altitude, dominated by Betula and Corylus. Size statistics for Betula pollen are presented and the implications of the vegetational and climatic record are discussed. The traditional view of a smooth progress towards more temperate conditions following the Younger Dryas is not supported; between 10 180 and 9120 B.P., three cooler periods are inferred, the earliest of which may belong to a terminal phase of the Younger Dryas. Comparative pollen 'influx' data strongly suggest that Quercus, Ulmus and Alnus were not present locally. As a working hypothesis, it is suggested that the demise of woodland, from ca. 5950 B.P., was a result of exposure. Pollen indicative of human impact was probably derived from areas of lowland agricultural activity from ca. 5330 B.P. onwards.
23417331|The Over Wyre region of Lancashire, England, was formerly dominated by a complex of ombrotrophic intermediate raised mires, most of which have been severely damaged by agricultural activity during the last 250 years. The degree of truncation and desiccation of the remaining peats means that opportunities for studying environmental history in this part of lowland England are extremely rare. An exception occurs at Fenton Cottage where a relict, non-truncated portion of original mire survives and forms an environmental archive spanning the second half of the Holocene. The palaeoecological record shows that there has been a continual human influence on the development of the landscape since the mire began growing, with a particularly significant deforestation episode commencing in the late Iron Age. A major expansion of the mire system commenced in the late Bronze Age/early Iron Age and may have led to the abandonment of settlement in and around the peatlands during much of the Iron Age. The investigation also yielded the first tephra to be discovered in English peats. This took the form of a discrete layer of microscopic tephra, geochemically assigned to the Icelandic Hekla-4 eruption of ca. 2300 cal. B.C.. This was recorded in Scheuchzeria palustris-dominated peat which formed during a period of freshwater flooding. The find represents the most southerly geographical location in the British Isles where Hekla-4 tephra has been detected to date. The study demonstrates the palaeoecological value of threatened relict lowland peat archives in agricultural landscapes and highlights the potential of tephrochronology as a tool for studying environmental changes and wetland archaeology in southern Britain.
23417332|This paper describes the results of the archaeobotanical examination of four Late Neolithic lakeshore settlements on Lake Biel in Switzerland. Due to the excellent preservation conditions in lakeshore settlements, non-carbonized as well as carbonized seeds and fruits were recovered in large numbers. In addition to the diaspore analyses, some samples of charcoal and moss were identified. The spectrum of cultivated plants was markedly different between the sites. In the transition from the 34th to 33rd century B.C. (sites Nidau, Lscherz and Lattrigen 'VI') naked wheat and barley were predominant, while in the 32nd century B.C. (Lattrigen 'VII') emmer (a glume wheat) was most abundant. Flax and opium poppy were of great importance during the whole late Neolithic period. In addition to cereals, a large number of cereal weeds were detected. The wild flora included a high percentage of aquatic and lake-shore plants which results from the strong influence of water on the cultural layers. Taxa of flood-plain forest are also common. The proportion of potential grassland plants was low (in total only 13 taxa) which suggests that in addition to the cultivated fields only few pastures and grassland areas existed close to the settlements.
23417333|Changes in wood taxa used as fuel on the island of Tenerife from 250 B.C. to 1500 A.D. were studied, using charcoal analyses from three archaeological sites. These sites were occupied by "guanche" prehistoric peoples up to the conquest of the island by the king of Castille in 1496. It appears that the collection of wood by prehistoric people had not significantly altered the woody vegetation around the vicinity of the sites. The arrival of European settlers, however, brought new economic and cultural practices which were radically different from those of the prehistoric society.
23417379|The Weichselian Late-glacial marks the transition from the Weichselian Late Pleniglacial to the warmer Holocene. During this period climate changed rapidly, as did vegetation and the abiotic landscape. For analysis of the relationship between these changes, accurate chronologies are essential. In the Netherlands, a compilation has been made of over 250 palynologically investigated sites relating to this period. A regional zonation has been constructed based on common trends in vegetation development. On palynological grounds, not only the classical Late-glacial sub-division but also minor changes can be recognized within the Allerd, Late Dryas and Early Preboreal. After a critical evaluation of the available radiocarbon dates this zonation has been attached to the 14C timescale. Palynological changes which can be attributed to episodes of climatic cooling are recorded at 12 100, 11 500, 10 950 and 9950 B.P. The chronological framework made it possible to compare vegetation development with other proxy records. Climatic events recorded in oxygen-isotope records from Swiss lake sediments and the Greenland ice cores are also reflected in the regional vegetation development in the Netherlands. The regional trends in vegetation development expressed by the pollen zones are considered to be related to changes in climate, while anomalies reflect other, local environmental changes.
23417380|This paper presents the results of pollen analyses from organic sediments of seven cores (299 spectra) in a mountainous area of the north-west Iberian peninsula. The pollen diagrams, supported by seven 14C dates, are used to construct a regional pollen sequence covering the main stages of vegetation dynamics, from the last phases of the Late-glacial until the present. During the Late-glacial Interstadial an important development of cryophilous forests (Betula and Pinus) was recorded, although various mesophilous and thermophilous tree elements were also present. The Younger Dryas, palynologically clearly defined, is characterized by an important reduction in tree pollen percentages and the expansion of steppe formations (Poaceae and Artemisia). At the beginning of the Holocene, there was an expansion of Quercus and a spread of other trees, which combined to give a vegetation cover of varied composition but dominated by mixed deciduous forests. Such forest formations prevailed in these mountains until 3000 years ago, when successive deforestation phases are recorded at various times as a result of increased farming activity. The results are compared with data from other mountainous areas in the northern Iberian peninsula and southern France.
23417381|213 goat or sheep faeces from the Neolithic lake shore settlement of Horgen Scheller (Switzerland) were analysed for plant macrofossils. Only 51 (24%) of them contained identifiable remains. The most frequent finds were prickles of Rosaceae, probably blackberry (Rubus fruticosus s.l.). This is interpreted as food that was grazed from hedges, woodland edges or clearings in winter or spring. Faeces from summer or autumn are apparently not present. Explanations for this are discussed, among which trans-humance seems most probable.
23417382|Macrofossils of weeds retrieved from archaeological sediments in Egypt are discussed in terms of their presence, preservation and representation significance. The study reveals 112 field weeds from 61 archaeological sites dating from Predynastic times (4500 B.C.) up to the Graeco-Roman period (A.D. 395). Most of the remains were preserved by desiccation. The 112 listed species include 24 taxa from Predynastic Hierakonpolis (3800-3500 B.C.) identified for the first time. This study is based on a selection of 97 species from the entire list. Interpretation of field weed finds from the archaeological contexts is discussed. The highest number of species, 63, is recorded from the Pharaonic period. The Predynastic era is represented by 46 species and the Graeco-Roman period by 34. The intensive archaeological excavation of Pharaonic settlements may explain the rich flora of that period compared with the two others. Floristic analysis shows that 57 species were introduced in association with crops from the Middle East and 40 may belong to the native vegetation of the Nile valley.
23417383|Charcoal assemblages from five Terminal Pleistocene sites in the Central Negev Highlands, Israel, have been analyzed. Eleven taxa have been identified, two of which, juniper and Paliurus, no longer grow in this district, and one, Pinus (of which only a single occurrence was encountered), is considered intrusive, and the rest are taxa which still characterize the region today. Among these latter, Pistacia atlantica (which is the dominant tree in this area today) was the most common. Association of juniper and Paliurus is found today only in the northern Near East. It can not be ascertained that such an association characterized the Central Negev Highlands throughout the entire period spanned by the charcoal assemblages, since it is possible that Pistacia atlantica may have become temporarily extinct. In any case the former occurrence of juniper and particularly Paliurus in the Central Negev Highlands clearly point to higher humidity in this region during the final stages of the Pleistocene. This conclusion is corroborated by a variety of proxy climatic indicators throughout the southern Levant.
23417505|Results of multidisciplinary studies, involving anthracology, archaeology and geoarchaeology, that have been carried out on Neolithic to Bronze Age deposits from Blesta Cave, eastern Pyrenees, are reported. These show that the type of human activity, i.e. pastoralism alone or a more diversified farming economy, and continuity/discontinuity of occupation are the main factors that determine the structure and evolution of the Holocene vegetation in the region. Neolithic pastoral activities were not continuous and so did not have an enduring influence on the natural environment. The more continuous and diversified exploitation associated with Bronze Age cultures was responsible for the development and maintenance of the low garrigues.
23417506|A pollen analytical study of a 66-m long core from the Brague valley, Biot, Alpes-Maritimes, France, suggests that thalwegs in eastern Provence may have served as refugia for mesophilous trees such as Tilia, Fagus and Abies during the last glacial period. During the Younger Dryas the vegetation was considerably less steppic in character than that described from western Provence. The varying role of taxa such as Quercus ilex-type in pollen profiles from the wider region suggests a longitudinal gradient in both climate and vegetation development in the French/Italian north-western mediterranean region during the Holocene.
23417507|A method is presented for generating data on archaeological weed species relevant to soil productivity and consequently crop husbandry. Three plant attributes (maximum canopy height, maximum canopy spread and maximum dry leaf weight per node) which are functionally related to habitat productivity were measured for 161 British annual species. These three attributes were combined to produce an index of weed size. Index values were found to differ significantly between character species of phytosociological classes from fertile and infertile habitats and to provide an objective assessment of CSR (Competitor/Stress-tolerator/Ruderal) strategy sensu Grime (1974, 1979). Further work is required, however, to distinguish 'medium-sized' species that exploit highly disturbed and productive habitats from those of less disturbed and less productive situations.
23417508|Publications on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected, mainly from 1996, with some earlier ones and some from 1997. A list is given of the finds according to taxon, country, site, and age.
23417294|Charcoal, fruits and seeds of woody plants have been studied from a settlement mound in the Sahel of Burkina Faso. The archaeobotanical results provide information on economy and environmental conditions at the periphery of the medieval kingdom of Songhai at around 1000 A.D. Millet (Pennisetum americanum) was the basic crop, cultivated in fields in which also grew useful trees (park savannas). Besides millet, fruits of the park savanna trees and other wild woody plants were an important part of the diet. Stratigraphical changes in the charcoal diagram indicate that millet production was intensified and the park savanna system established in the course of mound formation. The charcoal results show that the vegetation around 1000 A.D. was more diverse than today, containing many Sahelo-Sudanian elements which cannot be found in the area any more. This indicates slightly higher precipitation than today but also less severe human impact. L'tude a port sur des charbons, des fruits et des graines de plantes ligneuses provenant d'une butte d'occupation du Sahel burkinab date autour de 1000 A.D. Les rsultats archobotaniques permettent une comprhension de l'conomie et des conditions environnementales en priphrie de l'empire mdival Songhai. Le mil (Pennisetum americanum) tait la principale rcolte, cultiv dans des champs avec des arbres utiles (savane-parc). Outre le mil, les fruits des arbres de la savane-parc et d'autres plantes sauvages constituaient une part importante du rgime alimentaire. Des changements stratigraphiques dans le diagramme des charbons indiquent que la production du mil tait intensifie et le systme de la savane-parc tait tabli au cours de la formation de la butte. L'tude des charbons montre une vgtation autour de 1000 A.D., plus riche qu'aujourd'hui avec plusieurs lments sahlo-soudaniens disparus de la rgion. Cela indique des prcipitations lgrement suprieures aux actuelles mais aussi un impact humain moins svre.
23417295|Grazed and mown vegetation types in western Norway were investigated with the aim of describing their modern pollen/vegetation relationships as an aid to the interpretation of fossil pollen diagrams. Pollen surface samples and vegetation data were obtained from 186 square metre plots within 39 different sites of 1010 m. Scatter plots that show the relationship between pollen percentages and vegetation percentages are presented for Trifolium pratense-type, Trifolium repens-type, Lotus, Campanula-type, Succisa, Ranunculus acris-type, Cirsium-type, Asteraceae Cichorioideae, Achillea-type, Potentilla-type, Apiaceae, Rumex sect. Acetosa, Galium-type, Cyperaceae, Calluna, Plantago lanceolata and Poaceae. Pollen representation factors relative to Poaceae (Rrel) are calculated for 54 pollen taxa. Differences in the values from different geographical areas were found in the case of some taxa, due to either different genera or species being included in the pollen taxa and/or to the different representation of high pollen producers in the different regional vegetation types. Background pollen influences the estimates for taxa such as R. sect. Acetosa, P. lanceolata, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, and Calluna, and an extended R-value (ERV) model was used to investigate the magnitude of this pollen component. Groups of roughly similar pollen representation were identified and factors to convert pollen percentages to vegetation abundances are suggested.
23417296|A bundle of flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) radiocarbon dated to 121070 uncal B.P. (83090 cal A.D.) was analysed for its macrofossil content. Apart from stems, capsules and seeds of flax, a large number of diaspores (fruits and seeds) from other plants was identified. Field weeds were the most numerous taxa present, among them three flax field weeds, Spergula maxima, Camelina alyssum and Cuscuta epilinum. Development of the specific flax weed community is discussed. Indicator values are used to characterize the edaphic conditions of this early medieval flax field. The field weeds spectrum also suggests that this flax was sown as a summer crop after an earlier crop of millet.
23417297|The results of more than 100 archaeobotanical investigations from south-western Germany have been arranged into chronological groups and analyzed with a spreadsheet to obtain presence data and the numbers of taxa present in the various time periods. They show an increase in the number of plant taxa cultivated in gardens since the Roman period, a decrease in the crops that were the earliest to be cultivated, especially emmer, and an increase of spelt, rye and oats in the course of time. New crop weeds appear, including an increasing number of southern plants originating from open vegetation. This is more likely to be a result of the intensification of agriculture than from increased human mobility. The crop weeds, grouped together according to their requirements for soil nutrients, show increasing soil acidification through the course of time.
23417337|A high resolution marine pollen record from site GeoB1023, west of the northern Namib desert provides data on vegetation and climate change for the last 21 ka at an average resolution of 185 y. Pollen and spores are mainly delivered to the site by the Cunene river and by surface and mid-tropospheric wind systems. The main pollen source areas are located between 13S and 21S, which includes the northern Namib desert and semi-desert, the Angola-northern Namibian highland, and the north-western Kalahari. The pollen spectra reflect environmental changes in the region. The last glacial maximum (LGM) was characterised by colder and more arid conditions than at present, when a vegetation with temperate elements such as Asteroideae, Ericaceae, and Restionaceae grew north of 21S. At 17.5 ka cal. B.P., an amelioration both in temperature and humidity terminated the LGM but, in the northern Kalahari, mean annual rainfall in the interval 17.5-14.4 ka cal. B.P. was probably 100-150 mm lower than at present (400-500 mm/y). The Late-glacial to early Holocene transition includes two arid periods, i.e. 14.4-12.5 and 10.9-9.3 ka cal. B.P. The last part of the former period may be correlated with the Younger Dryas. The warmest and most humid period in the Holocene occurred between 6.3 and 4.8 ka cal. B.P. During the last 2000 years, human impact, as reflected by indications of deforestation, enhanced burning and overgrazing, progressively intensified.
23417338|Palynological investigation and radiocarbon dating of a 6-m core from lake Durankulak, north-eastern Bulgaria, enables vegetation development and human occupation from ca. 5500-5300 cal. B.C. onwards to be traced. Steppe vegetation that included with groves of deciduous trees as Quercus, Ulmus, Carpinus betulus and Corylus changed to a forest-steppe after 4000 cal. B.C. The archaeopalynological record indicates three distinct phases of human activity as follows: (1) 5300-4200 cal. B.C. (late Neolithic and Eneolithic) during which farming, that included a substantial arable component, was pursued, (2) 3500-3000 cal. B.C. (transition to early Bronze Age) when stock rearing appears to have dominated, and (3) after 1300 cal. B.C. (late Bronze Age) when arable farming again assumed importance. The palynological data correlate well with the rich archaeological record for human settlement that is available for the region from late Neolithic times onwards.
23417339|This paper is an ethnobotanical study of a 400 year old earth oven discovered on Nikunau, in the southern Gilbert Islands. The anthropological analyses based on almost 2000 identified charcoal specimens show that only a few taxa were used for fuel, primarily monocotyledon endocarp which was waste from food production. In addition, a conventional non-parametric statistical test was evaluated for use as an indicator of similarity between samples. It appears that in an assemblage where the taxonomic range (monocotyledon to dicotyledon) is large, a rank order statistical test is inappropriate due to variation in fragmentation.
23417340|The paper presents and evaluates the results of macroscopic and pollen analyses of a buried organic layer at the confluence of the Svitava and Svratka rivers on the southern margin of the Brno City, southern Moravia, Czech Republic. The layer was covered with about 4 m of flood-loams and dates to ca. A.D. 1100. Remains of nearly 100 vascular plants and about 40 mosses contribute to the knowledge of the medieval flora, vegetation and environment in the vicinity of Brno as continuous settlement began in the city area and as the upstream landscapes were colonised.
23417341|596 waterlogged, uncarbonized branch wood specimens from four cultural layers of the late Neolithic lake shore site of Horgen Scheller (between 3080 and 3030 B.C.) on Lake Zrich, Switzerland, were examined. The following parameters were analysed: taxonomy, diameter and age of the twigs, cutting season, and distribution of the branches over the area as well as their distribution in the different cultural layers. The twigs were divided into the following three groups, based on differences observed in these analyses: conifers, deciduous trees with catkins, and deciduous trees without catkins. Branch diameter examinations revealed that branches of deciduous trees were thicker on average than those of conifers. While branches from deciduous trees without catkins were gathered at the age of seven years on average, those of conifers and deciduous trees with catkins were older. Waney edge analyses showed that the majority of the twigs were cut within the winter months. Among the deciduous trees without catkins there is, however, a markedly higher proportion of branches cut in summer than in the other two groups. The taxonomic examinations demonstrated that 70% of the specimens consisted of twigs of either Corylus avellana L. (hazel), Taxus baccata L. (yew), or Abies alba Mill. (silver fir), thus implying the great economic importance of these species in the settlements of Horgen Scheller. To our knowledge this is the first report that a remarkably high proportion of yew twigs (26.8%) has been found in an analysis of subfossil twigs. The possibility is discussed that the inhabitants had specialized in obtaining yew from the region. Concentrations of wood finds, possible remains of buildings, became evident from the analyses of the distribution of the branch wood over the excavated area. A very similar spatial distribution pattern of the taxa was found through the different cultural layers. Therefore it seems likely that existing structures were reused when a new settlement was built. The data also show that the building outlines slowly moved towards land over time. A rising lake water level could have led to gradual dislocation of the settlements.
23417342|The use of Chenopodiaceae and Amaranthaceae has been recorded in a rock shelter site that shows evidence of human occupation from 40,000 B.P. more or less continuously to the present. The plant remains are discussed in the light of ethnographic information for use of these taxa in both Australia and north America. The presence of cheno-ams as environmental indicators of aridity will be discussed.
23417699|This study aims to analyse how vegetation, and in particular the degree of openness of the landscape, is reflected in pollen assemblages from surface sediment in lakes. Modern analogues of ancient cultural landscapes in southern Sweden were selected. Surface sediments from 22 small lakes (0.5-20 ha) located mainly in the forest region of southern Sweden were collected and analysed for pollen in order to enlarge and complement an earlier data set of 13 lakes collected in the open, agricultural region of southernmost Sweden. The composition of the landscape surrounding the lakes was mapped within 1000-m and 500-m radii around the lakes using Colour InfraRed (CIR) aerial photographs. The pollen and landscape data were analysed using numerical ordination techniques. The results show that, despite the large variation of landscape openness, the variation in non-arboreal pollen (NAP) is low between the sites which was not the case for the 13 lakes of the previous study. It is hypothesised that this may be due to differences in the major characteristics of the two regions in which the sites were selected, i.e. mainly treeless and intensively farmed in the previous study and mainly forested in the present investigation. The difference in background pollen appears to play a decisive role on the relative representation of NAP. This implies that the background pollen should be estimated before NAP percentages can be used for quantitative reconstruction of past landscape openness. In the 22 lakes studied, Gramineae, Cerealia (excluding Secale), Filipendula and Salix are positively correlated to cultivated land within both radii, and with open land (tree cover not exceeding 20%) within the 1000-m radius. Quercus and Fagus have some positive correlation with deciduous forest within 1000-m radius. We conclude that the landscape units cultivated land, open land and deciduous forest within 1000-m radius are reasonably well reflected in the pollen assemblages and could be predicted within this area.
23417700|Lumps of diatom-rich, laminated sediments were discovered redeposited and interbedded in a Late Weichselian delta sequence in a small glaciofluvial esker at Snickarekullen, south-western Sweden. Radiocarbon dating of the sediments gave an infinite age (>45 000 B.P.). The composition and sediment structure of the lumps were studied in epoxy-impregnated thin sections using SEM and EDS. Quantitative and qualitative diatom analyses of the sediments were carried out, as well as pollen and macrofossils analyses. The biostratigraphy is compared with that from Holsteinian interglacial sites in surrounding countries, the evidence for which is briefly reviewed. It is concluded that the sediments were deposited in the central part of a lake probably during different parts of the Holsteinian interglacial. The water body changed from a rather shallow lake with a high pH to a considerably deeper, oligotrophic lake with neutral to slightly acidic water during the sedimentation period. The local and regional vegetation developed from an open pine-birch forest into a much more closed vegetation of pine, spruce, larch, alder and hornbeam.
23417701|In the sediments of both of the investigated lakes, the tephra from the Mercato-Ottaviano eruption (Vesuvius, southern Italy) (ca. 7900 B.P.) could be identified. The palynological investigations show that from ca. 9000-7200 B.P. (8000-6000 cal B.C.) deciduous oak forests predominated, with only a few representatives of Mediterranean vegetation. At the transition to the central European Atlantic Period those forests changed to an open vegetation type, dominated by Juniperus and Phillyrea. At about 5500 B.P. (4400 cal B.C.), the Juniperus-Phillyrea vegetation was replaced by Quercus ilex woodland that still occurs on the island of Mljet today and is considered to be the natural vegetation of the Dalmatian coastland. The associated vegetation of the Q. ilex forests changed several times. At the beginning of the Q. ilex period, Juniperus values were still high, but soon they decreased and Erica spread. In more recent times the Q. ilex forests were partially replaced by plantations of Pinus halepensis. Indicators of human impact are sparse throughout the pollen record. Clear evidence for human influence exists only from ca. 3100 B.P. (1300 cal B.C.) when Juglans and Pinus halepensis were introduced to the area. Later, Olea and Secale cultivation can be suggested and further spreading of Juniperus indicates use of the land as pasture.
23417702|In this paper, the results of pollen analysis and oxygen-isotope investigations of two new cores from Mondsee are discussed. The climatic progression from the end of the penultimate glaciation to the end of the Eemian interglacial is compared with reconstructions from Bispingen and Grbern, northern Germany. The rise in temperature, between the Pinus phase and the climate optimum in the Corylus phase, appears to have occurred in two steps. Evidence for climatic deterioration is first recorded during the Picea-Pinus phase, i.e. after the Carpinus phase. These reconstructions are in agreement with those based on the Grbern pollen data, but contrast with recent reconstructions based on the Bispingen pollen profile and the GRIP ice core from Greenland.
23417703|Pollen and macrofossil data from Alpe Pal, south-eastern Switzerland, are presented. On the basis of these data and the geomorphological evidence for local glacier movement, Holocene climatic oscillations and vegetation change at this upland site (1940 m asl), are reconstructed. The morainic deposits and glacial clays, as well as the pollen data from the base of the pollen profile, clearly show that the Pal glacier, after its retreat from the Cavaglia (Egesen) stade, readvanced once again shortly before the mid-Preboreal. This re-advance was considerably greater than that dating to the Little Ice Age. This early Holocene climatic event is referred to as the Pal Oscillation (Pal-Schwankung) and is considered to be broadly contemporaneous with the previously described Schlaten Oscillation (Schlaten-Schwankung) in the Austrian Alps. The reforestation of the forefield of the moraine was interrupted at least twice during this oscillation, and, compared with neighbouring sites at the same altitude, it appears to be at least 500-700 years younger, i. e. it post-dates 9400 B.P. Though the Pal Oscillation is a Holocene phenomenon, the associated vegetation changes are Late-glacial in character, e.g. Artemisia and Chenopodiaceae increase and Hippopha is recorded. Alnus viridis replaces Betula and Salix, which were important in the earlier part of the Holocene, at about 5000 B.P. There is no clear evidence that forest burning is attributable to human activity. The use of Larix-dominated areas as pasture (Lrchwiesen) begins in the mid-Bronze Age. A strong decline in Picea (spruce) and Larix (larch), and an increase in Poaceae, Plantago and other herbs in the uppermost horizons reflect more intensive pastoral farming that began in the high Middle Ages.
23417636|Large scale sampling for plant remains at Miri Qalat indicates that agriculture based on naked wheat and naked and hulled barley was practised between the 4th and the 2nd millennia B.C. Other cultivated plants identified are Lens culinaris (lentil), Pisum sativum (pea), Linum usitatissimum (flax), Vitis vinifera (grape) and Coriandrum sativum (coriander). The only summer crop, Sesamum indicum (sesame), appears during the second half of the 3rd millennium. Gathered edible fruits include Cordia, Grewia and Nannorrhops ritchieana. Phoenix dactylifera (dates) may also have been gathered rather than cultivated.
23417637|This paper lays out archaeobotanical evidence of cereals and fruits from 5th-2nd millennium B.C. sites in Turkmenistan (Anau, Gonur) and Uzbekistan (Djarkutan). Our current research program (1989-present) focuses on systematic recovery of botanical remains in their stratigraphic context. The cereals from these sites include Hordeum vulgare L. ssp. vulgare (6-row barley) and Triticum aestivum L. s.l. (bread wheat). The presence of plump grains of 6-row barley and bread wheat may indicate that small-scale irrigation was practised at Anau as early as the Chalcolithic period. The possibility is also raised that these plump-grained types may have come from the east rather than through northern Iran. Fruit pit remains of Vitis vinifera L. (grape) and Pistacia (pistachio) make their first significant appearance in Bronze Age deposits.
23417638|Pis (daub or building earth) from Jerf el Ahmar and Mureybet was examined and found to contain plant impressions made by the fine fraction of cereal chaff which had been added to the pis as a tempering medium. Four wild grasses were identified from impressions, while over fifty taxa were identified from charred remains. Chaff tempering was present in all samples examined and was composed of spikelet bases and fragments of spikelets. Several aspects of these findings complement results obtained from charred remains. The sheer quantity of building material with chaff implies that cereals were widely available. De-husking and winnowing appear to have been carried out on a large scale, probably near the site. Firm evidence for wild rye confirms previous identifications for this period in the middle Euphrates, rye being difficult to distinguish from wild einkorn if only grain is available for identification. The quality of the chaff provides some evidence of crop processing.
23417639|The identification of carbonised grape pips (Vitis vinifera ssp.) is problematic, and the morphological features generally used to distinguish the wild subspecies V. vinifera ssp. sylvestris from the cultivated subspecies V. vinifera ssp. vinifera are not satisfactory. Different biometric studies were carried out on Nabataean and Roman seeds found at Petra, Jordan, dated to 150 B.C. - A.D. 400, and the results were compared to known phytogeographical and climatic data. Depending on the identification method selected, the seeds were attributed either to wild grapevines (based on the ratio of breadth over length, and on discriminant analyses of size variables such as pip length, stalk length, and chalaza position), or to an archaic variety of vine with seeds morphologically close to those of wild grapevines (ratio of stalk length over total pip length). The methods used here were applied to European grape pips; they should be tested on Near Eastern material. Archaeological data did not clarify the situation, and the importance of viticulture, which was prohibited during the Nabataean period, remains difficult to evaluate at Petra.
23417640|Although archaeobotanical sampling and recovery programmes are a relatively recent implementation in East African archaeology, results from sites where they have been carried out follow a similar trend. This is one of abundant recovery of wood charcoal, but very little in the way of other macroscopic plant remains. Restricted archaeological evidence and ethnographic interviews show the importance of grains, in particular finger millet (Eleusine coracana), for the Bunyoro people of Uganda in pre-colonial times. It has been suggested that one of the possible reasons why finger millet is not being recovered in quantity from archaeological contexts is because the processing of this crop does not involve heating and hence there is not the chance of being deposited in charred form in the archaeological record. Recent ethnographic work on finger millet processing in Uganda shows that it is exposed to heat and potential charring during cleaning and preparation of the grain for either storage or cooking, and this regime is discussed in terms of its activities and products. These findings reinforce the need for archaeobotanists and archaeologists working in this region to look for other possible causes of the scarcity of macroscopic plant remains, and also the importance of considering integrated evidence for agricultural activity on prehistoric sites.
23417641|The many excavations of medieval sites during recent years have resulted in a strong increase in archaeobotanical records including species which were used as beer additives. Since the first compilation of records by the author in 1984 relating to the two main species, namely Myrica gale and Humulus lupulus, the number of finds has quadrupled. Distribution maps of the sites with fossil occurrence of these two species are presented and this evidence is complemented by that from written sources. M. gale seems to have been used for brewing as early as the centuries immediately before and after the birth of Christ in a small area at the Rhine estuary in the northern Netherlands. During the early and high Middle Ages there are records of this plant, in what are potentially brewing contexts, across its north-west European area of natural distribution. Written sources confirm its use in brewing as early as the tenth century. The finds of H. lupulus indicate that this species has been used in brewing from the early Middle Ages and this hypothesis is supported by documentary evidence. Cultivation of hop began around A.D. 859. In the late Medieval period, strong competition developed between both kinds of beer, which resulted in the take-over by H. lupulus in the eighteenth century. Many other herbs of secondary importance have been used to flavour beer or to prepare medicinal beers. These are mentioned in old herbals and have been compiled in this paper. These various flavouring agents, combined with the use of all available species of cereals led to a variety of beers that is unimaginable today.
23417642|Recent ethnographic research carried out in Spain has allowed the cultivation of Lathyrus sativus L. and L. cicera L. to be documented. Both species already appear in the Spanish archaeological record. Grown under traditional farming systems, L. sativus L. and L. cicera L. are still used for human consumption (only L. sativus L.) and both are used for fodder. Data on cultivation history, farming practices, crop processing sequence and uses are here presented, which will enable a better understanding of their possible roles in prehistoric times.
23417643|During the late Bronze age, settlements in Languedoc, southern France, were located on the shore of lagoons lining the Mediterranean, while, in the hinterland, settlements were mainly in the form of villages or cave sites. Information on food plants has been restricted, until now, to sites in the hinterland. In this paper, the archaeobotanical results obtained from two lagoon-shore settlements, La Fangade at Ste, and Portal Vielh at Vendres, are reported. The former provides the first waterlogged assemblage for this period in the French Mediterranean while the latter consists of a dry settlement. Emmer and hulled, six row barley are the most common cereals occurring at the two sites. Other cereals are less frequent, although einkorn chaff is common at La Fangade. Flax, and especially opium poppy, are well represented while faba bean is the only pulse of some importance. Many wild fruits were gathered, especially acorns. Comparison with data from the hinterland suggests that the main difference lay in the cultivation of opium poppy and flax in the lagoon sites. However, may be largely an impression resulting from the differences in manner of preservation at hinterland and lagoon sites. Local production as distinct from importation of crops is considered and the conclusion is drawn that, at least at La Fangade, hulled barley was grown locally. The arable weed flora indicates that sowing took place during both autumn and spring at La Fangade.
23417644|Carbonized fruits and seeds retrieved during rescue excavations in the Aisne valley, France, and near surroundings are discussed. The time span covered is Neolithic through to the 6th century A.D. The sequence starts with the crop plants grown by Bandkeramik farmers. A later innovation was the introduction of naked wheat by the Neolithic Cerny culture. The early Iron Age brought major innovations such as a diversification in crops and the appearance of pastures.
23417645|The construction of a new motorway necessitated the excavation of an Early Neolithic site in the Dutch Flevopolder near the Hoge Vaart canal. In 1994-1996, an area of ca. 1700 m2 was excavated in 0.50.5-m squares. The excavation revealed 150 surface hearths and more than a hundred deep hearth pits. The finds, mainly flint and pottery, as well as 14C dates from charcoal demonstrated that that area had been used mainly during the Early Neolithic (ca. 4900-4500 cal. B.C.). The investigation of the Early Neolithic remains included detailed botanical analyses of 182 samples and hand-sorting by the excavation team, which included archaeobotanists, of tens of thousands of samples sieved over 2-mm-mesh sieves. No remains of cultivated plants were recognised among the 87 taxa (40 identified to species level) that were preserved, mainly in carbonised form. These results are compared with other Early Neolithic sites studied in the Netherlands, such as Swifterbant S3 and Schokland P14. The possible significance of site function and sample location as important factors influencing presence/absence of cultivated plant remains at a particular site is discussed.
23417646|The archaeobotanical investigations in the Neolithic pile settlement of Hornstaad Hrnle I A, Lake Constance, Germany (3919-3905 cal B.C.) has answered many questions concerning agricultural activities and land use in Neolithic times. Very large carbonized stores of unthreshed cereals there showed that every household had 210-280 kg of naked wheat, einkorn, barley and emmer. As most of the wild plant remains in the cereal stores were from annual field weeds it is concluded that the arable land was cultivated continuously, probably for the whole duration of the settlement's occupation. No hints of short or long period fallows were found. Intensive soil treatment such as hoeing and digging is indicated by the rarity of perennial weeds. Because of the high quality of the cultivated soils, manuring was not necessary. The cereals were harvested high on the culm, and the harvest was first stored unthreshed, probably to dry it completely. Every house (family) had its own cereal stores with various cereals. Naked wheat and probably naked barley were threshed outside the settlement, while dehusking of einkorn and probably of emmer took place inside the village. Evidence of cereal cleaning, winnowing, sieving and sorting by hand were found. More than 700 carbonized remains of food products showed that porridge made from ground and shredded wheat was one of the main foods in the settlement.
23417647|In four early Celtic settlements in the central Neckar region of Baden-Wrttemberg (Germany), 250 archaeobotanical samples were collected and studied for their plant macrofossils. Hordeum vulgare L. (hulled barley) and Triticum spelta L. (spelt wheat) could be recognized as the main crops, as well as Panicum miliaceum L. (millet) in some places. Legumes and Linum usitatissimum L. (flax) were important crops. Typical field weeds dominated the wild plant remains, but some present-day grassland taxa were abundantly and frequently found. The analysis of the data set of finds of the cereal remains, field weeds and grassland plants was done by Correspondence Analysis, but no significant differences between the various groups were found. Samples dominated by remains of grassland taxa, which could indicate that there were hay meadows, were absent. Consideration of plant macrofossil results as well as archaeological, osteological and pollen analytical data shows that there is likely to have been a land management system of arable fields and grassland. The densely settled fertile central Neckar region could therefore have been intensively utilised, using all available resources. Permanent grasslands in the form of pasture on river floodplains and on dry soils were certainly present. Hay meadows, on the other hand, were not identified. Cultivated plants such as Ficus carica L. (fig) and Vicia ervilia (L.) Willd. (bitter vetch) as well as some field weeds suggest connections with the Mediterranean lands.
23417648|Organic contents of bronze vessels from royal burial sites dating to the Iron Age in southern Germany were investigated by pollen analysis. All pollen assemblages observed were dominated by non-arboreal pollen of non-wind pollinated species, a characteristic feature of honey. On the basis of investigations on recent honey, estimates of the original amounts of honey present were made. It is suggested that two of the vessels were filled with a freshly prepared, highly concentrated mead, while a third contained possibly a mead or a beverage sweetened by honey. The high diversity of the pollen assemblages differs from recent honeys and points to a high biodiversity in the Iron Age landscapes, but also to the use of honey mixtures that originate from a large area that included the surrounding uplands. Records for several exotic pollen also support this hypothesis. At the Glauberg site, a honey-source area of more than 50-km radius is probable. This corresponds quite well with the average distance between known Celtic centres in central Europe, which is ca. 100 km.
23417649|Soil samples from a La Tne salt-mining settlement were examined for botanical macroremains. Mining, trade and metal-processing (bronze and iron) were major elements in this prehistoric economic centre situated in the high-altitude Ramsau valley (Ramsautal), near Hallein, province of Salzburg. Cultigens found are broomcorn millet (Panicum miliaceum), hulled barley (Hordeum vulgare), naked barley (Hordeum vulgare var. nudum), emmer (Triticum dicoccum), spelt (Triticum spelta) and peas (Pisum sativum). Most of the plant remains consisted of non-charred seeds and fruits that originated from the close vicinity of the settlement. The species may be assigned mainly to nitrophilous ruderal communities and moist to wet habitats. Conditions in the valley were probably unsuitable for the cultivation of cereals. It is suggested that the crop plants derive mainly from the fertile lower plains of the pre-Alpine lowlands.
23417650|Tybrind Vig is a late Mesolithic (Erteblle) coastal settlement, dated to the period 5600-4000 BC. The site has yielded some very important finds associated with fishing activity, probably the best preserved example from the Mesolithic in Europe. Recently analysed botanical samples from submerged cultural deposits have provided evidence for the contribution of plants to the subsistence diet of the inhabitants of Tybrind Vig. The food plant remains are represented by the charred fragments of parenchymatous tissue from roots of Beta vulgaris ssp. maritima (sea beet), fragments of Quercus sp. parenchyma (acorn), and shell fragments of Corylus avellana (hazelnut). The possibility that the grains of Glyceria fluitans (floating sweet grass) and stems of Phragmites australis (reed) were collected for food should not be excluded. In addition to the species identified in the charred remains, an abundance of edible plant seeds and fruits were represented in the waterlogged remains, suggesting that a much broader range of food plants was available in the area. These additional foods could have included a large variety of wild berries and other fruits, such as Rubus idaeus, R. caesius, Fragaria vesca, Malus sylvestris, Cornus sanguinea, Crataegus monogyna/laevigata, Sorbus aucuparia, Viburnum opulus and Rosa spp. Several other plants could have been gathered as green vegetables (Rumex crispus, Urtica dioica and Cakile maritima), or could have been utilized for both their greens and seeds (Chenopodium album, Atriplex and Scirpus maritimus).
23417651|Publications on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected, mainly from 1997, with some earlier and some from 1998. A list is given of the finds according to taxon, country, site, and age.
23417691|The palynostratigraphy of two sediment cores from Soppensee, Central Switzerland (596 m asl) was correlated with nine regional pollen assemblage zones defined for the Swiss Plateau. This biostratigraphy shows that the sedimentary record of Soppensee includes the last 15 000 years, i.e. the entire Late-glacial and Holocene environmental history. The vegetation history of the Soppensee catchment was inferred by pollen and plant-macrofossil analyses on three different cores taken in the deepest part of the lake basin (27 m). On the basis of a high-resolution varve and calibrated radiocarbon chronology it was possible to estimate pollen accumulation rates, which together with the pollen percentage data, formed the basis for the interpretation of the past vegetation dynamics. The basal sediment dates back to the last glacial. After reforestation with juniper and birch at ca. 12 700 B.P., the vegetation changed at around 12 000 B.P. to a pine-birch woodland and at the onset of the Holocene to a mixed deciduous forest. At ca. 7000 B.P., fir expanded and dominated the vegetation with beech becoming predominant at ca. 500 14C-years later until sometime during the Iron Age. Large-scale deforestation, especially during the Middle Ages, altered the vegetation cover drastically. During the Late-glacial period two distinct regressive phases in vegetation development are demonstrated, namely, the Aegelsee oscillation (equivalent to the Older Dryas biozone) and the Younger Dryas biozone. No unambiguous evidence for Holocene climatic change was detected at Soppensee. Human presence is indicated by early cereal pollen and distinct pulses of forest clearance as a result of human activity can be observed from the Neolithic period onwards.
23417692|Pollen profiles, based cores taken in Lake Kahala and from the adjoining mire, were used to establish general vegetation history and to reconstruct the extent and types of land-use over most of the Holocene. Modern pollen deposition was studied using moss polsters and the results were used in the interpretation of the fossil pollen data in terms of former land-use practices. The modern-day samples are from settlements, hay meadow and pasture, and overgrown pasture. Indications of human activity can be traced back to the Stone Age. At ca. 6400 cal. B.C., the first indications of possible woodland utilisation by humans are recorded. This may have involved grazing within the forests. From 4200 cal. B.C. onwards, animal husbandry with changing intensity was practised. Arable farming, involving cereals, was introduced to the area at ca. 1800 cal. B.C., but it was only at ca. 500 cal. B.C. that it assumed an important role in the farming economy. Secale cereale (rye) was introduced during the Roman Iron Age, intensive rye cultivation started at the end of the Iron Age, at ca. cal. A.D. 800. Ever increasing farming pressures triggered the formation of open alvars. Open landscape similar to that of today has persisted, with minor forest regeneration phases, since at least 500 cal. B.C.
23417693|Abundant archaeological evidence of the occurrence of the endocarp of the oil palm, Elaeis guineensis, in the rain forest and woodland savanna zones of west and central Africa from about 5000 B.P. has shown the tree to be an important element in the subsistence economy of the region; its pollen also has been recorded in most of the regional terrestrial sediments studied so far. The distinct and consistently sudden and more marked increases in this pollen during the late Holocene when compared with the late Tertiary and late Pleistocene frequencies strongly indicate that the late Holocene upsurges were due to both natural and human factors favourable for the expansion of this heliophytic tree. Reasons are given for suggesting that upsurges in oil palm pollen during the late Holocene period in this region can be used as indices of plant cultivation. While the oil palm is known from early Tertiary deposits in west Africa, its earliest palynological record from terrestrial sediments in the west central part dates back only to the early Holocene. More palynological studies of Tertiary and Quaternary terrestrial cores are required to establish with more certainty the antiquity of E. guineensis in west central Africa.
23417694|Chaff and straw is extensively used as a source of fuel, building material and fodder in arid zones, but this by-product of the cereal harvest is generally under-represented in the archaeobotanical record from north-west Europe. While this is partially a result of differential preservation, the evidence from a number of North African sites suggests that dissimilarities between the two regions in the availability of firewood, grazing and building material play an important role too. Differences in the way wheat and barley were used may represent an additional factor. Three types of use are distinguished: casual 'use', intentional local use and use as a commercial commodity, and these can be linked to scales of production and organization in the agricultural system.
23417695|Changes in arboreal vegetation near ancient iron smelting sites in Val Gabbia, a lateral valley of Val Camonica, Brescia, northern Italy, were studied using charcoal analysis at three archaeological sites. The charcoal samples analysed derive from charcoal stores and furnaces used for iron ore smelting during different periods spanning the interval A.D. 500 to 1700. As a reliable description of the woodland cover in the valley during this period does not exist, charcoal analysis is a useful approach for studying the effect of human impact on a forest exploited for the iron industry. Our results indicate that the conifer forest, consisting of Abies alba, Picea abies and/or Larix decidua, which was present in the early stages was replaced after 600 years by a mixed forest and, 300 years later, by a degraded forest dominated by Ostrya carpinifolia, a typical pioneer species. The youngest period is characterised by the reconstitution of a mixed forest with coniferous and deciduous trees.
23417608|Two 14C-dated pollen profiles from mires in the steppe belt of southern Russia are presented. On the basis of these and data from earlier investigations, the Holocene forest history of the southern part of Russia and Ukraine is reconstructed. The steppe belt is very sensitive to climatic oscillations and, in particular, to changes in evapotranspiration. The most favourable climate occurred between 6000 and 4500 B.P. (6800-5200 cal. B.P.), when forest attained its maximum extent in the steppe belt. The period 4500-3500 B.P. (5200-3800 cal. B.P.) was characterised by drier climate with the most arid phase occurring between 4200-3700 B.P. (4700-4000 cal. B.P.). During arid phases, the area under forest and also peat accumulation rates declined. Subsequently, a number of less pronounced climatic oscillations occurred such as in the period 3400/3300-2800 B.P. (3600/3500-2900 cal. B.P.) when there was a return to more humid conditions. During the last 2500 years, the vegetation cover of the steppe belt in southern Russia and Ukraine took on its present-day aspect. On the one hand, there is close correlation between the Holocene vegetation history of southern Russia and Ukraine and, on the other hand, the steppe belt of Kazakhstan and transgressions in the Caspian sea. Human impact on the natural vegetation became important from the Bronze Age onwards (after 4500 B.P.; 5200 cal. B.P.). Particular attention is given to the history of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), which had a much wider distribution in the southern part of eastern Europe in the early Holocene. The reduction in range during recent millennia has come about as a result of the combined effects of both climatic deterioration and increased human impact.
23417609|A new pollen record from Lago di Vico (core V1) provides fundamental new information towards reconstruction of flora and vegetation history in central Italy during the last 90 000 years. The chronological framework is secured by seventeen AMS 14C dates, one 40Ar/39Ar date and tephra analyses. At the base of the pollen record, i.e. shortly after the 40Ar/39Ar date 87 000 7000 B.P., three phases with significant expansion of trees are recorded in close succession. These forest phases, which stratigraphically correspond to St Germain II (and Ognon?) and precede pleniglacial steppe vegetation, are designated by the local names Etruria I, Etruria II and Etruria III. During the pleniglacial, a number of fluctuations of angiosperm mesophilous trees suggest the presence of tree refugia in the area. The lowest pollen concentration values are recorded at ca. 22 000 B.P. which corresponds with other pollen records from the region. The late-glacial is characterized by an expansion in the arboreal pollen curves that is less pronounced, however, than in other pollen profiles from Italy. The Holocene part of the profile is consistently dominated by deciduous oak pollen. No major changes in arboreal pollen composition are recorded but several marked and sudden declines of the tree pollen concentration suggest that the forest cover underwent dramatic changes. Clear evidence for human impact is recorded only when cultivated crops became important which dates to ca. 263095 B.P.
23417610|Hay making and hay meadows have long been of fundamental ecological, economic and social importance in temperate Europe. A variety of archaeological sources suggests that hay making may date back to the Iron Age, but direct archaeobotanical evidence for this practice is problematic. Past grassland communities are imperfectly represented and preserved in archaeobotanical assemblages, and ancient meadow and pasture communities may not resemble present-day communities in terms of management practices or botanical composition. This paper explores the potential of 'FIBS' (Functional Interpretation of Botanical Surveys) in the archaeobotanical investigation of ancient grassland management. The botanical composition of present-day grassland communities was analysed in terms of functional attributes (e.g. canopy height) relevant to cutting, grazing and habitat productivity. The utility of these attributes for distinguishing between present-day meadow, pasture and unmanaged grassland communities has been evaluated. Similar analyses were performed on archaeobotanical data from Neolithic to post-Medieval north-western and central Europe. Functional shifts over time, interpreted in the light of the functional analysis of modern grassland, suggest that hay-making was well established by the Iron Age. Avenues are suggested for the refinement and further development of the FIBS methodology in the archaeobotanical investigation of grassland management.
23417611|The Late Glacial and early Holocene palaeovegetation is reconstructed by analysis of pollen and macroscopic plant remains from sediments of the lower river Erft valley, near Cologne, exposed by the Garzweiler opencast lignite mine. The study was carried out in parallel with the archaeological excavation of the Mesolithic site of Bedburg-Knigshoven, located within a former meander of the Erft. During the Younger Dryas period, the study region was thinly wooded. Relatively open pine woods existed during the Preboreal, becoming more closed during the Boreal. Later in the Boreal, Corylus and taxa of the mixed oak woodland (Ulmus, Quercus, Tilia and Fraxinus) appeared. The Atlantic period was characterised by mixed oak woods with dominant Ulmus. At the beginning of the Subboreal, Ulmus declined and Tilia became the predominant element of the woods. The Mesolithic settlement existed during the early and middle part of the Preboreal period. At that time, the woodland of the Erft valley was mainly composed of Pinus, Betula and some Populus. The pollen results do not show any evidence of the activity of Mesolithic people. Local vegetational changes of the filling process of the Erft meander were described and interpreted. The vegetational development of the study region is compared with that of neighbouring regions.
23417672|A pollen record from a crater lake (Lake Tilla, 1023N, 1208E, c. 700 m asl) in the Sudanian zone of northeast Nigeria provides evidence for the persistence of woodland savanna throughout the Holocene. Wetter conditions from c. 10,000 B.P. to c. 6800 B.P. enabled the establishment of a dense Guinean savanna, though the occurrence and rapid spread of the montane element Olea hochstetteri indicates cool climatic conditions prior to c. 8800 B.P. Patches of closed dry forest may have existed, but never completely displaced the savanna vegetation. Grass fires were frequent throughout the Holocene and were probably important in promoting the open character of the vegetation. From c. 6800 B.P. onwards a gradual floristic change from a Guinean to a Sudano-Guinean savanna and a lowering of lake levels point to drier environmental conditions, which intensified around 3700 B.P. Human impact might have caused increasing sedimentation rates from c. 2500 B.P. onwards. The pollen diagram of Lake Tilla reflects a history of the savanna which appears to have been primarily controlled by climatic changes. The lack of unambiguous pollen indicators might be the reason why human activities remain palynologically hidden even for the late Holocene.
23417673|The use of 9 pollen sampling sites and 56 14C dates has identified hitherto unsuspected or poorly-defined sequences of mid- to late Holocene (late Neolithic to post-Medieval) anthropogenic vegetation changes in south Cumbria, U.K. A series of small-scale, but significant woodland clearance episodes are recorded throughout the Bronze Age, followed by a marked recession in activity during the early Iron Age. The late Iron Age Roman periods witnessed the first major clearance of woodland in the region which was succeeded by woodland regeneration in the post-Roman/early Medieval period. Woodland clearance intensified in the later Medieval period culminating in large areas of permanently open landscape. The results show that high-resolution, independently dated pollen analysis is necessary to reveal regional evidence of small, temporary Bronze Age clearances. A well-documented prehistoric wooden trackway from Foulshaw Moss is shown to be significantly older than previously thought, dating to the mid-Bronze Age, ca. 1550-1250 cal B.C. Pre-Roman cereal cultivation in the area is also confirmed.
23417674|Publications on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected, mainly from 1998, with some earlier ones, and some from 1999. A list is given of the finds according to taxon, country, site, and age
23417600|Two new 14C-dated Holocene pollen profiles from Marais des Baux, Bouches-du-Rhne, France, are presented. The record begins in the Younger Dryas, when the vegetation consisted mainly of grasses and mugwort (Artemisia). The Preboreal was marked by a transitory expansion of pine forests and was followed by the establishment of a rich deciduous oak-forest that included hazel (Corylus) and elm (Ulmus). During the Boreal, hazel played a dominant role within the oak-forest. The oak forests, which included Quercus ilex, achieved a major expansion during the Atlantic period. The Subboreal was characterised by the regional establishment of, firstly, fir (Abies) and then beech (Fagus). The spread and expansion of beech coincides with the first clear evidence for farming. Agricultural activities brought about the decline of deciduous oak-forest. During the Subatlantic, forests in the vicinity of Marais des Baux were cleared for farming. Cereal growing, which included rye cultivation, was of considerable importance. Three noteworthy characteristics that serve to differentiate the Holocene vegetation history of the low-lying Provence region from other French regions are as follows: 1) the early establishment (from the onset of Preboreal) of low altitude mixed forest; 2) the expansion during the Subboreal of fir and beech in low altitude areas with a Mediterranean climate and, 3) the exceptional taxonomic richness of the pollen assemblages (120 identified taxa) and the presence of boreal-alpine and Euro-Siberian taxa that no longer exist in Lower Provence.
23417601|The history of forestry in the Romanche river valley, south-east of Grenoble, France, is reconstructed for the past ca. 3000 years on the basis of detailed pollen analysis and AMS 14C dating. Three deforestation phases are recorded during the last two millennia, each phase showing different features and also contrasting woodland succession in the post-clearance period. The first major deforestation is recorded at the Roman time when Abies alba (fir) was selectively exploited, presumably for use by peoples living downstream of the site. Apart from the deforestation, there appears to have been little human activity in the vicinity of the site at this time. After the clearance fir gradually, and more or less fully, recovered. The second deforestation phase occurred in ca. the 5th and 6th century A.D. when there is also substantial evidence for local farming. At this time, both fir and beech (Fagus sylvatica) were non-selectively exploited and probably used locally. Beach subsequently recovers but there is no further regeneration of fir. The third deforestation phase in ca. the 12th century A.D. is similar to the preceding phase but this time beech does not recover. With the decline in human activity, secondary forest that included spruce (Picea) and pine (Pinus), developed. Forest dynamics were controlled by local human activity and also the economic relationships between the local area and the wider region and especially the region downstream from the site.
23417602|In 1996 a farmhouse (villa rustica) was excavated near Pompeii (Naples, southern Italy). The villa had the typical characters of other farmhouses of the same period (ca A.D. 79) found in the area. The content of one of the dolia (storage vats) found in the cellar is discussed here and an interpretation of the assemblage is provided. The deposit found at the bottom of the storage vat produced a high percentage of seeds of plants known for their medicinal properties, such as Papaver somniferum (opium poppy). Associated with the residue there were also bones of reptiles and amphibians. It is suggested that the assemblage may represent the residue of a medicinal preparation. Its content includes many plants used in the preparation of ancient drugs called Mithridatium and Theriac. Further indirect archaeological evidence that supports this hypothesis will also be discussed.
23417603|A multidisciplinary study of use by Sami people of Pinus sylvestris L. (Scots pine) inner bark was performed in northern Sweden. We combined linguistic, historical and archaeological records with ecological data collected from field studies to investigate important cultural and ecological factors associated with previous use of bark. Our data from bark peeled trees at 313 sites were used to describe patterns in space and time in the landscape. Sites with bark peeled trees were mainly found in the central and northern part of Lapland (6500- 6814N). Large numbers of barked trees were found in undisturbed forests in national parks and reserves but few were found in forests under commercial management. The dendroecological analysis revealed a continous use of inner bark from A.D. 1450 to 1890. Large sheets of bark were taken from trees in the spring, prepared and stored as a staple food resource. Inner bark was eaten fresh, dried or roasted. Smaller bark peelings were used for the wrapping of sinews. The cessation of bark use in the 19th century was driven by several factors, but the availability of other products that could replace traditional use of bark was specifically important. The previous common and varied use of bark, the great age of Sami terminology and a possible association with archaeological remains of potential great age indicate that peeled bark was used long before the historic period. Our study also focused on the ongoing loss of culturally-modified trees in forests outside protected areas.
23417604|High-resolution Holocene pollen profiles from lakes Groer Krebssee and Felchowsee, in the Lower Oder valley, north-eastern Germany, are presented. The Groer Krebssee profile includes a Late-glacial sequence. These investigations have been carried out in the context of a programme of archaeological excavation. AMS radiocarbon dates (26 in all) based on pollen concentrates have been used to provide a chronology for the pollen records. Holocene forest history and human impact are reconstructed for contrasting landscapes, namely, the Neuenhagener Oderinsel in the Lower Oderbruch (Groer Krebssee profile) and the more fertile Uckermrker Hgelland (Felchowsee profile) that lies immediately to the north. Both landscapes were glaciated during the Pomeranian stage of the Weichselian. New information on the spread of trees, including Tilia, Fagus and Carpinus, at both regional and local level, is presented. Five major phases of intensive human activity are recognised, the most intensive activity of the prehistoric period occurring in the Neolithic (Groer Krebssee profile). Differences between the records is explained in terms of local habitat, especially edaphic conditions, settlement history and also the pollen source area, the profile from the much larger Felchowsee lake providing a record of environmental change that is more regional in character.
23417605|Pollen analytical data from a 23-m core taken in the Jammertal subglacial basin, near Biberach an der Riss, has given a continuous sequence from the Rissian late-glacial to the beginning of the Mid-Wrmian. The Eemian interglacial is completely preserved and with a high temporal resolution. Two interstadials, Stafflangen I and II, are recognised in the Lower Wrmian. These two woodlands were dominant by Pinus and Picea and there was a small but significant (up to 12%) component of thermophilous deciduous tree pollen. Stafflangen I and II are correlated with St. Germain I and II as known from Grande Pile. The north-eastern areal boundary of thermophilous deciduous trees lies between Jammertal and Grande Pile. Furthermore, it was possible for the first time to define and describe altitudinal zonation in Eemian vegetation. During the Eemian, the altitudinal boundary of shade-tolerant deciduous trees (Carpinus, Abies and Picea) lay at ca. 625 m in Upper Swabia and the Swiss Alpine foreland, and at ca. 560 m in Upper Bavaria to the east. The sites, which were dominated by Carpinus occur below this limit whereas Abies or Picea show a preference for habitats at higher altitudes.
23417654|At three Neolithic sites and one Bronze Age site in northern Greece, spikelet bases of a "new" type of glume wheat have been recovered. These spikelet bases are morphologically distinct from the typical Triticum monococcum L. (einkorn), T. dicoccum Schbl. (emmer) and T. spelta L. (spelt) types previously recorded from Greece and they have also been observed at Neolithic and Bronze Age sites in Turkey, Hungary, Austria and Germany. Their taxonomic identification remains uncertain but it seems likely that they are tetraploid, and they have morphological features in common with T. timopheevi Zhuk. Various possibilities exist for the origin of this type but, whatever its origin and exact identity, its cultivation has ceased over large geographical areas since the Bronze Age. At the northern Greek sites, at least, the new type may have been cultivated as a maslin (mixed crop) with einkorn.
23417655|An excavation in the near surroundings of the town of Gouda revealed the remains of a wooden farmhouse. Radiocarbon dates and pottery indicate that the farm was built around A.D. 1120 - 1135. It belongs to the initial phase of land reclamation in the wetlands of the part of the Netherlands called Holland. Pollen and wood analysis show that the original vegetation consisted of ash and alder woodland on a subsoil of eutrophic peat. People used local wood very economically for the construction of the house. A triangular figure of split Pinus sp. and Abies alba branches near the entrance provides an exotic and probably ritual element. The farmers practised mixed farming based on the raising of cattle, pigs and crops comprising Triticum dicoccum (emmer wheat), Hordeum sp. (barley), Avena sativa (oats), Linum usitatissimum (flax) and Cannabis sativa (hemp). Conspicuously absent is Secale cereale (rye). There are no indications of an orchard.
23417656|Phytolith and pollen analyses were carried out at the archaeological site at Longqiuzhuang in Gaoyou, Jiangsu, southern China. The results indicate that the key morphological phytolith types associated with cultivated rice (Oryza) are common in the Neolithic cultural layers at this site. The evidence strongly suggests that cultivated rice (mainly O. japonica) was grown locally during the Neolithic. The archaeopalynological record provides information about the impact of human activity and, in particular, farming on the natural vegetation. The evergreen and deciduous broad-leaved forest was substantially altered, and herbaceous taxa, including ruderals, expanded. Based on the results from the phytolith and pollen analyses, two distinct phases of human activity have been recognized, namely (1) phase A (7000-6300 B.P., i.e. early Neolithic) a warm and humid period when arable farming, including rice cultivation, was pursued but the variation in the size of the carbonized rice grains was low, and (2) phase B (6300-5500 B.P., late Neolithic age), a period of relatively cold and/or arid climate when cultivated rice was of major importance and was morphologically similar to present-day rice. Environment, and in particular climate change in the late Neolithic, were important factors affecting the development of rice as a cultivated crop. It was mainly during this period that artificial selection favoured the emergence of forms similar to those of today.
23417657|Soil samples from a late Neolithic stone cist in Hamneda, southern Sweden, were pollen analysed. The results of the analysis suggest that the local vegetation at the time of the burial was a half-open woodland with pasture and small-scale cereal growing, intermingled with stands of Tilia (lime), Quercus (oak) and Corylus (hazel). The analysis also gives unique information on the burial ritual. High pollen percentages of Hordeum type, Triticum type and undifferentiated Cerealia from among the shards of a pot deposited in the cist show that the pot originally contained cereal grains, bread, porridge, gruel or beer. Furthermore, the analysis shows that flowers of Anemone nemorosa were deposited on or beneath the dead body in the cist.
23417658|Vegetation history for the study region is reconstructed on the basis of pollen, charcoal and AMS 14C investigations of lake sediments from Lago del Segrino (calcareous bedrock) and Lago di Muzzano (siliceous bedrock). Late-glacial forests were characterised by Betula and Pinus sylvestris. At the beginning of the Holocene they were replaced by temperate continental forest and shrub communities. A special type of temperate lowland forest, with Abies alba as the most important tree, was present in the period 8300 to 4500 B.P. Subsequently, Fagus, Quercus and Alnus glutinosa were the main forest components and A. alba ceased to be of importance. Castanea sativa and Juglans regia were probably introduced after forest clearance by fire during the first century A.D. On soils derived from siliceous bedrock, C. sativa was already dominant at ca. A.D. 200 (A.D. dates are in calendar years). In limestone areas, however, C. sativa failed to achieve a dominant role. After the introduction of C. sativa, the main trees were initially oak (Quercus spp.) and later the walnut (Juglans regia). Ostrya carpinifolia became the dominant tree around Lago del Segrino only in the last 100-200 years though it had spread into the area at ca. 5000 cal. B.C. This recent expansion of Ostrya is confirmed at other sites and appears to be controlled by human disturbances involving especially clearance. It is argued that these forests should not be regarded as climax communities. It is suggested that under undisturbed succession they would develop into mixed deciduous forests consisting of Fraxinus excelsior, Tilia, Ulmus, Quercus and Acer.
23417625|Palynological data collected over a period of 60 years have been compiled and re-interpreted in order to reveal the patterns of deforestation and heath establishment in the south-western Norwegian coastal heathland. This heathland area has been divided into four sub-regions based on topography, bedrock and drift cover. The palynological investigations are from sites with pollen source areas of different sizes. The palynological signals are interpreted in terms of models that suggest an abrupt, gradual or stepwise deforestation which can be explained by terms of different pollen source areas. The deforestation seems to have been metachronous, leading to a regional mosaic pattern of different vegetation types. The deforestation process spanned more than 3600 calendar years (4000-400 B.C.), with three pronounced clearance periods at 4000-3600 B.C. (Mesolithic/Early Neolithic transition), 2500-2200 B.C. (Middle Neolithic II/Early Late Neolithic transition), and 1900-1400 B.C. (Late Neolithic to Bronze Age period II). The expansion of heathland has also been metachronous and took place over a period of ca. 4000 years between 4000-200 B.C., but was mainly completed by the end of the Bronze Age. Regional differences in the chronology of deforestation and heathland establishment are discussed. Deforestation with subsequent heathland expansion can best be explained in terms of the interaction between land-use history, topography and edaphic conditions under climatic conditions that favoured heathland development.
23417626|A detailed, 14C-dated, pollen profile from Steerenmoos, a raised bog in the uplands of the southern Black Forest (Schwarzwald) is presented. The Late-glacial and early Holocene vegetation history conforms to the known pattern of forest dynamics for that region. At ca. 6100 cal. B.P., Abies replaced the mixed oak forest, which is in contrast to adjacent regions where Fagus spread before Abies. From the Subboreal onwards, Fagus expanded and slowly largely replaced Abies. The mire developed from a fen to a raised bog. The mountain pine (Pinus mugo ssp. rotundata) on the present-day bog surface is a result of medieval burning. Cereal pollen are first recorded in the Neolithic (7600 cal. B.P.) and there is a closed curve for Plantago lanceolata  a good indicator of human impact  since the Bronze Age (4000 cal. B.P.). On the basis of the cereal pollen record nine human impact phases (HIP) are described. HIP 1 and 2, which are short, date to ca. 7600 and 6700 cal. B.P., respectively, in a mixed oak forest context and are characterized by declines in Corylus, Tilia, Ulmus and by Salix (but no major deforestation) and peaks in charcoal and loss-on-ignition curves. HIP 3 and 4, which are short and weak, date to ca. 6000 and 5300 cal. B.P., respectively, and occur in the context of an Abies alba forest. The Bronze Age and Iron Age HIPs 5-7 are more intense and of longer duration than the Neolithic phases and result in a decline in Abies and an increase in Fagus. The early medieval HIP 8, although rather weak, probably finds expression also in an archaeological artefact, namely a dug-out boat from the near-by Schluchsee. Finally, the late Medieval HIP 9 resulted in a major transformation in the landscape. It is argued that the earlier HIPs are not a reflection of distant events in the lowland valleys of the Rhine, Danube or Neckar but reflect more or less local developments.
23417627|3000 years of agriculture were investigated in the valley of the Jhong river situated north of the main chain of the Himalayas in western Nepal at 3000-4000 m asl. During excavations carried out by the Institute for Prehistory of the University of Cologne (part of the DFG-Schwerpunktprogramm "Siedlungen und Staatenbildungen im tibetischen Himalaya") in collaboration with the Nepal Department of Archaeology, more than 300 samples with plant remains were collected, dating from 1000 cal. B.C. up to today. Palaeoethnobotanical research was accompanied by investigations of today's methods of local agriculture and of the recent vegetation. Immigrants - perhaps from the Tibetan Plain - settled in the Jhong valley at the beginning of the first millennium B.C. Six cultivated taxa were already present in the first occupation period; probably two harvests per year were possible at this time as they still are today. During the following five archaeological periods, ten new cultivated taxa were found. In a burial cave of the second prehistoric period, fruits and seeds imported from the subtropical lowlands were found among the grave goods. From the more than 100 plant taxa identified in the botanical samples, more than 50 also occur in Europe.
23417628|This paper discusses archaeobotanical remains from the settlement mound of Kursakata, Nigeria, comprising both charred and uncharred seeds and fruits as well as charcoal. In addition, impressions of plant tempering material in potsherds were analysed. The late Stone Age and Iron Age sequence at Kursakata is dated from 1000 cal. B.C. to cal. A.D. 100. Domesticated Pennisetum (pearl millet), wild Paniceae and wild rice are the most common taxa. Kernels from tree fruits were regularly found including large numbers of Vitex simplicifolia - a tree which is absent from the area today. A distinct change in plant spectra can be observed between the late Stone Age and the Iron Age. Although domesticated pearl millet was already known at the beginning of the settlement sequence of Kursakata, it only gained greater economic importance during the Iron Age. Besides farming, pastoralism and fishing, gathering of wild plants always played a major role in the subsistence strategy of the inhabitants of Kursakata. The charcoal results show that firewood was mainly collected from woodlands on the clay plains, which must have been more diverse than today. The end of the late Stone Age in the Chad Basin was presumably accompanied by the onset of drier environmental conditions from ca. 800 cal. B.C. onwards.
23417629|Thick accumulations of consolidated cow dung occur in ancient kraals (byres or corrals) in the bushveld and highveld areas of Zimbabwe, Botswana, and South Africa dating from the last 2000 years. They originated from long-term cattle herding by Iron Age people. The "vitrified" or baked dung deposits are thought to be a product of the burning of cow dung as fuel, either for domestic purposes or for iron smelting. In order to establish the palaeoecological potential of this material, 36 samples of cow dung from archaeological sites within the present-day savanna and grassland biomes were analyzed for pollen and other microfossils. Of the samples, 29 contained pollen together with other microfossils that support a faecal origin of the material such as sordariaceous ascospores, Thecaphora, Gelasinospora, and Chaetomium, and eggs of the intestinal parasite Trichuris. Similar microfossils were also found in recent fresh cow dung from the same study areas. The presence of pollen grains and spores in most of the Iron Age samples lead to the assumption that they survived the burning because fire temperatures were not high enough to destroy them. Pollen in these cow dung pieces is apparently sealed and can be preserved under open-air conditions at sites under which pollen in other deposits like soils, will decay away. Good pollen preservation and palynomorph diversity were found with mainly Poaceae, and secondly Chenopodiaceae and Cyperaceae as the most important pollen types, while trees and shrubs indicating savanna are rare. In the case of the samples that came from the subtropical savanna biome the latter result is unexpected and suggests that the cattle were kept in more open vegetation than the woody environments of today. Recent cow dung samples reflect the composition of present-day vegetation by showing considerably higher proportions of tree pollen than the fossil assemblages.
23417783|Phytoliths recovered from refuse pits excavated in central Cameroon and dated to ca 2500 B.P. have been positively identified for the first time in Africa as derived from Musa the cultivated banana, after a comparative study of Musa and Ensete phytoliths. This discovery provides archaeologists with unequivocal proof of early agriculture in central Africa. Furthermore, the presence of banana in Cameroon much earlier than previously assumed could explain how agriculture spread through the rain forest. Lastly, as Musa is of Asian origin, this study provides the first concrete evidence of contacts across the Indian Ocean a millennium earlier than currently accepted.
23417784|A new core taken from a site in the Sierra de Courel range of mountains in the northwest Iberian peninsula, Spain, enables a palaeoenvironmental reconstruction to be made of the biological events resulting from climatic changes and human activities during the last 17,000 years in the area. The sequence begins with a phase characterised by the dominance of Gramineae (Poaceae) and Pinus. A markedly arid period with prevalence of Artemisia pollen occurred between 17,500 and 15,500 uncal. B.P. Subsequently, a succession of woodlands with Betula, Pinus and other mesophilous and thermophilous trees was recognised during the period 15,500-13,500 uncal. B.P. Between 13,500 and 10,300 uncal. B.P., herbaceous vegetation formations indicating moister conditions dominated the pollen record, although a maximum of Gramineae has been dated during the period 11,300-10,300 uncal. B.P. Comparison with other pollen data from neighbouring mountains allows an interpretation of the vegetation changes during the glacial/interglacial transition in the mountains of northwest Iberia. The Holocene pollen record from the site does not differ markedly from other records in the area, tree expansion occurring before 10,000 uncal. B.P. and high values of deciduous Quercus mixed with other trees and shrubs persisting until 3500 uncal. B.P., when increased human activities are shown by a fall of the tree pollen percentages.
23417785|The results produced by charcoal analysis are used in conjunction with pollen evidence, geomorphological data and ecological analogues, in order to reconstruct ancient woodland vegetation in the Konya Basin and its surroundings during the Neolithic. Emphasis is placed on the structure, diversity and seasonal habit of different vegetation types, as well as their potential response to natural and/or anthropogenic disturbance. It is argued that such an approach to vegetation reconstruction enables better insights into palaeoenvironments as experienced by human groups in the past, and thus offers fruitful avenues for investigating the relationship of human societies with the natural environment.
23417786|Publications on archaeological remains of cultivated plants have been collected, mainly from 1999, with some earlier and some from 2000. A list is given of the finds according to taxon, country, site, and age.
23417662|We present a reconstruction of forest history and climatic change based on 11 pollen records from eight sites, all located in the lower montane forest belt of the northern Andes in Colombia. We compared records from the Popayn area in southern Colombia, Timbio (1750 m), Genagra (1750 m) and Pitalito (1300 m) and the new Piagua (1700 m) record with the records from Lusitania (1500 m), Libano (1820 m), Pedro Palo (2000 m) and Ubaqu (2000 m) from central Colombia. The changes of the altitudinal position of the lower/upper montane (= subandean/Andean, S/At) forest belt transition were used to estimate temperature change for the last 50 kyr. We infer a Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) temperature drop of 6-7C at 1700 m, and a steeper LGM lapse rate of 0.76C/100 m compared to today (ca. 0.6C/100 m). Around 50 uncal. kyr B.P. the temperature at 1700 m was ca. 3C lower than today. Until 20 uncal. kyr B.P. the temperature oscillated and gradually decreased. During the LGM, temperature was down to ca. 6-7C lower than today. After the LGM, temperature increased and ca. 14 uncal. kyr B.P. it was 2-3C lower than today (S/At at ca. 1800 m, 500 m below present elevation; Susac interstadial). An unquantified cooling (Ciega stadial) followed. During ca. 12.3-11.7 uncal. kyr B.P. the S/At shifted upslope to 2100 m indicating a temperature of 1-2C cooler than today (Guantiva interstadial). From 11.7-10.9 uncal. kyr B.P. the S/At was at 1800 m indicating that the temperature was ca. 3C lower than today and wet conditions prevailed (partly coinciding with the El Abra stadial). The period 10.9-9 uncal. kyr B.P. was also cool, but drier. During 9-7.5 uncal. kyr B.P. temperature was ca. 1C warmer relative to today (mid Holocene hypsithermal). During the last 5 kyr the presence of cultivated plants demonstates human colonization of the lower montane zone in Colombia.
23417663|The archaeological site of Sovjan is located at the edge of lake Maliq. It was occupied from the early Bronze Age to the early Iron Age. Pollen data from a short sequence of peat deposits dated between 425550 and 242045 uncal B.P. and charcoal, seeds and wood from archaeological deposits have provided new information on human activities in the region. They are discussed in the general frame of agricultural developments in the Balkans. Regional environment (regarding vegetation and hydrology) and climate are also discussed.
23417664|The results of pollen analysis of two sediment cores from lake Srebarna (northeast Bulgaria) are presented. On the basis of the palynological data and the radiocarbon dates a reconstruction of the past flora and vegetation is made. For the first time a continuous palaeosuccession is established for the area of the Danubian Dobrudza and the Ludogorie district of northeast Bulgaria: a dominance of mixed xero- and mesophilous oak woods with Carpinus betulus, Ulmus, Tilia, Corylus during the Atlantic period; mixed oak woods with increasing importance of Tilia, Ulmus, Acer and a considerable presence of Carpinus betulus and Fagus during the Sub-boreal period; degradation of the woodland vegetation and transition to secondary plant communities with Carpinus orientalis and herbs during the Sub-atlantic period.
23417665|A high-resolution Late Pleistocene and Middle to Late Holocene pollen profile of regional significance is presented. The coring site is located in a mire between two lakes, Ober- and Unter-ckersee, in Brandenburg, north-eastern Germany. The study was carried out in an archaeological context. It provides information about the history of vegetation, climate and human impact in the cker river valley and the surrounding hills, the Uckermrker Hgelland. Hence, it is an important contribution for the reconstruction of the past vegetation of this area of Brandenburg. Seven AMS 14C-dates based on pollen concentrates provide a chronology for the middle Holocene part of the profile. Phases of intensive human activity can be shown from the middle Neolithic times until the Roman Iron Age.
23417666|The oldest Neolithic crab apple (Malus sylvestris L.) remains have been found in the Gwodziec 2 site (southeast Poland), archaeologically dated to the earliest part of the Linear Pottery Culture. There is also another find of apple pips from Poland (Dbki site) identified as Malus sylvestris L. and after a long discussion archaeologically dated to the proto-Neolithic period. Wild apple fruits were gathered and dried for storage, as was the case in several other sites in Europe.
23417667|Betula fruits lacking their wings were recovered from the Gross Todtshorn borehole, Germany, covering the late Eemian interglacial, the Early Weichselian, and the Weichselian pleniglacial. In order to identify them, a data-set of seven size and shape variables was made from modern fruits of B. pubescens, B. pendula, B. nana, and B. humilis. These measurements were summarised by principal components analysis (PCA). The 140 measured fossil fruit-bodies were positioned passively on the PCA plot and identified by comparison with the dimensional envelopes of the modern species. Tree birches (B. pendula, B. pubescens) occurred in the Eemian and Early Weichselian interstadials, but not thereafter. B. nana was widespread during the intervening stadials and the Oerel interstadial. B. humilis occurred throughout the sequence, coexisting with tree birches in the Early Weichselian and with B. nana in the stadials. It usually grew on mire surfaces, in contrast to B. nana which mainly grew on mineral substrates. However, B. nana grew on peat with B. humilis in the pleniglacial Oerel interstadial, suggesting a more continental climate with cold winters. A modern analogue could be near the Ural mountains. B. humilis is presently rare in central Europe, but during the Weichselian it was well established in northern Germany. The PCA has enabled specific determination of the wingless Betula fruits, leading to vegetational and climatic reconstructions and contributing to the previously poorly known historical biogeography of Betula humilis.
23417668|The oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) is naturally abundant in all the African rain forests. Because this tree is a heliophytic, pioneering species, it can rapidly colonize the periphery of the rain forest and gaps created inside, regardless of the cause. In the majority of traditional African societies, people exploit natural oil palm groves; no attempt is made to propagate the palm by sowing or transplanting seedlings. The late Holocene phase of dramatic forest decline, around 2500 uncal. B.P., was particularly favourable to oil palm expansion. The scale and timing of this palaeoenvironmental variation, and the subsequent response of this pioneer tree, cannot be interpreted as indicating human activities, let alone an indication of cultivation.
23417767|The village of Pegrema in Karelia may be regarded as a Stone Age innovation centre in the large Lake Onega area. Two pollen and plant macrofossil diagrams are presented which represent the first contribution to the study of human impact in the area using anthropogenic pollen indicators. A continuous but sporadic human presence from the Mesolithic onwards is demonstrated. While there is no archaeological evidence relating to the period 4200-3000 B.P., the pollen data suggest continuous, though rather sparse human presence. The data do not support any natural catastrophes in Pegrema as has been suggested elsewhere. Cerealia pollen is recorded earlier than expected (c. 5000 B.P.). In the Bronze Age and Iron Age, the settlement of the Zaonezhye peninsula is reflected by a slight increase in herb pollen representation, sporadic Cerealia pollen and several periods of regression in Picea. The long introductory period of agriculture to the area, as well as the similarities and discrepancies between different sources of evidence (palaeoecological, archaeological and historical) are discussed at some length. The start of land clearance for permanent cultivation in the profile Pegrema S was dated to the late 13th century. The beginning of more intensive field cultivation in the 15th century is clearly seen in the pollen succession at both localities. The fluctuation in anthropogenic indicators can be related to population density based on historical data. The village of Pegrema was depopulated in 1956 which is reflected in a distinct decline in settlement indicators.
23417768|The town of Carquefou, some 10 km northeast of Nantes on the left bank of the river Erdre, occupies a site long associated with human activity. During road construction east of the town, ditches, enclosures and post holes characteristic of the late la Tne were discovered at the locality of "Le Clouet", which led us to obtain core samples from a nearby peat bog. These investigations indicated the changes in vegetation since 391595 uncal B.P., [2828 (2459) 2074 cal B.C.]. The slopes in the surroundings of the bog have been relatively treeless since the Bronze Age, but a very open woodland vegetation composed of Tilia, Corylus and Quercus has been maintained until the present day. In the area around the bog, an Alnus wood with an undergrowth of Cyperaceae was the dominant vegetation, despite some changes probably related to human occupation since the Bronze Age. Beginning at 95535 uncal B.P. [1004 (1036, 1144, 1146) 1181 cal A.D.], in the Middle Ages, the alders disappeared almost totally, apparently because of clearance or an increase in water level. Human presence led to intensified cultivation of different crops including Cannabis and especially Cerealia. Finally, the presence of a variety of anthropogenic indicator plants (Cichorioideae, Asteraceae, Plantago lanceolata, etc.) suggests that cattle were reared in the vicinity of the site.
23417769|This contribution deals with some new aspects of the relationship between the vegetation history of Abies alba Mill. (silver fir) and genetic studies of this tree species in Switzerland. The results of the present study confirm the pollen analytical hypothesis that A. alba re-immigrated into Switzerland mainly from glacial refugia located in northern and central Italy. In particular, some distinct immigration routes of silver fir into the Ticino Alps, Valais, the Bernese Oberland (northwestern Alps), and Graubnden (eastern Alps) could be confirmed by genetic studies. Furthermore, the occurrence of other area-specific alleles indicates an additional influence from eastern European refugia on the Swiss gene pool. Moreover, genetic studies on Picea abies (L.) H. Karsten (Norway spruce) confirmed the general immigration routes from the eastern to the western Alps and from Savoie to the Jura Mountains. The combination of tree pollen and macrofossil analyses of Quaternary sediments with genetic studies of the same tree species represents a considerable research potential and is a new approach of floristic and genetic research.
23417770|An environmental reconstruction of the last 10,000 14C years of a frequently flooded wetland ecosystem in the lower Magdalena valley in northern Colombia is presented, on the basis of a multi-disciplinary study of the sediments of the upper 15 m of the core from Boquillas (7433E, 97N; 20 m a.s.l.). We used the following studies: pollen, lithology, organic structures, clay mineralogy, soil and sediment geochemistry, and 13C values. The chronology is based on 13 AMS radiocarbon dates; the humic acid fractions were used in the case of seven samples. Pollen from local origin (swamps, open grass-rich vegetation, and gallery forest) show the development of the wetland area. River-transported pollen from a greater distance (dry forest, montane forest, Alnus) show changes in river activity and reflect large-scale changes of climatic conditions in the Momposina basin. From c. 10,010 to 9370 uncal B.P. (zone BQS-Ia) the river system was of high energy, as inferred by the lithological changes. The landscape was dominated by open grass-rich vegetation with gallery forest along the streams. A marked representation of Alnus and montane forest taxa indicate significant water transport and river dynamics. Climatic conditions were dry. From c. 9370-8430 uncal B.P. (zone BQS-Ib) wetlands were isolated from the main river system, and clayey sediments with kaolinite, smectite and illite as the main minerals accumulated in a lower-energy environment. Climatic conditions were dry and changes in the seasonal precipitation favoured the expansion of the gallery forest. From c. 8430 to 8040 uncal B.P. (zone BQS-Ic) low values of river-transported pollen indicate dry climatic conditions and open vegetation became more abundant. The flooding frequency of the Boquillas site diminished. From 8040 to 4900 uncal B.P. (zone BQS-Id) the Boquillas site was dominated by open vegetation with patches of gallery forest along the streams. Supply of river-transported allochthonous pollen (from many sources) was minimal. Clay minerals from the sediments suggest variable temperature and precipitation. From c. 4900 to 1550 uncal B.P. (zone BQS-II) the site was within the reach of the main river system as is the case today. Frequent floodings, coinciding with peaks of river-transported grains of Alnus and high sediment supply, point to high precipitation in the composite catchment area of the Magdalena, Cauca, San Jorge, and Cesr rivers. High values of phosphorous in the upper part of the core point to the presence of a pre-Hispanic civilization, approximately from 2000 uncal B.P. onward. Construction of an extensive drainage system allowed irrigation as well as drainage depending the annual cycle of precipitation. The landscape was significantly modified and allowed an extensive crop production on a system of raised fields.
23417771|Late-glacial and Holocene vegetational and climate dynamics and human impact of the eastern Amazon rain forest in the coastal region of eastern Par State in northern Brazil have been studied in two sedimentary records from Lagoa da Curua. Seven radiocarbon dates provide the chronology for two pollen and charcoal records starting from 11,700 and 9440 uncal B.P. to present. Dense and high diverse terra firme Amazon rain forest in the coastal area shows that there was no savanna during the Late-glacial period. The occurrence of Podocarpus trees in the coastal region during the Late-glacial indicate wet and markedly colder conditions at that time. A possible habitat for Pleistocene populations of Podocarpus trees which are now also evident from several other Amazon regions is discussed. There were no rain forest fires between 11,700 and 10,840 uncal B.P. The increase of charcoal particles in the lake deposits after this period suggest an early Amerindian occupation of the coastal region.
23417775|Six pollen diagrams from peat bogs in the Vltavsk luh (upper Vltava river valley) provide new information about vegetation reconstruction, woodland dynamics, and local development of mires during the Late-glacial and Holocene. Vegetation development began in the Oldest Dryas/Blling with open park plant cover. In the Allerd, woodland with Pinus and Betula developed, and in the Younger Dryas there was a steppe tundra with plants of open habitats. In the Pre-boreal, woodland tundra grew. In the Boreal, Corylus spread, and a major expansion of Picea began in the early Boreal. Picea spread during the Atlantic probably by two different migration routes. Fagus immigrated earlier than in the Bayerischer Wald and Oberpflzer Wald in the adjoining parts of Germany, and had its major expansion in the early Atlantic. Abies expanded in the late Atlantic. The great abundance of Abies in this area is remarkable, forming Abies or Abies-Fagus woods in less extreme habitats. Human occupation started in the Sub-boreal, as shown by both archaeology and palynology. However, human impact is recognized from anthropogenic indicators which appear in the early Atlantic. At the end of the later Sub-atlantic the development of natural woodland was interrupted by plantation of Picea, according to historical and palynological evidence.
23417776|A pollen record from a small peatland located on Kullaberg in northwestern Skne, southern Sweden, revealed that grazing pressure might have been the major disturbance agent controlling the vegetation, at least from ca. 1500 B.C. until the latter part of the nineteenth century. The pollen data also indicate a step-by-step increase in grazing pressure, expressed as a marked increase in nonarboreal pollen representation at ca. 1500 B.C., A.D. 650 and A.D. 1650. The increase at A.D. 650 probably indicates a more regular and intensive use of the area, resulting in a forest structure that was much more open than earlier, together with an expansion of Fagus, which rapidly replaced Quercus as the local forest dominant. At about this time the first patches of heath vegetation originated, but they probably only covered a small part of Kullaberg. Larger areas with an intensively grazed Calluna heath, as shown by eighteenth century maps, probably evolved around ca. A.D. 1650, when much of Kullaberg seems to have been deliberately deforested.
23417777|A set of moss samples (n=58) was collected and analysed to obtain modern pollen analogues for both natural and human induced vegetation types in northern Fennoscandia. Vegetation types with settlement, trampling and grazing were selected from the different latitudinal forest zones (birch, pine, and mixed forest). The moss species varied between samples but the size of the sample was kept constant. Numerical analyses such as Redundancy Analysis (RDA) indicate that in northern areas human presence is mainly visible as increased values of Gramineae, Rumex acetosa/acetosella, R. obtusifolius, Solidago -type and Achillea -type pollen. Partial RDA further reveals that settlement is strongly correlated with high values of Rumex acetosa/acetosella, whereas trampled sites are significantly characterised by Gramineae and, to a smaller extent, Cyperaceae pollen. It is therefore possible to distinguish the impact of different types of human activities on vegetation on the basis of the pollen spectra. Later, these data will be used to interpret the presence, nature, and duration of human impact from fossil records from the same area.
23417778|The archaeologcal site of La Karelsl (Waldbillig, Luxembourg) provides the first important charcoal sequence in Luxembourg for the development of Holocene plant cover. During the Pre-boreal, the results show open woodland vegetation dominated by Pinus sylvestris type in association with Betula sp. and Rosaceae. After an important gap covering the Boreal and the early Atlantic, the data reveal the dominance of a deciduous Quercus woodland with Tilia sp., Fraxinus excelsior and Corylus avellana. Finally, during the sub-Boreal, the assemblages indicate a cooler and wetter climate and Quercus woods with Fagus sylvatica and Taxus baccata. There is no clear evidence for human impact.
23417779|41 archaeobotanical samples were analysed, which had been collected from the seabed at uvala Verige (Verige bay) on the island of Veli Brijun, Croatia, the site of a Roman villa which was settled from the 1st to the 5th century A.D. From the analysis of plant macrofos-sils it is evident that the eu-Mediterranean evergreen woodland, today described as Quercion ilicis in the phyto-sociological system, already existed in the Roman period. During this period it became degraded as a result of human activities to other vegetation types such as maquis and garrigue scrub, and grassland. The remains of Vitis vinifera (grapevine), Olea europaea (olive), Ficus carica (fig), and Pinus pinea (stone pine) were most frequently recorded; they all derive from very important and characteristic Mediterranean foods. Prunus avium (sweet cherry) and P. persica (peach), some vegetables and spices were probably cultivated, too, as well as some cereals, most probably Panicum miliaceum (millet). Juglans regia (walnut), Castanea sativa (sweet chestnut), and Corylus avellana (hazel) were possibly cultivated on the island or imported from neighbouring Istria. The records of some fresh water plants show that there was fresh water in uvala Verige and its surroundings in Roman times, much more than today.
23417780|The Neolithic site at Hidden Valley, Farafra Oasis, Egypt (6028150 - 5163374 cal B.C.) on the shores of a playa (dry lake basin in the desert), yielded a large quantity of carbonized plant remains from postholes, hearths, querns and a corridor. The plant remains could have become carbonised during food preparation, or when fuel included seeds. Rich and diverse floras were retrieved from 40 soil samples, in all 534 seeds, grains, spikelets, culm fragments and leaflet fragments which were attributed to 30 taxa in the flora of Egypt. Wild grasses from almost all samples represent 83% of the plant remains. Quantitative correlation between plant remains and archaeological contexts is discussed. The highest density of plant remains was recorded from pot-holes (in which pots were stood), while sediments recovered near querns show the lowest. The economy of the site was apparently based mainly on herding associated with the gathering of grasses which suggests that the climate at Farafra during the middle Holocene (6077-4511 cal B.C.) was wetter than today's, with winter and summer rainfall. A reconstruction of the vegetation around the site comprises reed plant cover, aquatic and wetland plants and desert savanna.
23419669|This paper presents archaeobotanical results from Sardinia, an island in the western Mediterranean. The starting point is the material excavated at Duos Nuraghes near Borore, but remains provided by other sites are taken into account as well. Naked wheat, presumably a tetraploid wheat such as Triticum durum Desf. (macaroni wheat), and Hordeum vulgare L. (barley) are the most common finds from the Neolithic up to the Medieval period. Triticum dicoccum Schbl. (emmer), Lens culinaris Medik. (lentil), Pisum sativum L. (pea) and Vicia faba L. var. minor (horse bean) have been grown as well. A medieval context revealed Beta vulgaris L. (beet). The most common find in the category of fruits is Vitis vinifera L. (grape). The overall picture is one of continuity in agricultural practices. Nevertheless this picture may be false. In the early Bronze Age the cultivation of barley may have shifted from the naked variety towards the hulled variety. The Phoenicians may have introduced new cultivars of grapevine, although the native grapevine was not replaced by these. The weed taxa suggest some change in agriculture from Punic or Roman times onwards.
23419670|Until now, very little was known about the agriculture of the Late Iron Age in Hungary. This paper describes the first results of an archaeobotanical examination of a late Iron Age, Celtic settlement in Budapest. It is the first systematically sampled and representatively investigated site of this time period in Hungary. Most of the samples come from different types of pits, which were subjectively sampled. The macrofossils were carbonised and, apart from many seeds and fruit stones, consisted mostly of charcoal. Among the seed remains both cultivated and wild species were present. The spectrum of cultivated plants was marked by a large number of cereals. The dominant cereals were Triticum spelta L. (spelt wheat) and Panicum miliaceum L. (broomcorn millet), but also common were Avena sativa L., Avena sp. (oats), Triticum monococcum L. (einkorn), Hordeum vulgare L. (barley); Triticum aestivum/durum/turgidum L./Desf./L., incl. T. compactum Host. (bread wheat, including club wheat). Secale cereale L. (rye) and Triticum dicoccum (Schrank) Schbl. (emmer) were rare and seemed to be less important. The weeds and synanthropic vegetation, including ruderals, were represented by many taxa, and some of them also occurred in large amounts. The main cereals were sown as winter crops, judging from the rarely occurring of plants accompanying the cereals. Wild fruits contributed to the daily diet, too  as seen from the stones of Cornus mas (cornelian cherry), Crataegus sp. (hawthorn) and Prunus spinosa (sloe, blackthorn). There were no finds of cultivated fruits.
23419671|Finds of fragmented cereal grain from the sites of Mesimeriani Toumba and Archondiko in Macedonia, northern Greece, dated to 2100-1900 cal. B.C. provide the basis for the experimental investigation of the effects of a) fragmentation before and after charring, b) treatment of grain with water and c) charring conditions, on the morphology of the fracture surface. The experiments indicate that it is possible to distinguish fragmentation before and after charring and, with low charring temperatures, it is possible to distinguish prior treatment of grain with hot water. Comparison of the archaeological grain with the grain produced experimentally suggests that both archaeological finds represent ground grain, and at least those from Mesimeriani correspond to some type of wheat bulgur, probably intended for human consumption. These finds mark the prehistoric origins of a foodstuff widely used in Mediterranean cuisine. Further experimentation along the lines followed here would be desirable.
23419672|Roots and tubers, together with other plant storage organs such as rhizomes, bulbs, corms, etc. are known to be a source of human food. Until very recently, however, remains of root foods were rarely identified from archaeological contexts in temperate Europe. New evidence for the use of root foods has been recently recovered from the early Erteblle settlement at Halsskov in Denmark. Remains included charred bulbs of Allium cf. ursinum and tubers of Conopodium majus. They were accompanied by charred remains of parenchymatous tissues derived from underground parts of other plants. All parenchymatous remains were recovered from features that could be interpreted as pit-cooking depressions. A minimum of two periods of root food gathering can be assumed, spring to early summer and autumn. The presence of charred seeds of Nuphar pumilum suggests that either the seeds or rhizomes (or both) were use as food.
23419673|Neolithic settlements in the Kujawy region of central Poland are represented by seven archaeological sites which have botanical material archaeologically dated to the Linear Pottery culture (LBK) (ca. 5400-5000 cal. B.C.) and the Lengyel culture (ca. 4400-4000 cal. B.C.). The composition of plant remains suggests that Stipa pennata s.l. played a certain role in the economy of the Neolithic settlers. The presence of this xerothermic grass is best explained by local gathering rather than distant transport or coming into the sediment by chance. The finding of Hierochlo cf. australis grains represents the first identification of this plant in archaeobotanical material from Poland. This, now rare, plant contains coumarin and for this reason could have been useful in prehistory. Other plants such as Bromus spp., Chenopodium album type, Fallopia convolvulus and Galium spp. were found in large quantities, and although common weeds now, they could also have been collected by the Neolithic settlers. Plants such as Corylus avellana and Vaccinium vitis-idaea that are typically considered to be collected as foods are present in the studied material but in very small quantities.
23419674|Analysis of charred plant macro-remains, including wood charcoals, cereals, seeds, tubers and fruits from the Neolithic site of atalhyk has indicated complex patterns of plant resource use and exploitation in the Konya plain during the early Holocene. Evidence presented in this paper shows that settlement location was not dictated by proximity to high quality arable land and direct access to arboreal resources (firewood, timber, fruit producing species). A summary of the patterns observed in sample composition and species representation is outlined here together with preliminary interpretations of these results within their broader regional context.
23419675|The Pre-pottery Neolithic A (PPNA) site of Jerf el Ahmar, Syria, dated to the 10th millennium uncal B.P., has produced over 657 flotation samples which are now under study. The results described in this article were obtained from the analysis of 32 samples of charred plant remains taken from a room of 2.5  3 m, which had been destroyed by fire. The room contained three saddle querns, two flat polished stone plates (each of 60 cm in diameter), one hearth, and three limestone "basins". These objects were in situ and the room appeared to represent a food preparation area (kitchen). On one of the querns two charred seed cakes were found. The finely ground seeds have been identified as Brassica/Sinapis, a rare taxon for this period. The major taxa, which are morphologically wild, have distinct spatial distributions, which provide evidence for plant processing activities. Hordeum spontaneum and Triticum/Secale were processed separately. The association of H. spontaneum with stone basins suggests soaking of this grain.
23419676|Palaeoethnobotanical analysis of Late Period contexts (86060 uncal B.P. to 16050 uncal B.P.) at the site of EeRb 140, indicates that it probably served as a seasonal work area, utilised during the mid to late summer by the residents of an adjacent pit-house winter village. Food processing was evidently the primary plant-related activity at this open-air hunter-gatherer-fisher site on the British Columbia Plateau in Canada. One feature appears to have functioned as both an open hearth for the drying and preservation of berries and as a pit-oven, possibly for preparing foods for immediate consumption. Comparisons of the archaeobotany of EeRb 140 with Plateau ethnographies suggest that women's task group activities are represented here. Most significantly, the identification of a specialised plant-processing site in such close proximity to a winter village contrasts strongly with existing ethnoarchaeological models for the British Columbia Plateau and introduces a type of site not previously identified archaeologically in this region.
23419677|The paper summarises some of the results of a long term project carried out by the author on charred macroremains from several key sequences in Rome and its broader hinterland dating from between the 9th and the 6th cent. B.C. This is the period that witnesses major changes in the structure of the settlement, in its social complexity and in its economic processes leading to formation of the state and urbanisation. Building upon recent work analysing the relationship between the emergence of social complexity and crop processing (as seen through the macroremains), possible evidence for structural changes in Roman archaic society are investigated, with particular attention to issues such as the centralisation of food storage and processing or the organisation of redistribution. Studies of this kind may well offer a different perspective on the beginnings of Rome, counterbalancing the traditional emphasis on textual evidence and burial analysis.
23419678|At the later legionary camp of Vindonissa, early Roman (Augustan-Claudian) structures were excavated during a rescue excavation between 1996 and 1998. In phase 2 (10 B.C. until 0), seven in situ carbonised wooden barrels, dug into the ground, were found. They belonged to a rather large building which was most probably used as storage facility. Two of the barrels contained, in the bottom layers, several hundred seeds and pericarp fragments of Punica granatum L. (pomegranates). A large number of other "exotic" plant taxa such as olive, walnut, pine, pistacio, peach, cherry (and probably date) were also found in rather large quantities. Above all, the finds of pomegranates are unique: they are the first finds of this Mediterranean fruit in regions north of the Alps. The origin, use, and other archaeological finds of the pomegranate in the Roman period are discussed. A comparison with other early Roman spectra shows that such large quantities of "exotic" useful plants are mainly present at larger military sites like the legionary camps of Novaesium or Oberaden. It must also be suggested that the pre-camp phases in Vindonissa already had a military character, although this is not at all clear from the other archaeological finds. The precise role of the site is still a matter of debate.
23419679|Excavations below the A.D. 79 destruction levels in two houses at the Roman town of Pompeii, Italy included programmes of sieving and flotation for the recovery of biological remains. In addition to the usual finds of charred plant material and bones representing crop processing or food waste, and mineralised remains from sewage, were numerous burnt offerings. Cones and seeds of stone pine, fruit such as fig and grape and nuts such as walnut and hazel were present in many of them. Some of the offerings contained burnt bone, with the heads and feet of cocks (male domestic fowl) being particularly well represented. There was some change in the plants and animals used for the burnt offerings with time. These offerings could be related to domestic worship described in literary sources and depicted as offerings on altars in Pompeiian wall paintings at shrines to the Lares (household gods). The burnt offerings resulted in the preservation by charring of fruit that are not usually burnt during their processing for consumption. They also presented a taphonomic problem because re-worked charred material from burnt offerings was likely to have been a major component of other charred assemblages from the sites.
23419680|A sacred area was discovered in the centre of Mainz, the capital Mogontiacum of the Roman province of Upper Germany, Germania Superior. Recent epigraphical evidence led to the discovery that the temple had been dedicated to the goddesses of Isis and Magna Mater. Sediments rich in archaeobotanical remains were recovered from more than 100 sacrificial pits for the burning of offerings, 15 large round sacrificial areas with stone walls, two favessae (coffers), several deposits under tiles on the floor, others on the floor itself, censers and other bowls, a well and a latrine. The first results focus on the most conspicuous plant offerings, for instance considerable numbers of pine nuts and pine cones, figs and dates. The aim is to establish an overview of the principal plants used as offerings and to determine the characteristic features of typical offerings to Isis and Magna Mater. It was not expected that the assemblages would be so similar, regardless of which site was analysed. Since no other sacred area from the Roman period has been as intensively investigated archaeobotanically, the results are compared with others from the literature.
23419681|The stone fortification of Prague Old Town was constructed shortly after A.D. 1230. Large-scale archaeological and archaeobotanical research has been carried out in this area in recent years. The deep moat and the drainage ditch have been excavated at several places in front of a line of former ramparts. During the initial period of their existence, the moat and the ditch contained only minimal waste. A sudden change in the management of these features occurred at the beginning of the 14th cent., when they started to be filled with large amounts of rubbish. This article concentrates on the evaluation of these rubbish strata at three profiles through the drainage ditch and one profile through the dry moat. The results of plant macro-remains (including wood), pollen, and diatom analyses clearly demonstrate the development of the local (aquatic) environment from being relatively clean to highly polluted. An actualistic (phytosociological) approach was adopted to reconstruct the local environment of the town periphery in detail, and to distinguish a variety of habitats that were situated in the economic hinterland of the city. Some species from the rich assemblages of plant remains are interpreted in terms of their use in High Medieval households. Diatom analysis completes the picture by providing the proxy data on water quality history in the drainage ditch.
23419682|During the restoration of the main church in Breda (the Netherlands), the city archaeologists rediscovered a tomb with remains of the ancestors of the Dutch royal family. Research was carried out prior to the reburial of the remains. The combination of historical, osteological, dendrochronological and 14C data provided names and dates for 7 of the 8 embalmed bodies. The tomb was in use between A.D. 1475 and 1526. Archaeobotanical results could be compared with several recipes for embalming from the same period. Strikingly many macroremains were found where mainly pollen was expected. This could mean the bodies were resting on a bed of herbs and spices, but it could also have been due to the lack of confidence of the embalmers; they may have used all the available aromatics to conceal the smell of the corpse. At least some of the species were imported from the Mediterranean and/or subtropical regions, but others were probably locally cultivated.
23419683|A study of the fruits of modern members of the Vicieae (vetch tribe) has been undertaken to seek morphological, micromorphological and anatomical criteria which may assist in the identification of the archaeological remains of pods and in particular ones that may be useful for the diagnosis of their wild or domesticated status. The study included wild and domesticated Pisum (peas), Lens (lentils) and Vicia (common vetch) and some of their wild relatives found in the Old World. The results show that the micromorphological features of the pod surface tend to be highly variable, and do not distinguish the taxa. Most importantly, the pods of less-developed domesticated taxa show no reduction in the number of fibrous layers in the pod wall compared with those of their closest wild relatives, and no morphological or anatomical evidence has been found to indicate the dehiscent or indehiscent status of a pod. This appears to challenge some of our accepted wisdom on the mechanics of legume dehiscence.
23419684|The region of Asturias, northwest Spain, is highly unusual in that a cereal crop (spelt wheat) is cultivated on a garden scale using horticultural methods. A floristic survey was made of the weeds in 65 spelt plots in this region. The ecological attributes of the weed species were then measured and compared to an earlier study of the functional characteristics of weeds associated with pulse crops on the Greek island of Evvia. In this earlier study, it was possible to distinguish between plots cultivated intensively on a garden-scale and plots cultivated extensively in fields, on the basis of a suite of functional attributes of the weed species. The cereal plots from Asturias were correctly identified as gardens on the basis of the same suite of attributes. The Asturias plots were also compared to weed associations from autumn- and spring-sown crops in Germany, using a different suite of attributes, and were classified either as autumn-sown or ambiguously. This is consistent with the sowing time in Asturias, which is spread over late autumn to winter. These results demonstrate that the suites of functional attributes identified to distinguish intensive and extensive cultivation, and to recognise sowing time, can be applied in another geographical area and to another crop type. This paves the way for the application of these attributes to the identification of past agricultural practices from archaeological weed assemblages.
23419685|Archaeobotanical data from Late Neolithic lake-shore dwellings (4300 - 3500 cal B.C.) in the northern Pre-alpine lowlands are interpreted in different ways. The presence of permanent arable fields as well as arable fields with short fallow phases and shifting cultivation with slash-and-burn has been discussed. To test these hypotheses experimentally we have been conducting tests in a forest northeast of Stuttgart since 1994. The slightly south-exposed experimental area of approximately 4.5 ha on a loess soil is covered by mixed deciduous forest, is available for at least 20 years and has been divided into 34 plots of 30  30 m. Up to 2001, five plots were used for experiments. The normal procedure is clearing, burning the dry small timber (less than 10 cm in diameter) and then growing winter cereals (bread wheat) for one season. The yields were between 2000 and 4000 kg grains per ha. The harvest was more or less free from weeds. First attempts with summer crops gave much lower yields of about 1100 kg grains per ha. Continuous cereal growing on the same place in the following years resulted in minimal to zero yields, mainly due to vigorous weed growth. These weeds are not crop weeds, but forest perennials of clearings and forest fringes. Ploughing to remove the weeds is not possible, because of the presence of roots and tree-stumps, most of them still living. Weed regulation by hoeing, burning or cattle grazing remains to be tested. Protection of the crop from game and birds is by fences and nets, but protection from mice seems difficult. In the spectra from the pollen traps, clearing and burning are strongly indicated, but cereal growing only slightly.
23419686|Despite widespread criticism, the shifting cultivation model continues to inform discussion of Neolithic farming in Europe, beginning with early Neolithic (Linearbandkeramik or LBK) communities concentrated in the loess belt of western-central Europe. Hundreds of LBK and later Neolithic sites have been excavated in this region and many of them sampled for charred plant remains. Archaeobotanical data on the weed floras harvested with crops provide the most direct archaeological evidence of crop husbandry practices, including the permanence of crop fields, but have played a limited role in the debate over shifting cultivation. The Hambach Forest experiment, conducted in the 1970s-80s near Cologne, Germany, provides valuable comparative data on the weed floras growing in newly cleared cultivation plots in an area of long-lived mixed oak woodland on loess-based soil. Correspondence analysis of the Hambach weed survey data suggests that weed floras of fields managed under a shifting cultivation regime would be rich in perennial species, including woodland perennials. Comparison of these results with Neolithic weed assemblages from the loess belt of western-central Europe strongly suggests that Neolithic crop fields were not recently cleared of woodland vegetation but were long-established.
23419687|The Neolithic and Bronze Age (4400-1570 B.C.) pile dwellings of Concise-sous-Colachoz on the shore of Lake Neuchtel (Canton of Vaud, western Switzerland), known as an archaeological site for more than 140 years, were recently re-investigated due to rescue excavations. Plant macrofossil analyses were done for several Neolithic occupation phases (3868-2440 B.C., the Cortaillod classique, Cortaillod moyen, Cortaillod tardif and Auvernier periods) with a focus on cereal remains, and additionally, archaeological deposits dating to the Cortaillod moyen culture (3710-3677 B.C.) were studied in detail. The preliminary study of cereal macrofossil remains from all the mentioned Neolithic phases show that the most important cereals were Triticum aestivum/durum/turgidum (naked wheat), T. monococcum (einkorn) and Hordeum vulgare (barley). The preferences for specific crops did obviously not alter significantly through time, but, extraordinarily, significant amounts of einkorn continued to be grown for at least 1400 years during the Neolithic period. Other cultivated plants were Pisum sativum (pea), Linum usitatissimum (flax), and Papaver somniferum (opium poppy). Additionally to the seeds, capsule fragments of opium poppy were found in the Cortaillod moyen deposits. These represent the first finds of uncharred capsule fragments in Europe. Compared with other central European sites, opium poppy was very common during the 38th and 37th cent. B.C. and obviously less appreciated towards the end of the Neolithic in the western part of Switzerland. In central Switzerland the trends seem different: there opium poppy was mainly used during the Late Neolithic period. This may be due to cultural differences within contemporaneous human societies. Wild fruits which were collected as plant resources during the Cortaillod moyen period included Prunus spinosa (sloe), Cornus sanguinea (dogwood), Malus sylvestris (apple), Rubus idaeus/caesius/fruticosus (raspberryewberrylackberry), Fragaria vesca (wild strawberry), Rosa sp. (hip), Quercus sp. (acorn), Corylus avellana (hazelnut), and Fagus sylvatica (beechnut), among others. Compared with other Neolithic sites in western and central Switzerland the local population of Concise-sous-Colachoz used few sloes, while dogwood fruits were in use throughout the Neolithic period at Lake Neuchtel.
23419688|The available quantity of archaeobotanical data derived from the identification of macroremains has expanded considerably over the last few decades. In order to obtain a supraregional or even regional overview for a particular period of time, or of the distribution of a single species, a database is needed. At the Archaeobotanical Department of the Institute of the "Kommission fr Archologische Landesforschung in Hessen e. V." (KAL) such a database has been developed in the last few years. It is suitable for the handling of large quantities of archaeobotanical results, including a whole range of background information comprising archaeological, ecological and other related data, and offers various possibilities for the evaluation of these data.
23419658|The influence of pre-industrial animal husbandry on the boreal forest in south-central Sweden has been studied by pollen and charcoal analyses of peat profiles from two mires in the vicinity of a shieling site. The impact of farming on the local vegetation development is demonstrated from cal. A.D. 1300-1500 in three ways: forest clearance and cultivation of cereals at the local shieling site; alterations of hydrology and vegetation, such as an increase in Cyperaceae, at mires used for hay production; changes in the composition in the surrounding forest, with decreasing proportions of Betula, Picea and boreo-nemoral broadleaved trees and a consequent increase in Pinus, due to grazing and a change of fire regime. Similar alterations to the forest vegetation are noted at other sites in central and northern Sweden during the last thousand years, when the system of using shielings became more widespread. Hence, early animal husbandry is demonstrated to have had a regional impact on the long-term boreal forest development, replacing the original mixed deciduous-coniferous forest with Pinus dominated forest.
23419659|The sediment stratigraphy of a medium-sized mixotrophic lake (Ruila) situated below the highest shoreline of the Baltic Ice Lake in the West-Estonian Lowland is described. The lake is without natural inlets or outlets. The reconstruction of vegetation and land-use history based on pollen data, combined with available archaeological data and detailed 14C dating allows us to give a provisional reconstruction of the temporal and spatial pattern of natural and human induced environmental changes in north-west Estonia during the Holocene. Both radiocarbon dates derived from terrestrial macrofossil dating by accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) and conventional dating of bulk lake sediment are discussed. The isolation of the lake basin from the Yoldia Sea took place ca. 9700 cal B.C. The Ancylus Lake transgression at ca. 8400 cal B.C. did not reach the basin, but caused a ground water rise, seen in the sediment stratigraphy of the lake. The first signs of human impact on the pollen record appear ca. 5400 cal B.C. (Late Mesolithic). The history of arable farming has been divided into three periods: 1) introduction of crop cultivation and animal husbandry (1500 cal B.C. - A.D. 500); 2) establishment of animal husbandry A.D. 500 - 1000) and 3) establishment of crop cultivation and intensive cattle breeding (A.D. 1000 - today). Due to unfavourable eda-phic conditions the introduction of arable farming was delayed for more than 1000 years compared with elsewhere on the north coast of Estonia, and intensity of land-use never reached the same proportion as in these areas.
23419660|Pollen, microscopic charcoal and peat humification analyses were applied to radiocarbon-dated peat cores to examine environmental change before and after the mid-Holocene transition from hunter-gatherer (Mesolithic) to agricultural (Neolithic) communities in presently marginal upland pasture at Stanshiel Rig, Annandale, southern Scotland. The Mesolithic-Neolithic transition in northern Britain is characterised by a number of key environmental changes as well as economic shifts, including anthropogenic vegetation disturbance, sharply fluctuating temporal patterns of fire and the Ulmus decline. Deliberate vegetation modification by Mesolithic communities is not demonstrable at Stanshiel Rig, and openings in the woodland canopy may have been promoted by grazing by wild animals or have been a consequence of climate change. Changes in fire frequency are also correlated with peat- and pollen-stratigraphic evidence for shifts to a drier climate in the late Mesolithic, probably mediated through pedological and biomass-storage change. A single Ulmus decline occurred between ca. 5650 and 5600 cal B.P., and is related here to climate change. Neolithic-age impacts on the woodland were limited, and no cereal-type pollen were found. The difference between hunter-gatherer and opportunistic farmer/hunter-gatherer at this locality is argued to be insignificant, or not detectable palynologically.
23419661|A continuous pollen record covering the last 28 kyr was obtained from core C106 collected in the Bay of Salerno in the southern Tyrrhenian Basin, seven radiocarbon dates and the recognition of two tephra layers (Y3 and Pompeii Pumice) providing good chronological constraints. The clear climatic signal given by the pollen spectra integrated by isotopic data, combined with comparisons with other Mediterranean sites, allowed the Last Glacial, Late Glacial and Holocene periods to be distinguished in the core. In particular, the Last Glacial period is characterised by large quantities of herbaceous and steppe elements such as Artemisia. The beginning of the Late Glacial has been correlated with the first increase of deciduous Quercus and the reduction of steppe and herbaceous elements. The Younger Dryas event is recorded only by oxygen isotopes while the vegetation does not seem to change, as in other Mediterranean sites. The Holocene corresponds to rich deciduous and evergreen forests. The first features which could be interpreted as signs of human presence are represented by a few grains of Juglans, Castanea and cereal-type while intensive olive cultivation and deforestation seem to fall within the Middle Ages.
23419662|Pollen and micropalaeontological analyses carried out on mangrove swamp sediments of Suwayh, Oman (2205.589N, 5940.033E) reveal environmental changes linked both to climate (monsoon) and geomorphological (sea-level) variations during the Late Holocene. A Rhizophora mangrove developed at Suwayh around 6000 years B.P. under climate conditions marked by an increased tropical influence as compared to the modern situation, with dominant summer rains. The later extension of Prosopis cineraria at Suwayh provides evidence for a different rainfall pattern, with a winter rainy season. Pollen and micropalaeontological composition shows three episodes influenced by the sea water at Suwayh. The most important corresponded to the mangrove episode centred ca. 6000 B.P. This was followed by two episodes of slight seawater incursion at ca. 5100 and 4500 B.P. responsible for the formation of a brackish lagoon. Comparison based on 14C measurements on shell recovered from both the sedimentary sequence of Suwayh and the nearby archaeological sites demonstrates that close relations existed between man and mangroves during the Neolithic and the Early Bronze Age.
23419663|At the end of the 6th millennium B.C. Triticum monococcum (einkorn) and Triticum dicoccum (emmer) were the main cereals of the early Neolithic Bandkeramik culture in central Europe. New archaeobotanical investigations at relevant Bandkeramik sites reveal the regular occurrence of morphologically two-grained einkorn. Some preliminary thoughts on the state of research and the possible origin of two-grained einkorn forms are presented here.
23419664|Fragments of leaf needles from the early Holocene were found in peat sediments of the Adrpaskoteplick skly nature reserve in northeast Bohemia. These remains were identified from macroscopic characters as belonging to Pinus sp. (pine), and they were identified to species level by cuticular analysis. This identification method uses the number and shape of subsidiary stomatal cells and has been verified by comparison of both fossil and modern material. Taxonomic characters have been discovered which distinguish the leaves of Pinus sylvestris (Scots Pine) from those of P. mugo s.str. (Dwarf Mountain-pine) on the basis of stomatal density, crypt morphology and length of the crypt. This method is helpful in palaeobotany and archaeobotany for identifying most such leaf remains.
23418013|The local and regional history of vegetation and climate, from the Late Glacial to the present, is represented in a new, high-resolution pollen diagram from Pian di Gembro (1350 m asl), ten 14C dates providing a reliable time control. An open pioneer vegetation dominated by Artemisia, Gramineae, and Chenopodiaceae followed the retreat of the glaciers after the Last Glacial Maximum. Shrub vegetation with Juniperus, Alnus viridis, and Salix expanded soon after. Denser Betula-Pinus forests were present in Pian di Gembro around 12,320 B.P. Their extent was greatly reduced by the climatic cooling of the Younger Dryas, when open vegetation spread again. The beginning of the Holocene was marked by a considerable expansion in mixed oak taxa. Corylus immigrated to the site at 9,250 B.P. Picea and Abies expanded at 7,370 B.P., recording an abrupt change in the structure of the vegetational belts. A coeval climatic change is evidenced in the GRIP records and also detectable through oscillations of the timberline. Signs of human impact are present since late Atlantic, becoming more intense around 2,200 B.P. As pasture lands increased, Abies and Fagus slowly disappeared. The introduction of Castanea and Juglans is dated to Roman times, and Secale to the Middle Ages.
23418014|The cores from the Albano and Nemi lakes, near Rome, were studied within the European Union funded PALICLAS project and provided high resolution records of the Late-glacial and Holocene. Pollen evidence of increasing human influence on vegetation was recorded in the Holocene parts of both diagrams, and the Cannabis (hemp) curve was one of the major signs. In this paper we present unambiguous pollen evidence from the Cannabaceae records for the cultivation of hemp in central Italy by the Romans. The oldest records of Cannabis and Humulus (hop) date from to the Late-glacial. Hop pollen values rise during the mid Holocene, while hemp pollen becomes more abundant from ca. 3000 cal B.P. onwards. The highest earliest hemp peak (21%) is dated to the 1st century A.D. This 'Cannabis phase', with the abrupt rise of hemp pollen soon after the rise of cultivated trees (Castanea, Juglans and Olea) is associated with the increase in cereals and ruderal plants. This unambiguous proof of cultivation by Romans around 2000 B.P. occurs as well as a long lasting pre-Roman presence of hemp in the area, which is natural and possibly also anthropogenic. Subsequent clear episodes of cultivation in the medieval period were found.
23418015|Archaeobotanical evidence is presented for early agriculture at southwestern Ljubljansko barje (Ljubljana Moor), Slovenia. Archaeobotanical finds from the Eneolithic site at Hoevarica, and pollen records from an archaeological profile and from a nearby core were analysed. Numerous charred grains of cultivated cereals together with fossil seeds of Chenopodium sp. demonstrate that during the occupation of the settlement at Hoevarica, agriculture was well established. The majority of identified grains were of Hordeum vulgare (cultivated barley) and the rest were Triticum monococcum and T. turgidum ssp. dicoccum (cultivated wheats). Large amounts of cereal pollen and pollen of Chenopodiaceae also suggest strong human impact on the surrounding vegetation and landscape. Pollen and archaeobotanical data from Hoevarica show a large consistency in timing of the appearance of agriculture. In the pollen record from the core at Hoevarica a significant increase (up to 40%) in cereal pollen was detected at 4881  50 B.P. (3770-3630 cal B.C.). Charred cereal grains were dated to 4800  40 B.P. (3650-3520 cal B.C.). The grains of cultivated cereals from Hoevarica represent the oldest archaeobotanical evidence for agriculture in central Slovenia.
23418016|Analysis of microscopic charcoal particles is a useful part of palaeoecological research and is mostly used in conjunction with pollen analysis. However, there is considerable variation in the methodology of charcoal analyses. This paper considers various methods for the analysis of microscopic charcoal and the presentation of charcoal data in the context of a study of the upper sediments of two lakes in Estonia. The results are evaluated by comparing both the pollen and charcoal data with documentary evidence of forest fires over the past 60 years. Indications of fires both varying in extent and at different distances from the lakes are evaluated in both the pollen and charcoal diagrams. The results suggest that the total area curve for charcoal particles per unit mass of sediment dry matter (cm2 g-1) provides the best indicator of forest fires. Fires in the study area are reflected differently in the charcoal and pollen curves. It is suggested that the charcoal data have the potential to indicate disturbance at a greater distance from the coring site than indicated by the pollen data.
23418017|The origins of capers, their use and cultivation are discussed. Capers seeds and charcoal are often recovered from archaeological sites of the Mediterranean and West Asia. These are referred to as C. spinosa L. This is mostly a group of cultivars restricted to localities surrounding the Western Mediterranean and some places in the Eastern Mediterranean. Identification of the findings is discussed in terms of seed morphology, present distribution and ancient uses of C. aegyptia Lam., C. sicula Veill., C. cartilaginea Decne, C. orientalis Veill., C. decidua (Forssk.) Edgew. and other species. Citations of Capparis in early Rabbinic, Mesopotamian and Greco-Roman texts are presented.
23417983|The core of Lake Kremensko-5, one of the cirque lakes in the northern Pirin Mountains of southwestern Bulgaria, contains sediments from more than 13,500 years B.P. and a pollen stratigraphy that can be correlated with the interstadial/stadial cycle of the Late-glacial period. Artemisia and Chenopodiaceae predominate in the basal part of the sequence, indicating the presence of mountain steppe type vegetation soon after the ice retreat. A sharp increase of Pinus diploxylon-type and Poaceae after 12,360 B.P. is followed by a return of Artemisia and Chenopodiaceae, marking the Younger Dryas. Its abrupt termination must result from an unconformity, for high values of Quercetum mixtum, dated at other sites in the Pirin Mountains as early Holocene, are missing here, perhaps because of erosion at a time of low lake level related to the high insolation maximum during the early Holocene.
23417984|The historic Icelandic tephra layers, from Hekla in A.D. 1104 and rfajkull in A.D. 1362 that have been found in four peat profiles obtained from lowland and upland mid to western Irish bogs, provide the dating for high-resolution palynological investigations of regional land use over the last thousand years. Marginal agriculture is investigated through the study of an upland blanket peat and a lowland Atlantic blanket peat. At the lowland site, the landscape has been altered, primarily by removal of hazel scrub, while in the uplands, there has been little scrub woodland throughout the last millennium. Pastoral agriculture has a long, unbroken history at both sites, with a short period of arable agriculture, dated to the early 19th century, detected in the uplands. At the two lowland sites, changes in land use associated with medieval monastic and secular activity were similar but not synchronous. The A.D. 1362 tephra in one lowland profile provides high-resolution dating of the palynological evidence for agricultural collapse in the aftermath of the Black Death. The palynological evidence of late medieval woodland clearance is contrasted with the written record. The effects of 19th century population expansion on land use are considered. A synthesis of regional land use in Ireland during the last thousand years is presented.
23417985|The Late Glacial to early Holocene river valley landscape of the middle Lahntal in Hessen, central-west Germany, is reconstructed by means of pollen and macrofossil analyses. AMS 14C dating combined with pollen, macrofossil and geomorphological mapping provide a detailed chronology of the floodplain sediments of the river Lahn. Archaeological evidence for early Mesolithic settlements in the middle Lahntal is backed up by pollen and macrofossil evidence, which indicates an increase in light demanding plants, together with ones indicating nutrient-rich and disturbed environments and more macroscopic charcoal and charred pieces of pine. Different phases of human impact were dated; a first phase was dated at ca. 9,270 uncal B.P. and a second phase at ca. 9,120 uncal B.P. Comparison of the palynological data from different fluvial channel fills demonstrates that during this second phase, between ca. 9,1208,700 uncal B.P., there were several cycles of woodland clearance. The outcome of combined archaeological, palynological and macrofossil data is discussed in terms of the impact of early Mesolithic people using fire on the vegetation during the early Holocene in the middle Lahntal.
23417986|Pollen grains of Centaurea cyanus and Polygonum aviculare are common indicators of the activity of man in palaeoenvironmental reconstructions. Studied through pollen analysis, the vegetation history of Holocene deposits reveals numerous occurrences of atypical grains of these species in the youngest pollen zones. Other pollen types with the same atypical features as the taxa mentioned above also occur sporadically; these include Centaurea rhenana/jacea and Apiaceae. The occurrence of some of these pollen types is not only restricted to the period of human impact. They are also noted in earlier periodsin the Younger Dryas, in the Eemian interglacial and in the Saalian. It is possible that a large proportion of the pollen introduced into lake deposits had passed through the throats and abdomens of various animals. The pros and cons of possible explanations are considered in this paper.
23417987|Declines in Alnus coinciding with the first signs of Iron Age (A.D. 01150) human activities were found in the pollen stratigraphies of five small lakes in southern Finland. One lake did not show a clear minimum. Three of the lakes were investigated with close-interval analyses which showed that the Alnus minimum lasted for several centuries. The results were compared with 41 previously published pollen diagrams with evidence of Iron Age human activity from southern Finland. These diagrams were classified in three ways: (1) showing no Alnus minimum; (2) cases where a minimum was unclear; (3) showing a clear minimum in Alnus. The different types were found randomly scattered around southern Finland suggesting that Alnus minima were a local phenomenon. In most cases the Alnus minimum took place between ca. A.D. 600 and ca. A.D. 1000, A.D. 1300 being the latest date for the end of the minimum. The results do not suggest a pathogen outbreak over the entire area. The beginning of the minimum clearly coincides with the onset of Iron Age anthropogenic activities suggesting that these were the probable cause. Pollen analysis provides little information as to why trees were felled thus archaeological evidence is needed. However, the Alnus decline may prove a new and useful indicator of the onset of Iron Age anthropogenic activity in pollen diagrams.
23417988|Pollen records from a small lake and a small peatland at Ire in northern Blekinge, Sweden, reveal that until A.D. 300 there was a mixed deciduous type of woodland dominated by Quercus, Tilia and Corylus, with Betula, Pinus, Populus, Fraxinus, Ulmus and Acer as important constituents. The first, but weak, signs of human influence on the vegetation are detected around 2300 B.C. At this time, the area was probably used for woodland grazing. The regional expansion of Fagus occurred around 100 B.C.A.D. 200, and later, at about A.D. 500, woods dominated by Fagus were common in the area. Around A.D. 600700 an isolated farmstead may have been established in the area, as single pollen grains of Secale (rye) were found. This farmstead may represent the first permanent settlement in the area. A more widespread opening of the vegetation occurred around A.D. 1000, probably as an effect of a more pronounced use of the area, and an expansion of settlements in the region. The openness of the area seems to have peaked around A.D. 14001800, and during this period the vegetation was highly fragmented with small stands of woodland, intensively grazed pastures, and arable fields where Secale and Triticum were mainly cultivated. Around A.D. 1600 Fagus pollen percentages sharply decrease, most probably caused by a deliberate and selective felling of beech trees for the production of potash, which consumed enormous amounts of wood. Picea seems to have been established around A.D. 1600, but it did not become a regional dominant until the first part of the 20th century, when land use decreased and it became favoured by forestry.
23417989|The vegetation history of the Kargaly region has been reconstructed on the basis of pollen analysis of archaeological sediments and one peat bog, the only one found during some years of surveying this area. This latter, Novienky peat bog, located in the steppe transition zone, offers an interesting cultural and natural sequence. Palynological analysis reveals several palaeoecological phases from 4300 B.P. (Bronze Age) to the 18th19th centuries A.D. (Russian period). Metallurgical activities in Kargaly caused deforestation from the Bronze Age onwards that mainly affected the distribution of birch forests in the region. The palaeoclimatic interpretation of the Novienki pollen diagram is based on the observed changes in the pollen curves of Picea (spruce), Pinus (pine), Abies (silver fir) and Betula (birch). These arboreal taxa are regarded as main climate indicators. The chronology is established on a 14C-dated pollen profile from the lowest peat layer as well as on the regional pollen sequences and archaeological stratigraphies.
23418622|Areas with ancient clearance cairns have been studied in Hamneda, Smland Uplands, southern Sweden, by archaeological and palaeoecological methods. Based on numerous radiocarbon dates and stratigraphical analyses, the local introduction of stone clearance is dated to the first century A.D. The clearance cairns reflect a system of semi-mobile cultivation that lasted until c. A.D. 900. Pollen and macrofossil analyses provide information on cereal growing and pastures in these clearance cairn areas, while charcoal analyses reveal details on the agrarian expansion dynamics and the use of fire in vegetation clearance. In the expansion phase, Quercus (oak) woodlands were cleared and transformed to open pastures and arable land, partly by the use of fire. A secondary succession of Betula (birch) and Corylus (hazel) was dealt with by fire clearances to keep pastures open and to prepare new arable plots. In the long run, Betula in particular was favoured by the land-use system. The mobility of the cultivation system is discussed together with the causes behind the introduction of stone clearance. A possible causal relationship with the introduction of hay mowing is also discussed.
23418623|The botanical composition of samples from culture layers, explored in two medieval towns in northern Poland, is discussed with respect to their potential as a source of environmental data. The frequency of selected taxa and the proportion of their diaspores in the actualistic groups of weed and grassland species, as well as the distribution of indices for edaphic factors were used as indicators of the natural environment around and inside the towns, and of some aspects of agriculture. The comparison of the results from both towns affords new evidence for a better understanding of archaeobotanical data from culture layers of non-specific, complex origin.
23418624|Since Jones et al. (2000) drew attention to a "new" type of glume wheat from Neolithic and Bronze Age sites in northern Greece, several finds of this morphologically distinct tetraploid wheat form have been made across central and southeastern Europe. Charred remains of this wheat, dating from 8191031 cal B.C., have also been discovered in a storage pit at late Bronze Age Stillfried, eastern Austria. As both chaff and grains were found, it was not only possible to match the diagnostic features of the spikelet bases to the "new" form, but also to examine the grains, which are strikingly long, slender and flat. A dorsal ridge is absent and there is no hump above the embryo. The embryo angle is relatively low and compression lines are much more distinct. Within the Stillfried store "new" glume wheat grains were also easily separable from two-grained einkorn and spelt grains. The morphology of the grains is not inconsistent with the suggestion that the "new" type glume wheat might correspond to modern Triticum timopheevi. In Stillfried "new" glume wheat was grown as a winter crop, and it seems to have been cultivated as a maslin (mixed crop) together with T. monococcum (einkorn).
23418625|Two sequences of about 10.5 m originating from a peat bog in Romania were analysed for pollen (202 and 127 pollen spectra). The vegetation history, supported by 24 14C dates is described since the Late Glacial. At the onset of the Holocene Ulmus first appears, together with Betula. Among the main components of the Quercetum mixtum (Quercus, Fraxinus, Tilia, Corylus) that became established almost simultaneously by around 9000 B.P., Quercus frequencies rarely exceed 10%. The local establishment of Carpinus is about 6000 B.P. Its maximum occurred between 4500 and 3000 B.P. Fagus pollen is regularly recorded since 8000 B.P. Its absolute dominance tooks place at about 3000 B.P. Picea pollen is present since the Late Glacial. The first indications of human activities appear at around 6500 B.P.
23418626|A late Holocene pollen profile from the Megaris on the eastern Gulf of Corinth shows a vegetation which was strongly influenced by human impact throughout. A Pistacia-Phillyrea maquis, which is reflected in the older parts of the profile, changed later to a more degraded vegetation type. In the uppermost part Pinus dominates the pollen spectrum. A continuous record of Ceratonia siliqua pollen older than cal A.D. 100 is of special interest.
23418627|Current archaeological research suggests that first human occupation of the Torres Strait Islands occurred sometime between 2500 and 3000 cal B.P., and evidence indicates that the development of agricultural mound-and-ditch systems occurred there after 1200 cal B.P. Although archaeological remains testify to the existence of a marine based subsistence economy prior to 1200 cal B.P., the potential presence of earlier prehistoric horticultural signatures has yet to be adequately examined. This study investigates such evidence through a preliminary application of fossil phytolith and starch grain analysis using excavated sediments from two archaeological sites on Dauar Island, eastern Torres Strait. The results show the early presence of yam (Dioscorea sp.), and Musa species not endemic to the island. The occurrence of these edible plant types in association with carbonised phytoliths and anthropogenic shell and bone deposits may be indicative of a combined insular horticultural and marine subsistence system on Dauar Island. We suggest that with a larger and appropriate phytolith reference set for the research area, there is a potential to more clearly define human induced changes to vegetation and patterns of subsistence in the Torres Strait Islands.
23418645|To reconstruct the vegetation and fire history of the Upper Engadine, two continuous sediment cores from Lej da Champfr and Lej da San Murezzan (Upper Engadine Valley, southeastern Switzerland) were analysed for pollen, plant macrofossils, charcoal and kerogen. The chronologies of the cores are based on 38 radiocarbon dates. Pollen and macrofossil data suggest a rapid afforestation with Betula, Pinus sylvestris, Pinus cembra, and Larix decidua after the retreat of the glaciers from the lake catchments 11,000 cal years ago. This vegetation type persisted until ca. 7300 cal B.P. (5350 B.C.) when Picea replaced Pinus cembra. Pollen indicative of human impact suggests that in this high-mountain region of the central Alps strong anthropogenic activities began during the Early Bronze Age (3900 cal B.P., 1950 B.C.). Local human settlements led to vegetational changes, promoting the expansion of Larix decidua and Alnus viridis. In the case of Larix, continuing land use and especially grazing after fire led to the formation of Larix meadows. The expansion of Alnus viridis was directly induced by fire, as evidenced by time-series analysis. Subsequently, the process of forest conversion into open landscapes continued for millennia and reached its maximum at the end of the Middle Ages at around 500 cal B.P. (A.D. 1450).
23418646|Previously published pollen diagrams from the coastal area of the south-east Baltic Sea including parts of the Polish and Lithuanian peninsulas, Mierzeja Wilana (Frische Nehrung) and Kuri Nerija (Courland Spit) respectively, document the former presence of heathland vegetation and an associated burning practice. This type of human influence can be dated back to ca. 1200 B.P. at the latest, and was maintained until the 18th century. It is suggested that this former Calluna-dominated vegetation belonged to the known west to north-west European heathland vegetation. Several dwarf shrub taxa, such as Genista spp. and Erica tetralix, normally connected to heathland vegetation, may have had a former wider distribution.
23418647|Analyses have been carried out on well-preserved carbonised rye and barley plants and associated plant remains preserved in iron smelting furnaces from southern Jutland, Denmark. The furnaces are dated archaeologically to the transition between the Roman and Germanic Iron Ages (ca. A.D. 400). The results of the analyses allow detailed reconstruction of the contemporary fields, revealing them as having been well tended with a dense stand of crop plants and few weeds. The composition of the weed assemblages suggests that the rye was autumn-sown. Analysis of the culm bases and roots showed that rye had probably been broadcast sown, followed by a light harrowing to cover the sown grain.
23418648|This paper continues the presentation of archaeobotanical remains from Kursakata, northeast Nigeria, with a more detailed discussion on Pennisetum (part 1) and the catalogue of the fruits and seeds (part 2). The settlement mound of Kursakata was introduced in an earlier publication (Klee et al. 2000). An important topic is the morphological criteria for separating domesticated pearl millet grains from those of wild species. Very small naked grains of Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R. Br. (pearl millet) were noticeable among the rich archaeobotanical remains in deposits at least from 800 cal B.C. and younger. The question is raised whether these grains really derived from domesticated Pennisetum glaucum or from wild Pennisetum species. The club-shaped outline and the thickness to breadth (T/B) index which correspond to modern domesticated caryopses are the main features which led to the conclusion that they belong to a domesticated type. The catalogue comprises all identified taxa from this archaeological site. As descriptions are rarely available for most of these West African species, it gives their morphological portraits which are particularly outstanding in African archaeobotany.
23417995|Botanical data are widely used as terrestrial proxy data for climate reconstructions. Using a newly established method based on probability density functions (pdf-method), the temperature development throughout the last interglacial, the Eemian, is reconstructed for the two German sites Bispingen and Grbern and the French site La Grande Pile. The results are compared with previous reconstructions using other methods. After a steep increase in January as well as July temperatures in the early phase of the interglacial, the reconstructed most probable climate appears to be slightly warmer than today. While the temperature is reconstructed as relatively stable throughout the Eemian, a certain tendency towards cooler January temperatures is evident. January temperatures decreased from approx. 23 C in the early part to approx. -3 C in the later part at Bispingen, and from approx. 2 C to approx. -1 C at Grbern and La Grande Pile. A major drop to about -8 C marks the very end of the interglacial at all three sites. While these results agree well with other proxy data and former reconstructions based on the indicator species method, the results differ significantly from reconstructions based on the modern pollen analogue technique ("pollen transfer functions"). The lack of modern analogues is assumed to be the main reason for the discrepancies. It is concluded that any reconstruction method needs to be evaluated carefully in this respect if used for periods lacking modern analogous plant communities.
23417996|This paper presents the results from three pollen profiles from a group of small spring mire sites on the southern edge of Exmoor in south west England. The size and topography of these sites allow detailed local landscape histories around each site to be reconstructed which broadly cover the mid- to late-Holocene. Comparison of the individual local landscape histories demonstrates the scale of spatial variation in vegetation around the upland edge, and facilitates understanding of human-landscape interactions from the early Neolithic onward. In the early Neolithic significant short-term woodland disturbance is recorded around the upland fringe, including clearance of oak-hazel-elm woodland, suggesting that the shift from Mesolithic to Neolithic is not marked by a gradual environmental transition. Following this, there is clear evidence of Neolithic management of upland heath using fire, presumably for the management of upland grazing. Woodland clearances are recorded throughout the later Prehistoric period; however, the use of multiple profiling suggests that woodland clearance is spatially discrete, even within an area of 4 km2. Pastoral land use is dominant around the uplands until around 9001,000 A.D., and there is no discernible Roman or post-Roman period impact in the vegetation, suggesting cultural stability from the late Iron Age to the early Medieval period. By 1,100 A.D., there is a shift to mixed arable-pastoral farming which appears to continue well into the post-Medieval period.
23417997|The paper discusses the main changes in the composition of mixed deciduous forests which occurred mostly between 5,000 and 2,000 B.P., based on selected pollen diagrams from the lowlands of Germany, Denmark and Poland, and including two pollen diagrams from varved sediments, used as reference sites, and on isopollen maps for Poland. The Ulmus retreat is shown on maps, and additional data for its pathogenic origin are presented. Corylus declines at ca. 3,500 B.P. at both reference sites, and its connection with Fagus expansion in the west and Carpinus expansion in the east is discussed. The nature of post-Atlantic transitory shrubforest communities with dominant Corylus and Quercus is presented. Relationships between the history of Fagus and Carpinus and the development of human settlements are shown. Human impact has been admitted as one of the most important driving forces determining vegetational development since the time of fully developed Neolithic cultures. Other very important abiotic factors were the climate (particularly after 2,500 B.P.), and soil degradation.
23417998|Fruits, seeds and embryos of Pimenta officinalis Lindl. syn. Pimenta dioica (L.) Merr. (Myrtaceae) have been found in Gdask (northern Poland) in latrines dated to the 18th century. This is one of the first few records of allspice from European archaeobotanical material. The paper presents morphological criteria used for the identification of allspice or myrtle pepper remains and briefly summarises the information on the introduction of this species to the Old World.
23417999|The archaeological site we studied is part of an early Iron Age hill fort (8th/7th cent. B.C.), located 800 m from the coast on the top of a hill named MonteTrabocchetto. This paper concerns an excavation, called "saggio O", which disclosed a very varied stratigraphy characterised by highly anthropogenic layers and by a pit, presumably used as a silo for food storage, which was very rich in charred seeds and fruits. The study of the pit content showed the dominance of Hordeum vulgare, while Triticum dicoccon, T. monococcum, T. aestivum/durum, Panicum miliaceum and Setaria italica were less strongly represented. Some edible Leguminosae were also found (Lens culinaris, Vicia faba var. minor and V. ervilia). In the frequented areas around the pit, herbaceous weeds and fruit tree macro-remains were present (Prunus cf. spinosa, Corylus avellana, Quercus sp. and Vitis vinifera ssp. sylvestris). The identification of a large number of botanical taxa has provided important information on food of plant origin and agricultural practices during the early Iron Age on the Ligurian coast, the protohistoric archaeobotanical aspects of which are largely unknown.
23418000|The pollen and charcoal record of a 1,500-cm-long lake sediment core from Lagoa Nova allows a reconstruction of vegetation, climate and fire history in the Atlantic lowland of southeastern Brazil. Today the potential vegetation of the study region would be dense and tall semi-deciduous forest, related to a dry season of 4 months and 1,250 mm precipitation per year. The lowermost core section of Lagoa Nova is probably of late Glacial age and contains only few, poorly preserved pollen grains, indicating dry environmental conditions. Pollen preservation was good above 1,005-cm core depth. Extrapolating from four radiocarbon dates, this interval represents about the last 10,000 years. During the early Holocene (until about 8,500 B.P.), the landscape was dominated by savanna of the campo cerrado type (open shrub woodland), with frequent trees of Curatella americana and small areas of gallery forests along the drainage system. Savanna fires, probably natural, were frequent at that time. The palaeovegetation pattern is consistent with a long dry season of about 6 months and annual precipitation lower than today. Then, up to about 7,560 B.P., gallery forests expanded in the valleys, reflecting a shorter dry season of about 5 months and somewhat higher annual rainfall. Fire was less frequent during this wetter period. Between about 7,560 and 6,060 B.P., savanna expanded and gallery forests retreated, indicating a return to drier climatic conditions of probably between 5 and 6 months dry season and lower precipitation. Fire was again frequent, but not as frequent as during the early Holocene. During the mid to late Holocene period between about 6,060 and 2,180 B.P., the valleys were covered by semi-deciduous forest, but on the hills cerrado vegetation continued to grow. The dry season was probably around 5 months and rainfall was higher than in the preceding period. During the following period between about 2,810 and 600 B.P., the open cerrado on the hills changed to closed cerrado, reflecting wetter conditions with a shorter dry season than in the previous period. It was only after about 600 B.P. that dense semi-deciduous forests expanded throughout the study region, indicating the start of modern, wet climatic conditions with an annual dry season of about 4 months. Fire was nearly absent during this period. The reconstructed palaeoenvironment from the Lagoa Nova record is similar to that of Lago do Pires, indicating that changes in past vegetation, climate and fire frequency are regionally consistent in southeastern Brazil.
23419565|Various pollen sequences from lacustrine deposits close to Lago de Sanabria (NW Iberia) have for several decades been a key source of information for palaeoenvironmental reconstructions of SW Europe, though their interpretation has been the subject of some controversy. Here we present two new pollen sequences obtained from this area, and a new palaeoenvironmental reconstruction of the region. The available pollen data reach back to before 18,000 B.P., a period of very harsh climate with seasonal (non continuous) sedimentation and a landscape characterised by herbaceous formations dominated by Gramineae and Artemisia, and scrub formations dominated by Ericaceae and Cistaceae. Subsequently sedimentation became continuous, and various regional forest expansions are apparent. At a local level, the first forest expansion began about 12,000 B.P., when Betula pollen reached 70% followed by peaks in Pinus sylvestris-type (>80%) and Quercus robur-type (40%). The Younger Dryas saw a retreat of woodland formations in the area around the lake, with broadleaved deciduous woodland (largely oak) retreating at mid and low altitudes, but with pine woodland persisting in more sheltered sites. The climatic improvement in the Early Holocene favoured re-expansion of woodland, dominated by Pinus sylvestris-type at higher and Quercus robur and Q. pyrenaica at lower altitudes, until anthropogenic deforestation commenced around 4,000 B.P. The disappearance of natural pine woodlands in this region is probably largely attributable to human interference.
23419566|Agricultural history was investigated by means of pollen and charcoal analyses from the sediment of Lake Kirjavalampi in the Riekkalansaari Island, in the northern archipelago of Lake Ladoga, NW Russia (6144N, 3046E). Pollen and charcoal stratigraphies, and loss-on-ignition were analysed from a 0294-cm profile cored from the deepest part of the small lake. The pollen profile was divided into six local pollen assemblage zones Kir 16 and dated by three radiocarbon samples. Lake Kirjavalampi was isolated from Lake Ladoga between 14601300 B.C., when the River Neva was formed as a new outlet for Lake Ladoga and the water level rapidly fell. The isolation is seen as a phase of rapid sedimentation in Kir 2 (237173 cm). Spruce (Picea) starts to decline at 113 cm ca. A.D. 70, and the earliest cereal (Secale cereale) pollen was encountered at the 97-cm level, empirically dating the onset of cultivation to ca. A.D. 600. A marked intensification in agricultural activities occurs around A.D. 1200, and the indication of an open cultivated landscape is at its strongest during the time period 1700 to 1850.
23419567|Modern vegetational analogues of palaeo-landscapes, which could be useful for interpreting fossil pollen assemblages, are often not available, because increased human impact all over the world has altered the vegetation, and the way in which vegetation is recorded by pollen assemblages, including changes in species composition, pollen production, dispersal and sedimentation. Historical maps, survey records and other sources may, however, provide vegetation data for periods prior to this increased human impact, and these may be compared with pollen assemblages from the same period to provide historical analogue data sets. In this paper we review the use of historical analogues in pollen analysis to describe past vegetation patterns in relation to soil properties, climate and fire regimes, and to reconstruct past land use changes, forest composition and species range limits. The methods used include qualitative interpretations, analogue matching, ordination techniques and regression. Because the historical data sources were originally created for other purposes, they may lack the precision or detail needed for quantitative analysis.
23419568|Excavation of the Epipalaeolithic levels of the cave site kzini in southwest Anatolia produced many "nutshell" remains, mainly endocarp fragments belonging either to Prunus or Amygdalus. Morphological comparison with the range of potential species and present geographical distribution made it possible to refine the determination to either of two species of wild almond, Amygdalus orientalis or A. graeca. These plants could grow in the surroundings of the site on rocky slopes or sandy hills and had to be collected during late summer. All wild Amygdalus seeds are toxic, so that their use as food is disputed. This paper explores the detoxification possibilities, nutritional properties and ethnographic analogies for the use of wild almonds. It comes to the conclusion that the seeds probably played a notable role in the diet of the Epipalaeolithic population of southwest Anatolia, complementing meat and other plant food. An examination of further prehistoric "nutshell" finds from Anatolia supports a long and widely distributed tradition of almond use.
23419569|Macroscopic plant remains found in pis material (clay or mud used in building), used as lining in pits at the Upper Egyptian Predynastic site of Adama were investigated. Comparison with assemblages from the sediment fills of these pits and with assemblages from other contexts in the same site demonstrated the taphonomical importance of pis as a building material for the formation of the site's archaeological sediment. In particular, the influence of the pis plant temper on the composition of plant assemblages in the sediment fills of the pits was brought to the fore. The choice of specific plant materials for their use as temper in pis or mud bricks is shown, in particular that of barley (Hordeum vulgare) threshing remains. The importance of cereal processing by-products as construction material is also assessed in a wider economic context and compared with later Egyptian mud brick plant contents.
23419570|The results of the hearth and house experiments show that different types of seeds of different cultivated plants char to different extents. Cereal grains show a lower resistance to high temperatures, whereas grape pips and pulses become completely carbonized at higher temperatures. These differences mainly depend upon the structure of the seeds (thickness of the seed coat) even if other factors (moisture content and weather), difficult to control and measure, are also involved. The experiments provide valuable information for the interpretation of archaeobotanical material found in a reconstructed protohistoric house. By comparing the laboratory results and those obtained in the field, it was possible to get much information about the carbonization process of archaeobotanical material.
23419605|Two sediment cores from the eastern coastal region of Maraj Island, Par State, northern Brazil have been studied by pollen analysis to reconstruct late Holocene mangrove dynamics and environmental changes. Seven AMS radiocarbon dates provide time control. Mangrove vegetation became established at the Barra Velha site at about 2750 B.P. (2880 cal B.P.) and at the Praia do Pesqueiro site at about 650 B.P. (670 cal B.P.). Rhizophora was the dominant mangrove tree throughout the recorded period, while Avicennia and Laguncularia were rare. Existing remnants of the former coastal Amazon rain forest were replaced by mangrove in the Barra Velha area between about 2750 and 740 B.P. (2880760 cal B.P.) and at Praia do Pesqueiro area between about 650 and 530 B.P. (670540 cal B.P.), suggesting a rise in relative sea level or, alternatively, an increase in discharge from the river Amazon. Areas of coastal shrub and herb vegetation, the so-called restinga vegetation, also became slightly reduced during the late Holocene. The largest area of mangrove at the two sites suggests that the highest sea level was probably reached during the last 200250 years. The only evidence of human activity at the two sites is an indication of cattle pastureland at the Barra Velha area during the last decades.
23419606|Palynological data and pedological investigations including stable isotopes and lignin biomarkers (Glaser et al. in press) from a 4 m core of Lake Rukche (3500 m a.s.l.) enhance our palaeoecological knowledge of the time since the LGM in the Gorkha Himal, Central Nepal. Even before 15000 B.P. forest types became established which prove the existence in Central Nepal of a temperate-humid climate with a considerable amount of winter and spring precipitation from westerly disturbances. Lignin input and pollen data point to a patchy vegetation cover around Lake Rukche with meadow-steppes dominated by Poaceae. Around 15000 B.P. Quercus and Pinus roxburghii dominated the lower altitudes while the vegetation around Lake Rukche was more steppe-like (Chenopodiaceae, Artemisia). Subsequently the climate became warmer and drier as winter and spring precipitation decreased while summer rain remained low. Later on more resource-demanding forests became established under improved temperature and precipitation conditions (Engelhardia). Around Lake Rukche coniferous forests (Abies, Picea) occurred beside meadow-steppes. The transition from the Pleistocene to the Holocene is not recorded. In the Holocene alpine Kobresia-meadows stabilised the soil surface causing sand accumulation to end. During the mid-Holocene (78002750 B.P.) humid oak forests with demanding elements (Ilex, Coriaria, Myrsine and Engelhardia) dominated the vegetation cover. A charcoal layer and a marked emergence of fire-induced communities with Pinus roxburghii, Poaceae, Ericaceae and Pteridium are proofs of a first strong anthropogenic change in vegetation which coincided with the climatic deterioration at the onset of the Subatlantic. Since 900 B.P. grazing pressure and the frequency of fires increased, resulting in a replacement of Betula utilis-forests by meadows and woods of Juniperus and Rhododendron. While previous anthropogenic influence increased the biodiversity by promoting replacement communities, recent developments have led to a decrease in biodiversity through loss of natural vegetation communities.
23419607|The "narse" or peat marsh of Espinasse (Saulzet-le-Froid district) situated in the southern part of the Chane des Puys has been the subject of a new pollen analysis concentrating on the anthropogenic impact on vegetation evolution since the Sub-Boreal. Human occupation of the surroundings of the narse is dated as early as the Neolithic, which is usual for the region. There is nevertheless an isolated record of Fagopyrum related to the Neolithic. This is a unique occurrence in the Massif Central. For successive periods and up to the recent past, a dynamic of various anthropization phases has been reconstructed. The combination of palynological data with archaeological and historical sources has for certain periods, mainly from the 11th to 13th centuries, provided new insights on the social and technical management of the territory. Furthermore, geochemical and micromorphological characterisation of sedimentary organic matter has led to the identification of erosive crises and silting which would have followed massive tree cutting in the region. On the local scale, the highly degraded organic matter at the top of the peat profile is the consequence of the current drainage of the marsh.
23419608|Karikomi Lake is located in the border area between the Hida and Echizen regions (36 04'N, 135 44'E) at 1075 m a.s.l., in the Hakusan mountains. Several villages are located near the lake where hansaibai was practised in the past, i.e. horse-chestnut trees (Aesculus turbinata) were favoured for their nuts which were gathered and processed as an important food source. To understand how the forest was used for this purpose, a core was taken from Karikomi Lake and the past vegetation was reconstructed through pollen analysis of the lake sediment. Climate deterioration caused by the Little Ice Age impinged severely on the local population and seems to have played a key role in the development of hansaibai and reliance on horse chestnut as a major food source. The pollen analytical data suggest that hansaibai was associated with increased frequency of famine periods during the Little Ice Age in Japan, although human impact in the vicinity of the lake began much earlier, in the 8th century A.D. Deforestation and economic development during the twentieth century have led to abandonment of the use of horse chestnut as a major food source and the replacement of Aesculus by Fagus in the local forest which lies within lands designated as a National Park.
23419609|Analysis of flotation samples from twelve sites in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh (south India) provides clear evidence for the predominant subsistence plants of the Neolithic period (2,800-1,200 cal B.C.). This evidence indicates that the likely staples were two pulses (Vigna radiata and Macrotyloma uniflorum) and two millet-grasses (Brachiaria ramosa and Setaria verticillata) which were indigenous to the Indian peninsula. At some sites there is evidence for limited cultivation of wheats (Triticum diococcum, Triticum durum/aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), and a few crops that originated in Africa, including hyacinth bean (Lablab purpureus), pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) and finger millet (Eleusine coracana). In addition there is evidence for cotton (Gossypium sp.), and linseed (Linum sp.), as well as gathered fruits of Ziziphus and two Cucurbitaceae. This evidence suggests that the earliest agriculture in south India, dating to the third millennium B.C., was based on plants domesticated in the region, and that subsequently from the late 3rd millennium B.C. through the 2nd millennium additional crops from other regions were adopted into the subsistence system.
23419610|Late Holocene climatic changes caused a large scale regression of the Lake Chad shoreline followed by an expansion of settlements into previously unexplored territories. Numerous Final Stone Age sites of the Gajiganna Culture (1,800 to 800 B.C.) in the Lake Chad Basin (northeast Nigeria) yielded plant impressions in potsherds. The ceramics of Phase I (1,8001,400 B.C.) were mineral tempered, and plant impressions, mainly of Paniceae, were caused only by incidental inclusion. In contrast, a considerable number of the sherds from Phase II (1,500800 B.C.) were intentionally tempered with chaff derived from domesticated pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum), wild Paniceae and wild rice species (Oryza cf. barthii and O. cf. longistaminata). This plant spectrum suggests the exploitation of the wet wild areas, and also the cultivation of pearl millet on sandy soils. The evidence suggests that agricultural practices were established late and were introduced from elsewhere. During the time of seasonally occupied sites in Phase I, the subsistence strategy was based on herding, fishing, and gathering, while in Phase II there are signs of permanent settlements and agriculture. The evidence from the plant impressions indicates that in the Final Stone Age Gajiganna Culture around 1,000800 B.C., pearl millet became well established while the gathering of wild millets and rice was still practised.
23418003|Knowledge about the glacial refugia of the thermophilous European Castanea sativa Mill. (sweet chestnut) is still inadequate. Its original range of distribution has been masked by strong human impact. Moreover, under natural conditions the species was probably admixed with other taxa (such as Quercus, Fraxinus, Fagus, Tilia) and thus possibly represented by low percentages in pollen records. In this paper we try to overcome the difficulties related to the scarcity and irregularity of chestnut pollen records by considering 1471 sites and extending the palynological approach to develop a Castanea refugium probability index (IRP), aimed at detecting possible chestnut refugia where chestnuts survived during the last glaciation. The results are in close agreement with the current literature on the refugia of other thermophilous European trees. The few divergences are most probably due to the large amount of new data integrated in this study, rather than to fundamental disagreements about data and data interpretation. The main chestnut refugia are located in the Transcaucasian region, north-western Anatolia, the hinterland of the Tyrrhenian coast from Liguria to Lazio along the Apennine range, the region around Lago di Monticchio (Monte Vulture) in southern Italy, and the Cantabrian coast on the Iberian peninsula. Despite the high likelihood of Castanea refugia in the Balkan Peninsula and north-eastern Italy (Colli Euganei, Monti Berici, Emilia-Romagna) as suggested by the IRP, additional palaeobotanical investigations are needed to assess whether these regions effectively sheltered chestnut during the last glaciation. Other regions, such as the Isre Dpartement in France, the region across north-west Portugal and Galicia, and the hilly region along the Mediterranean coast of Syria and Lebanon were classified as areas of medium refugium probability. Our results reveal an unexpected spatial richness of potential Castanea refugia. It is likely that other European trees had similar distribution ranges during the last glaciation. It is thus conceivable that shelter zones with favourable microclimates were probably more numerous and more widely dispersed across Europe than so far assumed. In the future, more attention should be paid to pollen traces of sporadic taxa thought to have disappeared from a given area during the last glacial and post-glacial period.
23418004|The history of Castanea sativa (sweet chestnut) cultivation since medieval times has been well described on the basis of the very rich documentation available. Far fewer attempts have been made to give a historical synthesis of the events that led to the cultivation of sweet chestnut in much earlier times. In this article we attempt to reconstruct this part of the European history of chestnut cultivation and its early diffusion by use of different sources of information, such as pollen studies, archaeology, history and literature. Using this multidisciplinary approach, we have tried to identify the roles of the Greek and Roman civilizations in the dissemination of chestnut cultivation on a European scale. In particular, we show that use of the chestnut for food was not the primary driving force behind the introduction of the tree into Europe by the Romans. Apart from the Insubrian Region in the north of the Italian peninsula, no other centre of chestnut cultivation existed in Europe during the Roman period. The Romans may have introduced the idea of systematically cultivating and using chestnut. In certain cases they introduced the species itself; however no evidence of systematic planting of chestnut exists. The greatest interest in the management of chestnut for fruit production most probably developed after the Roman period and can be associated with the socio-economic structures of medieval times. It was then that self-sufficient cultures based on the cultivation of chestnut as a source of subsistence were formed.
23418005|Nine sites along the downstream and middle section of the Loire river at Cordemais (Loire Atlantique, France) situated in the estuary to Saint-Nicolas-de-Bourgueil (Indre et Loire, France) were investigated. Interdisciplinary studies combined palynology, geography, archaeology, sedimentology and history, thus enabling us to reconstruct the evolution and the long-term response of the Loire valley ecosystem to natural variations and anthropogenic pressure from the Preboreal to the present in an integrated manner. The Atlantic marine transgression (between 7000 and 5000 B.P.) caused the level of brackish water to increase at Oudon between 6740+205/-200 and 5010+115/-100 B.P. This phenomenon, which was the first of its kind to be detected near the central Loire region (approximately 80 km from the current mouth of the Loire river), was accompanied by the development of subhalophile vegetation (Chenopodiaceae) and the appearance of dinoflagellate cysts. A regressive phase occurred during the Subboreal, about 4500 B.P., and led to the erosion of most of the estuarian sediments and to the disappearance of plant species linked to salinity at Oudon: peat deposits built up at most other sites. Human activities had an early effect; moderate deforestation took place at Champtoc about 6600 B.P. as farming was already orientated towards rearing animals. However, possibly cultivated plants were present towards the middle and the end of the Neolithic period (wheat, rye, buckwheat, flax) at about 5600 B.P. and chestnut and walnut were probably exploited in the Loire valley region at about 4600 B.P. The Bronze Age seemed to mark a phase when societies settled down (planting of vineyards) and deforestation peaked from the Gallo-Roman period onwards. The textile industry (flax, hemp), in the context of crop rotation set up during the Iron Age, developed rapidly during the Middle Ages, whereas nowadays the rearing of animals is the dominant activity in the Loire Valley, following the introduction of maize into the region in 1950.
23418006|The Kaali meteorite impact crater field, which consists of a 110 m diameter main crater and eight satellite craters on the island of Saaremaa, Estonia is a unique object as its meteoritic origin is well proven, it lies in a densely populated area and fell in the relatively recent past. The precise age of the impact that generated the craters is still disputed. We investigated the basal sediment section from the main crater lake, Kaali jrv, consisting of crushed and in-washed dolomite diamiction. AMS dating of terrestrial macrofossils from these sediment layers places the age of the impact at 16901510 B.C. The age is about 1000 years older than revealed from the impact marker-horizon in a contemporaneous peat sequence 6 km northwest of the Kaali crater. The pollen, diatom and chemical data suggest the instant formation of a shallow hard-water lake environment in the main crater depression after the impact, and a rapid post-impact sedimentation of crushed dolomite dust. Archaeological evidence on the crater slopes points to human activity around 700200 B.C., indicating that the crater ring wall was inhabited by Bronze Age people soon after the impact event, and the structure of the main crater is mimicked in nearby archaeological sites.
23418007|Uncarbonized fruits of the Boraginaceae occur widely in cultural layers of archaeological sites in the Mediterranean and the Near East. To date, interpreting their origin remains problematic. It is difficult for archaeobotanists to tell whether such fruits were deposited as part of the cultural layer or were introduced post-depositionally. In an attempt to answer this question for the early Bronze Age site of Hirbet ez-Zeraqon (Jordan), we used direct 14C dating of biogenic carbonate from calcareous fruits of Lithospermum. The radiocarbon ages of seven fossil samples of the fruits suggest that they originate from plants that grew during or around the time of occupation.
23419585|The discovery of several 5000-year old seeds of wild watermelon, Citrullus lanatus, at an archaeological site Uan Muhuggiag in southwest Libya, re-opens the debate on the origin, wild distribution and domestication history of this species. The seeds were found within a plant assemblage of wild seeds and fruits, associated with pottery and bones of domestic animals belonging to Neolithic pastoralists. The presumed wild progenitor of the modern cultivar C. lanatus is today found exclusively in a region centring on the Kalahari Desert. This new archaeobotanical record raises the possibility that this distribution was much more extensive in the past.
23419586|Plant communities and their possible exploitation during Late Prehistory are studied based on charcoal data from four archaeological sites. Settlement location in the area appears to have been chosen on the basis of easy access to rivers and good arable land. Quercus (deciduous) and Fabaceae appear to have been the main source of wood; this is in agreement with previous data from north-western Portugal. The abundance of Fabaceae, which thrive in open well-lit areas, is seen as a direct consequence of woodland clearance. The co-occurrence of Quercus (deciduous) and Fabaceae appears as a distinctive feature in north-western Portugal during Late Prehistory and Protohistory. Fabaceae have remained a familiar component of the vegetation cover ever since. Pinus pinaster is present as isolated individuals, in contrast to its present-day abundance.
23419587|Detailed lithostratigraphical and biostratigraphical studies from three contrasting coastal sites on the Isle of Skye were undertaken to investigate spatial variations in vegetation development on the island since the Lateglacial. The pollen profiles were then compared with the published pollen data for Skye. The new data reveal broadly similar trends for the sites studied and show that these correspond well to the previously established chronology. A date of ca. 10110 radiocarbon years B.P. has been obtained for the rational rise in Corylus, a date of ca. 8850 uncal B.P. for the appearance of Ulmus and a date of ca. 6600 uncal B.P. for the rise in Alnus. However, significant variations were evident and these were due to (a) coastal proximity, which directly affects vegetation composition through the low but persistent presence of Armeria and Chenopodiaceae, (b) altitude, which determines the effect of rising groundwater that may be related to relative sea level rise, and (c) aspect and position in relation to central Cuillin mountain range, through exposure to SW winds that restrict the development of thermophilous woodland and encourage the acidification of heathlands and development of herb-rich grasslands from ca. 4000 B.P.. This study reveals that the range of variation caused by these local factors is as great as the variation found throughout the island. This has negative implications for the reconstruction of regional patterns of vegetation change but highlights the range of local habitats and wild resources available to early inhabitants of the island.
23419588|A 14C-dated high-resolution palaeoenvironmental record from a mire in southern Chile is used to reconstruct the Late-glacial and Holocene vegetation history of the Magellanic rain forest. The Late-glacial environment after around 1540013500 cal B.P. was dominated by Gunnera magellanica, Nothofagus species (dombeyi type) and Gramineae (Poaceae) indicating an open parkland with cool and damp climatic conditions. At the end of the Late-glacial there was an increase in G. magellanica and a decline in Nothofagus dombeyi type. This ecological signal is interpreted as a result of a readvance of the Gran Campo Nevado icefield, caused by either Younger Dryas cooling or a latitudinal shift of the southern Westerlies. After around 1125010750 cal B.P. Nothofagus species, Drimys winteri and Embothrium coccineum expanded, indicating development of the Magellanic rain forest. At 4254120 cal B.P. a tephra layer was deposited by the eruption of the Mt. Burney volcano leading to a long-term decline of the Nothofagus forest. A primary succession was then initiated, lasting for over 800 years before pre-eruption vegetation patterns redeveloped. In summary, our results indicate the extreme sensitivity of the Magellanic rain forest to climatic or volcanic impacts and the slow recovery of a mature forest after environmental changes.
23419589|In this paper we reconstruct the location of the last glacial refugia and postglacial spread of Abies throughout Europe based on combined pollen and macrofossil data. More than 208 pollen sequences available in the European Pollen Database (EPD) and 38 macrofossil sites are used to produce distribution maps encompassing a time span between 38000 and 5500 years B.P. The investigation excludes more recent periods, because these could be strongly influenced by human impact. The pollen data presented here confirm long-lasting refugial areas such as southern Italy and Greece already described in previous studies. The combined pollen/macrofossil dataset identifies the Pyrenees as a further important refugium. In addition the pollen data indicate potential refugia in south-east France and north-west Italy. Possible migration tracks of Abies are discussed by comparing the palaeobotanical evidence with isozyme studies on gene markers of recent fir populations.
23419590|The Holocene vegetation history of the islet of Melkya at Hammerfest, Norway (7042N, 2336E) is documented by several pollen profiles sampled close to excavated stone-age and iron-age settlements. Local paludification began c. 9700 cal B.P. and oligotrophication from c. 7300 cal B.P. onwards. A Betula pubescensB.nana heath/woodland persisted until c. 8500 cal B.P., when a mixed Betula pubescensPinus sylvestris forest developed. Development towards an open heath is recorded from c. 4700 cal B.P. and culminates around 2700 cal B.P. A weak, possibly anthropogenic, impact is recognisable from c. 9200 cal. BP, but a marked local impact by man begins with the climate improvement and local forest development around 8500 cal B.P. The anthropogenic impact on the vegetation was the cutting of local woodland with an increase in grasses and herbs, the latter partly originating from the nitrophilous seashore vegetation. Forest clearance is recognisable at c. 6200 cal B.P., following a short period of re-growth after a burning event. Several anthropogenically related charred layers were formed in the peat before a longer period of abandonment from c. 3100 cal B.P. to c. 2000 cal B.P.
23418615|Four pollen diagrams, which together cover the period 10400 cal BP to the present, from an area rich in Stone Age house foundations show that vegetation was increasingly influenced by man in a stepwise process. There was a modest, temporary appearance of anthropogenically-induced vegetation about 8600 cal BP. After 7100 cal BP there was a development towards semi-open birch woodland where the open patches were characterised by natural heath and meadow species and more typical apophytic taxa such as Ranunculus acris and Rumex acetosa types, grasses and juniper. The main changes towards this vegetation seem connected with the most important cultural changes, especially at about 7100 cal BP, when there was a transition to honed slate tools in the regional archaeology, at about 4000 cal BP when pottery was introduced, and at about 30002800 cal BP since when the use of stone artefacts gradually ceased. It is suggested that the settlements were mainly summer habitations.
23418616|The separation of the pollen of wild Poaceae species from that of domesticated cereal crops is of considerable importance to palynologists studying Holocene vegetational and agricultural change. Studies of the characteristics of modern pollen populations indicate that it may be possible to distinguish cereal pollen from that of many (but not all) undomesticated Poaceae species, though there are few detailed investigations into the applicability of such studies to palaeoecological samples. This paper assesses the reliability of available keys for identifying sub-fossil grass pollen using a large Holocene dataset obtained from a series of well-dated profiles from lowland Yorkshire, England. Pollen within the dataset is classified using the keys of Andersen (Danmarks Geol Undersgelse, Arbog, 1978, 6992, 1979) and Kster (1988), and the resulting identifications are compared. The possibilities of combining the two approaches and employing the multivariate statistical techniques of principal component and discriminant analysis to achieve greater confidence of identification are then investigated. Finally, the findings of the above analyses are used to discuss the interpretation of incidences of large Poaceae pollen (i.e. >37 m grain diameter as measured in silicone oil) within the palynological record, particularly during prehistory. The outcomes of this study will be of relevance to other investigations in which careful identification of large grass pollen is desirable, but where preservation or other factors prohibit accurate or confident identification of pollen surface pattern.
23418617|The late Pleistocene site of Oerel which represents the Eemian and the Weichselian interstadials Brrup, Odderade, Oerel and Glinde as well as parts of the stadials Herning and Rederstall was investigated for botanical remains such as fruits, seeds, wood, leaves and mosses, as well as insect remains. A large number of taxa were identified. They show the different environmental conditions, in particular several changes of water level leading to the formation of lakes and diverse forms of mires up to raised bogs. The trophic conditions, too, changed several times. The macrofossil record supports the pollen evidence of dense forests during the two early Weichselian interstadials and tundra vegetation during the later ones. Several indicator species show comparably warm summers but very cold winters during the Brrup and Odderade while the climate during Oerel and Glinde was generally cool. Climatic reconstructions using the MCR method were performed on the basis of the beetle finds.
23418618|A palynological investigation of a Holocene profile from Lake Voulkaria, western Greece, was carried out as a contribution to the environmental history of the coastal area of northwestern Acarnania and the Classical city of Palairos. It shows that deciduous oaks dominated the natural vegetation of the area throughout the Holocene. Until ca. 7000 B.C. Pistacia occurred abundantly, while other evergreen woody taxa were rare. At ca. 6300 B.C. an expansion of Carpinus orientalis/Ostrya can be observed. Around ca. 5300 B.C. spreading of Erica indicates a change to a drier climate and/or first human impact. Since ca. 3500 B.C. an increase of evergreen shrubs now clearly indicates land-use. The foundation of the Classical city of Palairos led to a temporary expansion of Phillyrea maquis. Within this period, molluscs of brackish water indicate the use of the lake as a harbour after the construction of a connection to the sea. The deciduous Quercus woodland recovered when human impact decreased in the area, and lasted until modern times.
23418619|Three types of experiments were carried out. In the first series of experiments emmer wheat grains (Triticum dicoccum Schbl), var. AR, and peas (Pisum sativum L.), var. RE, were heated at temperatures ranging from 130700 C under controlled anoxic conditions for a maximum of 120 min. For each temperature a separate experiment was carried out in a pre-heated tube oven. Image acquisition was carried out on a flat bed scanner with a transparency adapter; for the analysis the image program IMAGE J 1.27 was used. Various size and shape factors are discussed and the definitions of the selected size and shape factors are given. The size and shape were measured and the mean calculated from thirty of the untreated specimens and the charred residues heated at each temperature. The results show a change of size and shape as a function of the temperature. The changes for wheat grains and peas are not identical. It is suggested that the presence of the pericarp enclosing the wheat grains causes this difference. In a second series of experiments it was shown that untreated grains of emmer wheat, bread wheat and macaroni wheat can be separated by measuring the shape, but size varies too much within each species, probably the result of different growing conditions, to be useful for separation purposes. As a result of heating at temperatures higher than 290 C the shape of the three species becomes identical. This implies that the three species can no longer be separated after being heated, solely on the basis of size and shape. Finally, both emmer wheat grains enclosed by chaff and without chaff were heated under similar conditions. After removal of the chaff from the former, the size and shape of the grains were measured. The results show no significant difference in size and shape between both types.
23418620|A plaster made of tar with the fruit of Lithospermum officinale L. (common gromwell) was found in a woman's grave discovered at site no. 14 in Szarbia, Koniusza district, Maopolska province. The grave is dated to early Bronze Age, the late phase of the Mierzanowice culture (from about 1750 to 1600 B.C.). The heat discharging and antiseptic properties of phenols contained in wood tar and also the pharmacological properties of the nutlets of L. officinale suggest that the plaster was used as medicinal remedy. It cannot be ruled out that the nuts of L. officinale were used as a sympathetic agent or even as magical additives in this mixture.
23419020|A multi-proxy palaeoecological investigation including pollen, plant macrofossil, radiocarbon and sedimentological analyses, was performed on a small mountain lake in the Eastern Pyrenees. This has allowed the reconstruction of: (1) the vegetation history of the area based on five pollen diagrams and eight AMS14C dates and (2) the past lake-level changes, based on plant macrofossil, lithological and pollen analysis of two stratigraphical transects correlated by pollen analysis. The palaeolake may have appeared before the Younger Dryas; the lake-level was low and the vegetation dominated by cold steppic grasslands. The lake-level rose to its highest level during the Holocene in the Middle Atlantic (at ca. 506045 B.P.). Postglacial forests (Quercetum mixtum and Abieto-Fagetum) developed progressively in the lower part of the valley, while dense Pinus uncinata forests rapidly invaded the surroundings of the mire and remained the dominant local vegetation until present. The observed lowering of the lake levels during the Late Atlantic and the Subboreal (from 5060  B.P. to 359040 B.P. was related to the overgrowth of the mire. The first obvious indications of anthropogenic disturbances of the vegetation are recorded at the Atlantic/Subboreal boundary as a reduction in the forest component, which has accelerated during the last two millennia.
23419021|New anthracological data on the beech (Fagus sylvatica L.), obtained through rescue excavations, allows the proposal of a new pattern of population by beech of the South of France since the Lateglacial. Due to its current ecology and distribution it is considered to be a mountain species in the Mediterranean area despite the presence of beech forests, usually described as glacial relicts, at low altitudes in the South of France and in the Rhone valley (Sainte-Baume, Valbonne and Grand Fays). Our results, combined with previous pollen and charcoal data, show both an early spread from glacial refuges and a late disappearance of the species. During the glacial period, the beech remained in the southernmost zones. From there, it first spread during the Preboreal towards outposts in the Rhone delta, and during the Atlantic along the rhodanian corridor. During the Subboreal, a retreat of beech towards the Pre-Alps and the Rhone delta can be traced. The Iron Age and the Classical period experienced the maximal concentration of beech along the Rhone river, while it became more rare in the North and in the South. During the Middle Ages, it first disappeared from these distal areas, and later also in the valley (around A.D. 1000), finally settling in its present mountainous distribution area (probably around the 14th century A.D.). Some crucial points of the proposed dynamics are further analysed: the paradoxical regression of beech in the valley during the Subboreal, the factors determining the expansion of beech from refuge areas during the Subatlantic and finally, the disappearance of the beech in the middle Rhone valley in rather recent times, a disappearance attributed to the strong human impact on the landscape.
23419022|Pollen analyses of sediment cores from two small lakes within the boreal forest in the central Scandes Mountains help to elucidate the Holocene forest dynamics of the region. Analyses of pore/pollen grain diameter ratios of Alnus grains indicate the early Holocene presence of Alnus glutinosa in the study area. The results are discussed in conjunction with available pollen records to evaluate the importance of thermophilous trees during the early Holocene and to deduce the regional spread of Picea abies. Corylus avellana, Alnus glutinosa and Ulmus glabra were probably common constituents of the early Holocene forest. Tilia cordata may have occurred there as a rare tree. Pollen stratigraphies from the region do not indicate the occurrence of Quercus robur. The regional spread of Picea abies can be separated into two phases: a mid-Holocene establishment or first expansion of small outpost populations and a late-Holocene population expansion. The mid-Holocene shift in vegetation composition may have been caused by changes in the westerly airflow.
23419023|Culturally modified trees (CMTs) provide unique insights into traditional knowledge and uses of the forest ecosystems. In close relation to pre-industrial livestock herding in central Sweden, it was a custom to carve text and symbols on trees and use them as "notice boards" in the forest. The main aim of this study was to document and analyse remaining carved trees in a managed forest landscape of 160 km2. The same area was surveyed twice, once in 1986 and once in 2003. 488 carved trees were documented and classified into legible themes that were interpreted in the light of past herding practices. Name was the most common theme, found in 85% of the carvings. Most of the carvings were made in the period from the 1750s until the early 1900s. The custom of carving on trees was closely related to important grazing areas and the need to establish rights to them. The main losses of carved trees nowadays are due to their natural death and decay as most of the carved trees are located in areas that are not targeted for management. A primary recommendation for preservation is therefore to continue documentation of the trees because of the noticeable deterioration in readability of the carvings.
23419025|A high-resolution pollen record for the Holocene has been obtained from Derragh Bog, a small raised mire located on a peninsula in Lough Kinale-Derragh Lough, in Central Ireland as part of the Discovery Programme (Ireland) Lake Settlements Project. The data are compared with two lower resolution diagrams, one obtained from Derragh Lough and one from adjacent to a crannog in Lough Kinale. The general trends of vegetation change are similar and indicate that landscape-scale clearance did not occur until the Medieval period (ca. A.D. 800900). There are, however, significant differences between the diagrams due primarily to core location and taphonomy, including pollen source area. Only the pollen profile from Derragh Bog reveals an unusually well represented multi-phase primary decline in Ulmus ca. 35003100 B.C. (4800475014C B.P.) which is associated with the first arable farming in the area. The pollen diagram indicates a rapid, and almost complete, clearance of a stand of Ulmus with some Quercus on the Derragh peninsula, arable cultivation in the clearing and then abandonment by mobile/shifting late Neolithic farmers. Subsequently there are a number of clearance phases which allow the colonisation of the area by Fraxinus and are probably associated with pastoral activity. The pollen sequence from adjacent to a crannog in Lough Kinale shows clear evidence of the construction and use of the crannog for the storage of crops (Hordeum and Avena) whereas the Derragh Bog diagram and the diagram from Derragh Lough reflect the growth of the mire. This study reveals that in this landscape the record from a small mire shows changes in prehistoric vegetation caused by human agriculture that are not detectable in the lake sequences. Although in part this is due to the higher temporal resolution and more consistent and complete chronology for the mire, the most important factor is the closer proximity of the raised mire sequence to the dry land. However, the pollen sequence from adjacent to a crannog does provide detailed evidence of the construction and function of the site. It is concluded that in order to ascertain a complete picture of vegetation changes in a lowland shallow lake-dominated landscape, cores from both the lake and surrounding small mires should be analysed.
23418999|The vegetational development of two neighbouring farm sites at the Arctic cereal limit was investigated by pollen analysis and 14C-dates. One farm was small and one larger and both had a long habitation history according to archaeological data. Temporary cereal growing at the minor farm may have been introduced about 3100 cal B.P. and was discontinued before 2550 cal B.P. From 17001600 cal B.P. Hordeum was cultivated at both farms. At the larger farm there was continuous settlement from c. 2250 cal B.P., but no evidence of cereal growing during the first c. 600 years after the establishment of the farm. It is suggested that changes in the natural conditions, especially paludification, caused a low-activity/abandonment phase at the smaller farm from c. 2550 to c. 1700 cal B.P. A regional abandonment period about 1250 cal B.P. (in the 7th century A.D.) affected the smaller farm in particular.
23419000|The archaeological site of Lavazz at 2108 m a.s.l., and the summer farming site of Borghetto Sotto at 1897 m a.s.l., have been studied using pollen analysis. The pollen diagrams reflect human disturbance from the Bronze and Neolithic ages respectively. The name Lavazz is also used as a local name for Rumex alpinus. At both sites, significant values of R. alpinus, up to about 10% of total terrestrial pollen, have been recorded, from about 2400 B.P. (ca 360 cal B.C.) onwards, although Lavazz is above the present-day known local limit for R. alpinus. Written sources document local growth and cultivation of the species at 1300 m. It was used for various purposes in the past, and the high values are interpreted as reflecting former intensive local growth. Local cultivation at higher altitudes should not be excluded. Use of R. alpinus is known as far north as Scotland and Finland, and the species ought to be regarded as an apophyte and/or a naturalised crop.
23419001|Direct evidence of mead and wine by pollen analysis is possible under certain circumstances which have prevented the decomposition of the original pollen content of vessels from archaeological contexts. This is shown here by two examples. The first, which concerns a Bronze bowl from a rich woman's grave of the late Hallstatt Period at Niedererlbach, Bavaria, must have contained mead as is indicated by the pollen, preserved by copper salts. The results are similar to those from Glauberg, Hochdorf and Heuneburg. The second example comes from Coptic wine amphorae of the early medieval period from aruna, Middle Egypt. Pollen, as remains of the former contents, had been preserved by the absolute dryness of the climate. Vitis pollen persists on the grape's surface and it is also detectable in the finished wine when it has been prepared without using modern vinification technology, as shown by experiments. In some samples a sweetening of the wine or an enrichment of the must by honey is evident. These honeys were not mixed like the Celtic honeys in central Europe were but were well-made Brassicaceae yield honeys which indicate a highly developed bee-keeping culture; since they were collected by wild bees they represent the bees' activity over a complete growing season.
23419002|The early Neolithic sites of La Lmpara and La Revilla del Campo in the Meseta Norte (Northern Meseta) plateau in central Spain produced evidence for early agriculture from the last third of the 6th millennium B.C. The hulled wheats Triticum monococcum (einkorn) and T. dicoccum (emmer) were identified from carbonised plant remains as well as from imprints in pottery and daub. Single finds of charred remains of Hordeum vulgare (barley), Papaver somniferum/setigerum (poppy) and Linum usitatissimum (linseed) indicated other cultivated crops. The wild plants mainly indicated arable weeds, partly from less fertile soils, and garrigue vegetation from poor pastures. The spectrum of crops from the Ambrona sites was compared to other inner Iberian sites as well as to Mediterranean sites. Sediment samples as well as mineral crusts from graves were analysed from the Neolithic tumulus of La Pea de la Abuela. Its diachronic collective burials had originated from a period of time during the first third of the 4th millennium B.C. Probably no crops, but many green vegetative parts of pine, oak, and juniper had been used as funeral gifts. Oak cupula development indicated early summer activities in the grave-mound. Wickerwork made of willow was used for embedding the dead bodies.
23419003|The plant remains from the discovery site of the Iceman include a large quantity of grass, from which parts of his clothing were also made. His cape consists of bundles of Brachypodium pinnatum tied with Tilia bast fibres, and the hay used as insulating material in his shoes consists of several species, such as Avenella flexuosa, Avenula versicolor/pubescens, Festuca spec., Nardus stricta and Brachypodium pinnatum. Most probably, these grasses were collected in subalpine matt-grass communities. Additionally, the birch bark vessel found beside the body contained pieces of Molinia caerulea. Grass fragments were evenly distributed all over his equipment as well as in the ice of the gully in which the Iceman was embedded. This implies that the ice in the gully thawed at least once between 3300 and 800 B.C. and the find assemblage was floating in the melt water.
23419004|A very small fragment of a branch leaf of Sphagnum imbricatum sensu lato has been recovered from a sample of food residue taken from the Tyrolean Iceman's colon. On grounds of present phytogeography, the fragment is probably S. affine rather than S. austinii. Neither of these species is known to grow in South Tyrol at present. No matter how it was that the Iceman came into contact with the species, the place this happened was most likely to have been somewhere in the valley bottom of Vinschgau at less than 1,500 m above sea level.
23419005|Distinct radial growth reductions in Cembran pine (Pinus cembra L.) were studied at the timberline on Mt. Patscherkofel (2246 m a.s.l., Tyrol, Austria), which is situated in the inner-Alpine dry region of the Central Austrian Alps. Six timberline stands with different aspects were sampled and ring-width chronologies developed based on dendroecological techniques. Growth-climate relationships between residual chronologies and climate variables were explored using Pearson product-moment correlation coefficients. P. cembra growth at the timberline appears to be limited by cool summer (June-August) and previous autumn (September-October temperatures and low precipitation in late winter (March). Timberline stands show concurrent growth depressions lasting  5 yr during the periods 18151823, 18511858 and 19131920, indicating growth depressions were steadily decreasing. Although evaluation of climate data revealed that these growth depressions can mainly be explained by occurrence of cold growing seasons and therefore the influence of recent climate warming on tree growth is plausible, an effect of tree ageing on climate sensitivity may also be involved. On the other hand, climate extremes do not inevitably induce growth responses as would be expected from growth-climate relationships. This is explained by the occurrence of synergistic and/or compensating effects of growth limiting climate variables and preconditioning of tree growth in previous years. Comparison of growth reductions with two published P. cembra timberline chronologies from inner-Alpine dry locations in the Eastern Alps revealed that investigated stands show the highest climate sensitivity during the last 200 yr. This difference in growth response to climate variability is most probably related to the special climate situation at Mt. Patscherkofel, which is exceptionally windy throughout the year and frequently exposed to warm dry winds (Fhn).
23419006|The altitude of the Alpine tree-line has often been used as proxy for the climatic conditions in the Holocene epoch. The usual approach for establishing a record for this proxy is the analysis of pollen and macro remains. We analysed living trees and subfossil logs from the timberline ecotone in the innermost Kauner valley in the Central Eastern Alps in order to assemble a Holocene dendrochronological tree-line record. Data sets comprising age and height of living Stone Pines (Pinus cembra L.) were collected at one site. Sections of 170 subfossil Stone Pine logs from five other sites were dendrochronologically analysed and dated. Besides using dendrochronological analyses, radiocarbon dating served as a means of obtaining the age of some logs. For most of the samples we could provide dendrochronological dates (1-year dating precision, back to 5125 B.C.) or wiggle matched dates (between approx. 7100 and 5040 B.C., dating precision with 95% probability: 7 years). In the first half of the 19th century the tree-line was located at about 2180 m a.s.l. in the innermost Kauner valley. After approximately A.D. 1860 the altitude of the upper limit of the occurrence of Pinus cembra individuals (tree-species-line) and, being closely linked, also that of the tree-line both rose. The current tree-line (trees >2 m) is located at 2245 m a.s.l. due to climatic conditions around 1980. Additionally we observed saplings up to a present (A.D. 2000) tree-species-line at approx. 2370 m a.s.l. The dendrochronologically analysed subfossil logs found at up to 2410 m a.s.l. date from within the last 9000 years (between approx. 7100 B.C. and A.D. 1700). In the space of the last 4000 years the dendrochronological tree-line record is not continuous, probably due to human impact. Tree-line positions similar to or slightly above the 1980 tree-line are established for the time periods approx. 1000 to 640 B.C. and A.D. 1 to 330 respectively. For the time period between approx. 7100 and 2100 B.C. the dendrochronologically analysed logs show nearly continuous evidence of a tree-line above the 1980s limit. Very high elevation of the tree-line, between 120 and 165 m above the 1980s level (2245 m a.s.l.) and even higher than the A.D. 2000 tree-species-line (2370 m a.s.l.), are recorded for the periods 70906570, 60405850, 57205620, 55004370 B.C., approx. 35103350 B.C. and 27902590 B.C. Additionally, a tree-line which was located at least 50 m above the 1980s limit can be shown for the periods 67005430, 49203350 and 32802110 B.C. The dendrochronological record from the Kauner valley, showing high and very high tree-line positions between approx. 7100 and 2100 B.C. with only two gaps (around 6490 B.C. and from 3350 to 3280 B.C.), suggests that summer temperatures as observed in the late 20th century were at the normal or the lower limit of the temperature range which can be assumed for long periods of the early and middle Holocene epoch.
23419282|The spread of early agriculture from the Mediterranean to central Europe is still poorly understood. The new subsistence reached western central Europe during the second half of the 6th millennium cal B.C. This paper presents a comparison of crop and weed species from 33 Bandkeramik sites from Austria and Germany and six Bulgarian Neolithic sites. The aim is to investigate whether the early cultivation system brought in from the eastern Mediterranean was adapted to European conditions in Bulgaria or further West. Some characteristics of the potential weeds are interpreted with respect to the cultivation systems and the origin of the species.
23419283|Recent archaeobotanical investigations of Late Neolithic sites in northern Greece have revealed a pattern as regards the crop parts represented at each site. Some sites appear to be dominated by chaff, mainly glume wheat chaff, while other sites are mainly characterised by cereal grain and pulses. This pattern could be the outcome of various factors: a. pre-depositional differential treatment of crops selecting for one category of plant remains to arrive at the site, b. depositional, therefore related to the type of activity represented at the excavated contexts and the use of space in relation to plants, and c. post-depositional factors such as erosion, or the type of features sampled. These alternative factors are considered in light of the preliminary results of the archaeobotanical investigation of seven Late Neolithic (55004000 cal. B.C.) sites from northern Greece. It is suggested that this pattern is the outcome of a differential use of space in relation to plants (storage, processing/food preparation, refuse disposal), probably related to aspects of the socioeconomic organisation of the settlements.
23419284|This paper presents archaeobotanical results from the Neolithic levels (5,3004,000 B.C.) of two recently excavated sites in northern Iberia: El Mirn cave (Cantabria) and the open-air site of Los Cascajos (Navarra). A cereal grain from El Mirn is currently the earliest domesticated plant remain from this region. Despite the large number of samples examined, plant remains are few. They include basically cereals (Triticum monococcum, T. dicoccum, T. aestivum/durum/turgidum and Hordeum vulgare) and some nuts and fruits (Corylus avellana, Quercus sp., Vitis sp., etc.). The presence of free-threshing wheats at El Mirn opens up an interesting subject for debate, as until now naked wheats have been absent from the early Neolithic archaeobotanical record of the coastal Cantabrian region. Hulled wheat chaff is the main plant component from Los Cascajos, south of the Cantabrian Cordillera in Navarra, indicating waste from processing activities. The association of barley almost exclusively with both a burial and a ritual vase in Los Cascajos could be related specific rituals or ceremonies.
23419285|Little is known of the archaeobotany of the Bell Beaker period. The village of Cortaillod/Sur les Rochettes-est in Switzerland is one of the first settlements of this date discovered so far; and one of the few sites where systematic archaeobotanical research could be undertaken. The 114 features, mainly postholes, produced 5080 charred plant macrofossils. The composition of the cereal spectrum was dominated by hulled wheats and notably by Triticum spelta (spelt). Other important components were Triticum dicoccum (emmer) and T. monococcum (einkorn), and probably also Hordeum (barley). The abundance of spelt represents a fundamental change compared with the plant finds from earlier sites of the region. The origin of this cereal species is discussed in the light of recent results of cytogenetic and molecular research.
23419286|Tubers, leaves and mericarps are underrepresented plant remains in most archaeological sites either due to their tissue softness or small size and fragility. The more resilient and hard cereal remains, drupes, seeds and grains are frequent at most archaeological sites. The remarkable preservation status of organic material retrieved from archaeological sites in arid regions across the world, such as Egypt, increases the possibility of observing such missing botanical material. The present study discusses results of analysing the contents of a basket recovered within an intact grave (Burial 333) of the Predynastic period (3600 B.C.) in cemetery HK 43 at Hierakonpolis in Upper Egypt. The basket was found beside the elbows of the flexed burial of a woman, 4050 years of age. The cemetery at HK 43 served the non-elite segment of society, as indicated by the overall paucity of grave goods. Children and older women appear to have been most favoured with gifts and among these better endowed graves, Burial 333 stands out for the variety of materials, suggesting that she was a woman of some standing within her community. Botanical contents of the basket include remains of Cyperus (sedge tubers), Anethum graveoloens L. (dill mericarps) and drupes of Balanites aegyptiaca (L.) Delile (balanites) as well as narrow slivers of coniferous wood and other types of plant remains. In addition, objects found in and around the basket include a cosmetic palette, five awls of polished bone, an ivory comb, pendants and amulets, which may be part of a cosmetic kit. In terms of palaeoethnobotanical investigations, this basket is another source of plant macro remains to be added to previous sources recovered from the same cemetery, such as the contents of pottery vessels, matting and viscera contents. This evidence shows that the Predynastic inhabitants adopted a subsistence strategy based on the cultivation of cereals, emmer wheat as the likely staple, and the gathering of wild fruits and tubers as well as herding of livestock. The botanical assemblage identified from the basket suggests the exploitation of wet swamp habitats to collect wild tubers of Cyperus esculentus L., C. rotundus/laevigatus and culms of Juncus sp. On the other hand, the nearby desert habitat was a source of edible fruits like Balanites aegyptiaca, Cordia sinensis Lam. and Ziziphus spina-christi (L.) Desf. The outcome of this study is evidence for the existence of a mixed strategy of subsistence involving herding, gathering and farming in Predynastic Egypt.
23419287|The abundance of Stipa remains in material dated to the Middle Neolithic (ca. 44004000 B.C.) from Kujawy (central Poland) and their presence in a storage pit at Vlinves (Czech Republic) dated to the Early Bronze Age (ca. 23001600 B.C.) are most probably connected with gathering of the plant. Stipa grains are edible and the whole plant could have been used as insulation, for making mattresses and for a range of similar purposes. Nowadays spikelets of Stipa are used for decoration. They are dangerous to herbivores because of the sharpness of the basal part of the spikelet and the tendency of the awns to unroll in wet conditions. Already in the first half of the 20th century the plant was regarded as a weed of meadows. The gathering and use of Stipa, as suggested by the abundance of its archaeological macroremains, was most probably prompted by changes in the local environment. These latter arose from intensive human activity, mostly deforestation and grazing by domestic animals, leading to the formation of steppe-like vegetation. This process is documented by a pollen diagram from a peat section located near the Vlinves site.
23419288|Up to now, archaeobotanical investigations of prehistoric sites in the eastern Alpine region have been rare. Recent palaeoethnobotanical investigations of carbonised plant remains from two Bronze Age hill-top settlements, one located north and the other south of the main Alpine range, contribute essentially to the knowledge of subsistence strategies and husbandry regimes in the Alps in prehistoric periods. The principal cereals were Hordeum vulgare (hulled barley), Triticum dicoccon (emmer) and Panicum miliaceum (broomcorn millet). In general, hulled barley was the most important cereal crop in the eastern Alps. Legumes such as Vicia faba (horse bean) and Pisum sativum (pea) also occurred regularly in both hill-top settlements. In addition to these field crops, a large variety of wild plants was still gathered and contributed considerably to the daily diet. The arable weed flora suggests that crops were sown in spring and autumn and it indicates crop rotation in this period. The results of the plant macrofossils imply a complex pattern of plant resource utilisation in the Alpine area during the Bronze Age.
23419289|This paper presents new archaeobotanical results from two previously studied Late Bronze Age caves situated in Southern France, Balme Gontran and Baume Layrou. At each site a thick black layer, characterised by a very high density of charred seeds, is shown to be composed of the remains of burnt crop stores. In Baume Layrou a small proportion of desiccated plant remains was preserved in addition to the bulk of carbonised material. In Balme Gontran, Triticum spelta and Panicum miliaceum predominated and were independently stored. Lens culinaris, Vicia faba and Setaria italica were secondary species of some importance and could have been stored as well. Storage at Baume Layrou was above all composed of hulled Hordeum vulgare, Triticum spelta and P. miliaceum. Other possibly stored species were Triticum aestivum/durum/turgidum, T. dicoccon and V. faba. It seems that most of the crops were grown in pure stands, with the exception of S. italica and Triticum monococcum which may have been mixed in small proportions with common millet and emmer respectively. Crops were stored in ceramic vessels, probably also in bags and wooden containers like baskets. Millet grains were stored in their husks while glume wheats were dehusked. Dehusking before storage does not seem to have been the common practice at the time. It seems moreover rather unsuitable for grain storage in caves. In Baume Layrou a small proportion of cereal kernels had started to germinate, presumably due to the humidity of the cave. We are making the assumption that the caves were not used for usual long term storage but to store food supplies for a small group of people who intended to live here for a short period, perhaps taking refuge during disturbed times. Crops could have been dehusked to reduce the weight and volume of the load to transport to the caves on steep and difficult paths.
23419290|Messene, situated on the southwest Peloponnese, Greece, was founded in 369 B.C. by Epaminondas, after the liberation of Messenia from Spartan rule. During the 2001 excavation campaign on the site, large numbers of carbonised fruits were recovered from a sacrificial context, dated to the end of the 3rd century B.C. This material was very rich thanks to the remarkable preservation of the plant remains. Cones and seeds of stone pine, olives, grape and almonds were present in the samples. A particularly interesting find was the presence of five whole chestnuts, the first find of carbonized fruits of Castanea sativa in Greece. The comparison of the Messene finds with other plant offerings recorded in Classical times in Greece and in Archaic and Roman Italy provides useful information about the composition of sacrificial offerings in antiquity.
23419291|The urban archaeological excavations carried out in the city of Lleida (Catalonia, Spain) have opened the way for an interdisciplinary project on the ancient landscape, agriculture and food. Here we present the results of the archaeobotanical study of seeds and fruits from this project, centred on the Roman and Islamic periods of the city, between the 2nd century B.C. and the 11th century A.D. During the whole of this period the cultivation and consumption of cereals was found. The most important cereals were hulled barley and naked wheat. This was already known from the later prehistoric era in the area and is similar to findings at other sites from the same period in the western Mediterranean. These cereals are accompanied by some leguminous crops and the presence of grapes and figs is very significant. The expansion of vine cultivation, together with a certain amount of tree growing was one of the basic contributions of the Roman world to proto-historical (Bronze- and Iron Age) agriculture in western Catalonia, as in other parts of Europe. In the Islamic period, there seems to have been an increase in the number of fruit tree species; however for taphonomical reasons this has to be confirmed by future investigations. Flax, already known in prehistoric times, and Gold-of-pleasure must be added to the finds. Also since the Roman period some other taxa, such as celery or fennel, might have been grown. During the time period considered in this paper, there was a wide range of plants grown and consumed. This clearly contrasts with everything known about earlier periods in western Catalonia, during which the only cultivated plants were cereals and flax.
23419292|Archaeobotanical studies of funerary offerings allow important insights into beliefs in the afterlife and rituals in the past. Although the number of such investigations has increased in recent years, there are still only a very few systematic investigations of Gallo-Roman cremation graves, especially in northern France. The archaeobotanical study presented here concerns the cemetery (necropolis) of Faulquemont, located in the Dpartement of Moselle. 70 cremation graves, dated from the 1st up to the beginning of the 3rd century A.D. have been sampled for the study of the botanical remains. The graveyard belongs to a rural site. The structures, mainly pits, contained secondary deposits of cremations, characterised by ashy fillings, broken archaeological burned material, bones and carbonised plant remains. 18 plant species have been identified including cereals, pulses, tubers and fruits plus bread/pastry. The most important ones were Triticum (hulled wheat), Hordeum (hulled barley), Lens (lentil) and Pisum (pea). There were also more "exotic" finds like Olea (olive), Phoenix (date) and Lupinus (lupin). The preservation of the cereals suggests possible cooking before cremation, or a long exposure to the fire. Some other plants like hazelnut and olive were maybe consumed as a component of funerary meals. In addition, there were also complete fruits burned as funerary offerings. Only the wealthy deceased received luxurious products such as date. Altogether, the spectrum of Faulquemont fits very well with the known picture of plant offerings during Gallo-Roman times.
23419293|This paper presents the archaeobotanical results of three samples from the Gallo-Roman site of Dourges, which probably represents a relay post along an important Roman road from Paris to the Belgo-Dutch basin. One of the samples studied comes from the floor of a burnt stable where the imprints of hooves, most probably from horses, covered the floor. The sample is composed of cereals, crop treatment by-products and straw. A comparison with known dung and litter compositions shows that this deposit most probably consists of stable manure, a mixture of dung and litter, the latter mainly consisting of straw and chaff. Two other samples with large amounts of carbonised cereal remains from a ditch near the burnt stable showed some similarities with the dung and litter remains. This suggests that they represent mostly remnants of animal fodder, which was composed of cereal by-products and sprouted grains of naked wheat and emmer. However, a direct connection of the samples from the ditch with those from the stable could not be proven.
23419294|The archaeobotanical study of the charred macro-remains recovered from the burnt settlement of La Fontanaccia, Allumiere, 50 km northwest of Rome, a small hut from the time of the end of the late Roman Empire, provided results on the use of food of its inhabitants, their living conditions, and the natural environment. The fire which destroyed the small settlement was archaeologically dated to the middle of the 5th century A.D., few years before the end of the Roman Empire. This was a period in which the state structure, undermined by the barbarian invasions which provoked famine and destruction, was in deep economic and political crisis, and the population in Rome and in the countryside lived in precarious conditions. No archaeobotanical data have been available until now for this period in the region of Rome. The presence of grass peas, acorns, two-rowed barley caryopses, and small horse bean seeds demonstrate the general state of regression in the late Roman Empire, when misery and famine were widespread. The finds of charcoal from chestnut, deciduous oak, maple and elm suggest the presence of thermophilous deciduous woods and environmental conditions similar to today's. It deserves mention that this is the first site in which macroremains (charcoal) of Castanea have been found in central Italy.
23419295|Medieval crops are depicted in illuminated manuscripts, mentioned in medieval texts and found in excavations. Only texts and archaeobotanical finds provide names. Both sources suffer from their own biases and a comparison shows that they need not agree. The seeds and fruits retrieved during excavations reveal that soil is an important factor. Crops raised on sandy soils differ from those on loess soils, at least in the area under discussion: the northern part of the realm of the Franks. The kind of government seems to have been less important. There is almost no difference between the Merovingian-Carolingian period and the following period of less central power. During the entire period under review a free three-course crop rotation is assumed to have prevailed.
23419296|This paper reviews archaeobotanical remains (seeds and fruits) from some early medieval sites in the Mediterranean area of southern France (Lower Languedoc, Roussillon, Provence and Corsica). Four periods are distinguished, from the 5th-6th to the 11th-12th centuries A.D. The influence upon the results of the reliability of the samples, and the type of features from which they came, is discussed. The few sites with abundant material limit the evidence for the farming system. A comparison with northern France shows differences in the role of some crops in the local economy. The main crop plants were Triticum aestivum/durum, Hordeum vulgare and Vitis vinifera, followed by relatively smaller amounts of Avena sativa. Secale cereale and Panicum miliaceum occur sporadically. Specific identification of hulled wheat (T. dicoccum/spelta and T. cf. monococcum) is equivocal. The occurrence of Vicia faba var. minor, Pisum sativum, Lathyrus cicera and Linum usitatissimum varies between sites. The number of Lens culinaris finds indicates its probable cultivation. The occurrence of Cicer arietinum is limited in assemblages of this area. As in previous centuries, Vitis vinifera is the most common fruit of French medieval sites. Written sources from Catalonia and Languedoc and results from rescue excavations indicate that the nature of viticulture changed after the Gallo-Roman period. Other cultivated fruits, Olea europaea, Prunus dulcis, P. domestica, P. avium, P. persica, Pinus pinea, Morus nigra, Ficus carica, Juglans regia and gathered wild fruit occur rarely. The farming, which was based on mixed farming, includes use of wetland and meadow.
23419297|A thick layer of carbonised seeds was encountered in an 11th century A.D. room situated in the seigneurial part of the village of La Gravette. This paper presents the first results of charcoal and seed analyses which give information on the food products stored in the granary and on their arrangement there. Triticum aestivum/durum/turgidum was by far the most important stored crop, while Avena sp., then Hordeum vulgare, Secale cereale, Triticum monococcum and Vitis vinifera were secondary. Weeds were poorly represented. Charcoals were dominated by deciduous Quercus sp., and 11 additional wood taxa were recorded, including especially Fagus sylvatica, Fraxinus sp., Rosaceae, Corylus avellana, Acer campestre and Ulmus sp. According to the charcoal distribution, Quercus and Fagus were probably building materials while most of other taxa would have been used for basketry, wattling or joinery work. In the western part of the granary, naked wheat was stored in bulk. In the eastern part, various crops (at least naked wheat, barley, rye, oat and grape) were stored in small amounts, most of which were probably separated by light wooden structures. The cereal crops had largely been processed and cleaned. The stored products probably represent taxes paid to the lord who owned the granary.
23419298|From high medieval courtyards at berlingen, Lake Constance (Bodensee), 17 archaeobotanical samples from seven latrines (11th13th century) were analysed for plant macrofossils. They contained small amounts of cultivated plants and many well preserved seeds and fruits of wild plants. The most numerous cereal finds were of Triticum spelta followed by Secale cereale. Recorded oil plants were Papaver somniferum and Linum usitatissimum. Cultivated and gathered fruits such as various Prunus species, Pyrus communis and Malus domestica, Rubus sp. and Fragaria vesca were eaten by the people of berlingen. Only one seed of Ficus carica was found which may have been imported; no other imported plants could be recognised. Agrostemma githago and Vaccaria hispanica were prevalent weeds. The presence of the latter probably indicates the cultivation of cereals on the steeper slopes above berlingen. It is shown that in central Europe, V. hispanica became a troublesome weed only around the 12th/13th century A.D. Grassland speciesmainly from more or less wet locationsand ruderal plants of nitrogen-rich soils were well represented in the samples and characterize the surrounding area.
23419299|Results are presented from archaeobotanical analyses carried out in 'The Mirror Pit', a rectangular pit, situated in the city of Ferrara, in Emilia RomagnaNorthern Italy. The study is part of wider research focused on the Mediaeval period of this city. The pit belongs to a building which was in use from the second half of 14th to the end of 15th century A.D. The pit itself was filled with domestic rubbish during a few years in the middle of the 15th century. The layers were preserved by waterlogging and are therefore extraordinarily rich in organic remains and artifacts, among which was the beautiful spherical mirror which gave its name to the pit. Approximately 256,000 well-preserved seeds and fruits belonging to 98 species or carpological types were identified in 12 l of sediment from the different layers. Ficus carica, Brassica rapa subsp. rapa/subsp. sylvestris and Vitis vinifera subsp. vinifera prevailed. Many cultivated plants and weeds were present, together with a smaller number of wild plants of wet environments and woodlands. Altogether they provided much new information on the diet (cultivated and wild fruits, cereals and pulses, vegetables, spices and medicinal/fibre/oil plants) of the middle to upper class inhabitants of a city in Northern Italy during the Renaissance period. The records also yielded evidence of domestic activities such as winemaking, oil making, mustard making and other kitchen practices.
23419300|This study presents the results of archaeobotanical examination of remains from the medieval complex of Ras in Serbia. The samples were collected from the fortress situated on the hilltop (Gradina) and from a settlement below (Podgradje) during the archaeological excavations of 19721984. They were taken primarily from the buildings containing charred cereals dating to the 12th and 13th centuries. The main staple was bread wheat, followed by rye. Grains of barley, oats, and millet were also present. The weeds, including ruderals, were represented by many species. Agrostemma githago (corn cockle) was an important contaminant of the cereal fields. Exceptional finds include a piece of charred round bread, the cereal content of a pot, and peach stone fragments. Previous information about the agriculture and food in medieval Serbia was based solely on documents that were either written after this period or that were not pertinent to the region. This study is the first direct evidence providing information about agriculture and food of the inhabitants of medieval Serbia.
23419301|The archaeobotanical macroremains discussed in this study were recovered from six mound structures at Campo del Pucar (Andalgal, Catamarca, northwest Argentina), a site inhabited between ca. 1750 and 1450 B.P. (A.D. 200500). The most important identified taxon was Zea mays var. minima (maize), Acacia sp., Prosopis sp., P. nigra or P. alba, P. torquata (Leguminosae of the Mimosoideae subfamily), Phaseolus sp., P. vulgaris var. vulgaris, P. v. var. aborigineus, undetermined P. vulgaris (beans) and Cucurbita maxima (winter squash). The plant remains represent the leftovers of food, fuel and building materials. Plants were grown and gathered in the near surroundings. The material identified most probably represents waste, however it could not be unambiguously attributed either to household or ceremonial activities.
23419302|It was believed for a long time that the first Old World crops were introduced to the northwest of Argentina in A.D. 1550 during the foundation of Barco, and that the indigenous people incorporated them into their subsistence almost passively. However, since wheat, barley, and peach have been recovered from El Shincal, an Inka (Inca) administrative centre, new questions have arisen about who first brought these crops to the study region, as well as about where they were grown for the first time and which routes they followed after that. This paper will try to solve these questions during a period ranging from the 16th to the 18th century. This time span, although arbitrary, is consistent with the major damage to the original social structure caused by the Spaniards to the local indigenous populations. Our approach includes the comparison of ethnohistorical with archaeobotanical evidence. It is concluded that the first Old World crops were brought from Chile to Santiago del Estero by Spanish soldiers in A.D. 1556, and to Londres in A.D. 1558. These crops were taken up by local indigenous people during the period of the encomenderos and used to carry out a pachamanca ceremony at El Shincal during a Diaguita rebellion.
23419303|Archaeobotanical investigations at Qara Qorum (Karakorum), Mongolia, reveal information about diet and land use from the 13th to the 15th century A.D. People grew Panicum miliaceum, Hordeum vulgare, Triticum aestivum and Setaria italica in nearby irrigated fields but additionally imported all other known cereals, including Oryza sativa, in small amounts as well as oil and fibre plants and pulses. The most common oil and fibre plant was Cannabis sativa. At least ten species of vegetables and spices such as Carum carvi, Coriandrum sativum, Apium graveolens, Beta vulgaris, Lycium chinense and Piper nigrum were either gathered from the wild, grown locally or imported. Apart from some wild gathered species like Pinus sibirica and Fragaria vesca, most of the fruits and nuts as for instance Vitis vinifera, Ficus carica, Ziziphus jujuba, Prunus dulcis, P. insititia, P. avium and P. persica, Cucumis melo and Juglans regia must also have been imported from quite long distances. First pollen results from lake Ugii Nuur, 50 km north of Qara Qorum indicate a much earlier beginning of agriculture than in the high and late Medieval.
23419304|Five studies of present-day weed floras are brought together in this paper to address the issue of ancient crop husbandry and how different agricultural practices may be identified from the archaeobotanical record. These studies have provided valuable insights into the complexity of the relationship between the functional attributes of species and their ecological significance in relation to habitat conditions and husbandry regimes. Using a suite of characteristics, practices such as irrigation, fallowing, crop rotation, time of sowing and intensity of cultivation (hoeing, weeding, manuring etc.) can be recognised on the basis of the functional ecology of the weed species accompanying the crops. The geographic variation in functional attributes is limited and permits the identification of husbandry practices in different climatic zones. Recommendations are made for the application of weed ecological methods to archaeobotanical assemblages.
23419305|Reconstruction of crop sowing time and cultivation intensity, based on arable weed ecology, can resolve archaeological questions surrounding land use and cycles of routine activity, but crop processing may introduce systematic ecological biases in the arable weeds represented in products and by-products. Based on previous ethnoarchaeological work, there is a predicted bias against indicators of spring sowing and intensive cultivation in fine sieve products (and a corresponding over-representation of such species in by-products). Recent work on modern weed floras using functional weed ecology has identified distinctive functional attributes associated with different sowing regimes and cultivation intensity levels. Evaluation of the predicted biases using functional attribute data for modern weed survey studies of different sowing regimes (in Germany) and cultivation intensity levels (in Greece) suggests that there is a likely bias against spring sowing indicators in fine sieve products but not (apparently) against intensive cultivation indicators. An archaeological case study is presented in order to illustrate how bias relating to crop sowing time may be identified and interpreted.
23419306|Carbon isotope discrimination (13C) in charred grains from archaeological sites provides reliable information about water availability of ancient crops. However, as cereals are cultivated plants, they may reflect not only climatic fluctuations, but also the effect on water status of certain agronomic practices, such as sowing in naturally wet soils or irrigation. In this work, we propose a methodological approach to combine 13C data from different plant species, in order to discriminate between climate-derived and anthropogenic effects on ancient crops. We updated previous models for estimating water inputs from 13C of cereal grains of Hordeum vulgare and Triticum aestivum/durum, and we applied them to published data from several archaeological sites, including samples from the Neolithic to the present day in northeast and southeast Spain, as well as from the Neolithic site of Tell Halula (northwest Syria). We found an important decrease in water availability from the Neolithic to the present time in the three areas of study, especially clear for the two driest areas (southeast Spain and northwest Syria). Potential differences in water management practices between wheat and barley, as well as between cereal and legume crops (Vicia faba and Lens culinaris), are also discussed on the basis of the comparison of 13C values across several archaeological sites.
23419307|Among plant remains from Mesolithic layers dating from 9249 to 7779 B.C. at the excavation site of Friesack IV in north-eastern Germany, nutlets of Urtica kioviensis were identified. Morphological studies have shown that they clearly differed from all other European Urtica species investigated. In contrast, pollen morphological investigations revealed only slight differences between the central European Urtica species, which could hardly have been noticed during routine or normal pollen analyses. The records of U. kioviensis nutlets are the first subfossil finds reported and prove the indigenous status of this taxon in north-eastern Germany. The records are discussed in the context of the overall species spectrum of the Mesolithic layers and consequences for the interpretation of pollen analytical studies concerning human impact are pointed out.
23419308|Distinguishing human food from fodder in the archaeobotanical record is a difficult task. These categories are culturally defined and, therefore, not obvious from the plant species represented in archaeological samples, while context, such as storage area or container is not necessarily distinctive for each category. While grain can be consumed as either human food or fodder, depending on the particular needs of a given society, chaff is less suitable for human consumption and more appropriate for other uses, one of which is fodder. Archaeobotanical assemblages from two Late Neolithic sites in northern Greece (Makriyalos and Makri) are dominated by glume-wheat chaff, often in association with fig seeds. This material may well represent the remains of dung, but it was not known if the cereal component was eaten by livestock or mixed with the dung to form dung cakes. Our contribution presents the results of an experiment involving the feeding of einkorn grain and chaff (whole and pounded spikelets) and figs to goats to investigate the effect of livestock digestion on plant material. The implications of this work for the interpretation of archaeobotanical assemblages that may derive from animal dung are considered using the Greek Neolithic assemblages.
23419309|In this article we examine the natural habitats and distribution of the six wild cereals: Triticum urartu (wild urartu wheat), T. boeoticum aegilopoides (single-grained wild einkorn), T. boeoticum thaoudar (two-grained wild einkorn), T. dicoccoides (wild emmer wheat), Secale spp. (wild ryes) and Hordeum spontaneum (wild barley). A comparison of late Pleistocene/early Holocene archaeobotanical assemblages in the Near East with present-day distributions of wild cereals shows a good correlation. The regional variation in the archaeobotanical cereal assemblages and the ensuing domestication provide evidence that different cereal species were domesticated independently in different areas. Some sites were not situated near wild cereal habitats and a few were located outside the limits of distribution, even accounting for moister climatic conditions. I argue here that current models which try to explain the shift to farming have tended to over-emphasize the effect of the Younger Dryas climatic change. First, it would have had only a minor effect on cereal availability. Secondly, agriculture appears to have been established after the Younger Dryas. Thirdly, there is no evidence for a single centre of origin; agriculture arose in widely separated geographic and climatic regions. And fourthly, agriculture depends on stable climatic conditions which were not established until after the Younger Dryas.
23419310|Up till now, plant macroremains of hunter-gatherer groups at the end of the last Ice Age and the very early Holocene have very rarely been investigated on the Iberian Peninsula and elsewhere. The use of systematic recovery techniques at the archaeological cave site of Santa Maira has allowed the recovery of a large amount of plant remains (fruits, seeds and wood) from Upper Palaeolithic and Epipalaeolithic levels (120009000 B.P.) Charcoal analysis has allowed us to reconstruct the surrounding vegetation of the site. In the valley bottoms mesophilous woodland with Quercus was present even in the lowest layers (Upper Magdalenian) During the Late-glacial Juniperus was very important, in the early Holocene Quercus (both evergreen and deciduous) took over. Large numbers of macroremains of fruits (Quercus sp., Sorbus sp., Olea sp. and Vitis sp.) were found, but a significant quantity of legumes together with a few grass seeds have also been identified. This assemblage most probably represents the gathering of wild plant resources by the inhabitants of the cave, and allows us to reconstruct some of the food gathered from plant resources.
23419311|The remains of Olea europaea in archaeological contexts in the southern Iberian Peninsula have been found in the Epipalaeolithic levels of Cueva de Nerja (10860160 B.P.). The abundant appearance of charcoal and some seed remains from the Copper Age (3rd millennium B.C.) in the coastal zones of the southeast indicate that this species formed part of the vegetation of the Thermo-mediterranean zone and that its fruits were collected during these periods. However, Olea did not appear in the Meso-mediterranean zone until the Roman period, when olive cultivation was introduced there. The presence of charcoal and olive stones from the 1st century A.D. onwards is abundant, together with remains of structures for oil pressing.
23419312|After the beginning of metal processing at the transition from the Neolithic to the Bronze Age, further knowledge of ore mining and smelting had spread from the Near East to central Europe. In the copper ore deposits of Schwaz, in the central part of the Alps, the oldest traces of copper mining derive from the early to middle Bronze Ages. Investigation of a middle to late Bronze Age (1410920 cal B.C.) slag-washing site in the area revealed a carbonised seed of Nigella damascena (Ranunculaceae) (love-in-a-mist) together with individual other food plants. The plant remains had become incorporated into the slag sediments by chance and had been preserved in an excellent state due to toxic copper salts contained in the soil. Nigella damascena, like N. sativa (black cumin), is traditionally used as a condiment and healing herb in southern Europe and the Near East, but has never grown in the wild in central Europe. Until now, there has been no evidence of prehistoric large-scale cultivation of N. damascena in central Europe. This leads to two possible conclusions: the find may either originate from an exchange of goods with the cultures in the Mediterranean during the Bronze Age, or indicate an introduction of the plant by an immigrant population from that area. Implicating the latter alternative together with the archaeological context of the ore processing site suggests that Nigella damascena had been introduced to the Alps by foreign miners in the course of ore exploitation during the middle to late Bronze Age.
23419313|This paper reports on seeds of Lallemantia (Lamiaceae) found at Bronze Age sites in northern Greece. At several of these sites, the seeds were found in significant concentrations in storage contexts, suggesting that they were deliberately stored for use by the inhabitants. Oil from the seeds of Lallemantia can be used for a variety of purposes, including food, lighting and medicine. This genus is not native to Greece, the nearest modern occurrences of Lallemantia species being in Anatolia from where they extend further east as far as Iran, or beyond. To date, it has not been found in Neolithic deposits in Greece, despite significant archaeobotanical research, especially in northern Greece. This suggests that it first appeared in Greece in the early Bronze Age, and indicates long distance contacts with communities to the east at this time. It is difficult to establish whether its continued use indicates that seeds of this genus were repeatedly brought into Greece throughout the Bronze Age or that the genus was introduced in the early Bronze Age and then locally cultivated. The presence of seeds, however, may suggest that Lallemantia was locally cultivated, as it would have been possible to import it in the form of oil. The appearance of a new import or introduction at this time adds to the evidence for external contact during the Bronze Age. Lallemantia may have been part of a group of oil producing taxa which became significant during the Bronze Age in northern Greece paralleling the increased importance of the olive in southern Greece.
23419031|Historic Icelandic tephrochronology forms the timeframe for four palynological investigations of peat profiles from the Irish midlands to trace vegetation history and land use at contemporary monastic and secular sites during the last two millennia. Scrubby woodlands changed little in nature and extent until the late 17th or early 18th century. Pastoral agriculture has a long record at all of the sites studied, with arable agriculture being sustained throughout the 2nd millennium. All sites show evidence for scrub clearance with associated agricultural expansion in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. At this time, trees not native to Ireland were planted.
23419032|The oldest early Mesolithic settlements found so far (i.e. 8600 B.P.) in the interior of northern Sweden, in the province of Norrbotten, have been discovered through the application of a model simulating glacio-isostatic land uplift. The objective of this study was to investigate, through pollen and charred particle analyses, vegetation composition and the influence of man on vegetation and fire pattern in the vicinity of two of these early settlements. Early Holocene vegetation was characterised by Betula, Hippopha and Salix-species, but no initial impact by hunter-gatherers on vegetation was detected. Subsequently Betula and Pinus became dominant but abrupt changes in the tree layer followed, Poaceae, Hippopha and Salix-species increased, and Humulus occurred. These changes, which were synchronous with dates of archaeological findings at the settlements, indicated local vegetation changes caused by man. The relationship between these changes and fire was, however, subtle. Eventually Pinus forests became dominant and human impact on vegetation became less apparent. It is concluded that the impact of early Mesolithic hunter-gatherers on vegetation was detectable, but that their effect on fire pattern was difficult to evaluate. Further, we show that the glacio-isostatic land uplift must be considered in the search for Mesolithic settlements in areas previously covered by the Weichselian Ice, and that the process has influenced the biological archives through re-deposition of material.
23419033|The Early Holocene landscape near Zutphen (The Netherlands) is reconstructed by means of microfossil, macroremain and bone analyses. In this area early Mesolithic sites were found on a river dune along a former river channel. AMS14C dating provided a detailed chronology for the sites and river channel deposits. Between ca. 98009600 B.P. open herbaceous vegetation was present on the river dunes. The residual channels were fringed by reed swamps and willow shrubs, with birch and poplar woodlands inland. During this period there are indications of natural or man-made burning of the reed swamp vegetation along the residual channel. Also trampling zones along the lake edge were more abundant. However, no archaeological sites were discovered in the vicinity. From ca. 9600 B.P. on, the area became more densely forested; willow, birch and poplar replaced the reed swamps along the residual channels, while pine colonised the river dunes. Archaeological finds show that early Mesolithic people inhabited the area between ca. 9400 and 9200 B.P. and between ca. 89008700 B.P. During the earlier period, records of Urtica, Plantago and coprophilous fungi may point to trampling and/or eutrophication as a result of the presence of large herbivores and people along the channel shores. After ca. 8700 B.P. people probably left the area when open water was no longer available in the vicinity.
23419034|Plant material like threshing remains has been used systematically as filling and insulation material in buildings for a long time. Such plant material can be found in several places, for example in floor cavities (internal floor deposits, Fehlbden) or in beam holes. For the first time in Switzerland, desiccated plant material like this has been investigated. In this article the analysis of the material from three different sites is presented, each dated to a different period, from the late medieval period to the time just before the industrial revolution. The samples consisted of chaff from Triticum spelta in bulk, and smaller amounts of other cereals such as T. monococcum, Avena sativa, Panicum miliaceum and Secale cereale, plus various weeds. The assemblages in the late medieval samples show evidence of three-field rotation: the high percentage of grassland species is interpreted as an indicator of the fallow land phase within the three-field system. A higher ratio of annual to perennial plants in the more modern samples indicates the development of more intensive tillage and cultivation. Methodological questions regarding sampling strategies of the floor cavity subsamples are investigated. The analyses suggest that the volume of these subsamples should be more than two litres.
23419035|A pollen diagram from the Ahlequellmoor in the Solling area shows the history of vegetation and settlement over the last 7,800 years. In the early Atlantic period mixed deciduous forest with mainly Tilia together with Ulmus and Quercus grew in the area. In the late Atlantic period Quercus became most abundant. Fagus spread in the Sub-boreal period at about 2700 B.C. Since ca. 900 B.C. the Solling was covered by beech forests with some oak. In prehistoric times woodland grazing is indicated. Only in Medieval times are two settlements in the vicinity of the Ahlequellmoor reflected in the pollen diagram. The earlier one is dated to about A.D. 7501020, and may be connected with the former Monastery of Hethis, which is thought to have existed close to the fen from A.D. 815 to 822. The second Medieval settlement dates to the 11th12th century. The large-scale woodland destruction of late Medieval and modern times is not clearly visible. The silvicultural measures of the last 200 years are reflected by increasing values of spruce and grassland taxa.
23418986|The Setesdal valley in South Norway runs north to south for 200 km, from alpine vegetation at 1200 m, passing the tree-line at around 1000 m, through Boreal forests, to Nemoral forest at sea level. The Holocene vegetation history and its altitudinal differentiation were reconstructed using pollen percentages and influx and plant macrofossil concentration records from four lakes along an altitudinal transect. During the early Holocene (c. 105008000 cal B.P.) Betula pubescens, Pinus sylvestris, Alnus, and Corylus expanded in the lowlands. Only Pinus and B. pubescens reached 1000 m asl (Lille Kjelavatn). Only B. pubescens reached Holebudalen (1144 m asl) at about the same time as it arrived in the lowlands. Between c. 80003000 cal B.P. mixed deciduous forest developed around Dalane (40 m asl) and to a lesser extent around Grostjrna (180 m asl), birch woodland with pine surrounded Lille Kjelavatn and birch woodland occurred at Holebudalen. From c. 3000 cal B.P. to present, the vegetation at Dalane hardly changed except for slight human impact and the immigration of Picea abies. At Grostjrna Pinus expanded. At Lille Kjelavatn Pinus disappeared and Betula became sparse as at the tree-line today. Betula retreated from Holebudalen thus leaving it above the tree-line in low-alpine vegetation. The strengths and weaknesses of pollen and plant macrofossil data were assessed for forest reconstructions. Where local pollen production is low, as near the tree-line, percentages of long-distance tree pollen can be misleadingly high. Pollen influxes of Betula and Pinus were much smaller near their altitudinal limits than at lower altitudes, although their macrofossils were equally abundant. The limited dispersal capacity of macrofossils documents the local presence of species and the character of the local vegetation, although macrofossils of some tree taxa are rarely found. Pollen and plant macrofossil evidence complement each other to provide a more complete reconstruction of Holocene tree-limits and tree-lines and hence climate changes, than either form of evidence alone.
23418987|Fundamental uncertainties exist in the study region about the former lowland vegetation at local scales. All existing palaeoecological results are derived from sediments of medium- to large-sized sites (85000 ha), which are thought to record mainly regional vegetation in their pollen content. Therefore the very small mire at Balladrum (0.05 ha) was analysed for pollen, plant-macrofossils, and charcoal and the results compared with those of previous studies in the same region. Common regional signals were detected, but also new insights for the tree species Pinus cembra (L.), Abies alba (Mill.) and Castanea sativa (Mill.). Our palaeobotanical data reveal the local dominance of the timberline species P. cembra during the Lateglacial (1650014250 cal B.P.) at low-altitudes. For A. alba an early presence in the area is suggested by pollen data, corroborating previous high-altitudinal studies indicating the presence of glacial refugia in the region. Occasional findings of C. sativa pollen throughout the Holocene may indicate the local but very rare presence of this species in the Insubrian Southern Alps, in contrast to the conventional opinion that C. sativa was introduced during the Roman Period. Altogether the results confirm the need of multiproxy palaeobotanical records from basins of variable size to assess the past composition of vegetation more accurately.
23418988|Lake-sediment records were used to reconstruct human impact on the landscape around Lago Lucone (4533N, 1029E, 249 m a.s.l.), a former lake in the western amphitheatre system of the Lago di Garda. Presence of prehistoric human populations is attested by pile-dwelling settlements from the Early-Middle Bronze Age, with one settlement at a distance of only 100 m from the coring site. Pollen, plant-macrofossil and microscopic charcoal analyses were applied to a 250 cm sediment core with four dates providing the time control. A mixed oak forest that was important during the Early-Middle Holocene was cleared and replaced by open vegetation during the Bronze Age (20001100 B.C.) when open lands were estimated to have covered more than 60% of the total relevant pollen-source area. During a phase of high human impact, independent climatic proxies suggest warm and dry climatic conditions. Later, ca. 1100 B.C., palaeobotanical evidence indicates a sharp decrease in human pressure in the Lago Lucone area. The comparison with other sedimentary palaeocultural records shows that the period 13001100 B.C. was characterised by general declines of agricultural activities both south and north of the Alps. These declines have been previously attributed to a change towards wetter and colder climatic conditions in and around the Alps. However, the decline in human impact around Lago Lucone cannot be exclusively attributed to climatic variation. Therefore other forcing factors independent of climatic changes, such as cultural crises or changes in spatial organisation of the habitats, cannot be ruled out under the present state of knowledge.
23418989|A 450 cm sediment core from Taperebal, in the mangrove region of northeastern Par State in northern Brazil has been studied through pollen analysis in order to reconstruct mangrove development and dynamics and to infer relative sea-level (RSL) changes during the Holocene. Six AMS radiocarbon dates, which provide a somewhat limited age control with some uncertainties, suggest early and late Holocene deposits interrupted by a hiatus between them. A patchy vegetation of coastal Amazon rain forest, restinga, salt marsh and some mangrove, which was dominated by Avicennia, covered the study area during the early Holocene period. The occurrence of an early Avicennia dominated mangrove phase has not been reported so far from other sites in northern Brazil. During the mid Holocene mangroves mostly replaced the former coastal Amazon rain forest, restinga and some salt marsh vegetation, reflecting the rise in the RSL. Rhizophora trees expanded markedly and Avicennia became rare. In the sediment core there is apparently a gap between the depths of 115 and 85 cm (possibly starting between 5900 and 5750 B.P.). The deposits above 85 cm are of the modern age and were probably deposited during the last decades. This gap can be explained by the lowering of the RSL as is shown for other northern Brazilian coastal sites. The deposition of sediments during the last decades suggests that the modern RSL is high compared to other periods in the Holocene. Pollen data from these deposits show that Rhizophora trees dominate the mangrove forests, also indicating a high RSL.
23418990|This article seeks to contribute some new insights to the discussion about the colonisation of the North-Netherlands coastal area in the Iron Age. The aim of the study presented here was to investigate whether archaeobotanical research can demonstrate the absence or presence of grazing and the changes in vegetation that follow the development of the salt marsh and that may be related to activities connected with human occupation. The material studied was sampled in the terp of Peins in the Dutch province of Friesland during the 1999 excavation. The beginnings of this terp can be dated in the first century A.D., although a small dike and two parallel ditches preceded it. The macroremains from these ditches proved useful in describing the changes in the salt marsh vegetation. It was shown that the salt marsh was not used for grazing cattle prior to habitation. Grazing only started at the time the first terp podium was raised.
23418991|Throughout the Middle Ages forests in Flanders (northern Belgium) experienced a dramatic human influence. Forests were logged for wood supply and converted to arable land. The structure of the remaining forests was altered. This, combined with the tempering influence of the Atlantic climate, results in conditions that are suboptimal for dendrochronological research. Tree-ring series of Quercus robur and Q. petraea of timber from medieval archaeological sites are often short, show abrupt growth-rate variations and are complacent. The question arises whether tree-ring series of this type are potential records of past management and whether they could constitute the basis of a reference chronology for archaeological dating. During six archaeological excavations in and around the medieval town of Ypres, cross-sections were collected. The tree-ring series could be dated back to the 12th14th centuries, using reference chronologies from surrounding regions. The growth pattern of the short sequences displays a high similarity to tree-ring series from modern coppice. For the first time, it has been confirmed that dendrochronological analysis in Flanders is possible and can provide valuable information on medieval forest use and structure.
23418992|Pollen of the Cistus ladanifer type and of other members of the Cistaceae family has been found in 15th and 16th century cesspits in Aalst and Raversijde, Flanders, Belgium. The presence of these Mediterranean pollen types in the cesspits is most probably the consequence of the use of ladanum, an aromatic resin produced by several Cistus species. In the Mediterranean region, ladanum has been used since antiquity for the production of perfumes and in medicine. In northwestern Europe, the use of ladanum is known from historical manuscripts but there have been no archaeobotanical finds indicating the use of ladanum until now.
23419594|This study aims at elucidating modern pollen spectra/environmental data relationships from both natural and human-induced vegetation types as an aid for palaeoecological reconstructions. A set of 51 surface moss polsters was sampled from different vegetation and land-use types in the Champsaur area (French Alps) and analysed to obtain modern pollen analogues of ancient cultural landscapes in mountain ecosystems. Samples were selected from grazed areas, mown meadows, cultivated fields, fallow land and deciduous and coniferous forests. Vegetation composition around the sampling points and seventeen types of environmental variables (e.g., management type, soil and topography) were collected all for these 51 sites. Patterns of modern local pollen variation in relation to the environmental variables were explored by means of canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and associated statistical tests. This correlative model allows us to determine the major explanatory variables and to identify taxa indicative of particular anthropogenic activities, and thus may help to calibrate fossil pollen assemblages. The indicator pollen types are evaluated in the light of comparable material from lowland and mid-elevation areas of western Europe. The results of the French data-set confirm some of the conclusions drawn from the North European data-sets, but also show some site specific features. Pollen markers with a broader global significance common to other regions include Rhinanthus type, Apiaceae and Dipsacaceae for mown meadows, Urtica type, Plantago media/major, Trifolium type and Potentilla type for grazed areas, and Cerealia type, Centaurea cyanus, and Polygonum aviculare for cultivated fields. New pollen anthropogenic indicators typical of our study area are Sanguisorba officinalis, Vicia type (mowing), Lotus type, Onobrychis type, Centaurea nigra type, Serratula type (grazing), Sinapis type and Papaver rhoeas (cultivation). This study provides potentially valuable analogues for human-induced vegetation types, and it may then become possible to interpret more objectively local pollen diagrams from Alpine mountain environments in terms of past cultural landscape development.
23419595|Long term (from the Mesolithic to the Bronze Age) habitation of the Akali settlement on a clearly defined bog-island in East Estonia is used as an example of transitional development from a prosperous foragers' habitation centre to a hinterland of established farming cultures, taking place through availability, substitution and consolidation phases of crop farming in the boreal forest zone. The pre-Neolithic finds of Triticum and Cannabis t. pollen at c. 5600 B.C. are interpreted as possible indications of the acquaintance of foragers with farming products, through contacts with central European agrarian tribes during the availability phase. The substitution phase is marked by more or less scattered pollen finds of various cereals and hemp and, at Akali, is connected with Neolithic period 4900-1800 B.C. An increasing importance of crop farming in the economy is characteristic of the consolidation phase, but because natural conditions are unfavourable for arable land-use, a regression of human presence is recorded during the second part of the Neolithic. The settlement was abandoned during the Bronze Age at the time when crop farming become the basis of the economy in Estonia. The re-colonisation of the area, traced to ca. A.D. 1200, took place for political reasons rather than through increasing suitability of the landscape.
23419596|Recent and subfossil pollen spectra from the Alashan Plateau are presented in order to provide information on desert plant representation and on recent changes in vegetation and climate in this remote area in northern China. The desert vegetation composition is faithfully represented by the surface pollen spectra. The comparison of the desert plant species to the related pollen taxa yielded the following sequence from over-representation to under-representation: Chenopodiaceae, Artemisia, Ephedra fragilis-type s.l., Reaumuria, Nitraria and Calligonum. A 72 cm long sediment record from a small hydrologically-closed inter-dune lake (SE Badan Jilin Sand Sea, southern Alashan Plateau) covering the past 160 years (dated by 137Cs) was analysed palynologically. Intervals of denser Artemisia coverage on the sand dunes around the lake, indicating wetter climate, occurred from the mid-1850s to the mid-1870s, during the first two decades of the 20th century and from the late 1930s to the beginning of the 1960s.
23419597|A 250 cm long core from El Palmar, a swamp area located along the Rio Hondo river in the south of the Yucatan Peninsula, near the Belizean border, reveals the environmental history of the mangrove and tropical forest of the last 5000 years. The period between 5000 and 4600 B.P. shows sandy deposits, which form the early infill and development of the swamp. A medium-statured tropical forest covered the area and members of the Moraceae and Fabacaeae dominated this early forest. The period between 4600 and 4000 B.P. presents a clear change to a mangrove system with Conocarpus erecta and Rhizophora mangle as dominant trees. This vegetational change is due to flooding of the Rio Hondo river, which deposits sediments of high salinity due to higher sea-level. The medium-statured forest became established at some distance from the swamp area. After 4400 B.P. C. erecta appears as the dominant mangrove species and the R. mangle stands are less predominant in the area. The tropical forest was close to the swamp area and was mainly composed of members of the Moraceae, Arecaceae and Fabaceae as dominant taxa of this vegetational mosaic.
23419598|Cicer arietinum L. (chickpea) and Vicia faba L. (faba bean, broad bean or horse bean) were found in late 10th millennium B.P. levels at Tell el-Kerkh, in north-west Syria. They are the earliest well preserved archaeobotanical finds of these two species. Over a hundred C. arietinum specimens were recovered which showed a wide morphological diversity varying from C. arietinum ssp. reticulatum to the more rounded shape as seen in cultivated varieties. For Vicia faba, 29 complete and 119 half seeds, as well as many fragments were recovered. Tell el-Kerkh is one of the few early PPNB Near Eastern sites situated in the Mediterranean zone which could have been the habitat of the unknown wild progenitor of the faba bean. The wild progenitor of chickpea, C. a. reticulatum, is found in a limited area of southeast Turkey, at a considerable distance from Tell el-Kerkh. These finds suggest that the use and domestication of these pulses is perhaps earlier than was previously supposed.
23419599|Excavations on the southwest area at Arslantepe, Malatya, Turkey, by far the largest tell on the Malatya plain from the 5th millennium to the Neo-Hittite age, revealed an important change in the settlement patterns during the two main levels of the VI C Period of the site (Early Bronze Age 2, 27502500 cal B.C.). The latter level corresponds to a village founded on neatly shaped terraces in a layout which lasted for centuries, well into the following Early Bronze Age 3. This continuity was not broken even by violent fires that at times destroyed some houses, producing a huge quantity of charred plant remains, which comprised fruits, seeds and wood charcoal. The archaeobotanical data so far obtained from the EB2 house A607, the richest one in macro-remains, on which efforts have been concentrated first, provides much data about the use of the surrounding land. Charcoal of Quercus (deciduous oaks) (85%) followed by Populus (poplar) (9%) are dominant among wood remains, while Hordeum (barley) (70%) is the dominant crop found, followed by Cicer (chickpea) (17%). The crop storage methods were investigated by mapping the positions of charred fruits and seeds both according to the grid system and in comparison to the layout of facilities (grinding stone, hearths, oven) and the distribution of pottery (jars, bowls, pots) in order to detect where the crops were kept and the ways in which they were stored, processed, and used. The house facilities and furniture suggest that the house was a multifunctional place, which included storage space, but which was limited to household needs. The new archaeobotanical investigation so far carried out on the burnt house A607 suggests some implications on the degree of agriculture, on crop storage and on food processing practises and also gives information on the natural landscape surrounding the site.
23419600|Patterning in the carbonized seed assemblages from Iron Age sites in Britain has led to the development of several explanatory models. The most influential of these, by Martin Jones, proposed that grain-rich assemblages represent producer sites and weed-/chaff-rich assemblages consumer sites. The assumptions underlying this model and the method of constructing the diagrams are discussed and a new approach is put forward, stressing the need for appropriate levels of analysis and interpretation. It is concluded that a predominance of grain-rich samples is far more likely to be an indicator of the scale of production and consumption, than a means of distinguishing between the two. A review of the evidence from Iron Age Britain indicates that grain-rich site assemblages primarily occur in the south of the country, and frequently co-occur with pits, used for the storage of surplus grain. Moreover, such pits are concentrated in hillforts. It is proposed that the grain stored in such pits may have been used in large communal feasts and that the hillforts functioned as locations for feasting.
23419705|Multi-proxy studies are becoming increasingly common in palaeolimnology. Eight basic requirements and challenges for a multi-proxy study are outlined in this essay  definition of research questions, leadership, site selection and coring, data storage, chronology, presentation of results, numerical tools and data interpretation. The nature of proxy data is discussed in terms of physical proxies and biotic proxies. Loss-on-ignition changes and the use of transfer functions are reviewed as examples of problems in the interpretation of data from multi-proxy studies. The importance of pollen analysis and plant macrofossil analysis in multi-proxy studies is emphasised as lake history cannot be interpreted without knowledge of catchment history. Future directions are outlined about how multi-proxy studies can contribute to understanding biotic responses to environmental change.
23419706|The question of what signal, if any, appears in the pollen record when trees are present in the vegetation without producing pollen or with no pollen being recorded, is addressed. Four scenarios are envisaged: (i) the number of trees in the landscape are very few and scattered, (ii) the trees are too young to produce pollen, (iii) climate conditions are unfavourable for the trees to produce pollen and (iv) the trees are cut or damaged so that they do not flower. Each of these is considered in terms of pollen accumulation rates (PARs) and present theories and models of pollen dispersal. Examples are provided for the forest limit areas of the northern boreal trees in Finnish Lapland using data of pollen deposition monitored by pollen traps and results from the high temporal resolution (near annual) analyses of peat profiles. The relevance of the results to questions such as finds of spruce macrofossils in the Swedish mountains, the 8200 cal B.P. cold event, the migration of species/vegetation succession, and widespread damage to trees are all considered. It is concluded that although these situations are sometimes 'invisible' or misrepresented when pollen assemblages are expressed in the traditional percentage manner, they are often revealed by PARs. The fact that the pollen assemblage reflects a much wider regional area than is often understood can strengthen signals which have a regional impact, such as those which are climate induced, but may obscure events which affect only a limited spatial area or occur as small patches in the landscape.
23419707|The pollen/vegetation relationship in broadleaved forests dominated by Castanea sativa was analysed using an empirical approach. The pollen content of surface sediments of three lake basins of different sizes (6.3, 22.2, and 101.2 ha) in Ticino (southern Switzerland) was used for a comparison with the surrounding vegetation. We surveyed the vegetation around the two small lakes, Lago di Origlio and Lago di Muzzano, and estimated the relative crown coverage of tree species. The regional vegetation outside the lake catchment (ca. >1 km) was determined with the data from the first Swiss National Forest Inventory. For the third large lake, basin of Ponte Tresa, we used only this latter approach for comparison with pollen data. We compare uncorrected and corrected pollen percentages with vegetational data that were processed with distance-weighting functions. To assess the degree of correspondence between pollen and vegetation data we define a ratio pollen/vegetation, which allows a comparison at the taxon level. The best fit between total pollen load and vegetation is reached for a distance from the lake shore of ca. 300 m for Lago di Origlio (150  350 m in size) and of ca. 600 m for Lago di Muzzano (300  750 m in size). Beside these general patterns, our analysis reveals taxon-specific pollen dispersal patterns that are in agreement with results from previous studies in northern Europe. Ratios of species with local (proximal) and long-distance (distal) pollen dispersal provide evidence that pollen dispersal mechanisms can influence the size of the taxon-related pollen source area, from small (100400 m) to large (>5 km) for the same lake. The proportion of distal species increases with increasing lake size, highlighting the predominance of atmospheric pollen transport. We conclude that the large species-related differences in pollen source areas have to be taken into account when the provenance at a site is estimated and discussed.
23419708|Multi-proxy data such as pollen percentages, aquatic biota, and stable isotope ratios in lake sediments in conjunction with climate transfer functions can be used to reconstruct past climate. This has been the subject of some recent projects. Often, stable-isotope ratios of oxygen are used as an independent proxy for climate. Past climate so reconstructed can in turn be used to assess the response of past vegetation to climatic oscillations, for instance near the epoch boundaries. One important intermediate step is to establish the age of the stratigraphic sequence. Strong similarities between the 18O records from European lake sediments and the Greenland ice cores are of interest. The Greenland ice-core project (GRIP) provided 18O data that were dated using an ice-flow model. Although the physical laws behind the isotope series from ice and lake sediment are different, statistical methods can be used to match the two series. In this paper, a regression-based approach is suggested for series matching. The method is illustrated by analyzing a series of 18O records covering the Late-glacial interstadial (ca. 15,00013,000 years B.P. [1950]) from Gerzensee, Switzerland. Regression methods for age-depth modelling have also been recommended by other authors. Such an approach leads to reproducible and statistically founded age estimates and can easily be updated to include new data and information as needed. In this paper, the modelling step is preceded by identifying comparable sub-sections in the two isotope series by empirically matching the local minima and maxima in the smoothed isotope values; regression models are then used locally for each sub-section. This accommodates for local differences in the parameters. Variations in the final age estimates caused by different choices of the smoothing (bandwidth) parameters used in the intermediate nonparametric smoothing step are also taken into account in this algorithm.
23419709|Pollen, plant macrofossil and charcoal analyses of sediments from two Alaskan lakes provide new data for inferring Lateglacial and Holocene environmental change. The records span the past 14,700 years at Lost Lake, 240 m a.s.l., central Alaska, north of the Alaska Range and 9600 years at Grizzly Lake, 720 m a.s.l., Copper River Plateau, south of the Alaska Range. Salix shrubs expanded in the herb tundra about 14,400 cal B.P., and Betula shrub tundra became established at ca. 13,200 cal B.P. Diminished Betula shrub cover in association with the increased abundance of herbaceous taxa occurred at 12,50011,600 cal B.P., although the timing of these changes is not well constrained. Populus expanded at 11,200 cal B.P. and formed dense stands until 96009400 cal B.P. when Picea glauca forests or woodlands became established at both sites. The abundance of Alnus viridis increased markedly around 8500 cal B.P. at both sites, marking the development of alder shrub thickets around the lakes and on mountain slopes in these areas. Boreal forests dominated by Picea mariana became established around 7200 cal B.P. at Grizzly Lake and 5700 cal B.P. at Lost Lake. At Grizzly Lake, marked vegetational oscillations occurred within the past 8500 years; for example, A. viridis expanded at 2750 cal B.P. and 450 cal B.P. and declined at 150 cal B.P. Some of these oscillations coincide with large-scale climatic events, such as the Little Ice Age cooling (LIA), and they probably reflect vegetational sensitivity to climatic change at this high site. Microscopic charcoal at Lost Lake suggests that fire was important in the lateglacial birch tundra, probably because of severe moisture deficits of the regional climate and/or high abundance of fine fuels. On the basis of the Grizzly Lake microscopic charcoal record, regional fires were common between 8500 and 6800 cal B.P. and between 450 and 150 cal B.P. Around Grizzly Lake, the mean return intervals of local fires estimated from macroscopic charcoal were 386 years between 6800 and 5500 cal B.P. when Picea glauca dominated over P. mariana, 254 years between 5500 and 3900 cal B.P. when P. mariana was more abundant than P. glauca, and 200 years after 3900 cal B.P. in both P. glauca and P. mariana dominated forests. Correlation analysis of pollen and microscopic charcoal at Grizzly Lake reveals that increased fire activity led to the reductions of P. glauca, P. mariana, and tree Betula in association with the expansions of A. viridis, Epilobium, Lycopodium clavatum, and L. annotinum.
23419710|Palaeobotanical analysis and radiocarbon dating of lake sediments from Bachalpsee (2265 m a.s.l.), a small lake above the present-day timber-line in the northern Swiss Alps reveals that the region was already deglaciated during the Younger Dryas. The sediment record is dominated by long-distance transported pollen that originates from lowland vegetation but the plant macrofossils give evidence of the local vegetation development. Comparison with palaeobotanical results from three sites along an altitudinal transect permits the reconstruction of the regional timber-line history. Throughout the entire Holocene the catchment of Bachalpsee consisted of a mosaic of open meadows and dwarf shrubs (Salix, Vaccinium, Rhododendron). Chironomid and cladoceran assemblages suggest that the early to mid-Holocene was the warmest interval at Bachalpsee. Comparison of the palaeobotanical results with those from the mire "Feld" (2130 m a.s.l.) in the vicinity of Bachalpsee showed that during the mid-Holocene the timber-line was formed by Pinus cembra and Picea abies with some scattered Abies alba trees and was situated close to Bachalpsee but never reached its catchment. The maximum timber-line in the Northern Alps was reached between 6000 and 3000 cal B.P. which is several millennia later than in the Central Alps. The species composition of the tree-line (Abies alba, Pinus cembra and the absence of Larix decidua) points to less continental and moister climatic conditions compared with the central Alps during the early to mid-Holocene. From 3000 cal B.P. onwards the timber-line was lowered by human deforestation with the most intense pulses of human impact occurring since the Middle Ages. The catchment of Bachalpsee has been used as alpine pasture since the Bronze Age.
23419711|Holocene environmental and climatic changes are reconstructed using analyses of biological proxies in lake sediments from Vuolep Njakajaure, a lake located near the altitudinal treeline in northern Sweden (6820 N, 1847 E). We analysed biological proxy indicators from both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, including diatoms, pollen and chironomid head capsules, in order to reconstruct regional Holocene climate and the development of the lake and its catchment. During the early Holocene and after 2500 cal B.P., Fragilaria taxa dominated the diatom assemblages, whereas planktonic Cyclotella taxa prevailed during the major part of the Holocene (78002300 cal B.P.), indicating the importance of the pelagic habitat for diatom assemblage composition. The planktonic diatoms appeared at the same time as Alnus became established in the catchment, probably altering nutrient availability and catchment stability. The pollen record is dominated by mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa) pollen throughout the Holocene, but high percentage abundances of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) pollen suggest the presence of a mixed pine-birch forest during the mid-Holocene (68002300 cal B.P.). Head capsules of Tanytarsini and Psectrocladius dominated the chironomid assemblage composition throughout the Holocene, in combination with Corynocera ambigua after 2300 cal B.P. A quantitative, diatom-based reconstruction of mean July air temperature indicated a relatively cold temperature during the early Holocene (90008000 cal B.P.) and after ca. 2300 cal B.P., whereas the mid-Holocene period is characterised by stable and warm temperatures. The overall patterns of Holocene climate and environmental conditions are similarly described by all biological proxy-indicators, suggesting relatively warm conditions during the mid-Holocene (ca. 78002300 cal B.P.), with a subsequent colder climate after 2300 cal B.P. However, the onset and magnitude of the inferred changes differ slightly among the proxies, illustrating different responses to lake development phases, land-uplift, and climate forcing (e.g., insolation patterns) during the Holocene in northern Sweden.
23419712|A palaeoecological study including pollen, macrofossils, and chemical analyses of an organic sediment separating two series of aeolian cover sands has enabled us to reconstruct environmental changes during the Allerd/Younger Dryas transition in Wolin Island, northwest Poland. The Allerd woodland dominated by Pinus sylvestris became more open at the beginning of the Younger Dryas, when aeolian (wind) activity resulted in instability of the soil. During the early phase of the Younger Dryas the water level in the local basin distinctly raised, indicating a change to a wetter climate. This short-lasting phase was followed by an increased frequency and intensity of aeolian processes. However, the main aeolian event took place before the major expansion of Juniperus, not later than 10,780  120 B.P. Frequent woodland fires, probably due to the activities of Palaeolithic people, have been documented both for the Allerd and the Younger Dryas periods. Macrofossils of Alnus sp. found in the Allerd layer are of special interest in showing the presence of alder trees in northwest Poland as early as the Late-glacial.
23419713|The Late Glacial and early-Holocene vegetational history of a newly dated pollen and macrofossil diagram from Besbog, a cirque lake at 2250 m just above the forest limit in the Pirin Mountains of southwestern Bulgaria, is compared with a newly dated pollen diagram for the mire Shiroka Polyana at 1400 m in the conifer forest of the nearby Rhodope Mountains in order to investigate the chronology of major changes in the vegetation at different elevations. In the Lake Besbog record the non-arboreal pollen assemblage of the Late Glacial changed abruptly to that of Betula, Quercus and other deciduous types. The date for this change is about 11.6 ka cal B.P. The Quercus assemblage may be composed of pollen blown from intermediate elevations, to which deciduous forest had expanded because of higher summer temperatures related to high summer insolation. At Shiroka Polyana (1400 m) in the modern conifer belt, a similar change did not occur until about 8.8 ka cal B.P. The persistence of the dry steppe or steppe forest in the early Holocene at this lower site can also be attributed to high summer insolation. Thus as atmospheric temperature increased at the end of the Late Glacial, deciduous forests expanded first at intermediate elevations in the Pirin Mountains and only later in the Rhodope Mountains at lower elevations as summer insolation decreased.
23419714|The paper presents the results of investigations concerning the accumulation processes, sediment composition, pollen and macroscopic analyses of sediments from the lakes Popradsk pleso (1513 m) and trbsk pleso (1345 m) in the High Tatra mountains, western Carpathians, Slovakia. While Popradsk pleso is undoubtedly of glacial origin with silts in the Lateglacial layers and algal gyttja in the Holocene layers, trbsk pleso or its greater part originated recently between the 16th and the beginning of the 18th centuries when the previous bog of Atlantic or early Subboreal age was flooded with water after the dispersed outflow from the bog depression was blocked. Our pollen and macrofossil analyses indicate mountain tundra in the Lateglacial and a continuous presence of coniferous forest with Picea abies with admixture of Pinus cembra, Larix decidua, Juniperus communis and Pinus cf. mugo in the uppermost elevations at the alpine forest limit since the very beginning of the Holocene. No noticeable oscillation of the forest line can be interpreted from our pollen analyses. It seems probable that its position was controlled by geomorphological and edaphic conditions rather than by the Holocene climatic changes. Spruce forests dominated at elevations between ca. 10001400 m during the whole Holocene.
23419715|We describe a new palaeobotanical site at Bubano quarry on the easternmost Po plain, northern Italy. Pollen and macrofossils from river and marsh sediments demonstrate the occurrence of Picea in a Pinus sylvestris forest growing in a radius of some tens of kilometres south of the sedimentation place, at the beginning of the Late-glacial interstadial. The Late-glacial and Holocene history of Picea in the northern Apennines is reconstructed on the basis of the palaeobotanical record. The sharp climatic continentality increase eastwards across the northern Apennines from the Tyrrhenian to the Adriatic coast is considered significant for the survival of Picea during the Late-glacial. The most critical phase of survival is related to the moisture changes and consequent Abies competition associated with the last glacial-interglacial transition and the early Holocene. The residual spruce populations expanded during the middle Holocene. The history of Picea in the northern Apennines is a case of ineffective interglacial spread of tree populations from pre-existing stands of LGM (Last Glacial Maximum) and Late-glacial age.
23419716|Based on pollen diagrams from nine sites at altitudes between 654 and 1280 m a.s.l. the Late-glacial fluctuations of the timberline are reconstructed and interpreted in terms of summer temperature.
23419717|Pollen and macrofossils were studied in a core from a fen at the foot of a slope in the Vosges Mountains, NE France. The present-day vegetation of little disturbed Abies, Fagus, and Picea forest and wetlands has been described in detail in terms of phytosociological communities using the Braun-Blanquet approach. Past ecological conditions are reconstructed in five steps: (1) The modern vegetation types are described as combinations of phytosociological species groups. (2) Micro- and macrofossils are assigned to these groups. (3) These in combination determine the past vegetation types at the site; there were simultaneously several such types in some biozones. (4) The sequence of past vegetation types is interpreted as successional pathways. (5) Past ecological conditions are inferred from these pathways. Results are: (1) The types of local forest and fen were the same around 1000 B.C. as today. (2) Rising groundwater around 650 B.C. caused a natural wet meadow to develop at the site. (3) Trees were felled near the site in the first century B.C. (Late Iron Age), facilitating the immigration of Picea. (4) Groundwater level rose during early Medieval times because of a wetter climate and alder carr replaced the dry-soil forest close to the site. (5) During High Medieval Times (10th13th century) the nearby raised bog expanded over the site. (6) Forestry starting around A.D. 1750 caused nutrient-rich water to reach the site, resulting in abrupt vegetation change. (7) The creation of a forest road around A.D. 1855 (historical information) caused further nutrient enrichment of the site. The validity of the method used depends on the assumption that past and present vegetation types are virtually identical, which is true in our study area and study period, according to all the indications that we have.
23419718|The pollen analytical investigations of hanging peat bogs in the summit zone of the Polish east Carpathians show that the absence of the upper montane spruce zone in the western Bieszczady mountains is a phenomenon that has been historically stable at least for the last millennium and probably also in earlier times. At altitudes corresponding to the spruce zone in other parts of the Carpathians, dwarf beech woods form here a low-lying upper tree limit. The montane grassland zone occurring above this tree line did not result from human activities, although it has been extended by human activity. Besides, it is shown how far it is possible to reconstruct from a pollen diagram the differentiation of vegetation surrounding the site of profile collection located in the upper montane zone when the present-day local plant communities are well known, in spite of pollen from long distance transport always being present at the summits of mountain ranges.
23419719|In the last decades, data on the economy and environment of the Neolithic period of lake dwellings (43002400 B.C.) in central Europe has increased considerably and also palaeoecological data on lake level fluctuations has been thoroughly elaborated. Lake shores were mainly settled during warm and rather dry climate periods which caused a fall in the lake levels. Nevertheless, there were strong and partly very short-term shifts in the economy during the lake-dwelling period. These can be recognised only because the settlement layers can be very precisely dated by dendrochronology. In this article we discuss in an interdisciplinary way the possible interrelations between climatic and economic changes. To explain the latter, we assume crop failures as the main reason, which caused intensified hunting and gathering. There are three different possibilities which might explain this: cold and wet summers, severe droughts during spring and summer, or local over-exploitation of soils in densely settled areas.
23419720|The large fortified hilltop site of Vlada, northwest Bohemia, Czech Republic (5050N, 1313E), has recently been studied intensively by way of environmental archaeology, in which palaeoecological methods have played a crucial role. The latter include the analyses of pollen, green algae, Cladocera, other microfossils, plant macro-remains (including charcoal and wood) and chemical composition, carried out on the wet sediments from an artificial cistern/pond situated in the middle of the large citadel, supplemented by charcoal and wood analysis on material from dry situations. The continuous palaeoecological record consists of well-preserved biological remains and covers the period from ca. 400 B.C. to recent times. The chronology is primarily based on radiocarbon dating, supplemented by archaeological finds. The main focus is on the La Tne period of the Iron Age. During the early to middle La Tne the hillfort had a considerable number of permanent inhabitants and woodland was almost completely replaced by an agricultural landscape. The site became partly abandoned by the end of the 3rd century B.C. and completely abandoned around the birth of Christ, after which it reverted to natural woodland communities.
23419721|Pollen records suggest that Abies alba played a dominating role in both the montane and lowland forests at the border of the Southern Alps between ca. 8500 and 5700 years ago. Two major declines in fir, at about 73007000 cal B.P. and at ca. 6000 cal B.P., followed by the local extinction of the species are characteristic of the area below ca. 1000 m a.s.l. In order to test the impact of fire on the population dynamics of silver fir, a dynamic model (DisCForm) with a fire module was applied to simulate the early- and mid-Holocene forest development. Simulation outputs based on different fire scenarios were compared with the pollen record from Lago di Annone (226 m a.s.l.). The marked Abies decreases shown in the pollen record can be simulated with very intensive fire scenarios, but they do not result in an extinction of silver fir in the model. Low charcoal influx values related to the Abies declines in the palaeobotanical record suggest that fire was not the only reason for the extinction of silver fir. Human impact, as well as Holocene climatic changes leading to temporary moisture deficits and reduced adaptability due to low genetic variation may have had a significant impact on the Abies forests.
23419226|Litho-, chrono- and biostratigraphical methods were applied in the examination of a 9.9 m thick sequence of laminated sediments in Verijrv, a lake in southeast Estonia. The vegetation history, which covers at least the time from 10300 cal B.P. to the present, was inferred from the core, which was taken from the deepest part of the lake and correlated with the studied and dated pollen diagrams nearby. Reconstruction of the past vegetation dynamics is based on pollen percentage, accumulation rate and human impact diagrams. During the Holocene two main shifts in vegetation dynamics occurred, the first one at about 7700 cal B.P. when the pine-birch forest was replaced by deciduous mixed forest, and the second at about 3200 cal B.P. marked by the regeneration of pine-birch-spruce forest. A catastrophic forest fire at about 3450 cal B.P. opened up the landscape and gave rise to erosion and the sedimentation of a thick clayey layer. The steep decline in the Alnus curve between 15001650 cal B.P. coincides with the start of the continuous Secale curve and evidence of extensive land-use.
23419227|Pollen analysis, supplemented by 5 14C dates, was carried out on the lateglacial section (160 cm) of a core retrieved from the glacial Lake Trilistnika (2216 m) in the northwestern Rila Mountains (Bulgaria). The reconstruction of the lateglacial vegetation history is linked for the first time to a chronological framework for the time window 1300010000 B.P. The delimitation of an interstadial/stadial cycle, analogous with the Blling/Allerd-Younger Dryas from Western Europe, is based on important changes in the pollen stratigraphy. Mountain-steppe vegetation composed of Artemisia, Chenopodiaceae, Poaceae and other cold-resistant herbs, with isolated stands of Pinus and Juniperus-Ephedra shrubland, dominated the landscape after the ice-retreat. Interstadial conditions were established before 12815  130 B.P. The spread of tree vegetation at lower elevation as a response to the climate improvement was confined to the time interval 12110  9511140  75 B.P. The Younger Dryas stadial is characterised by a re-advance of the mountain-steppe vegetation. The results are compared with other sites of lateglacial age from the high mountains (Rila, northern Pirin, western Rhodopes) in southern Bulgaria.
23419228|Charcoal, the remains of Holocene fires recorded in natural sediments, allows a new approach to the study of forest evolution in the mountains of the Mediterranean region. The area of the Grands Causses and St Guilhem, southern Massif Central (France) played an important role in the preservation of steppic and pre-steppic ecosystems up to the middle Holocene. The present biodiversity developed recently (between 50003000 B.P.), which explains the persistence of typical alpine and steppic flora characteristic of these areas. From the middle Holocene on, both fire events in the Eastern areas of the Causse Mjean and grazing have contributed to creating the bald landscape characteristic of this region. Further south the present day forest of Pinus nigra ssp. salzmanni is a recent phenomenon. It was during the Middle Ages that the initial forest of Pinus sylvestris and Pinus nigra ssp. salzmanni, a heritage from the last glaciation, started to change. 13C measurements were carried out and the results compared with reference material. These show that fire events are closely related to dry periods, implying climatic changes of increasing dryness after the middle Holocene climatic optimum.
23419229|The paper presents a synthesis of the on-site archaeobotanical investigations of the Terramara di Montale, one of the most important sites of the Terramara cultural system which characterised the Po Plain in the Middle-Late Bronze Age (16501200 B.C.). Samples for pollen analysis and macroremains, including seed/fruit and wood/charcoal records, were collected from stratigraphic sequences and occupation levels during the excavations 19962001. The results permitted the reconstruction of the main characteristics of the landscape which at the onset of the Terramara rapidly passed from a natural, more forested landscape with mixed oak wood and conifers to a more open and anthropic landscape characterised by cereal fields, pastures and meadows. People felled oaks and other trees such as Populus/Salix and Fraxinus to make piles or walls for houses. Wood from these species was also recorded as charcoal in the hearths. Palynological and carpological data show that the inhabitants of the Terramara largely founded their economy on cereals (mainly Triticum aestivum/durum, T. dicoccum and Hordeum vulgare). They also grew a few legumes (Vicia faba var. minor, Vicia sp. and Lens culinaris). There was also grazing by domestic animals, mainly ovicaprines but also pigs and cattle, and these were fed exploiting wild plants such as Carpinus. In the paper the four main steps of the history of the Terramara are described (before the Terramara, the onset, the Terramara phase, the decline) during which both human influence and climatic changes were important. At the onset of the Terramara (around 1600 B.C.) a warm and possibly dry phase occurred. The intense use of the territory and a climatic deterioration at around 1300 B.C. might have triggered the decline of the Terramara di Montale.
23419230|This paper summarises the research methodology and most important results of a study which was carried out on flowering plant depictions (representations) in late medieval religious paintings from southern central Europe. This approach derives from the studies of material culture by historians of everyday life. Plant depictions may be used as a source for archaeobotanical research and studies into vegetation history after fully recognising their particularities. Firstly, the pictures show "the reality effect" and not reality itself, and an abundance of apparently realistically depicted objects; secondly, the research must be fully contextual, considering both the contemporary cultural background and participants involved. Thirdly, as pictures are great mosaics of different experience and knowledge, their language is symbolic and their relationship with geographical space uncertain. This, however, does not mean that reading and interpreting pictures is impossible. The major results of this study include the list of plant species not discovered from archaeobotanical research; the knowledge that the frequencies of occurrence of plant depictions might correspond to their occurrence in real cultural spaces that also may be indicated in pictures; and it highlights the importance of using several types of sources when pursuing research into the history, uses and perceptions of plants in the medieval period.
23419149|Late Quaternary vegetation, fire and climate dynamics were studied by pollen and charcoal analysis on a sediment core from near the summit of the Serra do Araatuba at 1500 m elevation, part of the Serra do Mar coastal mountains of Paran State, southern Brazil. Three radiocarbon dates indicate that clay and peat were deposited in a shallow basin during the last 14,880 B.P. Accumulation was probably continuous, but sedimentary gaps during the dry mid Holocene cannot be excluded. During lateglacial times the upper coastal mountain were covered with grassland, reflecting relatively dry and cold climatic conditions. Large areas of natural grasslands remained in the upper mountain region during the Holocene. Only after 2000 B.P. did Araucaria forest trees, specially Ilex, some Atlantic forest trees as well as the pioneer Myrsine move to higher elevations, reflecting markedly wetter climatic conditions. This expansion stopped and the forest areas were reduced significantly by human activities during about the last 200300 years. The modern grassland vegetation of the uppermost mountains may reflect the natural setting, but may also partly result from post-Columbian human activities. Fires were rare during the late Pleistocene and even less frequent during the early and mid Holocene. During the wettest recorded period of the late Holocene fires increased markedly and are therefore most probably of anthropogenic origin.
23419150|The distribution of pollen in marine sediments is used to record vegetation changes over the past 30,000 years on the adjacent continent. A transect of marine pollen sequences from the mouth of the river Congo (5S) to Walvis Bay and Lderitz (25S) shows vegetation changes in Congo, Angola and Namibia from the last glacial period into the Holocene. The comparison of pollen records from different latitudes provides information about the latitudinal shift of open forest and savannahs (Poaceae pollen), the extension of lowland forest (rain forest pollen) and Afromontane forest (Podocarpus pollen), and the position of the desert fringe (pollen of Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae and Amaranthaceae). High Cyperaceae pollen percentages in sediments from the last glacial period off the mouth of the river Congo suggest the presence of open swamps rather than savannah vegetation in the Congo Basin. Pollen from Restionaceae in combination with Stoebe-type pollen (probably from Elytropappus) indicates a possible northwards extension of winter rain vegetation during the last glacial period. The record of Rhizophora (mangrove) pollen is linked to erosion of the continental shelf and sea-level rise. Pollen influx is highest off river mouths (102000 grains year1 cm2), close to the coast (3006000 grains year1 cm2), but is an order of magnitude lower at sites situated far from the continent (<10 grains year1 cm2).
23419151|Two pollen diagrams from near the Chuya Basin, Russian Altai, are presented together with results from geomorphological archives. The Kuray Range profile (2330 m a.s.l.) is situated just above the forest line and starts with the weak cooling of the middle Atlantic period (ca. 65005900 B.P.) that bisects the Holocene optimum, as in other parts of Siberia. Taiga (boreal coniferous forest) with Picea obovata established afterwards but was displaced at ca. 5300 B.P. by the pronounced cooling of the early Subboreal. A gradual recovery of taiga stopped and it disappeared around 3400 B.P. at the end of the middle Sub-boreal. Since then the climatic and vegetational conditions much resemble those of the Sub-atlantic. In the last two millennia, three climatic declines are documented in the second diagram from the Tarkhata Valley (2210 m a.s.l.) from the dry limit of Larix sibirica: a cold and wet one around the 5th century A.D., a cold and dry one around A.D. 1200 and the Little Ice Age which started around A.D. 1600. In addition, several of the climatic periods and especially local human influence can be proved by the geomorphological findings. Most of the climatic changes seem to be connected with socio-ecological changes in Asia and even Europe, with movements of the Huns and Mongols, which show the possible dimensions of global climatic change. Hints of teleconnections between Siberia, the Mediterranean and the Himalayas via the North Atlantic and the Arctic Oscillation are discussed.
23419152|Pollen map data at 2000-year intervals are used to reconstruct changes in Holocene forest cover in China north of the Yangtze River. In almost all regions, the early Holocene from 10 ka B.P. to 6 ka B.P. is characterised by an increase in forest cover although there was a reversal to lower forest cover at 8 ka B.P. in the eastern monsoon regions. A maximum of forest cover was reached at 6 ka B.P. in all regions except for Northeast China where forest cover peaked in the late Holocene. All regions except for Northeast China experienced a marked decline in forest cover after 6 ka B.P. Since 6 ka B.P., forest cover has decreased by about 92% in the middle and lower reaches of the Yellow River, 64% in the easternmost part of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau and 37% between the Yangtze River and the Huaihe River. In contrast, forest cover in Northeast China increased significantly from 6 ka B.P., but has declined between 2 ka B.P. and the present. Changes in forest cover prior to 6 ka B.P. were probably caused by climate, but the evident drop in forest cover since that time in most regions may have been induced predominantly by human activities.
23419153|Pollen records from two sediment cores taken from Ilan Plain, northeastern Taiwan provide new insights into the environmental and cultural history of the last 4200 years. The record indicates a relatively warm climate at around 4200 cal B.P. The environmental conditions would have been suitable for people whose settlements and activities were mainly in the littoral zone during this period. However, at ca. 3800 cal B.P., elements tolerant of brackish water dominated the vegetation, indicating that the environment was influenced by marine incursion. The remarkable increase in wetland flora suggests the presence of widespread marshlands thereafter. It is quite conceivable that settlement movement from the fluvial plain to hills between 3800 and 2400 cal B.P. can be correlated with the environmental changes in lowlands. A conspicuous gap in the archaeological sequence between 2400 and 1300 cal B.P. corresponds chronologically with a period of heavy rainfall or frequent typhoons as indicated by the aggradational episode in the Lanyang drainage basin as well as the flourishing of Alnus forests. The persistence of frequent landslides and climate deterioration would have had a dramatic impact on ancient humans and led to abandonment of the settlements. By 1300 cal B.P. a lowland flora is widespread indicating a shift from a marsh to a terrestrial environment in response to a well-developed fluvial plain. Decrease of landslides and the amelioration in climate could have advantages to human activities again. However, both the pollen and archaeological records indicate that intensive colonisation had a profound effect upon the vegetation within the Ilan region about 400 years ago.
23419154|During the late-glacial eruption of the Laacher See volcano 12,900 B.P. the whole area of the Neuwied Basin, middle Rhine region, was covered by several metres of the Laacher See Tephra (LST) damaging but also partly conserving the former vegetation. This gave the unique opportunity to study plant remains in situ and to estimate the spatial biodiversity of plant taxa within the area investigated at the end of the last glacial as if in a snapshot of 12,900 years ago. Different kinds of plant material can be found because of different preservation conditions namely imprints, charcoal and waterlogged remains. Investigations of this material from several places within the Neuwied Basin and the Brohl valley north of it allowed the reconstruction of the former vegetation at different scales from local to regional. This resulted in a large scale draft of a vegetation map of the studied area also based on the distribution and the stage of soil development at that time. As to whether thermophilous trees were already present is discussed but largely rejected.
23419155|A Late Pleistocene and Holocene sediment core from the nowadays terrestrialised portion of the Lddigsee in Southern Mecklenburg, Germany was palynologically investigated. The lake is situated in the rarely investigated Young moraine area at the transition from the Weichselian to the Saalian glaciation. The high-resolution pollen diagram contributes to the establishment of the north-eastern German Late Pleistocene pollen stratigraphy. The vegetation distribution pattern after the end of the Weichselian is in good agreement with other studies from North-eastern Germany, but also has its own characteristics. The Holocene vegetation development reveals features from the north-eastern and north-western German lowlands. A special focus was laid on the environmental history of the two settlements on an island within the lake (Late Neolithic and Younger Slavic period), which were preserved under moist conditions. Both settlements were constructed during a period of low lake level. Although there is evidence of agriculture in the area during the respective periods, the two island settlements seem to have served other purposes.
23419156|A 72 cm peat core from a spring mire reveals 3300 years of vegetation history in the Hoher Flming, a landscape formed by the penultimate glaciation in southeastern Brandenburg. Primeval beech-oak forest dominated from A.D. 550 to 1200, prior to local forest clearance. Existing maps showing the natural and potential natural vegetation as pine and oak need to be revised. Local woodland cutting in the 12th century and grassland use since the 15th century affected the development of the helokrene (spring-fed) mire deposits from alder carr to mesotrophic fen vegetation and then to the present-day Sphagnum fallax-Juncus acutiflorus wet meadows. Vegetation and mire history link together the Hoher Flming and adjacent landscapes on a northwest-southeast gradient of suboceanic to subcontinental climate. Moreover it represents a geographical and altitudinal transition of lowland and hill vegetation from 30 to 200 m a.s.l. to the montane belts of the palynologically well investigated Harz mountains. However, regarding some trees and herbs, the Hoher Flming does not belong to the Hercynian region and type of vegetation.
23419157|This paper presents a detailed dendroecological analysis of remains from a sub-fossil pine forest at the Campemoor in the Dmmer basin, NW Germany and of pine timbers from a contemporaneous Neolithic trackway Pr 32 through the Campemoor. Changes in growth pattern and population dynamics of the pines are discussed in context with the time of construction of the trackway. The findings date to the period around 3000 B.C. Together with palaeobotanical investigations (pollen and macro remains) and the archaeological results (trackway) the dendroecological analysis mirrors environmental changes and the response of people to these changes. In order to test this local development for a possible climate background, ring-width variability and population dynamics of the Campemoor pines and of the overall data set of Lower Saxonian sub-fossil oaks from bogs have been compared. The results of these investigations clearly indicate a common widespread turn from drier to more humid climate conditions as trigger for the transition period, initiating the raised bog growth. It happened in two phases at the beginning of the 3rd millennium, interrupted by a drier period between 2825 and 2770 B.C. Afterwards large areas of former settlement sites within today's Campemoor became inaccessible and were covered by raised bog.
23419158|Detrended canonical correspondence analysis is used to estimate the amount of palynological change or compositional turnover in ten Holocene pollen-stratigraphical sequences from Setesdal, southern Norway. The results, when the analyses are standardised for the same time interval, show that the highest amounts of change occurred at sites in the south of Setesdal where there is a richer tree flora. This primarily methodological study provides a robust approach to answering the question as to how much change is recorded within a pollen sequence, and to summarising the amount of change between sequences.
23419159|A critical assessment of the data recently put forward in favour of a 'Mesolithic agriculture' for Central and Northern Europe is presented. The archaeobotanical record is quite clear: hundreds of excavations of early Neolithic sites, whether from Linearbandkeramik or Trichterbecher (funnel beaker) settlements have produced remains of cultivated plants in large numbers. In contrast to this, all Mesolithic sites excavated so far have not revealed even one macroscopic find of crop plants. The 'Mesolithic agriculture' as assumed by several authors, is based solely on single pre-Neolithic pollen grains of the Cerealia-type that occur in pollen diagrams. It is shown that absolute distinction of pollen from wild grasses and cereals is impossible. There is a certain overlapping of both types that must not be neglected. Because of the large pollen sums in modern pollen diagrams, even very scarce grains of Cerealia-type pollen are encountered. Most of these single pre-Neolithic grains must derive from native wild grasses, while others come by long-distance transport etc. Another important feature is the scattered occurrence of Cerealia-type pollen grains from the early Holocene (or even Pleistocene) to the start of the Neolithic. They do not occur in synchronous phases and even in neighbouring sites they do not agree in age. As long as there are no well-dated macro-remains of crop plants of pre-Neolithic age, there is no evidence of Mesolithic agriculture.
23419193|Northwest Iberia (Spain and Portugal) is a large and complex territory which is currently considered a contact border between two different biogeographical regions, the Eurosiberian and the Mediterranean. Such complexity is clearly influenced by several main factors, namely the winding mountain ranges of this region and their position on the peninsula, which result in several markedly different environments coexisting within distances of only a few kilometres apart, such as extremely oceanic or continental climates and high mountain areas or inland basins. This intricacy might also be reflected in the postglacial palaeoecological reconstructions which have been made for different mountain areas of northwest Iberia. Several isolated pollen diagrams from key sites in the area which have been published during the last decades have been questioned, because they show tendencies or chronologies apparently incompatible with global dynamics affecting the North Atlantic. In this paper we explore the possible integration of the biostratigraphies and chronologies of several selected pollen sites in this region. Northwest Iberia as a whole has been firstly divided into several more homogeneous biogeographical units, and high quality pollen sequences from each unit were selected to obtain reconstructions of local dynamics at each site and also approximations of the regional tendencies in each unit. Subsequently, the correlation between the different regional tendencies and their coherence in relation to the global climatic models performed for the North Atlantic is discussed.
23419194|The use of a high resolution pollen record in combination with geochemical data from sediments composed mainly of layers of charophytes alternating with layers of vegetal remains plus some detrital beds permits the reconstruction of the environmental evolution of the last 3000 years in an inland wetland of the Mediterranean domain, thus introducing a new climatic dataset for the Late Holocene. Hydrological fluctuations, reflected in the relationship between emerged and aquatic vegetation and inorganic and organic C and N changes, can be related to aridity or humid phases, while relations among arboreal taxa (Quercus and Pinus) and Artemisia are used as temperature indicators. Five climatic periods have been identified: a Subatlantic Cold Period (<150 B.C.), cold and arid; the Roman Warm Period (150 B.C.A.D. 270), warmer and wetter; the Dark Ages (A.D. 270A.D. 950), colder and drier; the Medieval Warm Period (A.D. 950A.D. 1400), warmer and wetter; and the Little Ice Age (>A.D. 1400) indicated by a cooling and drying trend. Despite the lack of any direct evidence of human action, there are some episodes related to deforestation during the Reconquista (Middle Ages) that mask the real climatic signal.
23419195|Interdisciplinary research was carried out in mid-level mountain areas in France with the aim of documenting historical mining and smelting activities by means of pollen and geochemical analyses. These investigations were made on cores collected in French peatlands in the Morvan (northern Massif Central), at Mont Lozre (southern Massif Central) and in the Basque Country (Pyrnes). Different periods of mining were recognised from Prehistory to modern times through the presence of anthropogenic lead in peat. Some of these were already known from archaeological dates or historical archives, especially for mediaeval and modern periods. However prehistoric ancient mining activities, as early as the Middle Bronze Age (ca. 1700 B.C.), were also discovered. They had all led to modifications in plant cover, probably related in part to forest clearance necessary to supply energy for mining and smelting.
23419196|In some continental and island sites in the western Mediterranean basin, the Holocene vegetation and climate dynamics seem to show the same patterns in time and space. Nevertheless, different synchronous scenarios have been proposed from other south European, North African and Near Eastern pollen records from around the Mediterranean basin. Striking similarities and synchronisms have been found between Sicily and the Balearic Islands. These islands, although under different bioclimatic influences, show similarities in the main trends of vegetation and climate dynamics during the Post-glacial. Lago di Pergusa is the only natural inland lake in Sicily and because of its geographical location, has a good potential sensitivity to the climatic changes of the Mediterranean basin. Likewise, coastal sediments from Minorca and Majorca, the Balearic Islands, have similar peculiarities. The present-day environmental situation, now that most of the natural vegetation in these islands has disappeared, has been brought about either by a climatic trend towards increasing aridity or an increase in human activities. It seems clear that prehistoric human people alone could not have caused all the environmental changes recorded in the last millennia in both places.
23419197|A 90 m deep core from the Massaciuccoli lake basin (Tuscany, Italy) offers new material for improving the knowledge of the Holocene vegetation history in the coastal plains in Tuscany and Liguria bordering the Mar Ligure (Ligurian sea). In this paper, an assessment of the upper part of the core is presented. During the Holocene, the area was covered by woodlands whose composition changed in time. Numerous oscillations of the tree taxa were recorded which can probably be connected to sea level variations that had a strong influence on the depth of the water table. Human impact is evident particularly at ca. 43002500 B.P. when traces of opening of the woodland accompanied by noticeable pollen percentages of Vitis could suggest an early agricultural practice favouring this native plant. The new data have been integrated with previous palaeobotanical and archaeobotanical research. The occurrence of coastal wetlands has been shown. Throughout the Holocene, Mediterranean evergreen vegetation is generally poorly represented; it becomes widespread only in the late Holocene, suggesting that its establishment was probably favoured by the management practices in the coastal plains, particularly land reclamations, starting from the Roman period.
23419198|Interdisciplinary studies of the sediments of Lago dell'Accesa started in 2001. We present here results from the palynological study. The pollen diagram provides a record of vegetation and climatic change spanning over 15,000 years. The oldest pollen spectra show a late-glacial steppe vegetation typical of central and southern Italy during this period. The Late-glacial Interstadial, interrupted by two cooling events, is dominated by open deciduous oak forests. The Younger Dryas is represented by 150 cm of sediment and shows the presence of steppic vegetation. The Holocene vegetation is characterised by alternating dominance of deciduous oaks and Quercus ilex. The three zones characterised by Q. ilex are accompanied by peat layers marking lake-level lowering at ca. 86007900, 46004300 and 37002800 cal B.P. Between approximately 9000 and 6000 cal B.P. extensive Abies-forests existed on the Colline Metallifere located 1520 km to the north and northeast of the lake. Local fir populations may also have existed by the lake. Human impact starts at approximately 8000 cal B.P. during the Neolithic period, and increases at ca. 4300 cal B.P. Castanea and Juglans pollen is recorded from ca. 2800 cal B.P. The impact of the Etruscan settlement near the lakeshore is shown in the increasing values of arable crops, species of secondary forest canopy (Ericaceae, Pinus, Pistacia, Myrtus) and anthropogenic indicators (Chenopodiaceae, Plantago lanceolata, Rumex etc).
23419199|The pollen diagram from Stracciacappa (Sabatini volcanic complex, Rome) provides a record of vegetational and climatic change spanning the last 60000 years, which is the time since when volcanic activity in the crater came to an end. The chronological framework of the sediment core is set by five AMS and three conventional radiocarbon dates; the mean sedimentation rate obtained by radiocarbon measurements was used to extrapolate the age of the record beyond the reach of 14C dating. The sequence from Stracciacappa provides results of fundamental importance for the understanding of the vegetational changes which occurred during the last pleniglacial period in central Italy, and it can be considered as a reference pollen record for the regional biostratigraphic characterization of this period. The site shows a high climatic sensitivity, particularly highlighted by the development of some pleniglacial oscillations with woodland, which interrupted the succession of steppe and grassland vegetational formations typical of the glacial periods. Unfortunately, due to sedimentation problems and alteration of the top level sediments, the Holocene is only recorded in part. Only for one millennium, from ca. 8300 to 7200 uncal B.P., was a real forest expansion characterized by over 90% arboreal pollen found.
23419200|A pollen and charcoal record from Gargano (southern Italy) provides new information on the vegetation history and environmental change in southern Italy during the middle to late Holocene. The chronological framework is provided by six AMS radiocarbon dates carried out on plant macroremains. Pollen diagrams record a Mediterranean vegetation along the coastland and a stable mixed oak forest at higher elevations between ca. 5900 and 4200 cal B.P. A sharp and dramatic fall of tree pollen concentrations and a change in fire frequencies occurred from approximately 4200 cal B.P. suggesting a climate change towards drier conditions. This event is coherent with regional and extra-regional palaeoclimatic records that suggest that a mid-Holocene dry period was experienced in southern Italy, southern Spain, and perhaps further afield. Human impact on vegetation seems to have occurred since about 2700 cal B.P.
23419201|In this paper we present and discuss palynological results based on a composite profile from Birkat Ram crater lake (Northern Golan, Near East) in order to reconstruct the environmental history, including human impact, of the last 6500 years. Furthermore we apply a newly-developed botanical climatological transfer function to reconstruct climate variations in the northern Golan Heights based on this pollen data-set. The Birkat Ram record is strongly influenced by anthropogenic indicators in the pollen diagram with high quantities during the Chalcolithic period/Early Bronze Age, during the Hellenistic-Roman-Byzantine periods, during the Crusader period and finally during modern times. The palaeoclimate reconstruction method used is based on a Bayesian approach and is robust in avoiding the influence of these strong anthropogenic signals on the reconstruction results. The area has always had Mediterranean climate conditions and no distinctive climate changes can be identified during the past 6500 years. Because of the orography of the Mt. Hermon region the particular geographical position of the northern Golan Heights is obviously capable of buffering large-scale fluctuations in precipitation, which have otherwise been documented for several regions in the Near East.
23419219|The study of charcoal produced by five burning episodes that occurred in a rapid succession within a ritual pit dating to the late Iron Age at Raffin Fort, Co. Meath, Ireland, reveals considerable variation in the charcoal assemblages resulting from each burning episode. Wood selection processes are considered against the background of information on woodland composition and land-use history provided by a detailed pollen diagram from nearby Emlagh Bog, the chronology of which is based on both AMS 14C dates and tephra analysis. A human skull fragment lay on top of the charcoal layers but the radiocarbon evidence indicates that the skull predated the burnings by at least a century. This and other evidence indicate a ritual pit with the skull as a human relic. It is suggested that, in this instance, wood selection was neither random nor determined solely by availability or combustibility, but instead may have been informed by socio-religious belief systems pertaining to trees and wood. Early Irish documentary sources, which reveal a complex ethnography of wood and trees in later prehistoric and early historic Ireland, are reviewed. The results shed fresh light on aspects of late Iron Age archaeology in a part of Europe that was outside the direct influence of the Roman world. New information is provided on a distinctive feature in late Holocene Irish pollen records namely the Late Iron Age Lull (ca. A.D. 1500). During this time, widespread regeneration of woody vegetation took place. In the subsequent early Medieval period renewed farming activity resulted in substantial decline in woodland, a pattern also seen at many other locations in Ireland.
23419220|The High Weald is an unusually well-wooded area in southern England. A high proportion of this woodland is ancient, being formerly exploited as seasonal pasture and coppice. Multiple pollen profiles from the Rye area have been used to elucidate the origins of this cultural landscape. By combining sites with small and large pollen source areas, both local and regional patterns of vegetation change have been determined. The mid-Holocene Tilia-dominated woodlands were subjected to temporary clearance as early as the Neolithic. This woodland was more extensively exploited over a ca. 700 year period from the beginning of the Bronze Age. The main elements of the modern landscape (woodland, pasture and limited cultivation) can be traced back to a more intensive phase of human activity, which commenced in the late Bronze Age. A regional increase in Fagus sylvatica pollen ca. 750 B.C. probably reflects the use of the Wealden woods for pasturage. There is no palynological evidence that the fuel demands of the Roman iron industry resulted in widespread woodland destruction. The early Anglo-Saxon period appears to have been one of land-use continuity, with a second increase in Fagus pollen at ca. A.D. 700 corresponding to historical evidence for the presence of wood-pastures in the Weald.
23419221|Late medieval soot-coated thatch includes a number of very well preserved weeds as well as cereals or reeds. This paper investigates the weeds from the thatch roofs of 13 cottages from the south of England. It describes the exceptional preservation of the weeds which include plant parts rarely recorded in archaeological contexts and the information they can give about late medieval ecology and agronomy. One of the main implications of this study is the relation of this material to the usual archaeological samples and the possibility that remains of thatch may have been missed in past archaeobotanical investigations.
23419222|The results of a palynological analysis of the organic content of earthenware pots from the Kodiani burial mound (27th25th centuries B.C.) are reported. The character of the palynological spectrum differs significantly from that of a buried soil within the same burial mound. In the samples taken from the pots, pollen concentration is very high, pollen grains are perfectly preserved and an abundance of pollen from insect-pollinated plants is recorded. It is well known that these features are peculiar to honey palynospectra. In all three pots the pollen of Rosaceae, a family of plants that produce good honey, is dominant. However, the second, third and fourth most dominant pollen types in all three samples are different. For example, Tilia pollen is the second dominant in only one pot. In the second pot, Apiaceae and Poaceae are predominant, and in the third pot, Poaceae, both wild and cultural, is the second dominant. It is clear that the different pots contained different types of honey. The variety of honey types indicates highly developed bee-keeping in the Early Bronze Age. In the same regions of Georgia, agriculture was also highly developed. Wheat cultivation was very important. According to the palynospectra, the landscape and climate of this period were probably quite different to those of today.
23419223|In Japan, lacquered artifacts and remains of lacquer processing became common items in the early Jomon period beginning at ca. 6300 B.P. (ca. 5300 cal B.C.). However, there was no archaeobotanical evidence that Rhus verniciflua (lacquer tree), which is thought to be a prehistoric introduction from China on botanical grounds, grew in Japan until its distinction in wood structure from those of native Rhus species was clarified in 2004. Based on this new refinement in identification, 573 Rhus fossil woods so far reported from various archaeological sites in Japan were re-identified. The results showed that R. verniciflua commonly grew in middle to northern Honshu since the early Jomon period and that it may have been introduced from China with other cultivated plants before that time. During the Jomon period, R. verniciflua trees were used not just for lacquer collection, but also for building in the lowland which exploited their durability in waterlogged conditions.
23419169|This research compares palynological evidence for changes in land use histories with a geochemical method for reconstructing past soil erosion. Changes in land use have significant effects on soil erosion. It has been shown elsewhere that silicon (Si) and titanium (Ti) are good proxies for soil erosion. Ombrotrophic peat bogs are useful archives in which to measure Si and Ti depositions as they only receive inorganic erosional inputs through atmospheric deposition and they contain very low background levels of mineral matter. The correlation between geochemical and pollen analytical reconstructions of past human activity from three raised bog sites in Great Britain and Ireland is discussed here, with reference to examples from four particular time periods: the mid-to-late Bronze Age/Iron Age, the late Iron Age/Roman period, the Middle Ages/Tudor period and the more recent past. The results generally indicate a close correlation between the palynological and geochemical proxies, with the combination of both methods allowing a more comprehensive interpretation of the palaeoenvironmental record. Plantago lanceolata and Poaceae pollen frequencies appear to correlate particularly well with the geochemical proxies. A multi-proxy approach such as this may be particularly useful for identifying and interpreting low-level prehistoric human impact.
23419170|An interdisciplinary palaeoecological study in the low-alpine and subalpine zones of Val Febbraro, upper Valle di Spluga (Italy), between 1830 and 2304 m a.s.l., suggests the temporary presence of early Neolithic groups at about 6000 uncal B.P. Evidence for local woodland clearance and charcoal dust were found. Phases of woodland and treeline disturbances, and indications of increased human presence are evident at about 5500, 5100, and 4000 B.P. A marked increase in disturbance, mainly related to pasturing, is dated to the beginning of the Bronze Age. The last major stage of human impact on the vegetation coincides with the Final Bronze phase and the beginning of the Iron Age, with a small temporary reduction during the Roman period. 14C dated archaeological sites and finds are broadly concordant with the phases of human impact on the vegetation. A summary figure is presented. No locally significant climatic changes have been traced during the last 6000 years, and if present, they are probably overshadowed by the vegetational changes caused by human activity.
23419171|In 1998, an ancient shipping wharf was brought to light in Pisa, Italy. The shipwrecks found there showed human activity from the Etruscan to the late Roman Empire periods. Sandy sediments burying the ships and related materials show four main periods of catastrophic floods separated by thin muddy layers pointing to phases between flooding episodes. Pollen analyses in these fine grained deposits showed: 1) significant percentages of Abies and Fagus during the pre-Roman period; 2) elements of mixed oak woodland together with hygrophilous plants in pollen spectra dominated by herbs, in the Roman interflood deposits. On the whole, the pollen data show a vegetational change which may be attributed to different climatic conditions, supporting the hypothesis that the Roman period was warmer, even though a significant human influence cannot be excluded. Numerous fresh water genera suggest that the area was a poorly drained alluvial plain. Integration between pollen and sedimentological analyses allows some inferences on the dynamics of the warm Roman period and indicates that the warm climate was punctuated by centuryscale hydro-climatic crises triggering catastrophic floods.
23419172|Full analysis of eight seed samples collected in the 1960's excavations at Neolithic atalhyk East, Turkey, is presented. Detailed investigation of the composition and context of the samples suggests that the Neolithic population collected, processed and stored seeds from Capsella sp. and Descurainia sp. (wild crucifers) for food use. In addition seeds of Vicia/Lathyrus sp. (wild vetch), Helianthemum spp. and Taeniatherum caputmedusae mixed with Eremopyrum type (grasses) were also found, some of which may have been used for food or other purposes. The analysis demonstrates that wild seed exploitation was a regular part of subsistence practice alongside the economic staple of crop production, and again demonstrates how diverse plant use practices were at the site.
23419173|Archaeobotanical remains of Setaria grains and chaff were found at the Chengtoushan site in south-central China (ca. 5800 cal B.P.). Grain shape was determined, using length to breadth ratios, and morphological variation in the upper lemma of modern domesticated and wild Setaria species were examined using scanning electron microscopy as a basis for identifying archaeobotanical remains. Grains of S. viridis, S. yunnanensis, and S.  pycnocoma are slender, whereas S. italica, S. italica var. germinica, S. lutescenes, S. faberi, S. glauca, S. pallidefusca and S. intermedia are round in shape. The papillae distributed on the upper lemma of S. italica are small (815 m) with a non-ridged base, while other Setaria species have large papillae (1520 m) with a widely ridged base. The remains of the Setaria from the Neolithic layers at Chengtoushan included S. italica, based on these identification characters. These new finds of foxtail millet are the earliest discoveries from the Yangtze River basin of southern China and are also the earliest evidence for co-cultivation of foxtail millet with rice. The implications of these findings for understanding foxtail millet domestication centres are discussed.
23419176|Up to now there has been little archaeobotanical research on Gallo-Roman graveyards in Belgium. This paper presents the preliminary results of the investigation of the cremation graves of the graveyards at Tienen and Tongeren, dated from the first up to the beginning of the fourth century A.D., and respectively located in the provinces of Vlaams-Brabant and Limburg. The structures studied mainly consisted of pits containing secondary deposits of pyre debris, but a few busta (where cremation took place in situ in or above a pit) could be analysed as well. The results presented here will focus on the most conspicuous finds. The only bustum grave excavated in Tongeren proved to be extremely rich in remains of Lens culinaris (lentil), Vicia faba var. minor (Celtic bean) with some Vicia ervilia (bitter or lentil vetch), concentrated in the presumed area of the head of the deceased. Some of the graves in Tienen, on the other hand, contained some less frequently found taxa, as for example Vitis vinifera (grape), Olea europaea (olive), Pyrus communis (pear), Prunus insititia and/or domestica (plums, in the broad sense) and Cornus sanguinea (dogwood). Most graves however, showed a typical assemblage consisting of mainly pulses and cereals, commonly found in cremation graves. In that respect a certain similarity between both graveyards could be noticed, which is also reflected in the anthropological study.
23419177|The past and present occurrence of Elatine hydropiper L. (eight-stamened waterwort), E. hexandra (Lapierre) DC. (six-stamened waterwort) and E. triandra Schkuhr (three-stamened waterwort) in the Netherlands is discussed. It has proved possible to distinguish the slightly curved seeds of E. hexandra and E. triandra in subfossil material on morphological grounds. E. hexandra is the most common species at present, but subfossil finds are confined to Late-glacial and Pre-boreal sediments of one lake in the Pleistocene area of the Netherlands. Living plants of E. triandra have only been found in the Netherlands in 18381839, but there are 17 records from five archaeological sites, all located in the western Dutch estuarine area. Several of these sites also yielded E. hydropiper, archaeobotanically the most common species. The occurrence of E. triandra and E. hydropiper in the Netherlands seems to have been favoured by high summer temperatures. The ecological amplitude of this combination of species gives firm clues for the reconstruction of the environment, which must have been a freshwater tidal area. Since this type of environment is strongly threatened on a worldwide scale, the presence of these species in the past may also provide interesting information for present nature development projects in the Dutch estuarine area.
23419178|Brandwijk-Kerkhof (ca. 4600 to 3630 cal B.C.) is a Neolithic site, located on a river dune in the Dutch Rhine/Mass river area. The natural vegetation and human impact upon it have been investigated by analysis of pollen and macroremains from four cores that are located at increasing distances up to 20 m from the site. The relationship between the strength of human impact on the vegetation and the distance of the cores from the river dune has been investigated as well. The results show that the natural vegetation on top of the river dune consisted of deciduous woodland, while in the surrounding wetlands alder carr and eutrophic marsh vegetation dominated. Human impact of limited strength resulted in more open and disturbed vegetation. There is no correlation between the strength of the evidence of human impact in the pollen diagrams and the distance of the cores from the river dune. The evidence for presence of crop plants from the cores is compared with evidence from the excavation. The first presence of crop plants from ca. 4200 B.C. onwards corresponds with data from other Dutch wetland sites. Large-scale local crop cultivation cannot however be demonstrated.
23419179|Plant macrofossil analysis of soil samples from the grave-mound Skelhj, western Jutland in Denmark, showed that heather sods had been used as building material. The original vegetation horizon, which was still preserved within the sods allowed the reconstruction of the original vegetation cover of the Bronze Age landscape. It was therefore possible to determine the land-use systems of the Bronze Age societies there during the 14th century B.C. The sods derived from a dry to medium-dry heathland community previously used as pasture. Many grasses and herbs indicate that it was not a very well developed (or old) heathland that was used for the building material of the mound, but a newly re-established heath cover above an older one that had been burnt some years before the sod-cutting activities took place. Charred finds of roots, twig fragments, flowers and seeds of Calluna vulgaris L. (heather) dominated the plant spectrum. Cuscuta epithymum L. (dodder) was found in 31% of the sod samples. This parasitic plant is known for successfully spreading on burnt heather plants that have started to redevelop with new shoots.
23419180|Deciduous woodland can be reconstructed as the potential vegetation cover of most parts of the Chernozem (black earth) loess areas settled by the early Neolithic farmers of the Bandkeramik culture in the sixth millennium B.C. The character of the woodland as closed, with few light-demanding plants, or more open is very important for the potential of an agricultural system. Botanical results are not able to indicate the composition of the woods quantitatively, but they can give indirect hints. It is discussed whether these archaeobotanical results, in combination with the characteristics of the wild and domesticated herbivores identified, can be interpreted with regard to the density of the woodland cover in Neolithic times. The use of the floodplains as pasture is interpreted from pollen analytical results.
23419181|New investigations of two archaeobotanical finds are presented: a large assemblage of pure fruits of Polygonum lapathifolium from Bremen-Strom, Germany and the gut contents of a bog body from Kayhausen near Oldenburg, Germany. The general question is to find out for sure which herb species were intentionally gathered for human consumption. To accept species as such, they have to fulfil mainly two criteria: they must occur in large and pure assemblages, separated from other species, and they should occur regularly in the stomach or gut of dead bodies. To ensure this, the data from all bog bodies whose intestines have been examined were compiled and in addition to this, fossil assemblages of the species in question were put together. It turned out that apart from gathering in the wild, the collection of seeds and fruits from weeds in the process of crop cleaning was a major source of their edible diaspores. Obviously some common weeds, obtained in this way, were welcome as an addition to human diet and received the status of secondary cultivated plants. The following six species are regarded as having surely been deliberately collected and used in human diet: Polygonum lapathifolium, Chenopodium album, Spergula arvensis, Fallopia convolvulus, Bromus secalinus and Glyceria fluitans. Another two, Setaria sp. and Rumex acetosella probably complete this list.
23419182|Various sites in the valley of the Sant Cugat stream in Cerdanyola del Valls (Catalonia) were subject to systematic archaeobotanical sampling to obtain an overview of the crops and agriculture of the area during the Iron Age and late antiquity. In all cases, the most numerous taxa were crop plants. Among these, cereals were clearly predominant at all sites investigated, especially Hordeum vulgare var. vulgare (hulled barley) and Triticum aestivum/durum (bread or macaroni wheat), both in numbers and frequency. Other cereals, such as Triticum dicoccum (emmer) or Setaria italica (foxtail bristle-grass), were regularly present in considerably lower numbers but in fairly high frequencies. Pulses were much less numerous, although their presence increases in terms of frequency. Among them, clearly the best represented was Lens culinaris (lentil). The results show that the agriculture in the period considered was principally based on winter cereals, with a gradual substitution of hulled barley by bread/hard wheat, accompanied by other cereals of minor importance, led by Triticum dicoccum (emmer), and pulses. The appearance of Vitis (grapevine) in the Iberian period is one of the important characteristics of agriculture in the Iberian world.
23419183|The study of a granary excavated at the medieval site of l'Esquerda has increased our knowledge of agricultural practices and economy. To deepen this knowledge, an experimental project was started with the late P.J. Reynolds (Butser Ancient Farm, England). Since the start of the experiment, 15 years of harvests have been collected from four fields near the archaeological site, which were cultivated with the cereals of medieval times and with a simulation of medieval farming practices. Meteorological conditions are measured by an automatic weather station, and the results are compared with those obtained in England. The research, initially started to provide more insight into crop yields, was extended towards medieval crop storage practices. The granary excavated at l'Esquerda has now been rebuilt using medieval techniques. This has allowed us to answer many questions about medieval architecture, tools and Blacksmith's technology. Some underground pits were also dug. Experiments in crop storage using both systems are continuing.
23419184|At an excavation of the late medieval St Margaretha Convent in Leiden (The Netherlands), archaeobotanical results could be compared with historical data. Both wood and macroremains were analysed to reconstruct the local vegetation and seek evidence of the cultivation of plants. The historical sources available for this estate are a charter prepared in 1572, which listed all trees present just after the abandonment of the convent, and an illustration from 1574 of the convent and its grounds. The charter mentions Salix and Alnus as the most numerous trees present, followed by several other taxa. The archaeological evidence from the wood remains, mostly construction timber with a dominance of Quercus, shows the use of indigenous taxa and some non-indigenous material, which was partly re-used. It is possible that some of the Coniferae were very early home-grown specimens. The trees represented in the macroremains were most probably growing in the immediate vicinity. They specify some of the taxa found as wood or mentioned in the historical text. The identified cultivated plants could all have been grown locally. The vegetation is in general represented by ruderal taxa and plants growing in wet conditions, which form an assemblage typical of an abandoned rural area.
23419185|This paper deals with the botanical study of a family funerary enclosure located in the Porta Nocera necropolis in Pompeii (southwestern Italy). This study is part of a Franco-Italian programme investigating Roman funerary rituals. The choice of the context was due to the exceptional preservation of the archaeological features, which offered the opportunity to observe the remains of the proceedings which took place in a funerary enclosure in great detail. An adequate methodology had to be developed and a 3D recording of every single artefact or ecofact has been made. Both ground surfaces and graves provided botanical results. Those from the ground surfaces consisted mainly of fruit offering residues (especially fig and grape), while a much wider range of species was observed in the tombs, including cereals, pulses, other kinds of fruits, weeds and bread/pastry.
23419186|Botanical investigation of archaeological sites situated in the northwest of the region bounded by the rivers Maas, Scheldt and Demer ('MSD region'), west of the city of Breda, has provided a great deal of evidence about the landscape and its use in the period between 2000 B.C. and A.D. 1500. From pollen analysis, it appears that this cover-sand area gradually lost its woodlands through human activity after the beginning of the Bronze Age (ca. 2000 B.C.). Patches of woodland did survive there, however, until the early Middle Ages. In contrast to the cover-sand area in the vicinity of 's-Hertogenbosch and Oss-Ussen in the northeast of the MSD region, the first large heathlands in the Breda area did not evolve until the early Middle Ages. In late prehistory, land use in this area was not much different from that in the microregion of 's-Hertogenbosch and Oss-Ussen. In the Bronze Age, Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare (hulled six-row barley) and Triticum dicoccon (emmer wheat) were grown. During the Iron Age, Panicum miliaceum (common millet) and T. spelta (spelt wheat) were introduced, but these crops disappeared during the Roman period. The Roman period is remarkable because of the lack of any Mediterranean culinary herbs or exotic fruits. Only pollen of Juglans regia (walnut), found around the transition from the Roman period to the early Middle Ages, indicates the introduction of an exotic tree into the region. From the early Middle Ages onwards, Secale cereale (rye) was the most important cereal, which was grown as a winter crop. In the course of the Middle Ages, arable weeds of the Sclerantho annui-Arnoseridetum plant community appeared, which is associated with the continuous growing of rye.
23419187|The Kreftenheye Formation is a fluviatile deposit occurring in the central part of the Netherlands. The present study deals with the plant remains found in suction-dredged bulk samples from its largely Eemian Zutphen Member, a clayey sediment formerly known as the claypeat bed or the Salvinia bed. It reports the discovery of a large number of galls induced by the asexual generation of the currently southeast European oak gall wasp Andricus hungaricus. The associated plant remains include seeds, fruits, conifer cones, wood, spines, leaf fragments, buds, bud scales, stem fragments, bryophytes, sporangia, oospores, palynomorphs, galls, jet and amber. The palynomorph samples indicate the Late Eemian pollen zone E5b of the Carpinus phase as the origin of the galls, but the other macrofossils may have a wider stratigraphic range, including possibly also material from (a part) of the zones E3E5a. Several elements, such as Celtis, Chamaecyparis, Juglans, Magnolia and Pterocarya, date almost certainly from earlier interglacials. The list of plant remains is dominated by fresh water plants, riparian elements and ancient woodland taxa, which reflects the ecological range of the IJssel valley and adjacent ice-pushed ridges very well. Thermophilous elements include Brasenia schreberi, Buxus sempervirens, Cornus mas, Najas minor, Salvinia natans, Trapa natans and possibly also Andricus hungaricus. Quercus cerris, the probable host of the sexual generation of A. hungaricus was not found.
23419188|The Iron Age archaeobotanical record on the Iberian Peninsula shows how the Phoenician and Greek colonisers caused the indigenous Iberians to change the management of the agricultural resources and the crops which they grew. These colonisers also brought about the development of viticulture and olive cultivation. The importance of agricultural products in the trade network which was stimulated by the colonisers may have encouraged new farming systems, as well as surplus capacity in the native agriculture in the region.
23419189|Modern Triticum dicoccum and Triticum aestivum grains, with and without glumes, were subjected to experimental carbonisation under anoxic conditions. Experimental variables were the presence or absence of glumes, temperature, exposure time and heating rate. The maximum temperature was 600C, the time of exposure was 60 min and the heating rate between 1 and 100C/min. Length, width, area, mass loss and reflectance of uncarbonised and carbonised grains were measured as a function of the variables. The main effects of charring are an increase in width, decrease in length and formation of protrusions. Reflectance measurements allow for the determination of the temperature at which carbonisation occurred. The occurrence of protrusions on the pericarp, longitudinal imprints in the pericarp and concave flanks are observed and discussed. The calculated shape factor 100L/W is a useful tool for distinguishing between T. dicoccum and T. aestivum grains in samples that contain at least thirty specimens, but for single grains this method is problematic.
23419210|The introduction and development of cultivation in eastern Finland was studied by pollen and charcoal analysis of a palaeomagnetically dated sediment profile from Lake Orijrvi, in the vicinity of permanent prehistoric fields. The earliest changes of possibly anthropogenic origin are visible in the pollen data from 1630 B.C. onwards and indications of human impact become more evident from 500 B.C. onwards. According to finds of cereal pollen and AMS-dating of charred cereal grains from the oldest field layer, the onset of cultivation can be dated to the Merovingian period around A.D. 600. To a significant extent the pollen data reflect only the cultivation of Secale during the first 600 years. The marked intensification of agricultural activities including cultivation in permanent fields only becomes evident in the pollen data from about A.D. 1050 to 1080 onwards and the most intensive land use phase dates to A.D. 13001965. Archaeological and palaeoecological material indicate that swidden cultivation and permanent field cultivation were in use simultaneously during the late Iron Age. The combination of these techniques together with animal husbandry and hunting formed a subsistence strategy in the climatic border-zone outside the centres of the agricultural core areas.
23419211|Modern period long-term human and climatic impacts on a small mire in the Jura Mountains were assessed using testate amoebae, macrofossils and pollen. This multiproxy data analysis permitted detailed interpretations of local and regional environmental change and thus a partial disentanglement of the different variables that influence long-term mire development. From the Middle Ages until A.D. 1700 the mire vegetation was characterised by ferns, Caltha and Vaccinium, but then abruptly changed into the modern vegetation characterised by Cyperaceae, Potentilla and Sphagnum. The cause for this change was most probably deforestation, possibly enhanced by climatic cooling. A decrease in trampling intensity by domestic animals from A.D. 1950 onwards allowed Sphagnum growth and climatic warming in the A.D. 1980s and 1990s may have been responsible for considerable changes in the species composition. The mire investigated is an example of the rapid changes in mire vegetation and peat development that occurred throughout the central European mountain region during the past centuries as a result of changing climate and land-use practice. These processes are still active today and will determine the future development of high-altitude mires.
23419212|The paper presents results of the charcoal analysis from the lakeshore settlement of Chalain 4 in the French Jura (Dp. Franche-Comt), dated by dendrochronology from 3040 to 3000 BC. The investigated material comes from waterlogged organic layers (excluding fire events) where charcoals are assumed to be the residues of domestic fires only. The anthracological (charcoal) analysis reveals a complex domestic firewood management in balance with the social organisation and the technical and economic systems of the settlement. This firewood economy is characterised by the avoidance of wood species intended for other activities, such as building or foddering, and by the preferential use of wood less than 10 cm in diameter. The areas from which firewood was obtained are also connected to woodland clearance for cultivated land, which suggests that firewood was gathered along the paths, which were travelled daily.
23419213|Charcoal analysis was carried out as part of an interdisciplinary project focusing on the copper mining history of the former mining area of Schwaz and Brixlegg, a region pivotal as a copper source in prehistoric Europe. The goal was to use remains of carbonised wood to investigate environmental implications of prehistoric mining, as well as to gain new insight about the ancient mining technique of fire-setting. Charcoal samples from seven copper mining sites (Late Bronze Age to Early Iron Age) were analysed. The results reveal a strong preference for coniferous wood as fuel in fire-setting, but not in ore smelting/roasting processes. Species composition at the ore-processing sites indicates moderate forest degradation processes caused by human intervention.
23419214|Wood charcoal analysis from Kovacevo in southwest Bulgaria, one of the earliest Neolithic sites in southeastern Europe, provided information about the first stages of anthropogenic impact on vegetation during the Early Neolithic (61595630 cal B.C.). Deciduous oak was the most abundant and frequently used taxon in the wood charcoal assemblages. Cornus charcoal was also abundant, probably connected with the use of its twigs as building material in wattle and daub structures. The dominant deciduous oak forest was opened during the Kovacevo I period, as shown by evidence from the Kovacevo Ia and Kovacevo Ib occupation phases. Other types of vegetation, like Black pine (Pinus nigra) woodland, riverine forests and some sub-Mediterranean elements, were used only sporadically, indicating high and sustained availability of wood resources in the oak forests. Anthropogenic impacts were gradual, a pattern that matches contemporary studies elsewhere in the region.
23419215|Plant diaspores, tissues and wood are preserved in natural and anthropogenic sediments. Also, over the past centuries, plants have been collected in herbaria. These plant remains carry macroscopic and molecular information, making them a rich source for reconstructing past plant use, agriculture, diet or vegetationthey are thus proxies for past economies, ecology, migrations or trade. This article focuses on the application of ancient DNA analyses from plants excavated at Holocene archaeological sites. A short methodological section is added to illustrate possibilities and limitations of ancient DNA research in plants.
23419203|Pollen, microscopic charcoal, palaeohydrological and dendrochronological analyses are applied to a radiocarbon and tephrochronologically dated mid Holocene (ca. 85003000 cal B.P.) peat sequence with abundant fossil Pinus (pine) wood. The Pinus populations on peat fluctuated considerably over the period in question. Colonisation by Pinus from ca. 79007600 cal B.P. appears to have had no specific environmental trigger; it was probably determined by the rate of migration from particular populations. The second phase, at ca. 50004400 cal B.P., was facilitated by anthropogenic interference that reduced competition from other trees. The pollen record shows two Pinus declines. The first at ca. 62005500 cal B.P. was caused by a series of rapid and frequent climatic shifts. The second, the so-called pine decline, was very gradual (ca. 42003300 cal B.P.) at Loch Farlary and may not have been related to climate change as is often supposed. Low intensity but sustained grazing pressures were more important. Throughout the mid Holocene, the frequency and intensity of burning in these open PinusCalluna woods were probably highly sensitive to hydrological (climatic) change. Axe marks on several trees are related to the mid to late Bronze Age, i.e., long after the trees had died.
23419204|Pollen data from the Czech Republic was used to detect the early Holocene impact of hunter-gatherers on vegetation based on a selection of 19 early Holocene pollen profiles, complemented with archaeological information regarding the intensity of local and regional Mesolithic human habitation. Archaeological evidence was assigned to simple categories reflecting the intensity of habitation and distance from pollen sites. Multivariate methods (PCA and RDA) were used to determine relationships between sites and possible anthropogenic pollen indicators and to test how these indicators relate to the archaeological evidence. In several profiles the pollen signal was influenced by local Mesolithic settlement. Specific pollen types (e.g. Calluna vulgaris, Plantago lanceolata, Solanum and Pteridium aquilinum) were found to be significantly correlated with human activity. The role of settlement proximity to the investigation site, the statistical significance of pollen indicators of human activity, as well as the early occurrence of Corylus avellana and its possible anthropogenic dispersal, are discussed.
23419205|Archaeobotanical analysis has been used to reconstruct the nest and diet of a small rodent from the Classical period (first century B.C. to second century A.D.) and most probably from Greece. The nest was found in the hollow interior of a very valuable bronze statue of a young athlete, recovered from the waters of the Northern Adriatic and named the Croatian Apoxyomenos. Apoxyomenos was probably the cargo of a Roman ship on one of highly frequented sea routes in ancient times, along which, among other things, a highly developed trade in artworks was maintained. All plant remains were non-carbonised and mineralised; encrusted with metallic salts, especially of copper, and preserved in excellent condition. The nest itself (wisps of "straw" found in the hollow interior of the left forearm of the statue) was mainly composed of stems and leaves of grasses (Poaceae), but also of laurel (Laurus nobilis) leaves and other plant remains. Along with "straw", a further 837 individual plant remains were found and analysed and 41 different plant taxa were identified. Plant remains that presumably were part of the rodent's diet belong to various wild and cultivated plants which indicate various anthropogenic habitats probably situated somewhere on the edge of human settlement. From zoological analysis of bite marks found on fruit stones of cherry and olive, and of the potential rodent fauna in the area the statue was assumed to be in prior to becoming submerged, it was established that the rodent was most probably one of the taxa of the Mus domesticus group.
23419206|New wood charcoal data from two archaeological sites in western Anatolia (Kumtepe and Troy/anakkale province) enabled a review of earlier reconstruction of the mid-Holocene vegetation and land use patterns in the region. Multi-proxy data from archaeology, zooarchaeology and climatology are combined to evaluate the relationship of climate-induced and man-made environmental change for a period spanning the Late Neolithic to the Early Bronze Age (ca. 50002450 cal B.C.). During the first settlement period (Kumtepe A: ca. 50004600 cal B.C.) lush vegetation with high proportions of deciduous oak and pine prevailed, enabling the intense use of natural resources by the late Neolithic population, which use might be reflected in the first few representatives of maquis vegetation. A settlement hiatus at the site between roughly 4600 and 3500 cal B.C. includes a cooling event in the Aegean and may have supported persistence and/or development of open vegetation units. However, the hiatus may have ended with a period of regeneration of the vegetation. From Kumtepe B2 (ca. 3300 cal B.C.) onward, human impact becomes clearly visible, although the main woodland taxa continue to prevail. In all, environmental and economic dynamics between 5000 and 2300 cal B.C. in the Troad can be characterised as at least two alternating developmental sequences of climate-induced vegetation change and reinforcement of woodland degradation by human activity.
23419207|Charred plant remains from the sites of Tell Qaramel, Jerf el Ahmar, Dja'de and Tell 'Abr situated in northern Syria and dated to the tenth and ninth millennia cal B.C. demonstrate that a wide variety of wild pulses, cereals, fruits and nuts was exploited. Five lines of evidence suggest that cultivation was practised at three of the sites. (1) Wild einkorn, wild rye and lentils occur outside their natural habitats. (2) The founder crops barley, emmer and single-grained einkorn appear at different times. (3) An assemblage of weeds of cultivation was identified. (4) There is a gradual decrease in gathered plants such as small seeded grasses and Polygonum/Rumex. (5) Barley grains increase in breadth and thickness. Morphological domestication did not become established, perhaps because seed stock was regularly collected from wild stands. Charred rodent droppings indicate large-scale grain storage.
23419208|A 3.4 m core was obtained for paleoecological analysis from Naja Lake in the Lacandon region of southeastern Mexico. This is the first study of the Lacandon area aimed at reconstructing late Holocene environmental history. The basal section of the core yielded an AMS date of 2020 14C years B.P. The Naja pollen record shows that the lower montane rain forest characterized by Moraceae, Mimosoideae, Leguminosae and Combretaceae/Melastomataceae, coexisted with a pine-oak forest throughout the late Holocene. No Zea mays pollen was found during routine pollen counts, but the presence of both secondary pollen taxa and abundant charcoal particles suggest some degree of regional human impact. A marked increase in Pinus pollen, together with a reduction in lower montane rain forest taxa, is interpreted as evidence for a strong, protracted drought from 1260 to 730 14C years B.P.
23419161|Chilika Lake is the largest lagoon in Asia, situated in the state of Orissa in India. In the year 2000, many surface samples and cores were taken. Here the lithological results and especially those of the pollen analysis are shown. The oldest sediments of core CHI 9 were dated at about 13,500 cal years B.P. At this time the area of Chilika Lake was a river or a river delta with fresh water vegetation. With the increase in the sea level after about 9,500 cal years B.P. the area became an estuary with mangrove vegetation. Small variations in the sea level between about 5,000 and 2,500 cal years B.P. are not visible in our pollen profile. However the regression after about 2,000 cal years B.P. caused the formation of a barrier spit and sand ridges with the consequence that a big lagoon was formed, Chilika Lake. Marine influence diminished and the fresh water impact from the rivers increased. Mangrove vegetation disappeared and was replaced by fresh water vegetation.
23419162|Pinus wood remains some 7,400 years old are abundantly preserved near the base of eroding peat at Clashgour, west of Loch Tulla on Rannoch Moor in western Scotland. Measurements are presented of the orientations of root systems in 42 in situ stumps, the direction of fall in 27 fallen trunks and the orientation (where direction of fall cannot be defined) in 40 fallen trunks. There are statistically significant orientations in the root systems, which suggests that the root structure of the trees had responded to stress from westerly winds. However, despite this the orientations and directions of fall in tree trunks, also statistically significant, show that many trees were probably blown over by strong westerly winds. The data suggest that increased precipitation and accelerated paludification are less likely explanations for tree loss at this site than a sudden demise through wind-throw.
23419163|The Italian and Balkan peninsulas have been places traditionally highlighted as Pleistocene glacial refuges. The Iberian Peninsula, however, has been a focus of controversy between geobotanists and palaeobotanists as a result of its exclusion from this category on different occasions. In the current paper, we synthesise geological, molecular, palaeobotanical and geobotanical data that show the importance of the Iberian Peninsula in the Western Mediterranean as a refugium area. The presence of Aesculus aff. hippocastanum L. at the Iberian site at Cal Guardiola (Tarrasa, Barcelona, NE Spain) in the LowerMiddle Pleistocene transition helps to consolidate the remarkable role of the Iberian Peninsula in the survival of tertiary species during the Pleistocene. The palaeodistribution of the genus in Europe highlights a model of area abandonment for a widely-distributed species in the Miocene and Pliocene, leading to a diminished and fragmentary presence in the Pleistocene and Holocene on the southern Mediterranean peninsulas. Aesculus fossils are not uncommon within the series of Tertiary taxa. Many appear in the Pliocene and suffer a radical impoverishment in the LowerMiddle Pleistocene transition. Nonetheless some of these tertiary taxa persisted throughout the Pleistocene and Holocene up to the present in the Iberian Peninsula. Locating these refuge areas on the Peninsula is not an easy task, although areas characterised by a sustained level of humidity must have played an predominant role.
23419164|A palynological and sedimentological investigation of two lake sediment cores retrieved from Bafa Gl (western Turkey) was carried out as a contribution to the environmental history of the lower Byk Menderes river valley during the later Holocene. Woods of mainly deciduous oak represent the climax vegetation around Bafa Gl. Human impact on the ecosystem, starting at the latest during the so-called "Beyehir occupation phase" in the late second millennium B.C., resulted in the transition to open woodland and maquis scrub. Local settlement phases such as woodland clearance and associated erosion/accumulation features can be detected by pollen as well as sedimentological analyses. The strongest human impact can be detected at the time of the Greek period in the seventh to first century B.C. and especially during the Roman period in the first century B.C. until the fourth century A.D., when sedimentation was 56 times greater than in the periods before and after.
23419165|Archaeobotanical research, ethnographic observations and laboratory experiments are put together to create model sequences of olive processing, which are developed, presented and explored as an aid for the interpretation of rich archaeobotanical assemblages of Olea. We conclude that the remains of different processing stages are reasonably distinctive in the archaeobotanical record and assist in the identification of different types of olive remains, such as fragmented olive stones, the inner kernels, and fruit flesh
23419166|The Hellenistic farm site of Tria Platania in Macedonia, Greece, has revealed large quantities of charred olive remains, indicative of olive oil production from the fourth to the second century B.C. There, besides stones (the endocarp), new archaeobotanical elements such as olive pulp and flesh (the mesocarp) and kernels (the seed) were recovered for the first time in the archaeobotanical record in Greece. It is the purpose of this paper to present some of the material recovered from Tria Platania and interpret it in the light of developed model sequences of olive processing. In addition, Olea assemblages from other Greek sites are discussed in which Olea remains have been interpreted in various ways.
23419167|The study of plant macro-remains from archaeological sites provides substantial information on the activities occurring in a settlement and living conditions during its occupation. This article reports the plant macro-remains (charred seeds and wood charcoal) recovered from a rock shelter in the temperate forests of southern Chile (Latitude 39S). The main goal of the study was to assess the potential of these remains to indicate collection, use and consumption of plant resources available in this ecosystem by hunter-gatherer groups during the Holocene. Remains from three cultural periods were collected using wet sieving and flotation techniques. Macro-botanical remains found in the rock shelter represented a variety of native trees, shrubs and herbs, both native and introduced. Charred seeds included 19 plant taxa, divided into three groups according to their source: collected foods, including pulses (1 species) and grains (3 taxa, 1 probably cultivated); seeds introduced with food items, including fruit stones and nutshells from several native shrubs and trees; seeds introduced with non-food items, mainly from tree species with no evident use. Wood charcoal fragments represented 28 different native taxa (26 dicotyledons, 1 monocotyledon and 1 gymnosperm), none with a specific identifiable use. Analysis of seed remains indicated the use of grains and, to some extent, collection of fruits and nuts over summer and autumn. The analysis of dispersed charcoal fragments and those accumulated in hearths were especially useful to describe the vegetation surrounding the rock shelter, infer successional events, and identify taxa undetectable in the seed record.
23419726|Information on past land cover in terms of absolute areas of different landscape units (forest, open land, pasture land, cultivated land, etc.) at local to regional scales is needed to test hypotheses and answer questions related to climate change (e.g. feedbacks effects of land-cover change), archaeological research, and nature conservancy (e.g. management strategy). The palaeoecological technique best suited to achieve quantitative reconstruction of past vegetation is pollen analysis. A simulation approach developed by Sugita (the computer model POLLSCAPE) which uses models based on the theory of pollen analysis is presented together with examples of application. POLLSCAPE has been adopted as the central tool for POLLANDCAL (POLlen/LANdscape CALibration), an international research network focusing on this topic. The theory behind models of the pollenvegetation relationship and POLLSCAPE is reviewed. The two model outputs which receive greatest attention in this paper are the relevant source area of pollen (RSAP) and pollen loading in mires and lakes. Six examples of application of POLLSCAPE are presented, each of which explores a possible use of the POLLANDCAL tools and a means of validating or evaluating the models with empirical data. The landscape and vegetation factors influencing the size of the RSAP, the importance of pollen productivity estimates (PPEs) for the model outputs, the detection of small and rare patches of plant taxa in pollen records, and quantitative reconstructions of past vegetation and landscapes are discussed on the basis of these examples. The simulation approach is seen to be useful both for exploring different vegetation/landscape scenarios and for refuting hypotheses.
23419727|The need for quantification of land cover from pollen data has led to the development of a Landscape Reconstruction Algorithm (LRA). The LRA includes several models of which the REVEALS model estimates regional vegetation abundance using pollen assemblages from large sites (lakes or bogs). In this paper we explore the effects of selection and number of pollen samples, and choice of pollen productivity estimates on the REVEALS results. The effect of the size of vegetation surveys is also tested. The results suggest that the differences between two sizes of vegetation surveys have little effect on the model validation. The "characteristic radius" of regional vegetation in southern Sweden was estimated as 200 km. However, the vegetation composition in a 100  100 km2 square matches well with that estimated by REVEALS. Whether 25, 20 (outliers excluded) or 4 pollen samples are used does not change the REVEALS reconstructions much although the error estimates are larger when outliers are included, and very large when only four samples are used. Therefore validation of the REVEALS model and REVEALS reconstructions of past vegetation can be performed using a limited number of pollen samples, although with caution. The use of many pollen samples from multiple sites is always better whenever possible. REVEALS reconstructions are closer to the actual vegetation when the Danish Pollen Productivity Estimates (PPEs) are used instead of the Swedish PPEs for Cereals, Rumex acetosa/acetosella, Plantago lanceolata and Calluna, indicating that the Danish PPEs are more reliable than the Swedish ones for those taxa. It is recommended to test more than one set of PPEs in validation and applications of the REVEALS model for a better evaluation of the results.
23419728|Information on the spatial distribution of past vegetation on local, regional and global scales is increasingly used within climate modelling, nature conservancy and archaeology. It is possible to obtain such information from fossil pollen records in lakes and bogs using the landscape reconstruction algorithm (LRA) and its two models, REVEALS and LOVE. These models assume that reliable pollen productivity estimates (PPEs) are available for the plant taxa involved in the quantitative reconstructions of past vegetation, and that PPEs are constant through time. This paper presents and discusses the PPEs for 15 tree and 18 herb taxa obtained in nine study areas of Europe. Observed differences in PPEs between regions may be explained by methodological issues and environmental variables, of which climate and related factors such as reproduction strategies and growth forms appear to be the most important. An evaluation of the PPEs at hand so far suggests that they can be used in modelling applications and quantitative reconstructions of past vegetation, provided that consideration of past environmental variability within the region is used to inform selection of PPEs, and bearing in mind that PPEs might have changed through time as a response to climate change. Application of a range of possible PPEs will allow a better evaluation of the results.
23419729|Relevant source area of pollen (RSAP) and pollen productivity for 11 key taxa characteristic of the pasture woodland landscape of the Jura Mountains, Switzerland, were estimated using pollen assemblages from moss polsters at 20 sites. To obtain robust pollen productivity estimates (PPEs), we used vegetation survey data at a fine spatial-resolution (1  1 m2) and randomized locations for sampling sites, techniques rarely used in palynology. Three Extended R value (ERV) submodels and three distance-weighting methods for plant abundance calculation were applied. Different combinations of the submodels and distance-weighting methods provide slightly different estimates of RSAP and PPEs. Although ERV submodel 1 using 1/d (d = distance in meters) best fits the dataset, PPE values for heavy pollen types (e.g. Abies) were sensitive to the method used for distance-weighting. Taxon-specific distance-weighting methods, such as Prentice's model, emphasize the intertaxonomic differences in pollen dispersal and deposition, and are thus theoretically sound. For the dataset obtained in this project, Prentice's model was more appropriate than other distance-weighting methods to estimate PPEs. Most of the taxa have PPEs equal to (Fagus, Plantago media and Potentilla-type), or higher (Abies, Picea, Rubiaceae and Trollius europaeus) than Poaceae (PPE = 1). Acer, Cyperaceae, and Plantago montana-type are low pollen producers. This set of PPEs will be useful for reconstructing heterogeneous, mountainous pasture woodland landscapes from fossil pollen records. The RSAP for moss polsters in this semi-open landscape region is ca. 300 m.
23419730|We simulated pollen assemblages for 11 sites on the Swiss Plateau (Schweizer Mittelland) based on a low resolution land cover map and pollen productivity estimates (PPE) from this region. A comparison between observed and simulated pollen data demonstrated that the majority of the simulated pollen proportions were within a range of 5% of over- or underestimation, and that at eight of the 11 sites the dominant taxon was correctly estimated. The modelled sum of arboreal pollen was correct within 11% at nine sites. Our results indicate that the PPE established for the Swiss Plateau can be used to simulate pollen assemblages with reasonable accuracy. Moreover, our results justify the use of the POLLSCAPE simulation using the Prentice-Sugita model and its variations of pollen dispersal and deposition in more complex topographic landscapes than those to which they have hitherto been applied.
23419731|Understanding the characteristics of pollen dispersal and deposition of different plant taxa is crucial to accurately reconstructing past landscapes using fossil pollen data. Quantitative reconstruction of past landscapes from pollen data using the Prentice-Sugita approach requires estimates of fall speed and relative pollen productivity for all taxa modelled. This study presents estimates of pollen productivity and fall speeds for key southern African savanna taxa, providing a basis for the improved interpretation of fossil pollen records from this extensive and heterogeneous biome. The work was carried out in 5 steps. (1) Modern pollen assemblages from 34 surface sediment samples were analysed. (2) Vegetation around each sampling site was surveyed in concentric circles to a radius of 50 m, and data from existing park surveys were analysed to extend the survey distance to 5 km. (3) Fall speeds for the main pollen taxa were estimated using Stoke's Law of particle settling velocity. (4) Vegetation data were weighted using three different distance-weightings, one incorporating the different particle fall speeds. (5) Extended R-Value analysis was carried out on the pollen and distance-weighted plant abundance datasets using HUMPOL software to estimate relevant source area and relative pollen productivity for the main pollen taxa present. Results showed the Relevant Source Area of Pollen surrounding the sites to be 600900 m radius, and Poaceae/Cyperaceae were found to be twice as productive (PPE 2.03) as the arboreal taxa analysed (PPE 0.500.99). The problems encountered in calculating pollen productivity estimates in savanna environments are discussed and improvements for future studies are suggested.
23419732|Quantitative pollen-based land-cover reconstruction covering the last 4,000 years was performed using transformation coefficients derived from a modern pollen land-cover database and a palynological record from an annually laminated sequence in Lake Ruge Tugjrv. Proportions of four land-cover classes characteristic of cultural landscape were reconstructed: habitation area, arable land, grassland and woodland. A land-use change model using CA_Markov analysis was applied for spatial reconstructions for seven periods: 600 B.C., A.D. 300, 800, 1200, 1700, 1870 and 1940. Historical maps from A.D. 1684, 18701899 and 1935 were used for calibration of quantitative estimates and to validate spatial reconstructions. The accuracy of the estimates depends on the availability of modern analogues and differs among land-cover classes, being highest for classes with directly connectable pollen indicator types (arable land, forest) and lowest for settlement areas. Spatial reconstructions produced by the CA_Markov land-cover change model show moderate accordance with historical data. However, the large uncertainties in land-cover input data must be considered in the evaluation of the KIA results of the spatial model. Permanent low intensity, rural land-use in the Ruge area started at the beginning of the Bronze Age (c. 1800 B.C.). The major increase in the extent of rural land-use took place at the beginning of the 13th century and culminated during the 19th century when c. 90% of the RSAP of Ruge Tugjrv was open. During the last century, rural land-use decreased constantly.
23419733|Recent developments in pollen modelling and landscape reconstruction have the potential to have a profound impact on our understanding of landscape change related to human activity. Initial findings have already revealed the weaknesses of a number of key assumptions previously made about pollenlandscape relationships. Close interrelationships exist between landscape reconstruction based on pollen analysis and archaeology, and model-based developments raise a range of pertinent issues for both disciplines. These include the way in which past vegetation patterning is conceptualised (the patch vs. the matrix), the nature of the underlying physical environment in vegetation placement, the development of hypothesis-led approaches and the scale of landscapes under consideration. This paper discusses these issues, and also raises questions concerning the meaning of landscape. It may be erroneous to term pollen-based reconstructions as landscapes given the heavily charged meaning of the word as understood by companion and end user disciplines.
23419734|The New Forest is one of the most visited regions of Britain. It has recently been designated a National Park in recognition of its unique wood pasture ecosystems, a traditional land-use system, its magnificent scenery and recreational potential, and its biodiversity importance. The Forest's highly prized Ancient and Ornamental (A&O) woodlands are a result of complex interactions among human activities of several kinds and the ecology of the dominant speciesbeech and oakunder the climate conditions of the last one to two millennia. Major changes in management practices over the 20th century, combined with the historical imprint of previous centuries of use, have set the A&O woodlands on a trajectory that means their nature and appearance will inevitably change over the coming decades. When the potential stresses that will be imposed by 21st century climate change are also considered, it will be challenging to find a management strategy to maintain A&O woodlands in their present form. Beech, which owes its current dominance largely to human disturbances of the woodland ecosystem, will be particularly stressed under future conditions. Future conservation policies, and hence management strategies, must be flexible as to the species composition and structure of future woodlands. However, the wide range of users and their different values add further complexity to forest management, and managers must also focus on issues of public perception. For example visitors idealize current landscapes, and this exerts a pressure to maintain the status quo as far as appearance is concerned that will be hard to achieve in practice. Management strategies will be greatly constrained unless conflicts about values and uses are resolved.
23419735|The aim of this paper is to discuss implications of different resolution scales of both time and space in studies of past land use and past vegetation, both historical and palaeoecological. The paper gives examples of short term-variation, long-term changes, small spatial scale differences and regional differences in land use, studied through historical sources in four regions in south central Sweden. It also discusses the difficulty of interpretation of forest vegetation in old cadastral maps. Historical sources can show dynamics on the fine temporal and spatial scales that are difficult to capture with pollen analysis. On the other hand, pollen analysis has unique possibilities for the study of time periods where historical records are lacking. Therefore the combination of several disciplines is likely to be productive in aiding understanding past land use and vegetation. However, there are important limitations in using the information in cadastral maps and other historical sources to interpret and quantify past vegetation.
23419736|The rarefaction technique is applied to two Holocene pollen sequences (covering the last 12,000 calendar years) from two lakes in southern Sweden. One represents an open agricultural landscape, the other a partly wooded and less cultivated landscape. The inferred palynological richness is interpreted as an approximate measure of floristic diversity at the landscape scale. The overall trend is an increased diversity from the mid-Holocene to the Modern period, which is linked to a parallel rise in human impact. The pattern is similar for the two sites with peaks corresponding to archaeological periods characterised by deforestation and expanding settlement and agriculture. The highest diversity was reached during the Medieval period, about A.D. 1,0001,400. Declining diversity during the last 200 years characterises the agrarian landscape. These results confirm, for southern Scandinavia, the "intermediate disturbance" hypothesis for biodiversity at the landscape scale and on millennial to century time scales. They have implications for landscape management in modern nature conservation that has the purpose of maintaining and promoting biodiversity.
23419737|New methodologies using Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and statistical tools were developed to provide new elements to the interpretation of fossil pollen records on the large spatial scale of north-western France. The originality of these methods lies in the analysis of the spatial distribution of the archaeobotanical data in order to identify correlations with other spatial parameters such as geological, climatic, pedological, topographical and archaeological characteristics. 218 pollen analyses from north-western France and a series of thematic maps (geological, archaeological, climatic, etc.) were used. The application of numerical analyses makes it possible to describe the spatial distribution of pollen data at a regional scale, and to identify spatial correlations between pollen data and other environmental parameters, and between archaeobotanical groups, archaeological and abiotic parameters simultaneously. Two examples are presented and discussed: (A) The spatial distributions of the predominance of hazel over oak between 6700 and 5700 cal B.P. and of modern precipitation are shown to be positively correlated, i.e. hazel is dominant in the most humid areas of the region. (B) The pollen data from the Bronze Age show associations of (1) pollen groups ascribed to meadows, shrubland, and forests with cooler temperatures, higher altitudes and northern latitudes, and (2) pollen groups ascribed to moor environments and anthropogenic vegetation with warmer temperatures, southern latitudes and lower altitudes. The latter implies that the agricultural landscapes of the Bronze Age were mainly confined to southern latitudes and low altitudes of the region, while the areas characterised by high altitudes and low temperatures were characterised by extensive activities such as grazing by cattle.
23419738|Palaeoecological data are compared with output from climate-driven forest simulation models to separate human influence as a driver of vegetation dynamics from other drivers such as climatic change. The transition from Tilia cordata to Fagus sylvatica dominance in a small forest hollow in Denmark was not predicted by a climate-driven forest simulation model and could be ascribed to anthropogenic impact. This transition can be upscaled to a large region of north-west Europe and contributes to a data-model mismatch for the European distribution of Fagus 6,000 years ago. A data-model mismatch for Picea abies during the last few centuries in southern Scandinavia can also be attributed to anthropogenic impact. Combining pollen data and vegetation models can help with the important task of upscaling from the scale of the forest stand, where anthropogenic impact is readily detectable, to regions and continents, where it is more challenging to distinguish anthropogenic impact from the impacts of climatic change.
23419739|Humanity has become a major player within the Earth system, particularly by transforming large parts of the land surface and by altering the gaseous composition of the atmosphere. Deforestation for agricultural purposes started thousands of years ago and might have resulted in a detectable human influence on climate much earlier than the industrial revolution. This study presents a first attempt to estimate the impact of human land-use on the global carbon cycle over the last 6,000 years. A global gridded data set for the spread of permanent and non-permanent agriculture over this time period was developed and integrated within the Lund-Potsdam-Jena Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (LPJ-DGVM). The model was run with and without human land-use, and the difference in terrestrial carbon storage was calculated as an estimate of anthropogenic carbon release to the atmosphere. The modelled total carbon release during the industrial period (A.D. 18501990) was 148 gigatons of carbon (GtC), of which 33 GtC originated from non-permanent agriculture. For pre-industrial times (4000 B.C.A.D. 1850), the net carbon release was 79 GtC from permanent agriculture with an additional 35 GtC from non-permanent agriculture. The modelled pre-industrial carbon release was considerably lower than would be required for a substantial influence on the climate system.
23419750|Despite being rich in later prehistoric and historic archaeology that includes megalithic monuments, Bronze age copper mines and medieval castles, the Mizen Peninsula, south-west Ireland, has revealed little about its stone age past. Evidence for a Mesolithic presence in SW Ireland is rare and, to date, all archaeological finds of this age in Co. Cork are further north and east of the Mizen Peninsula. However a recent palaeoecological study of pollen, non-pollen palynomorph, plant macrofossil and microscopic charcoal data from a peat bog located near Mount Gabriel has provided evidence for disturbances, characterised by fire disturbance of woodland and exploitation of wetlands, since ca. 8400 years B.P. Two working hypotheses are considered to explain these disturbances: human activity or natural agencies. If the human activity hypothesis is accepted, they represent the first possible evidence of a Mesolithic presence on the Mizen Peninsula.
23419751|Analyses of pollen, macrofossils and microscopic charcoal in the sediment of a small sub-alpine lake (Karakol, Kyrgyzstan) provide new data to reconstruct the vegetation history of the Kungey Alatau spruce forest during the late-Holocene, i.e. the past 4,000 years. The pollen data suggest that Picea schrenkiana F. and M. was the dominant tree in this region from the beginning of the record. The pollen record of pronounced die-backs of the forests, along with lithostratigraphical evidence, points to possible climatic cooling (and/or drying) around 3,800 cal year B.P. and between 3,350 and 2,520 cal year B.P., with a culmination at 2,8002,600 cal B.P., although stable climatic conditions are reported for this region for the past 3,0004,000 years in previous studies. From 2,500 to 190 cal year B.P. high pollen values of P. schrenkiana suggest rather closed and dense forests under the environmental conditions of that time. A marked decline in spruce forests occurred with the onset of modern human activities in the region from 190 cal year B.P. These results show that the present forests are anthropogenically reduced and represent only about half of their potential natural extent. As P. schrenkiana is a species endemic to the western Tien Shan, it is most likely that its refugium was confined to this region. However, our palaeoecological record is too recent to address this hypothesis thoroughly.
23419752|The rapid spread of pine forests on the western side of the Pieria Mountains (N. Greece) began in 1945 and was facilitated by the recession of human activity and the siliceous geological substrate of the area. The pine expansion is visible not only in the vegetation maps for the years 1945, 1960 and 1992 but is also reflected in pollen data acquired from the high resolution analysis of a peat sequence covering the period 19451997, according to 210Pb and 137Cs dating. A possible inflation of the calculated PAR values due to discrepancies in the dating model is suspected and indirectly traced from the comparison of the Pinus mean PAR values for the most recent eight years of the monolith with those of a Tauber trap placed in the same mire. The presence of a high pollen producer such as pine enables the calculation of reliable PAR values, despite any discrepancies in the age-depth model. The Pinus PAR values "quantify" better the expansion of this timberline species, while pollen percentages reflect the same event in a "qualitative" way, i.e. as part of the general vegetation changes that take place in the area.
23419753|New pollen results and radiocarbon dating from a valley mire in south-western Spain are presented. This is a region where few palaeoecological records have been preserved and the sequence yields important new palaeobotanical evidence for the late Holocene. The landscape is shown as having been largely open woodland, but more wooded than at present. The vegetation history of the last four millennia in these montane territories of south-western Iberia is discussed in the light of anthropogenic indicators, archaeological and documentary archives; fire incidence and climate change. Alnus is the predominant pollen type, although a decline is noted during the last couple of centuries. Its presence is connected with local topography behaving as a phreatophyte, that is, a plant which obtains a significant amount of water from the zone of saturated soil. A framework is also provided for the age and ecological dynamics of some major woodland taxaBetula, Corylus, Ilex, evergreen and deciduous oaks, Ericaceae and Pinus. In addition, the natural status of several pollen taxa and local trends in biodiversity are discussed. We consider that the results of our work will have important implications for the understanding of the vegetation history in a floristically very rich area, with a noticeable diversity of woody taxa, and a relatively well preserved ecosystem structure.
23419754|The palaeoenvironment of a former coastal lagoon in the south eastern Iberian Peninsula (San Rafael, Almeria, Spain) were inferred from one core analyzed for particulate organic matter content (POM) together with its C/N, 13C, 15N to depict the biogeochemical record from the Late Glacial to the Holocene. The results, complemented by previously reported pollen assemblages, indicate the appearance of a freshwater lagoon at 7300 B.P. (uncalibrated 14C age), its salinization at 6200 B.P. and its disappearance at 4400 B.P. The period of existence of the lagoon coincided with a period of wetter conditions as inferred from terrestrial vegetation. The lagoon's salinization was not related to a decrease in precipitation but to a stronger maritime influence since there were no parallel changes in terrestrial vegetation. Salinization caused an increase in 13C, associated with a higher relative presence of C4 plants, and an increase in 15N, due to a decrease in plant N demand. The late period of the lagoon, from about 5100 to 4400 B.P., shows a progressive drying and salinization not detected in isotopes but reflected in a decrease in POM, and in the pollen records. Increases in 15N were related to increases in salinity within the lagoon, and are indicative of a more open N cycle, because the absence of changes in terrestrial vegetation rules out changes in the catchment area as the cause for changes in 15N.
23419755|A collection of subfossil wood of Pinus sylvestris (Scots pine) was exposed to X-ray densitometry. The collection of 64 samples from the southern boreal forest zone was dendrochronologically cross-dated to A.D. 673-1788. Growth characteristics were determined by performing density profiles including the following parameters: minimum density, earlywood and latewood boundary density, maximum density, earlywood width, earlywood density, latewood width, latewood density, annual ring width and annual ring density. Seven out of the nine parameters were found to contain non-climatic growth trends and six were found to be heteroscedastic in their variance. Tree-specific records were indexed, to remove the non-climatic growth trends and stabilize the variance, and combined into nine parameter-specific tree-ring chronologies. Growth characteristics of the pines changed in parallel with the generally agreed climatic cooling from the Medieval Warm Period to the Little Ice Age: pine tree-rings showed decreasing maximum densities from the period A.D. 975-1150 to A.D. 14501625. A concomitant change in the intra-annual growth characteristics was detected between these periods. The findings indicate that not only the trees growing near the species' distributional limits are sensitive to large-scale climatic variations but also the trees growing in habitats remote from the timberline have noticeably responded to past climate changes.
23419756|A pollen record obtained from a 2.2-m sediment succession deposited in a small lake in the province of Vsterbotten, north-eastern Sweden, reveals the presence of continuous forest cover since 8,500 calendar years before present (cal B.P.). Forest with abundant Pinus (pine) and Betula (birch) initially colonized the area, followed by a dominance of deciduous trees, primarily Betula, from ca. 8,000 to ca. 3,200 cal B.P. Pollen accumulation rates of Quercus (oak), Ulmus (elm) and Tilia (linden) suggest the possible local presence of these thermophilous tree species during this period. The climate gradually became colder and moister around 3,500 cal B.P. and an increased abundance of Sphagnum spores indicates paludification. Picea (spruce) became established around 3,200 cal B.P. and less than 500 years later this was the dominant tree species around the lake. The fire frequency as inferred from charcoal particles exhibits a general increase from ca. 3,000 cal B.P. with subsequent charcoal accumulation maxima at around 2,800 cal B.P., 1,700 cal B.P. and in recent time. The human influence on vegetation was significant during the last 200300 years. Soil erosion increased substantially and fern spores amount to ca. 55% of the total pollen assemblage in the uppermost samples. These results suggest an extensive anthropogenic impact on the local forest ecosystem, with abundant logging, burning and ditching in the vicinity of the lake. Independent evidence of sub-recent human-induced environmental change is provided by historical accounts. Complementary information on catchment soil development and aquatic nutrient status was provided by records of magnetic susceptibility and elemental carbon, and nitrogen contents obtained from the same sediment core.
23419757|Five pollen diagrams representing the upper Holocene vegetation and its anthropogenic changes are presented and evaluated. They come from small spring fens in the Czech (Moravian) and Slovak borderland. The northern part of the region (the Beskydy Mts) had natural, precultural forests with either coniferous trees (Picea abies and Abies alba) or mixed with Fagus sylvatica. In the southern part of the region (the Bl Karpaty Mts) forests dominated by Fagus mixed with Acer, Fraxinus and Ulmus prevailed, whereas conifers were almost absent, although in a central, transitional region (northern Bl Karpaty Mts) Abies was locally abundant in relatively humid places. Medieval colonisation deforested their lower areas and foothills in the course of the 11th13th centuries and transformed the original mixed oak forests into fields and meadows, but the mountain forests were little affected. In the Beskydy Mts in the north, the Walachian colonisation of the 16th and 17th centuries transformed parts of the mountain forests into meadows, pasture and farmlands. Most remaining woodlands were transformed during the last two centuries into spruce plantations. In the Bl Karpaty Mts in the south, the Walachian transformation of mountain forests had already started by the 15th century.
23419758|A temperate peatland located in the St. Lawrence lowlands (Southern Qubec) was studied in order to specify the past influence of natural and anthropogenic disturbances on its postglacial development. Seven profiles were analysed for pollen, macroremains, microfossils, macro- and microcharcoal, and loss-on-ignition. Fire incidence was important between 9300 and 8200 cal B.P. and during the last 300 years. The Early Holocene fires were contemporaneous with local waterlogged conditions, which prevented the destruction of peat. In contrast, the effects of the recent fires were enhanced by surface dryness resulting from the creation of at least six successive ditch networks over the entire peatland. The modification of the local hydrology and the regular occurrence of fire induced profound vegetation changes. The bryophytic carpet notably regressed in favour of a shrubby coverage, dominated by Chamaedaphne calyculata, Aronia melanocarpa and Betula populifolia. The results obtained suggest that rehabilitation of such an ecosystem is realistic, although relatively urgent in order to preserve the relict populations of endangered species, such as Woodwardia virginica and Dendroica palmarum.
23419763|We have collated and reviewed published records of the genera Panicum and Setaria (Poaceae), including the domesticated millets Panicum miliaceum L. (broomcorn millet) and Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv. (foxtail millet) in pre-5000 cal B.C. sites across the Old World. Details of these sites, which span China, central-eastern Europe including the Caucasus, Iran, Syria and Egypt, are presented with associated calibrated radiocarbon dates. Forty-one sites have records of Panicum (P. miliaceum, P. cf. miliaceum, Panicum sp., Panicum type, P. capillare (?) and P. turgidum) and 33 of Setaria (S. italica, S. viridis, S. viridis/verticillata, Setaria sp., Setaria type). We identify problems of taphonomy, identification criteria and reporting, and inference of domesticated/wild and crop/weed status of finds. Both broomcorn and foxtail millet occur in northern China prior to 5000 cal B.C.; P. miliaceum occurs contemporaneously in Europe, but its significance is unclear. Further work is needed to resolve the above issues before the status of these taxa in this period can be fully evaluated.
23419764|This paper examines how plant food processing techniques developed by hunter-gatherers during the Near Eastern Epipalaeolithic (ca. 2397011990 cal B.P.) may have influenced species selection, eating habits and access to critical nutrients. A case study is presented that investigates how pulverising and thermal treatments affect the tubers of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla (sea clubrush), a plant that is frequently recovered from ancient sites in the Levant and Anatolia. A range of microscopy techniques was employed to observe the changes in tuber microstructure caused by individual processing techniques. The results show that pulverising is a necessary step in transforming these tubers into edible products because it disrupts the cell walls, facilitating tissue softening and access to intracellular nutrients. Heating, while necessary to cook the intracellular starch, does not promote tissue softening in the tubers of this species. The results demonstrate how the biologically inherited functional properties of a species interact with specific food processing techniques to promote or hinder its edibility and nutrient bioaccessibility.
23419765|We identified hundreds of Vicia peregrina (rambling vetch) seeds from the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A site of Netiv Hagdud, an uncommon archaeobotanical find. The hilum, radicle and the depression under the lens (chalaza) are seen in several of the charred seeds lacking a testa. The rambling vetch and lentil are the prevailing legume seeds found at the site. Rambling vetch seeds contain small amounts of toxic compounds. The residents of Netiv Hagdud could have used tools found at the site for peeling, soaking and probably cooking the seeds, procedures that remove or reduce these toxic components. Mixing the vetch with cereals can also reduce the toxicity by dilution. We suggest that the rambling vetch seed could have been collected in its wild habitat or brought from cultivated wild barley fields. It seems that these unusual finds, which have not been observed in later local sites, are evidence that the start of plant domestication was a trial and error cultivation process. Thus the Netiv Hagdud rambling vetch remains represent the cultivation of a Near Eastern crop plant that was finally abandoned and did not become domesticated.
23419766|Excavations at Tell Brak in northeast Syria have uncovered two monumental non-domestic structures from the fourth and third millennia B.C. respectively, containing evidence for large-scale supra-household economic organisation. The charred plant remains from these structures include glume wheat, two-row hulled barley and flax, all found in storage contexts. In the fourth millennium B.C. (the late Chalcolithic), barley grain and flax seeds have been found in storage contexts, as well as glume wheat chaff, indicating the economic importance of this byproduct of crop processing. In the third millennium B.C. (the early Bronze Age), barley is the only crop found in a definite storage context, indicating that storage practices may have changed by this time and focused on a much narrower range of crops to be held in communal storage.
23419767|Distribution maps of crop plants in Early to Middle Bronze Age northern Mesopotamia and the Levant show distinct changes with regard to relative plant presence in samples, proportions of various crops found and frequencies in the total number of finds, which may be interpreted as changes in agro-production reflecting human adaptation to increasing aridity from climate change after 4200 B.P. The hypothesis of a causal relationship between correlated proxy palaeoclimate and archaeobotanical data is tested with the independent evidence from stable carbon isotope analysis in plant remains. Ancient plant remains show that 13C is decreased for Middle Bronze Age objects, which coincides chronologically with a broad pattern of drier climate inferred from several palaeoclimate proxy records. The hypothesis of a causal relation between climate change and farming is valid, thus archaeobotanical data are suitable for investigating past relations between climate change and agro-production on a broader scale.
23419768|Identification of numerous remains (stones, seeds, charcoal) of Olea europaea (olive) at the early Bronze Age site of Tel Yarmouth, Israel, shows the importance of olives in the local economy. Production of olive oil is indicated by the presence of crushed olive stones as well as an oil extracting area. The role of olive oil production in the Levantine area and at Tel Yarmouth in particular during the early Bronze Age is discussed.
23419769|Analyses of charred remains and impressions of chaff in pis (mudbrick) from the Neolithic sites of Aratashen and Aknashen (sixth millennium cal B.C.) situated in the Ararat valley in Armenia demonstrate that naked barley and possible naked (free-threshing) wheat together with emmer and hulled barley were common. Two lesser known crucifers, Camelina microcarpa (false flax) and Alyssum desertorum (alyssum) were found in the form of crop processing residues. These were frequent in the pis, indicating their use perhaps as an oil source. Lens culinaris (small-seeded lentil) and Vicia ervilia (bitter vetch) were recovered both as carbonized seeds and from crop processing residues in the pis. False flax and bitter vetch were less common than alyssum and lentil. Two charred pips of Vitis vinifera (wild vine) were recovered, suggesting the early use of vines in the region. Flotation samples alone would have provided limited data; examination of crop processing residues used for tempering pis provided important evidence of the plant economy at these two sites.
23419770|Cicer arietinum (chick pea), is one of the elements of the Neolithic founder crop assemblage. It was spread from the Near East to southeastern Europe during the Neolithic, but until recently it was not thought to have reached further north than the territory of modern Greece. However, the latest finds from the Bulgarian Neolithic (60005450 cal B.C.) and late Chalcolithic (44503900 cal B.C.) show a distribution of this crop outside the Mediterranean region, to areas with a more temperate climate. It seems, however, that chick pea did not appear in the archaeobotanical record during the first stages of the Bulgarian Neolithic period, but only in its second half, or even later. So far, on the Thracian plain only at one site which from a cultural point of view is strongly related to southwest Bulgaria, have finds of chick pea appeared. These are considered to belong to the second and last third of the early Neolithic and originate from structures dated from 59205730 to 56705450 cal B.C. During the Chalcolithic of Bulgaria (around 4500 cal B.C.), Cicer appears on the Thracian plain at Yunatzite and also to the north of the Balkan mountains at Hotnitza. The spread of C. arietinum in the prehistoric period in southeast Europe provides insights into some of the patterns of contacts and interactions between today's Bulgaria with Thessaly and Anatolia.
23419771|This paper presents the results of the investigation of macroscopic plant remains from the early Neolithic site of Moravany, Slovakia, dated to the third quarter of the 6th millennium cal B.C., from which 141 samples of burnt clay were examined. The most abundant remains belonged to Triticum dicoccon. Two other cereals were found, T. monococcum and Hordeum vulgare. Fifty-five soil samples contained a few specimens of charred grains of T. dicoccon and diaspores of the wild plants Chenopodium album, Saponaria officinalis, Solanum nigrum and Bromus sp. Over 2,000 pieces of charcoal were examined, among which 14 plant taxa belonging to gymnosperms and angiosperms have been recognized. The most common were Quercus (oak), Fraxinus (ash) and Ulmus (elm). Archaeobotanical and chronological data demonstrate that a farming economy was practised in eastern Slovakia as early as the mid 6th millennium B.C. The trees identified from the charcoals reveal that typical early Atlantic woodland communities with a predominance of deciduous trees and shrubs constituted the environmental context of the first Neolithic settlers there. Wood of these taxa was used for construction and as fuel.
23419772|The oldest Vitis vinifera ssp. L. (grape) pips (seeds) from Slovenian archaeological sites were found at the late Neolithic (Copper Age) pile-dwelling settlement of Hoevarica on the Ljubljansko barje and date to the 37th/36th century B.C. Various biometric studies were carried out to establish whether the grapes were wild or cultivated. A comparison of several morphological characteristics of grape pip samples was performed. Neolithic pips from Hoevarica, Roman pips from Vrhnika (1st century A.D.) and recent Slovenian cultivated grape pips were included in the study. According to the standard indices, the Neolithic Vitis pips were wild. In the case of the Roman pips, it was impossible to determine whether they were wild or cultivated, although they had most probably been cultivated. Since the morphology of grape pips varies considerably (as it did in the Neolithic, as well), the attempted identification of the subspecies Vitis vinifera ssp. sylvestris/vinifera, based on morphological characteristics alone, was unsatisfactory. Therefore, an attempt was made to analyse the DNA, which could help to resolve this question. Initial experiments on extraction of archaeological DNA and amplification of the chloroplast region were performed, but further optimization steps are needed to achieve successful amplification.
23419773|This paper presents the first general survey of carpological analyses carried out in archaeological sites in Tuscany (Italy), based on literature and our own research. The data show that with the onset of the Neolithic, naked wheats (Triticum aestivum/durum/turgidum), unfortunately not certainly identifiable due to the lack of chaff, different glume wheats (Triticum monococcum/dicoccum/spelta) of which einkorn and emmer are certainly identified and barley (Hordeum vulgare) play a definite role. Certainly identified specimens of spelt (Triticum spelta) and millet (Panicum miliaceum) appear in the Bronze Age. The importance of oats is difficult to assess. Beginning in the Bronze Age, an increasing importance of pulses is observed, as in some other parts of Europe. Grape collection seems to be a practice that goes back at least to the Neolithic in Tuscany, while it is not yet clear as to when the appearance of viticulture and wine-making should be dated. The use of cornelian cherry was widespread in the Bronze Age and also continued in the Etruscan period (around 1000 B.C.). However, the available results are scarce and previous identifications may need verification. Corroboration of the data is needed through future systematic research.
23419774|The analyses of archaeobotanical assemblages recovered in recent excavations in the northern French Alps permit a better understanding of the way people managed plant resources in a mountain context during the Middle Neolithic (45003500 cal B.C.). The aim of this paper is to shed new light on the question of crop cultivation as well as wood gathering and management from the results of the new archaeobotanical investigations at "Le Chenet des Pierres" in Bozel (Savoie, France; 1,000 m. a.s.l.). The study reveals the presence of cereals like einkorn (Triticum monococcum), emmer (T. dicoccum), naked wheat (T. aestivum/durum/turgidum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare/distichon). In addition wild fruits and nuts, probably gathered, such as hazelnuts (Corylus avellana), wild apples (Malus sylvestris), arolla pine kernels (Pinus cembra), sloes (Prunus spinosa) and raspberries (Rubus idaeus) were recorded. The anthracological analysis shows that the occupants exploited mostly a mixed oak forest, and the available woodland from the alluvial forest to the mountain areas. With the archaeobotanical study of "Le Chenet des Pierres" we also want to raise the question of crop cultivation in a mountain context. Although present data show that cultivation at higher altitudes is common, it is still difficult to demonstrate the inhabitants cultivated plants near their settlement during the Neolithic.
23419775|Two features of the middle and late Neolithic of Sachsen-Anhalt, Germany, in which were found interesting plant species are presented. In the northern foothills of the Harz Mountains near Ditfurt, a stone chamber grave of the middle Neolithic Walternienburg/Bernburg culture was excavated. As the grave was burned towards the end of its time of use, well preserved carbonized plant material resulted. Both cultivated and collected plants were found, but most of the remains were from plants of ruderal vegetation. There was a mass find of Onopordum acanthium and single finds of winter crop weeds such as Agrostemma githago and Adonis cf. aestivalis. The second site was at Burgliebenau, Schwarzacker, Saalekreis, in the floodplains of the Elster-Luppe near Halle (Saale), where a Neolithic corn dryer of the Bernburg/Corded Ware culture was excavated. The dominant crop there was Triticum dicoccum, but T. monococcum was found as well, together with a large amount of diaspores of weeds which includes one of the earliest mass finds of A. githago and Claviceps purpurea. The archaeobotanical evidence of O. acanthium, Adonis cf. aestivalis, A. githago and C. purpurea from these two sites is discussed with reference to further records in central Europe and the probable reasons for their occurrence. The mass find of O. acanthium in the grave of Ditfurt seems to be unique in the region as well as the big record of A. githago in the corn dryer of Burgliebenau. But single finds of the latter species are known from other Neolithic sites in the region.
23419776|This paper aims to gain a better understanding of the neolithisation process in the Netherlands after the arrival of the Linearbandkeramik Culture, focussing on local crop cultivation at Neolithic wetland sites of the Swifterbant Culture and Hazendonk Group. The debate of the past 30 years questions whether crop plants were cultivated locally in the exploitation area of wetland sites, or whether they were brought in from elsewhere. Which crop plants were introduced in the wetlands, when they were introduced and where they came from is investigated, based on published evidence from three main regions. The main crop plants introduced were emmer wheat and naked barley. Details of the introduction process are available only for the southern region. The complex discussion of botanical and non-botanical criteria supports local crop cultivation in most regions.
23419777|For the early Iron Age Elymian town on Monte Polizzo, inland western Sicily, hulled barley was the dominant cereal, followed by emmer and free-threshing wheat. The dominant legume was Vicia faba. In the contemporary Greek harbour town of Selinunte on the southern coast of western Sicily, free-threshing wheat was dominant, while hulled barley and the legume V. ervilia were subdominant. For Selinunte, an import of cereals from the Elymians is suggested. The investigated area around the agora (marketplace) yielded a processed cereal product and edible fruit as the predominantly consumed plant-based food in Selinunte. Its hinterland most probably provided space for large-scale maintenance of horses and oxen as well as for stock breeding for consumption. At "House 1" on Monte Polizzo, the archaeobotanical record matches well with the archaeological interpretation of different rooms used for ritual consumption, everyday life, crop processing and crop storage. During feasts in the style of Greek symposia, grapes and figs were consumed. The Elymians most probably adopted olive cultivation quite late. The charcoal analyses, mainly of roof beams from Monte Polizzo residential contexts, point to a sufficient availability of undisturbed natural climax woodland for timberwork.
23419778|Hordeum vulgare and Triticum aestivum/durum are the most important crops found from the early Iberian period in the fort of Els Vilars d'Arbeca. The unusual nature of this settlement with its spectacular defensive system brings us to consider various questions such as knowing at which stage of their processing the cereal crops arrived there, or which areas of the restricted interior space of the fort could have been used for crop processing activities and storage. The analyses of the samples collected at the site shows that the crops would have been carried indoors for storage after processing. Once inside, the crops would have been stored as bulk semi-clean grain in an as yet unknown building used as a granary. The post-storage cleaning operations would have happened daily, in a domestic context involving small amounts and in different rooms spread all over the enclosure. Nevertheless, some zones of the settlement show a higher density of crop items, which could maybe indicate sporadic communal post-storage crop processing there.
23419779|Archaeobotanical investigations into centralisation processes and related social developments between 800 and 400 B.C. are part of a supra-regional interdisciplinary research program. A diachronous approach is used to reconstruct Late-Bronze Age/Early Iron Age agriculture and food production and to investigate agricultural developments. In addition the results from assumed "central places", the hillfort sites, are compared with those of open rural settlements in their surroundings. The charred plant assemblages give evidence of an increase in diversity of crop species at the beginning of the 5th century B.C. This change may indicate an alteration in the agricultural system to allow an increase in and/or a minimisation of risk to food production.
23419780|The identification of size differences in watermelon seeds recovered at Roman and Islamic period Quseir al-Qadim, Egypt, initiated research into the signature of seed eating. Distinct breakage patterns were found on the testa of watermelon seeds eaten by seven volunteers. Comparison of these patterns with those of the archaeological material established that some of the watermelon seeds at Quseir al-Qadim were eaten during the Islamic, but not the Roman, period. This, plus a size difference in the seeds (larger in the Islamic period), has raised questions about which subspecies of Citrullus lanatus was/were present at this site, and exactly when human consumption of the sweet fruit flesh and the seeds was first established in Egypt. Ancient DNA research may be needed to resolve these questions.
23419781|Excavations and sampling conducted at the ancient city of Lattara (Lattes, France) have revealed a foundation offering in a small pit situated in a storehouse in the Roman port of the city. This offering, dated to around A.D. 2560, consisted of pottery vessels, oil lamps, a coin, a pin (made out of bone), an egg and several plant products. The archaeobotanical remains presented in this work are charred seeds, fruits and charcoal. The primary aim of this study is to analyse whether the plant taxa are unusual or the same ones that appear in the contemporary domestic contexts in the city, in order to assess the possibility of a special use of the plants related to, for instance, their symbolic or magical value. The discovery of domestic or public burnt offerings containing plant remains is unknown in the Mediterranean region of France during the Roman period, except for those found in funerary contexts.
23419782|The introduction and dispersal histories of eight common condiments in North-West Europe are explored: Apium graveolens (celery), Anethum graveolens (dill), Coriandrum sativum (coriander), Brassica nigra (black mustard), Foeniculum vulgare (fennel), Satureja hortensis (summer savory), Carum carvi (caraway) and Petroselinum crispum (parsley). The presence of these condiments in archaeobotanical reports from the study area was recorded, together with information on chronological phase, type of site, social status and mode of preservation. Analysis of the data suggests the presence of very distinct patterns of dispersal that highlight the socio-cultural significance of the food plants in question.
23419783|The character of fibres discovered in mineralized, charred and completely decomposed textiles from the weaving workshop of the Dedoplis Gora palace showed that cotton and flax fabric was produced here. Silk thread was mixed with cotton fibres to add lustre to the fabric. Textile was also woven of Juncus, and ropes were made of Cannabis. Among coloured cotton cloth, rose and blue shades were predominant. The discovery of silk fibres is the first one not only for Georgia, but also for the whole Caucasus.
23419784|A multidisciplinary analysis of pollen, seeds, mites and molluscs from organic remains in the Tsitsamuri burial (4th6th century A.D.) provides strong evidence of the season of internment. The presence of Trifolium campestre flowers, abundant Achillea-type pollen, ripe seeds from various early summer flowering plants, remains of Acari mites and immature Helicella derbentina mollusc shells indicate that the burial took place in early summer. Textile fragments were also analysed and indicate that the body was wrapped in a shroud made of flax. The deceased was interred on a bed made of plants gathered from the local environment. The whole complex of botanical and zoological material indicates a cultural landscape in which agriculture, viticulture, horticulture and pasturing were carried out. The climate of that period was probably slightly wetter and warmer than today.
23419785|Archaeobotanical investigations of three waterlogged sites of the migration and the early Merovingian periods throw new light on agriculture and human diet of the Germanic tribe of the Alamanni in southwestern Germany from the 3rd to the 6th century A.D. Agriculture was based on the growing of a large variety of cereals: Hordeum, Triticum dicoccon, T. spelta, Secale cereale, T. monococcum, T. aestivum, Avena sativa and Panicum miliaceum. Hordeum was most frequent. It occurs as naked and as hulled barley. In a grave with wet preserved plant macrofossils dated to the 6th century in Trossingen, Hordeum distichon was also present. In addition, the Alamanni cultivated the oil and fibre plants Linum usitatissimum, Papaver somniferum, Cannabis sativa, Camelina and Brassica rapa, as well as the pulses Lens culinaris and Pisum sativum. More surprising were finds of vegetables and spices. Among them, Juniperus communis and Humulus lupulus could have been gathered in the wild, but Coriandrum sativum, Apium graveolens and Satureja montana must have been cultivated in gardens. In addition to wild gathered material Pyrus, Malus, Prunus avium and Ficus carica also occurred, which were most probably grown in orchards or were even imported. Therefore the Alamanni were not only farmers growing cereals and other field crops, but they also had gardens and orchards were they grew vegetables, spices and fruits. Most probably they learned horticulture from the Romans when they settled near the border of the Roman Empire. This investigation shows in an impressive way how much more information can be gathered when waterlogged plant material is available, especially concerning fruits and spices.
23419786|Together with archaeological data, archaeobotanical results from plant macrofossils, pollen and 14C investigations reveal the existence of a permanent settlement in Vilnius Lower Castle during approximately the 6th century A.D. Evidence of the continuous cultivation of cereals, for example Fagopyrum esculentum and Secale cereale, and a clearly marked increase of the landscape cleared of woodland indicates an increase in human activity in the area during the later 13th and early 14th centuries A.D. In the middle of the 14th century human activity temporary declined, as shown by the recovery of woodland. During the second half of the 14th century, the expansion of the town of Vilnius resulted in woodland clearance and intensive agriculture. Intensive land use continued during the first half of the 15th century, which is known as a period of economic and cultural prosperity.
23419787|Results of research on relics of cultivation in Central Europe are presented, based on the example of Malva alcea L. (hollyhock mallow). Species from this group were cultivated in the past for various purposes, but are no longer utilized. Thanks to the detailed studies conducted in Mecklenburg (NW Germany) and in Wielkopolska (W Poland), M. alcea is one of the best-studied relics of cultivation. This paper presents the available information on its former uses, general and regional distribution, and habitat preferences.
23419788|Seeds and fruits of plants have different chances of getting carbonized in archaeological contexts. This chance depends on the one hand on the use of each plant; some plants are more likely to get in contact with fire than others, for example when they have to be roasted or cooked before eating. On the other hand this also depends upon the consistency and texture of the seeds themselves, which carbonize under different circumstances. The aim of our experiments was to reveal systematically the behavior of Setaria italica, Panicum miliaceum, Papaver somniferum, Linum usitatissimum and Cannabis sativa during carbonization. For this purpose we heated seeds of each species under both reducing and oxidizing conditions for 14 h in a muffle furnace to temperatures of 180750C. The results were striking: while reducing conditions usually enlarge the temperature range at which seeds carbonize without getting destroyed, broomcorn millet behaves exactly the opposite way. Papaver somniferum has only very little chance of becoming carbonized at all, because the temperature range at which this happens is very small. The chances of carbonization for Linum usitatissimum are quite good, those of Cannabis sativa even better.
23419789|In order to investigate ancient cereal cooking practices, the microstructure of preserved starch in charred ground cereal remains recovered from prehistoric sites in Greece and Bulgaria has been analysed. A comparative modern set of cooked and subsequently charred cereals was produced. By scanning electron microscopy it is demonstrated that, under some conditions, distinctive cooked starch structure survives the charring process. Charring alone can occasionally produce morphological changes which typically occur during cooking. Despite this caveat, starch microstructure features which are indicative of heating in liquid, and which are visible in the experimental material, have been detected in the ancient charred cereal food remains. Although much more experimental investigation is required, it has been established that evidence for past food preparation survives in ancient charred starch microstructure.
23419790|Cucurbita seeds are difficult to identify to species level using only their external morphology. In this contribution, we discuss anatomical features of fresh, dehydrated and experimentally carbonised specimens that are useful for the identification of archaeological Cucurbita seeds. Qualitative and quantitative differences in the seed coat micromorphology were found to be the most helpful diagnostic characteristics of South American Cucurbita species.
23419642|This paper reviews the archaeobotanical research conducted on the plant material recovered from the Iceman's body, his garment and equipment, as well as that from the sediments of the gully in which the body was discovered more than 15 years ago. These recent results are discussed against the background of the archaeological findings during the last few years and disclose both conformities and discrepancies of the disciplinary-centred views. In particular the archaeobotanical results concerning the season of death as well as the taphonomic interpretation of the find assemblage give cause for controversial discussions and constitute the future research focus. Furthermore, the singularity of this discovery demands an evaluation of the archaeobotanical findings within a circum-alpine context to reveal the representativeness of this find assemblage for the inner alpine Neolithic. This was the objective of a specific symposium at the 17th International Botanical Congress in Vienna in 2005.
23419643|Six different mosses have been recognised in samples taken from the intestinal contents of the 5,200-year-old Iceman from the Eastern Alps. Four of the species are important in understanding the lifestyle of the man and/or bear on the events during the last few days of his life: Anomodon viticulosus, Hymenostylium recurvirostrum, Neckera complanata and Sphagnum imbricatum. The past and present chorology and habitats of the Hymenostylium are discussed in detail, as is the ethnobotany of the Sphagnum concerning both the Iceman and Kwday Dn Ts'nch, the first ancient glacier body from North America.
23419644|Archaeobotanical studies are currently being carried out on all the plant remains retrieved from the high alpine site where the Iceman "tzi" was found (3,210 m a.s.l.). Preliminary results already show a great diversity of species (121 taxa) mainly originating from lower regions, which must have been transported to the Tisenjoch site by a number of vectors. Spatial modelling has been carried out for one part of the plant remains unequivocally assignable to the Iceman. The resulting patterns indicate that post-depositional displacement processes have affected the material, and even the mummified body itself. It is demonstrated that the influence of cross-contamination resulting from the recovery attempts preceding the excavations can be ruled out by thorough selection of sampled areas and layers. The archaeobotanical results, together with current data from other research fields, strongly suggest that the Iceman had died in an area about 5 m south-west of the position where he was discovered in 1991.
23419645|The discovery of a Neolithic glacier mummy (dated to 33003100 cal B.C.) on a remote site of an Alpine pass at 3,200 m in the tztal Mountains is still puzzling. In the initial phase of the Iceman research, four hypotheses were suggested to explain the find in its entirety. The speculations vary from a hunter or warrior to a shaman, a miner or a shepherd. None of these proposals is accepted or corroborated by archaeological findings, but on the basis of palynological investigations conducted in the vicinity of the discovery site the assumption that the Iceman was involved in an early form of transhumance has now gained general acceptance. Concerning this assumption we present in this paper a recent study conducted on about a hundred caprine (sheep/goat or ibex/chamois) dung pellets recovered from the find spot of the Iceman and which were dated from 5400 to 2000 cal B.C. The approach was to determine through plant remains from these faeces whether they were droppings derived from animals grazing in anthropogenic habitats at low altitudes or in alpine grasslands. The former case would suggest they were livestock, the latter game. The results showed that all droppings derive from animals grazing at high altitudes.
23419646|This paper gives an overview of domesticated and wild plants used during the second half of the fourth millennium cal B.C. in a region within a semicircle of ca. 100 km radius around the find site of the Iceman. The landscape considered lies north of the main Alpine chain and includes central to eastern Switzerland and southwest Germany, mainly sites at the lakes Zug, Zrich, Constance (Bodensee), the Federsee region of Upper Swabia (Oberschwaben) and western Bavaria. From this part of central Europe, the plant remains of many well-preserved lake dwelling sites have been investigated during the last decades and much is known about daily life in these villages. Probably contemporary with the Iceman's lifetime is one of the best-investigated settlements, Arbon Bleiche 3 on the southern shore of Lake Constance. A comparison of the Iceman's artefacts and plant macro remains with the finds from the lake dwellings which have been studied shows striking similarities, but also differences. The Iceman's southern provenance can be corroborated by the domestic plants found with him. He used domestic as well as wild plants, very similar to those of his contemporaries in the lakeside villages. The detailed knowledge of the manifold activities in the lakeshore village of Arbon Bleiche 3 allows us to show a rather realistic picture of daily life at the time of the Iceman.
23419647|The article presents archaeobotanical results from six late Neolithic excavation sites in eastern Austria. Two of the sites belong to the Jeviovice culture (32002800 cal B.C.), the remaining four to the Baden culture (36002900 cal B.C.). Results show that farmers around 3000 cal B.C. were relying on the use of Triticum monococcum and Hordeum vulgare as principal cereals, with Triticum dicoccum and Panicum miliaceum as additional crops. Common millet was found in quantity at one of the Jeviovice sites and shows the remarkably early westward spread of this species. Single records of Triticum spelta are discussed in the light of the recently proposed ideas about an independent central European origin of spelt. Another record concerns the "new-type" glume wheat, providing further evidence for the once widespread occurrence of this cultivar. Triticum aestivum (hexaploid naked wheat) and Setaria italica (foxtail millet) were found as rare admixtures at the Jeviovice settlements. Pulses were represented by Pisum sativum and Lens culinaris, oil plants by Papaver somniferum and Linum usitatissimum. One of the Jeviovice sites offered a good opportunity for a study of the undisturbed spatial distribution of charred plant remains within a burnt house. Among wild plants, the occurrence of Stipa sp., Teucrium chamaedrys, Asperula cynanchica and Plantago media point to the presence of dry steppe grassland in the vicinity of the settlements, which was probably used for grazing. Woodland plants were mainly represented by fruit-bearing plants growing in clearings and forest edges, reflecting both the deliberate collection of wild fruits and the growing human impact on the vegetation.
23419648|Analyses were performed of plant remains from the Late Neolithic (in Slovenian terminology corresponding to Eneolithic or Copper Age, ca. 43002300 B.C.) pile dwelling Hoevarica in the Ljubljansko barje (Ljubljana Moor), Slovenia. This settlement existed between ca. 3650 and 3550 cal B.C. Seeds, fruits, wooden piles, macroscopic charcoal and pollen from the cultural layers were analysed. The remains of domestic plants such as charred grains of Hordeum vulgare (barley), Triticum monococcum, T. dicoccum (einkorn and emmer wheat) and Papaver somniferum (poppy seeds), as well as seeds of weeds such as Chenopodium album-type indicate early cultivation in the area. In addition, numerous remains of nuts and berries, especially of Quercus sp., Cornus mas, Rubus fruticosus and Corylus avellana demonstrate that the gathering of wild plants was an important part of subsistence. Palaeoecological and archaeobotanical data from Hoevarica further suggest that cleared land was used for agriculture and pastures during the Neolithic, and that different wood was cut for construction and for fuel. The species assemblage from Hoevarica is very similar to those recovered from northern Alpine lake dwelling sites, however, several new taxa (e.g. Lathyrus sativus, Vicia sp.) appear in the assemblage. One of the most surprising finds is the seed of wild grape (Vitis vinifera ssp. sylvestris), which are the oldest on-site remains of grapevine from Slovenia.
23419649|The stages of the early Neolithic and the spread of agriculture in northern Italy are difficult to determine and basically still unclear, since this region was influenced by deeply different cultures coming from both the Mediterranean coasts and the Balkans. The complex interrelations due to the contributions from both cultures are reinterpreted here thanks to recent data, modifying a picture which 15 years ago was believed to be definite. According to radiocarbon chronology, the appearance of the earliest farming communities in northern Italy should be dated around 56005500 cal B.C. Early farmers cultivated several cereal and pulse taxa, of which the more important were Hordeum vulgare/distichum, Triticum dicoccum, T. monococcum, T. aestivum/durum/turgidum, Lens culinaris and Pisum sp. In addition they gathered many wild plants. The spread of agriculture was a rapid phenomenon and within a few centuries agriculture was established into the Alps. Little is known about the middle and late Neolithic, with the Square-mouthed pottery culture "Bocca Quadrata", from c. 5100 cal B.C. onwards, since most of the archaeological features discovered up to the present have produced only a few plant remains. We demonstrate the introduction of poppy and a few other innovations like a slightly increased cultivation of free-threshing cereals and flax. Archaeobotanical analyses from Chalcolithic or Copper Age settlements, from c. 3500 cal B.C. onwards, are even scarcer and a comparison with the earlier Neolithic settlements does not yet seem possible.
23419541|The results are discussed of the palynological (pollen-analytical) examination of a sediment section in the Hula Valley of northern Israel, with evidence of Acheulian occupation dated to 700,000800,000 B.P. In general there is a fair agreement between the palynological data and the wood remains identified from the site, but there are also discrepancies, some of which can be explained and others not. Although relatively well represented in the pollen record, Pinus (pine) most probably did not occur in the Hula area. Some pollen types are thought to have been carried in from hundreds of kilometres away (long-distance transport). Together the pollen and wood evidence suggests that Quercus ithaburensisPistacia atlantica (Tabor oakAtlantic terebinth) woodland (open forest) was found in the Hula Valley (other than the lake and marshes) and on the lower reaches of the mountains flanking the valley on both sides. In addition to deciduous Tabor oak, evergreen Kermes oak (Quercus calliprinos) must have been an important component of this woodland. Wild olive (Olea europaea var. oleaster) may also have been quite common here. The suggestion of open forest, with fairly widely spaced trees, is based upon the high non-arboreal pollen frequencies and indicates fairly dry climatic conditions. Various stream-bank trees and shrubs are represented in the pollen and/or wood records, such as Fraxinus (ash), Ulmus (elm), Salix (willow) and Platanus (plane tree). During the period represented by the upper section of the pollen diagram, Cedrus (cedar) must have reached the Hula area, indicating increased humidity. In the steppe-like field layer (undergrowth of the woodland) grasses (Gramineae) must have played a prominent role in addition to a great number of other species. In particular Compositae and Umbelliferae include a large variety of species (many different pollen types). Two Chenopodiaceae maxima, coinciding with Gramineae minima, are thought to be indicative of periods of increased climatic dryness. The local lake and marsh vegetation is fairly well represented in the pollen record, but interpretation in terms of vegetation succession is only possible to some degree. Mention is made here of Trapa natans (water chestnut), the nuts of which were consumed by the Acheulian inhabitants.
23419542|A pollen diagram was derived from a 150 cm core taken from the shallow hypersaline Lake Maharlou in the south-eastern part of the Zagros Mountains, SW Iran. The pollen record shows that Quercus brantii woodland and PistaciaAmygdalus scrub dominated the area during the late Holocene. The record starts at around 5700 cal B.P. with a dry period during which both PistaciaAmygdalus scrub and Quercus brantii woodland were at their minimum extent. This period was followed by the expansion of PistaciaAmygdalus scrub in the area and the spread of Quercus brantii woodlands at higher altitudes. An important occupation phase, characterized by the appearance of several cultivated tree species such as Juglans, Olea, Vitis and Platanus, started at ca. 4300 cal B.P., coinciding with the onset of the Bronze Age civilization of Jiroft in Central Iran. Human activities become very clear after 3700 cal B.P. Around 2700 cal B.P., extensive stands of PistaciaAmygdalus scrub became profoundly degraded, presumably under strong human pressure coinciding with the beginning of the Persian Empires. The maximum expansion of the Quercus brantii woodland occurred about 2100 to 1700 cal B.P. This woodland remained relatively stable until the end of the diagram at 400 cal B.P.
23419543|Palynological analyses of Holocene deposits located about 2 km to the southwest of the Lake Chaohu, Anhui Province, documented well the local vegetation history, its inferred environment and human impacts for the first time. An evergreen and deciduous mixed broad-leaved forest dominated by Cyclobalanopsis and Quercus existed from ca. 10,500 cal B.P. and became fully developed between ca. 8,250 and 7,550 cal B.P. Notable fluctuations occurred in the main components of the flora indicated by the decline in Cyclobalanopsis and other arboreal plants (AP), and an increase in terrestrial herbs between ca. 7,550 and 3,750 cal B.P., inferring the progressive opening of the forest under considerable human interference, which largely agrees with the archaeological evidence. After ca. 3,750 cal B.P., the broad-leaved forest largely gave way to terrestrial herbs, and never again recovered. Pinus continued to rise alongside the majority of herbs between ca. 3,750 and 2,000 cal B.P., then also declined after ca. 2,000 cal B.P. Human influence on the natural vegetation displayed in the pollen diagram seems to increase greatly up the core. The disappearance of broad-leaved forest indicates significant human impact after ca. 3,750 cal B.P., which is consistent with both the archaeological evidence and historical records. From that time the natural environment in the study area was subjected to long-standing pressure from increasing farming and population.
23419544|Persoonia falcata R. Br. and Buchanania obovata Engl. seeds are consistently preserved in abundance from archaeological sites across the Keep River region from 3500 B.P. up until the contact period. Although artefacts continued to be deposited after establishment of the pastoral industry, remains of these two plant species disappear in the upper levels of all excavated deposits. The contemporary vegetation in the vicinity of these sites appears to lack P. falcata, although B. obovata remains in abundance. These observations raise questions regarding (1) the impact of changing land-use and fire regimes, (2) the impact of Aboriginal land management on particular plant species and (3) the reorientation of Aboriginal site use across the region after settlement. These issues are explored in this paper using a comparative analysis of stand structure of the contemporary vegetation around previously excavated sites, as well as from published information on recent regional fire history. Results show improved recruitment of P. falcata (that is, seedlings are recruited into adult life stages) in the only site where Aboriginal people have re-introduced customary management. Both the timing of burning and significant unburnt periods appear important to the post-contact decline and also in the future success of populations of P. falcata in the region.
23419545|A 50 m-long radiocarbon dated core was studied through sediment and pollen analysis to reconstruct the Holocene mangrove and environmental changes at a coastal site Pakhiralaya in the Sundarban Biosphere Reserve in the western GangaBrahmaputra Delta, India. This biosphere reserve harbours a diverse mangrove ecosystem and supports a large number of people living in the area. Pollen and stratigraphic data indicate the existence of a brackish water estuarine mangrove swamp forest in this area during the last 9880 cal yr B.P. The development of the mangrove forest is not shown continuously in the Holocene record. Rapid transgression of the sea (9240 cal yr B.P.) halted the development of the mangrove. After about 8420 cal yr B.P. mangrove recolonised the area and persisted until 7560 cal yr B.P. as a result of a balance between the sedimentation and sea level fluctuation. The mangrove disappeared again from the site until 4800 cal yr B.P. because of a high sedimentation rate and possible delta progradation with loss of habitats. The reappearance of mangrove at the study site occurred with a return of a brackish water estuarine environment and the site then gradually became supra tidal during the mid-late Holocene. The continuity of the mangrove development and dynamics was interrupted by the fluctuating sea levels. Climatic fluctuations were viewed as an indirect factor influencing the mangrove ecosystem.
23419546|Understanding the interplay between climatic and anthropogenic factors is a major challenge in palaeoecology. In particular, it is often difficult to distinguish anthropogenic and "natural" fire in the charcoal record. In this paper, analysis of fossil pollen, charcoal, diatoms and isotopic evidence from Mapimbi, a small lake in the Kruger National Park, South Africa, suggests that for most of the past ca. 700 years, the riverine gallery forests surrounding Mapimbi were primarily influenced by climate, and benefited during warmer, wetter periods. The transitions between four, statistically different phases in the time-series data coincide with regional climate records previously constructed from speleothem data, and are consistent with the transition from the medieval warm period ending in the 14th century A.D. to the cooler, drier conditions prevailing during the little ice age of ca. A.D. 14001800. The data also suggest a period of significant, anthropogenic influence after A.D. 1800, when maize was grown and the incidence of localised fires increased. An increase in woody cover in recent decades may be associated with the management of the area by Kruger National Park. A decline in cultivation occurred in the end of the 20th century linked with changes in socio-political organisation.
23419741|Early and mid Holocene local vegetational history, with special reference to woodland communities, was revealed by pollen analysis of a radiocarbon dated lake sediment profile from Lake Mikowskie (Jezioro Mikowskie) in northeastern Poland. The main factor controlling the dynamics of woodland composition changes until ca. 1950 B.C. was climate. After that, the role of human activity became increasingly important. The results of high-resolution pollen analyses provide evidence for early woodland disturbances caused by Mesolithic people at ca. 6950 B.C. Several episodes of human impact, differing in scale, and separated by subsequent episodes of woodland regeneration/stabilization were noted. The first traces of local crop farming, shown by the presence of Cerealia pollen, were recorded at ca. 3800 B.C. in the Paraneolithic/Neolithic period. Animal husbandry as well as cereal cultivation played only a marginal role in the economy, which was traditionally based on hunting, fishing and gathering through the Neolithic and the early Bronze Age. The change in economic strategies from foraging towards farming, starting around 3750 B.C., was a long-lasting process. An increase of productive economy took place in the middle Bronze Age at ca. 1400 B.C.
23419742|A peat profile from the village of Nellim in northern Finnish Lapland was analysed at a near-annual resolution in order to test to what degree of accuracy the land-use history of the village could be reconstructed on the basis of organic microfossils. The profile was first AMS 14C dated and a robust chronology constructed to enable near-annual sampling. A set of 47 contiguous samples were treated and counted to produce a pollen accumulation rate diagram (PAR, grains cm-2 year-1). PARs enabled a better distinction of the fine-scale human induced changes in the pollen assemblages than the classical percentage representation because real changes in each pollen taxon could be followed. Changes in the accumulation rate of pine pollen reflect regional changes in forest-use in Lapland and both local events and regional logging activity could be distinguished. Local within-mire changes were deduced from the peat stratigraphy and the testate amoebae. The limitations for using PARs seem to be connected to the physiology of the plants and the taphonomy of the different pollen types and this must be taken into account when making interpretations.
23419743|The neotropical Gran Sabana region of Venezuela is dominated by apparently anomalous vegetation types, treeless savannas and savanna-forest mosaics, considering the present-day warm and wet bioclimatic conditions. Past climatic changes and fire have been proposed as the more probable causes. Recent palynological studies show that savanna vegetation has been present since the beginning of the Holocene, but the earliest fires recorded so far only go back to 3,800 cal years B.P. This paper uses pollen and charcoal analyses to show the existence of early Holocene regional fires in the Gran Sabana, and to show the intimate connection between the proxies for fire (charcoal) and savanna vegetation (pollen) throughout the Holocene. Although the cause of such fires is not yet known, the possibility of early Holocene human occupation of the Gran Sabana is suggested.
23419744|We present a pollen record from a fen at the eastern shore of Brazo Sur south of Lago Argentino, Argentina (core BRS 1/06, 503454S, 725452W, 198 m a.s.l.). The coring site is located in the transition zone from humid grass steppe to Andean Nothofagus forest. With the exception of a mid-Holocene sand layer, the record covers the interval between 13,350 and 1,700 cal B.P., indicating that there could have been no recurrence of Late-glacial conditions in Brazo Sur, as has been suggested in the literature as having been contemporary with the Younger Dryas interval in the northern hemisphere. The Late-glacial and early Holocene periods at Brazo Sur are characterized by fluctuations between humid grass-dominated steppe associations and drier ones dominated by Asteraceae and Ericaceae. At the start of the Holocene, the pollen influx increased. Nothofagus dominance began by 7,700 cal B.P. probably due to increasing moisture. Presentday closed Nothofagus forest developed around 2,500 cal B.P., related to a further increase in moisture.
23419745|Vegetation changes during the late Holocene are interpreted from four fossil pollen sequences from two caves at the Los Toldos archaeological locality, Santa Cruz province, Argentina. Taphonomic processes are particularly taken into account in order to analyze the effects on the fossil pollen records of biotic factors such as human occupation and animals, and abiotic ones such as volcanic ash fall. Fossil pollen assemblages are interpreted using local modern pollen data. The main vegetation change occurred at ca. 3750 uncal B.P., when a shrub steppe of Asteraceae subf. Asteroideae with Schinus, Ephedra frustillata and a high proportion of grasses was replaced by a shrub steppe of Colliguaja integerrima and Asteraceae subf. Asteroideae. This change is synchronous with an archaeological record change and could be related either to moderate climatic variations or the effects of ash fall on the environment. Plant communities similar to the present-day ones were established in the Los Toldos area from ca. 3750 uncal B.P.
23419746|We use a data set of 35 surface pollen samples from lake sediments, moss polsters and top soils on the north-eastern Tibetan Plateau to explore the relationship between modern pollen assemblages and contemporary vegetation patterns. The surface pollen transect spanned four vegetation zonesalpine meadow, steppe, steppe desert and desertunder different climatic/elevational conditions. Relative representation (Rrel) values and Principal Components Analysis (PCA) were used to determine the relationships between modern pollen and vegetation and regional climate gradients. The results show that the main vegetation zones along the regional and elevational transects can be distinguished by their modern pollen spectra. Relative to Poaceae, a high representation of Artemisia, Nitraria and Chenopodiaceae was found, while Cyperaceae and Gentiana showed values in the middle range, and Ranunculaceae, Asteraceae, Ephedra and Fabaceae had low relative representation values. PCA results indicate a high correlation between the biogeoclimatic zones and annual precipitation and annual temperature and July temperature. The Artemisia/Chenopodiaceae ratio and the Artemisia/Cyperaceae ratio are useful tools for qualitative and semi-quantitative palaeoenvironmental reconstruction on the north-eastern Tibetan Plateau. Surface lake sediments are found to have different palynomorph spectra from moss cushion and soil samples, reflecting the larger pollen source area in the contemporary vegetation for lakes.
23419747|Tree-ring analyses of 23 bark-stripped trees, mostly Thuja plicata (western red cedar) but also Chamaecyparis nootkatensis (yellow cedar) and Picea sitchensis (Sitka spruce), help describe traditional Native tree-bark exploitation at a site north of Ketchikan in southeast Alaska, USA. Tree-ring samples exposed 36 cultural scars dating from between A.D. 1718 and 1912, showing that Natives landed on this hazardous stretch of Clarence Strait to take tree bark in 29 (about 15%) of the 195 years spanned by the sample. One-third of these culturally modified trees had multiple scars indicating repeated use of individual trees. The most intensive forest use occurred between 1852 and 1895, while the lack of bark scars after 1912 marks a decline in traditional Native craft. A burst of bark-stripping between 1779 and 1787 may be associated with the legendary last battle between the Stikine Tlingit of Alaska and the Tsimshian of British Columbia. The sample is compared with dated samples from British Columbia (Canada) and Washington State, USA.
23419552|In Ireland, the Middle to Late Bronze Age (1500600 cal B.C.) is characterised by alternating phases of prolific metalwork production (the Bishopsland and Dowris Phases) and apparent recessions (the Roscommon Phase and the Late Bronze Age-Iron Age transition). In this paper, these changes in material culture are placed in a socio-economic context by examining contemporary settlement and land-use patterns reconstructed from the pollen record. The vegetation histories of six tephrochronologically linked sites are presented, which provide high-resolution and chronologically well-resolved insights into changes in landscape use over the Middle to Late Bronze Age. The records are compared with published pollen records in an attempt to discern if there are trends in woodland clearance and abandonment from which changes in settlement patterns can be inferred. The results suggest that prolific metalworking industries correlate chronologically with expansion of farming activity, which indicates that they were supported by a productive subsistence economy. Conversely, declines in metalwork production occur during periods when farming activity was generally less extensive and perhaps more centralised, and it is proposed that disparate socio-economic or political factors, rather than a collapse of the subsistence economy, lie behind the demise of metalworking industries.
23419553|A palaeoecological study was conducted close to the forest limit in the northern Scandinavian mountain range. The aim was to elucidate the degree to which human impact has affected the vegetation at Hiednikvalta, a Stllo settlement site. Stllo settlements consist of round hut foundations that have a hearth in the middle and are surrounded by a low turf wall. They were probably established by Smi people using the mountain areas for hunting and/or reindeer herding. In order to separate the effects of humans and climate on the vegetation, a reference area approach was adopted, i.e. the vegetation development at the Stllo settlement site Hiednikvalta was compared with the vegetation development in a forested reference area Avvuhatjhkk, at the same altitude as Hiednikvalta but with no archaeological remains of settlements. Peat stratigraphies were retrieved at the two sites and pollen analysis, loss-on-ignition (LOI), pollen accumulation rates (PAR), macrofossil analysis and Betula pollen size statistics were all examined. The results indicate that Hiednikvalta was forested with Betula trees prior to the Stllo settlement period, which occurred between the eighth and thirteenth centuries. Human activities resulted in a decrease in tree cover at the site, as found in a previous study at Adamvalta, another Stllo settlement site in the region. However, the magnitude of vegetation change, and the post-Stllo vegetation development differed between the two areas, suggesting that site-specific factors are important. The use of reference areas in palynological studies is also discussed.
23419554|Connections between environmental and cultural changes are analysed in Estonia during the past c. 4,500 years. Records of cereal-type pollen as (agri) cultural indices are compared with high-resolution palaeohydrological and annual mean temperature reconstructions from a selection of Estonian bogs and lakes (and Lake Igelsjn in Sweden). A broad-scale comparison shows increases in the percentage of cereal-type pollen during a decreasing trend in annual mean temperatures over the past c. 4,300 years, suggesting a certain independence of agrarian activities from environmental conditions at the regional level. The first cereal-type pollen in the region is found from a period with a warm and dry climate. A slow increase in pollen of cultivated land is seen around the beginning of the late Bronze Age, a slight increase at the end of the Roman Iron Age and a significant increase at the beginning of the Middle Ages. In a few cases increases in agricultural pollen percentages occur in the periods of warming. Stagnation and regression occurs in the periods of cooling, but regression at individual sites may also be related to warmer climate episodes. The cooling at c. 400300 cal B.P., during the 'Little Ice Age' coincides with declines in cereal-type and herb pollen curves. These may not, however, be directly related to the climate change, because they coincide with war activities in the region.
23419555|Rockshelter Baaz in the Damascus region of Syria provided a variety of botanical remains from the Late Pleistocene and Early Holocene period. These remains provide new information about the vegetation evolution in this region. The earliest occupational levels correspond with a moisture peak during the Late Pleistocene, between ca. 3432 kyr B.P., when pine expanded. The next occupations took place during extreme arid conditions, ca. 2321 kyr B.P., and probably during the Last Glacial Maximum when a steppe vegetation was established. The occupation level of the Younger Dryas, represented by Natufian remains, suggests that the area had been covered by almond-pistachio steppe, similar to later periods of the Early Holocene, and was probably located just outside the range of dense wild cereal stands. There is no drastic impact of the Younger Dryas visible on the vegetation in the botanical remains. The lack of fruits and seeds at Baaz indicates that the site was more likely to have been a temporary hunting post rather than a plant processing site for much of its history. It is ideally suited to this purpose because of its location over the Jaba'deen Pass and the associated springs. However, archaeological remains from the Natufian period, suggest that the site was more permanently occupied during this time.
23419556|We present an overview of archaeobotanical Carthamus spp. finds from Neolithic to medieval sites in the Near East and adjacent areas. A particular focus is put on the cultivated form of the genus. Safflower appears first in a number of early Bronze Age (3000 B.C.) sites in northern and central Syria. From there it apparently spread to Egypt, the Aegean and south-eastern Europe. The Near Eastern Bronze Age evidence shows a striking exclusiveness in the distribution patterns of safflower and flax, with flax being restricted to Levantine and Iranian sites. This may reflect the contrasting ecological requirements of the two crops, with safflower being well adapted to drought and salinity and thus to arid conditions. At the same time the geographically complementary evidence may indicate a similar use of the two crops and most probably suggests that the safflower was also used for oil almost from the beginning of its cultivation.
23419895|A pollen diagram from a site in the Esbjerg area, western Denmark, is used for reconstruction of the Holocene vegetational and environmental history there. During the Atlantic there was a parallel development of the landscape to that of other areas in Jylland (Jutland). From the late Neolithic onwards the development took its own course related to the approaching North Sea, which periodically inundated parts of the Esbjerg area. The record reflects landscape development in a formerly marine valley where sediments seem to be missing from parts of the Bronze Age and the early Iron Age. Consequently the landscape development during these times is only reflected in glimpses in the vegetation record, which shows gradually more open woodland and increasing human impact. During the late part of the Iron Age, Viking period and Middle Ages, the woodland was diverse in taxa but became increasingly open, finally reaching a stage during which there may have been too little wood even for daily use. At the same time the use of the land intensified. During the Sub-Atlantic, the Esbjerg area offered good natural resources with extensive grazing areas in the marine marshes in addition to good possibilities for farming and use of the woodland on higher ground, but devastating floods occurred.
23419896|The vegetation and fire history of few coastal sites has been investigated in the Mediterranean region so far. We present the first paleoecological reconstruction from coastal Sicily, the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. We analysed pollen and charcoal in the sediments of Biviere di Gela, a lake (lagoon) on the south coast of Sicily. Our data suggest that the area became afforested after a marine transgression at ca. 7200 cal B.P. (5250 B.C.). Buildup of forest and shrublands took ca. 200300 years, mainly with the deciduous trees Quercus, Ostrya and Fraxinus. Juniperus expanded ca. 6900 cal B.P. (4950 B.C.), but declined again 6600 cal B.P. (4650 B.C.). Afterwards, evergreen trees (Q. ilex-type and Olea) became dominant in the forest and Pistacia shrublands were established. Forest and shrubland reached a maximum ca. 70005000 cal B.P. (50503050 B.C.); subsequently forest declined in response to human impact, which was probably exacerbated by a general trend towards a more arid climate. During the Neolithic, fire was used to open the landscape, significantly reducing several arboreal taxa (Q. ilex, Fraxinus, Juniperus) and promoting herbs and shrubs (Achillea, Cichorioideae, Brassicaceae, Ephedra). Final forest disruption occurred around 2600 cal B.P. (650 B.C.) with the onset of the historically documented Greek colonization. We conclude that the open maquis and garrigue vegetation of today is primarily the consequence of intensive land-use over millennia. Under natural or near-natural conditions arboreal taxa such as Q. ilex, Olea and Pistacia would be far more important than they are today even under the hot and rather dry coastal conditions of southern Sicily.
23419897|This paper reports the archaeobotanical data from the so-called Vasca Ducale (Ducal Pit), a brick rubbish pit discovered in the basal floor of the ducal palace of Ferrara, Emilia-Romagna, northern Italy. It was in use during the second half of the 15th century A.D. when the rich and powerful Este family inhabited the palace. Therefore, the results help to investigate the eating customs of a Renaissance court. The pit fill largely consisted of zoological remains, especially small bones and shellfish, with mainly waterlogged plant remains and some artefacts. Though the seed/fruit concentration was not high, a long list of taxa was identified of which the largest part belonged to food and ornamental plants. The data suggest that the pit was used for the disposal of dining waste and floor sweepings. The archaeobotanical data are compared with those obtained from other medieval sites in the city, and with two Renaissance sources of documentary evidence, the frescos in the Salone dei Mesi (Room of the months) in Ferrara's Palazzo Schifanoia, and the cookbook by Cristoforo da Messisbugo, chef at the Este court. The archaeobotanical record of the Vasca Ducale (Ducal Pit) proved to be quite different from the other sites in Ferrara, especially because of the presence of luxury or exotic foods such as, for example, Punica granatum, Prunus armeniaca and Coriandrum sativum.
23419898|This research is based on the discovery of a large number of charcoal kiln sites and abandoned iron mines in Vallferrera (Axial Pyrenees, northeastern Spain). The study reveals that this region has been affected by the metal mining and smelting industry for at least 2,000 years, with maximum intensity in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, followed by abandonment of the activity. The region's woodland dendrochronology and historical records indicate that exploitation of wood charcoal for metalworking affected the past vegetation in the area and impeded the development of mature woodland. Our findings suggest that the greatest changes in vegetation and landscape history occurred at times of particular specialization in socioeconomic activities.
23419899|Pollen stratigraphies are the most spatially extensive data available for the reconstruction of past land-cover change. Detailed knowledge of past land-cover is becoming increasingly important to evaluate the present trends in, and drivers of, vegetation composition. The European Pollen Database (EPD) was established in the late 1980s and developed in the early 1990s to provide a structure for archiving, exchanging, and analysing Quaternary pollen data from Europe. It provides a forum for scientists to meet and engage in collaborative investigations or data analysis. In May 2007 several EPD support groups were developed to assist in the task of maintaining and updating the database. The mapping and data accuracy work group (MADCAP) aims to produce an atlas of past plant distributions as detected by pollen analyses in Europe, in order to meet the growing need for this data from palaeoecologists and the wider scientific community. Due to data handling problems in the past, a significant number of EPD datasets have errors. The initial task of the work group, therefore, was a systematic review of pollen sequences, in order to identify and correct errors. The EPD currently (January 2009) archives 1,032 pollen sequences, of which 668 have age-depth models that allow chronological comparison. Many errors have been identified and corrected, or flagged for users, most notably errors in the pollen count data. The application of spatial analyses to pollen data is related to the number of data points that are available for analysis. We therefore take this opportunity to encourage the submission of pollen analytical results to the EPD or other relevant pollen databases. Only in this way will the scientific community be able to gain a better understanding of past vegetation dynamics.
23419886|Wetland dynamics in northern Brazil during the Holocene were studied by pollen analysis and AMS radiocarbon dating of three cores. Near the Amazon mouth region, covered mainly by primary Amazon coastal forest and herbaceous vegetation, the pollen record indicates the dominance of mangroves between 4800 and 1100 cal yr B.P. A contraction of the mangrove area and an expansion of herbaceous and fern vegetation occurred between 1100 and 750 cal yr B.P. The period between 750 and 200 cal yr B.P. is characterized by an expansion of mangrove and a decrease in herbaceous and fern vegetation. This trend continued until the present. On Atalaia Island, the sediment core indicates a period with poor pollen preservation between 830 and 630 cal yr B.P. Between 630 and 330 cal yr B.P., mangroves expanded. Later, up to 45 cal yr B.P., the mangrove area decreased and the herbaceous vegetation expanded. During the last hundred years, the relative sea-level rise most probably favored the mangrove expansion as far as the topographically highest sector on this island, while the herbaceous vegetation decreased. The pollen data from gua Preta Lake indicate dry conditions, as reflected by the poor pollen preservation between 390 and 240 cal yr B.P. Between 240 and 60 cal yr B.P., restinga and Amazon coastal forest with palms dominated this region. For the last 120 years, the record indicates an expansion of the mangrove area. However, recent confinement of mangrove development to the topographically highest area, and the loss of mangrove areas on the lowest surfaces have led to a net loss of mangrove coverage during the last decades.
23419887|The layers studied, parts of banquettes, consist of limnic clayey-silty fine sediments with some intercalated horizons of shaly coal and lacustrine mud flow rubble. In the lower part of the record the Bornette interglacial has been established. This is characterised by high values of Corylus and a significant presence of Quercus and Hedera in addition to a wide-spread presence of Buxus, Ulmus and Carpinus. A linkage of this interglacial to the Eemian (MIS 5e) can be considered an applicable hypothesis. Quantitatively, however, Alnus and Picea exceed all these thermophytics. However the lower part of Lathuile Gare is also characterised by palynological duplications untypical of the Eemian, for example two distinct peaks of Corylus linked to a significant decline in Picea in PZ 3 and 5 and higher values of Abies and Picea in PZ 4 and 6. Possibly these duplications can be explained by a rapid sub-aquatic flow causing a doubling of the beds. In the upper part of the Lathuile Gare record two mean climatic recession periods in the lowest and the second uppermost section (PZ 9 and 15) were detected with increased values of NAP and Pinus in PZ 9 and decreased proportions of Picea in PZ 15. They represent the Chaperon b interstadial and the Lathuile stadial correlated hypothetically with the St. Germain Ib (MIS 5c2) and the Melisey II (MIS 5b) stadial. The enclosed middle part, the Chaparon c interstadial, revealing similarities with the St. Germain Ic (MIS 5c1), is dominated by Picea and Pinus. Only a few thermophilous taxa occur in the middle of this interstadial in PZ 11.
23419888|The cultural landscape development of a farming community in western Norway was investigated through pollen analyses from a lake and a peat/soil profile. The pollen record from the lake indicates that there was a decrease in arboreal pollen (AP) by the end of the Mesolithic period (ca. 4200 cal B.C.), and that a substantial forest clearance occurred during the Bronze Age (ca. 1500 cal B.C.). The latter, together with grazing indicators and cereals, suggests a widespread establishment of farming. At the beginning of the Roman Iron Age there is an increase in heath communities. The pollen diagram from the peat/soil profile shows the forest clearance in the Bronze Age more clearly than the lake profile. This local pollen diagram is compared with modern pollen samples from mown and grazed localities in western Norway. Both analogue matching and ordination (PCA) indicate that the site was characterised by pastures and cereal fields from the Late Bronze Age to the Late Iron Age. An expansion of cereal cultivation took place during the Pre-Roman Iron Age, and an arable field was established at the site after ca. A.D. 800. This investigation illustrates the potential of selecting pollen sites reflecting different spatial scales, and complements the cultural history of the area as inferred from archaeological and historical records.
23419889|In the 12th and 13th centuries, the land which is now the Czech Republic underwent deep social and landscape changes, defined by historians and archaeologists as a transitional period between the early and late medieval periods. This study aims to analyze this transition as reflected by 142 pollen spectra from urban deposits so far excavated in the city of Prague. Multivariate statistics and critical assessment of the results has brought general conclusions on the potential of pollen analysis for urban archaeological research. They reveal an early medieval urban environment as a fine mosaic formed by extensive management, and composed of many habitats without sharp borders between them. Since human impact increased with time and the use of land became more rationalized and intensive, this mosaic developed a relatively coarser structure in the high medieval period. Our results support findings of the earlier subjective and uncertain characteristics of two differing types of medieval pollen spectra (Cerealia-dominated ones with low pollen diversity versus those with a higher proportion of arboreal and wild herbal pollen and high pollen diversity) obtained from various archaeological sites.
23419890|Several samples were collected during the archaeological excavations at the proto-historic and Roman settlement of Terronha de Pinhovelo, northeast Portugal, in order to obtain plant macrofossils. The relevant archaeobotanical data gathered from the Roman structures of Sector B at the site allow a further understanding of the settlement and its community's daily life between the 4th and 5th centuries A.D. In the charcoal analysis, the main types recovered were Pinus pinaster, Quercus pyrenaica type, Q. faginea type, Q. suber type, Arbutus unedo and Fraxinus angustifolia. The shrubs, significantly less abundant in the samples, were represented by Cistus sp., Leguminosae and Erica spp. It must be stressed that the samples were taken from well-delimited domestic hearths and the botanical remains result from specific choices of firewood in short episodes of time, and therefore not the most appropriate for palaeoecological approaches, which usually cover a longer time span. The cereals are the most frequent group of plants represented in the fruit and seed assemblages. Triticum aestivum/durum, T. compactum, T. spelta and Hordeum vulgare were the dominant crops, followed by T. dicoccum and Panicum miliaceum. The only pulse identified was Vicia faba var. minor, in quite abundant quantity although it came almost exclusively from just one hearth. Two of the compartments sampled seem to be directly connected to plant processing, but the presence together of several plant taxa in the domestic structures makes their understanding quite difficult. These palaeoeconomic data are consistent with the records already available for northwest Iberia, and are significantly representative of a regular Romanised rural community.
23419559|Late Holocene vegetation, climate and fire dynamics of mountain forest and paramo ecosystems, as well as human impact, are presented from the upper Rio San Francisco valley, southeastern Ecuadorian Andes. Palaeoenvironmental changes, inferred from three soil monoliths, spanning an altitudinal gradient between 1,990 and 3,200 m and the high resolution multi-proxy sediment record from Laguna Zurita (2,590 m), were investigated by pollen, spore and charcoal analyses, in combination with XRF- and magnetic susceptibility-scanning. Three of the four pollen records show a marked change in the floristic composition between ca. 900 and 350 cal B.P. (interpolated age). Past fires have strongly influenced the floristic composition of the mountain rainforest ecosystem. Frequent fires, together with the relatively high occurrence of grasses and some Zea mays plantations document past human activities in the upper Rio San Francisco valley. A large number of areas of probably ancient Z. mays cultivation in the upper Rio San Francisco valley has been identified, using GIS-based calculation. High occurrences of Cyperaceae and Isoetes indicate the development of marshy lake shores in response to a lower lake level at Laguna Zurita before ca. 700 cal B.P. The decrease of Isoetes and Cyperaceae after ca. 1200 cal B.P. reflects a lake level rise, due to increasing moisture and/or human activities.
23419560|Data from 59 sequences studied through pollen analysis were used to examine the decline in Alnus in Estonia during the Iron Age. Between A.D. 300 and 1300, the Alnus pollen frequency declined markedly in 30 records distributed evenly across the investigated area. The beginning of the decline was time transgressive, coincidental with the start of extensive cultivation, and was frequently connected with the commencement of rye cultivation and the availability of land suitable for cultivation. The greatest reduction in Alnus abundance occurred during the Late Iron Age between A.D. 900 and 1000. This spatially random asynchrony suggests that one or more factors affected Alnus populations across the whole northern region. Human impact is discussed as a plausible cause of the decline. To determine the initiation of extensive crop farming in the eastern Baltic area, pollen diagrams from Latvia, Lithuania and the Novgorod region were also examined.
23419561|Detailed pollen analysis and pine megafossils from the immediate area of Rdalen in Central Norway have revealed new knowledge of Holocene alpine environments. A period of about 1,000 years characterised by pioneer herbs, dwarf-shrubs (Betula nana, Empetrum) and Juniperus followed the Holocene climatic amelioration. Local birch forest became established around 10.3 ka B.P., ca 150 years earlier than the local pine rise. Pine dominated at 1,100 m a.s.l. from 9.9 to 8.5 ka B.P., followed by birch forests until 1.3 ka B.P. when deforestation occurred. Slightly after 6 ka B.P., pine forests disappeared from the valley floor (930 m a.s.l.), an area that today is dominated by birch forest. Three short-lasting vegetational set-backs at ca 10.7, 10.5 and 10.3 ka B.P. may indicate climate oscillations. A temporary reduction of local forests reflects the Erdalen 2/9.7 ka B.P. event. The influence of the 8.2 event, superimposed on a cooling trend, lasted ca 400 years and involved a two-step vegetational regression: (1) A strong reduction of pine forests due to cooling and (2) reduction of alder due to cold and drought. Winter stress preventing pine regeneration may have caused scarcity of pine megafossils from the latter period. In the early Holocene, vegetation in the present alpine region was not in equilibrium with temperature development. It is suggested that the birch forest establishment lagged by about 1,000 years due to drought, whereas winter stress may have delayed the establishment of pine even longer.
23419562|This paper presents the first comparable overview of different recovery techniques used for waterlogged Neolithic sediments in the surroundings of the Alps in the last decades. Such an investigation became necessary because it was not known which parts of plants and types of remains were absent or completely underrepresented due to inappropriate recovery techniques in Slovenian archaeobotany up to 2006. During the 2007 excavation of the approximately 5,200 years old Neolithic pile dwelling site of Stare gmajne, Ljubljansko barje, Slovenia, we compared three methods for the investigation of botanical macroremains: method 1 (M1) included rough wet-sieving and subsequent drying of the fractions; method 2 (M2) rough wet sieving and keeping the fractions wet; and method 3 (M3) washing over and keeping the fractions wet. M3 with gentle washing, systematic subsampling, examination, and sorting of macroremains while wet, as well as using 0.355 mm as the smallest sieve mesh size gave the best results. When using the cruder M2 or M1 methods, waterlogged uncarbonized seeds of taxa such as Linum usitatissimum, Papaver somniferum and Brassica rapa, waterlogged chaff of Cerealia and pericarps of Maloideae and Quercus sp., which are all fragile, were underrepresented or even completely absent and therefore the plant spectra were strongly biased. On the contrary, taxa with lignified seed/fruit walls like Cornus mas, Corylus avellana or Rubus sp. were overrepresented when using the M2 and particularly the M1 method. The application of the M3, instead of the M1 method which has been traditionally used in Slovenian archaeobotany, helped us to identify uncarbonized remains of Linum usitatissimum and various species of Triticum for the first time in a waterlogged Neolithic site in Slovenia. Our study should contribute to a standardization of methods, which is desperately needed in archaeobotany. The study clearly shows that the plant spectra can be strongly biased if inappropriate handling techniques are used. The conclusions hold for all kinds of waterlogged sediments of different periods.
23419563|The extensively excavated areas of domestic architecture at the late Early Bronze Age urban settlement of Titri Hyk in southeast Turkey provide us with a rare opportunity to study the distribution of crops and their processing by-products between different households, as well as to assess differences in indoor and outdoor activities, with the potential of identifying patterns of spatial organisation in the processing and storing of crops, and the preparation of food. The Outer Town area of Titri Hyk was substantially reorganized in the late EBA, possibly to make room for victims of regional political conflicts. The similarity in the range of agricultural products found in the households, matching the regularity of the centrally planned houses, indicates that not only the rehousing of the new occupants of Outer Town, but also their supply of agricultural products, may have been organized and provided by a central power in the city. A model for the identification of the consumer end of centrally organized food distribution is suggested.
23419792|This paper considers the contribution of pollen analysis to conservation strategies aimed at restoring planted ancient woodland. Pollen and charcoal data are presented from organic deposits located adjacent to the Wentwood, a large planted ancient woodland in southeast Wales. Knowledge of the ecosystems preceding conifer planting can assist in restoring ancient woodlands by placing fragmented surviving ancient woodland habitats in a broader ecological, historical and cultural context. These habitats derive largely from secondary woodland that regenerated in the 3rd5th centuries A.D. following largescale clearance of Quercus-Corylus woodland during the Romano-British period. Woodland regeneration favoured Fraxinus and Betula. Wood pasture and common land dominated the Wentwood during the medieval period until the enclosures of the 17th century. Surviving ancient woodland habitats contain an important Fagus component that probably reflects an earlier phase of planting preceding conifer planting in the 1880s. It is recommended that restoration measures should not aim to recreate static landscapes or woodland that existed under natural conditions. Very few habitats within the Wentwood can be considered wholly natural because of the long history of human impact. In these circumstances, restoration should focus on restoring those elements of the cultural landscape that are of most benefit to a range of flora and fauna, whilst taking into account factors that present significant issues for future conservation management, such as the adverse effects from projected climate change.
23419793|Pinus sylvestris L., Abies alba Mill. and Fagus sylvatica L.the significant forest forming tree species in Europe are important for palaeoecological interpretations based on the results of pollen analysis of fossil deposits. The potential pollen loading for Pinus sylvestris, Abies alba and Fagus sylvatica was modelled using simulated and actual vegetation maps, measured fall-speed values and pollen productivity estimates from the literature. The influx of fir pollen drops sharply with distance from the pollen source due to the high fall speed and moderate pollen productivity. The vast majority of Abies alba pollen is deposited within less than 50 m of the sampling site and a major proportion within 100 m. For beech the corresponding numbers would be 300 and 1,800 m, and for pine 1,000 and 4,500 m. The observed mean pollen accumulation rate (PAR) values for Pinus and Fagus were ca. 5,800 and 1,100 grains cm-2 year-1, respectively. In the case of Abies, the mean annual PAR for the whole region is ca. 700 grains cm-2 year-1. In SE Poland the regional signal is represented by PARs of Abies alba <200 grains cm-2 year-1 and of Fagus sylvatica <500 grains cm-2 year-1. The local presence/absence threshold values for Abies alba, Fagus sylvatica and Pinus sylvestris are >1,000 grains cm-2 year-1, >2,000 grains cm-2 year-1 and >3,500 grains cm-2 year-1 respectively.
23419794|The local vegetation history of three sites in the forested region of central Sweden was studied. These sites were the forest village site ngersj and the two nearby shieling sites, Gammelvallen and jingsvallen. The aim of the study was to elucidate the relationship between the establishment of the farm and of the shielings. The results indicate that agriculture began in the area in the Roman Iron Age or Migration period. There is evidence of contemporaneous human activity in the village of ngersj and the shieling at jingsvallen, suggesting the development of a farmshieling system. We suggest that permanent farms and shielings were established concurrently as a local system, and that one of the main reasons was to demonstrate that the territory between the farm and the shieling was a potential resource area belonging to the farm. The problems of using pollen to differentiate between a shieling and a farm are also evaluated and it is concluded that multiple sites as well as a multidisciplinary approach is essential in order to be able to address such complex problems as the emergence of the farmshieling system.
23419795|Agrarian history and local cultural landscape dynamics have been documented through pollen analysis of a peat core within the hamlet of Yttra Berg, which is situated in an upland area of southwest Sweden. The sequence covers the last 5,000 years, from Neolithic to modern time. Wood pasturing started at 2000 B.C., followed by grazing and small-scale cultivation with 500 year cycles from 650 B.C., and permanent fields of agriculture from A.D. 1150. The area was abandoned during the period A.D. 13501550. Three cycles of succession related to land-use have been identified for the period 650 B.C. to A.D. 1550. Correlation with frequent clearance cairns in the area is discussed. Recessions of agriculture/settlement during the late Middle Ages and late modern time are documented. Pollen data indicate increased landscape and plant diversity since the Neolithic, closely linked to openness of the agrarian landscape. These results are important for landscape restoration.
23419796|Although chemical analyses of textile remains have traced the use of Isatis tinctoria L. (woad) back to the Neolithic period, archaeobotanical remains of the plant are scarce in north-western Europe, especially in France. A new discovery in the rural settlement of Roissy, north of Paris, raises the question of local cultivation of woad from at least the fifthfourth century B.C. (La Tne A/B1) in northern Gaul. The plant assemblage comes from the filling of a storage pit, which also included a wide variety of cultivated plants. These data represent a valuable contribution to the study of the circumstances of the adoption of woad as a new crop.
23419797|Here we argue that, based on evolutionary, ecological and agronomic considerations, climate change could not have been a suitable background nor a probable cause of plant domestication in the Near East. This thesis is developed based on the year-to-year yield dynamics in traditional rainfed grain farming in semi-arid environments, on the genetic basis that underlies temporal yield dynamics in natural wild cereal populations as well as in traditional farming systems, and upon the recognition that prior to elaborate high capacity and long-range trade networks, yield stability was more important than yield maximization. We also briefly discuss the likely social and cultural responses to subtle and real climatic changes vs. responses to rapid directional environmental trends. Taking into account the agronomic, ecological and genetic aspects discussed, it is suggested that the Near Eastern founder crop assemblage was chosen to function within the normal east Mediterranean precipitation regime, in which good rainy years create the 'normal surplus' that sustains farming communities during drought years, and the different crop types provide the system with its compensating ability. A slow (but real) climatic change is unlikely to induce major (revolutionary) cultural changes. Nor would a prominent environmental change provide the proper background for the origins of agriculture because it would abolish the buffering capacity of the system. Therefore, farming cannot function as a sustainable 'buffering mechanism' to counterbalance climatic instability causing natural resource depletion.
23419798|Archaeobotanical evidence for Near Eastern einkorn wheat, barley, and Chinese rice suggests that the fixation of key domestication traits such as non-shattering was slower than has often been assumed. This suggests a protracted period of pre-domestication cultivation, and therefore implies that both in time and in space the initial start of cultivation was separated from eventual domestication, when domesticated and wild populations would have become distinct gene pools. Archaeobotanical evidence increasingly suggests more pathways to cultivation than are represented by modern domesticated crop lines, including apparent early experiments with cultivation that did not lead to domestication, and early domesticates, such as two-grained einkorn and striate-emmeroid wheats, which went extinct in prehistory. This diverse range of early crops is hard to accommodate within a single centre of origin for all early Near Eastern cultivars, despite suggestions from genetic datasets that single origins from a single centre ought to be expected. This apparent discrepancy between archaeobotany and genetics highlights the need for modelling the expected genetic signature of different domestication scenarios, including multiple origins. A computer simulation of simple plant populations with 20 chromosomes was designed to explore potential differences between single and double origins of domesticated populations as they might appear in genomic datasets millennia later. Here we report a new simulation of a self-pollinating (2% outbreeding) plant compared to panmictic populations, and find that the general outcome is similar with multiple starts of cultivation drifting towards apparent monophyly in genome-wide phylogenetic analysis over hundreds of generations. This suggests that multiple origins of cultivation of a given species may be missed in some forms of modern genetic analysis, and it highlights the need for more complex modelling of population genetic processes associated with the origins of agriculture.
23419902|Increasingly, modern ecologists are realizing that the history of ecological systems is crucially important for understanding the landscape and that human land use has a great impact on the trajectory of ecosystems. The Yazoo Basin of Mississippi (USA) is one area in which palaeoecological and archaeological research has been done, but at a time when interpretations of the results relied on paradigms that gave credence only to climate change as a causal factor in explaining vegetation histories of plant communities. This paper uses knowledge of ecological processes and patterns of plant colonization and succession to make testable expectations for vegetation composition and change related to human action. An existing pollen record from the area is then examined in light of these expectations and reveals evidence that humans were an integral part of the ecosystem in this area, influencing the trajectory of vegetation history over thousands of years.
23419903|Multiproxy analysis (pollen, diatom, charcoal) on a 6 m core from Lago Verde (Sierra de Los Tuxtlas), shows evidences of environmental changes and human impact on the evergreen rainforest on the tropical lowlands of eastern Mexico during the last ca. 2,800 years. Prehistoric human occupation is recorded since the late Formative throughout the middle Classic (250 B.C.ca. A.D. 800) by the presence of maize pollen, a low abundance of tropical arboreal taxa and a high abundance of herbaceous pollen and charcoal particles. This occurred under a scenario of very low lake levels from which dry conditions are inferred based on the dominance of aerophilous and periphytic diatom taxa. After ca. A.D. 800 the site was abandoned and forest regeneration started, at the same time higher lake levels, an indication of more humid conditions, were established. In the absence of human disturbance, tropical forest regeneration was rapid (ca. 200 years). Fluctuations in pollen composition during times of low human population at the site are related to climate variability, with the highest tropical forest diversity and lake levels recorded during the Little Ice Age. Modern human impact is also recorded and compared with the prehistoric deforestation event. Comparison with palaeoecological records from Yucatan and the highlands of central Mexico offers a Mesoamerican perspective of climatic variability giving evidence that the late Formative and early to middle Classic demographic expansion occurred under a scenario of climates dryer than present, with the Postclassic characterized by moister conditions. The end of the Classic (ca. A.D. 8001000) is identified as a period of rapid climate change which marks one of the most important cultural transitions in Mesoamerica.
23419904|A lake sediment record from Laguna Campana at 2,488 m a.s.l. in the eastern Ecuadorian Andes allows the reconstruction of local environmental conditions over the past 500 years. A high-resolution multi-proxy approach using pollen, spore, charcoal and XRF analyses provides information about lake genesis, hydrological variations and the development of the surrounding vegetation. Results suggest that Laguna Campana originated from a landslide, which are naturally common and anthropogenically promoted in the study area. Human activities, e.g. deforestation or slash and burn cultivation, impacted the local vegetation development and biodiversity during the recorded period. After a first dense layer of pioneer grasses developed on open soil around the small lake, successional stages of secondary upper mountain rainforest forest mainly composed of Alnus and Weinmannia were observed. The record shows no signs of dense forest regeneration but rather open vegetation with trees and a grassy understory. Especially since ca. A.D. 1980, the proportion of forest in the area was reduced, most probably by fire use for pastures, cultivation and wood extraction. Hydrological variability was derived from differences in minerogenic input and variations in Botryococcus braunii and Sphagnum occurrence. After wettest conditions at the study site, probably triggering the landslide, humid conditions persisted until a time of drier conditions between A.D. 1900 and 1960. A subsequent return to wetter conditions was observed over the last decades. XRF analyses suggest an increase in deposition of atmospherically derived lead since the formation of the lake.
23419905|Charcoal fragments from five historic campsite locations in the Galpagos Islands were identified and radiocarbon dated to investigate postulated early human presence in the archipelago, historic fuel wood collection patterns and the resultant impact on native vegetation. A variety of taxa and fuel types were revealed to be present in the charcoal assemblages, indicating geographically driven rather than species-specific methods of collection. Historic anthropogenic impact was therefore spread amongst woody taxa in the lowland plant communities, with severity dependent on proximity to campsite location. All charred remains were found to date from within the historic period, supporting the preponderance of archaeological evidence indicating that human presence did not begin in Galpagos until after European discovery.
23419906|Detailed Late-glacial and Holocene palaeoenvironmental records from the northern Apennines with a robust chronology are still rare, though the region has been regarded as a main area of potential refugia of important trees such as Picea abies and Abies alba. We present a new high-resolution pollen and stomata record from Lago del Greppo (1,442 m a.s.l., Pistoia, northern Apennines) that has been dated relying on 12 terrestrial plant macrofossils. Late-glacial woodlands became established before 13000 cal B.P. and were dominated by Pinus and Betula, although more thermophilous taxa such as Quercus, Tilia and Ulmus were already present in the Greppo area, probably at lower altitudes. Abies and Picea expanded locally at the onset of the Holocene at ca. 11500 cal B.P. Fagus sylvatica was the last important tree to expand at ca. 6500 cal B.P., following the decline of Abies. Human impact was generally low throughout the Holocene, and the local woods remained rather closed until the most recent time, ca. A.D. 17001800. The vegetational history of Lago del Greppo appears consistent with that of previous investigations in the study region. Late-glacial and Holocene vegetation dynamics in the northern Apennines are very similar to those in the Insubrian southern Alps bordering Switzerland and Italy, across the Po Plain. Similarities between the two areas include the Late-glacial presence of Abies alba, its strong dominance during the Holocene across different vegetation belts from the lowlands to high elevations, as well as its final fire and human-triggered reduction during the mid Holocene. Our new data suggest that isolated and minor Picea abies populations survived the Late-glacial in the foothills of the northern Apennines and that at the onset of the Holocene they moved upwards, reaching the site of Lago del Greppo. Today stands of Picea abies occur only in two small areas in the highest part of the northern Apennines, and they have become extinct elsewhere. Given the forecast global warming, these relict Picea abies stands of the northern Apennines, which have a history of at least 13,000 years, appear severely endangered.
23419907|This paper presents a preliminary examination of archaeobotanical material from pigeon dung samples obtained from Byzantine period destruction levels of a dovecote near the site of Shivta, Israel. Such pigeon dung was a valuable fertilizer in antiquity and would not have been abandoned without a reason. The plant remains from the dung provide direct evidence of pigeon diet and the local environment during the Byzantine period. Eleven plant taxa, represented by either seeds and/or plant parts (cereal chaff material), including five wild taxa, one legume, four fruit/nut taxa and several unidentified seed fragments were recovered. The most common seeds found were from weeds of the genus Thymelaea sp., and Ficus (fig). The finds indicate that the birds in the dovecote consumed a mixed diet of wild seeds including Thymelaea sp. and Fumaria sp. (fumitory), and small fruits of Vitis (grape), Ficus (fig), Olea (olive) and Phoenix (date). The sample analyzed also included Rumex (dock), Carex (sedge) and Androsace which may not have come from the feed. Apparently the pigeons were free to forage in the desert, the fallowed fields and refuse piles or/and were intentionally fed agricultural by-products including wild plants.
23419847|Pollen monitoring has become a standard investigation method for researchers in several disciplines; among them are Quaternary palynologists, who conduct experiments in order to gain insights that will help to interpret the content of pollen in sediments. A review of the literature shows how these experiments diversified during the 1920s and 1930s with an array of different research questions, ranging from pollination biology to hay fever studies. Quaternary palynologists gained renewed interest with the possibility of radiocarbon dating late Quaternary sediments and obtaining accumulation rates. Also, the comprehensive model of pollen deposition and the pollen budget studies by H. Tauber encouraged researchers to conduct similar experiments using the same type of pollen trap, which became the main trapping device for Quaternary palynologists. The high precipitation in the tropics inspired the development of alternative designs. The equipment used to assess the pollen content in the air has evolved from simple gravity devices to different types of apparatus using a vacuum pump or revolving rods that collect the pollen on impact. Silicone impregnated filters exposed perpendicularly to the wind can also yield a volumetric assessment and have proven useful in areas with a low content of pollen in the air. The literature review is followed by a brief account of the developments which established the basis for the formation of a group of scientists monitoring the pollen deposition at a network of sites using standard pollen traps, the Pollen Monitoring Programme (PMP). Over the last 15 years the network has collected a large dataset, which is now available to answer a number of research questions. A summary of selected regions and environments, for which pollen monitoring results are available, is provided to serve as a complement to the investigations mentioned above and to provide an overview that may stimulate new research.
23419848|Annual pollen-accumulation rates (PAR) of Fagus (beech) obtained within the framework of the Pollen Monitoring Programme (PMP) were analyzed in pollen traps along a NS transect from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea in different European vegetation units. The study regions are situated in the lowlands of northern Poland, the uplands of SE Poland, the Czech Krkonoe Mts, the Czech umava Mts, the Swiss Jura Mts, the Swiss Alps, the Bulgarian Rila Mts and the Bulgarian Strandzha Mts. Most time series are 10 or 11 years long, some are 516 years long. Inter-annual fluctuations in Fagus PAR were analyzed and compared with seed mast years. Years with high Fagus PAR and others with low Fagus PAR occurred most frequently in parallel within each region and often in two neighbouring regions. 2006 was exceptional as it had a very high Fagus sylvatica pollen deposition in all study regions and it was also a mast year. In Bulgaria, the trend in the 5 years of Fagus orientalis PAR in the Strandzha Mts differed from that of F. sylvatica PAR in the Rila Mts. Aiming at establishing the relationship between average Fagus PAR and tree cover, differences in Fagus PAR (averaged per pollen trap) were related in each region to the proportion of beech trees in the vegetation within 2 km of the pollen traps, the distance to the nearest pollinating Fagus tree, regional or local presence of beech forests, the degree of landscape openness, and the size of forest opening in which a trap is situated. Average Fagus PAR was found to track the regional abundance of beech trees in the vegetation, not the distance of the nearest Fagus tree. Regional occurrence of beech-dominated forests was reflected by a Fagus PAR of ca. 1,400 grains cm2 year1, local abundance very close to pollen traps by ca. 2,400 grains, small patches of forest with admixture of Fagus by ca. 170220 grains, and scarcity or absence of Fagus by ca. 40 grains or less.
23419849|This paper compares pollen spectra derived from modified Tauber traps and moss samples from a selection of woodland types from Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Georgia, Greece, Poland, Switzerland and Wales. The study examines the representation of individual taxa in the two sampling media and aims to ascertain the duration of pollen deposition captured by a moss. The latter aim was pursued through the calculation of dissimilarity indexes to assess how many years of pollen deposited in a pollen trap yield percentage values that are most similar to those obtained from the moss. The results are broadly scattered; the majority of moss samples being most similar to several years of pollen deposition in the adjacent trap. For a selection of samples, a comparison of the pollen accumulation rate in pollen traps with the pollen concentration in the moss per unit surface indicates that the entrapment and/or preservation of individual pollen types in the moss differ from that in the pollen trap. A comparison of the proportion of different taxa in the moss with the pollen spectrum of 2 years of pollen deposition in the trap also revealed large differences. There is a tendency for bisaccate grains such as Pinus and Picea to have a higher representation in moss than in traps but there is considerable regional variation. The results indicate that pollen proportions from moss samples often represent the pollen deposition of one area over several years. However, bisaccate pollen grains tend to be over-represented in moss samples compared to both pollen traps and, potentially, lake sediments.
23419850|Annual PAR (pollen accumulation rates; grains cm-2 year-1) were studied with modified Tauber traps situated in ten regions, in Poland (Roztocze), the Czech Republic (two regions in Krkonoe, two in umava), Switzerland (4 regions in the Alps), and Georgia (Lagodekhi). The time-series are 1016 years long, all ending in 2007. We calculated correlations between pollen data and climate. Pollen data are PAR summarized per region (47 traps selected per region) for each pollen type (914 per region) using log-transformed, detrended medians. Climate data are monthly temperature and precipitation measured at nearby stations, and their averages over all possible 2- to 6-month windows falling within the 20-month window ending with August, just prior to the yearly pollen-trap collection. Most PAR/climate relationships were found to differ both among pollen types and among regions, the latter probably due to differences among the study regions in the habitats of plant populations. Results shared by a number of regions can be summarized as follows. Summer warmth was found to enhance the following year's PAR of Picea, Pinus non-cembra, Larix and Fagus. Cool summers, in contrast, increase the PAR of Abies, Alnus viridis and Gramineae in the following year, while wet summers promote PAR of Quercus and Gramineae. Wetness and warmth in general were found to enhance PAR of Salix. Precipitation was found to be more important for PAR of Alnus glutinosa-type than temperature. Weather did not have an impact on the PAR of Gramineae, and possibly of Cyperaceae in the same year. Care is advised when extrapolating our results to PAR in pollen sequences, because there are large errors associated with PAR from sediments, due to the effects of taphonomy and sedimentation and high uncertainty in dating. In addition, in pollen sequences that have decadal to centennial rather than near-annual resolution, plant-interaction effects may easily out-weigh the weather signal.
23419851|Since 1967 annual pollen deposition has been monitored in the semi-natural mixed deciduous woodland Draved Forest by the Geological Survey of Denmark. In this paper, we analyse the variability in pollen accumulation rates for the eight most common deciduous trees, and their relationships to monthly temperature and precipitation. High summer temperatures in the year before flowering have a positive effect on pollen deposition for several species. A positive correlation between temperatures during the flowering season and pollen accumulation rates is found for Fagus sylvatica, Quercus robur, Fraxinus excelsior and Corylus avellana. The amount of precipitation can have both positive and negative effects on pollen accumulation, depending on species and on time of year. Linear modelling showed that combinations of monthly climate parameters could explain between 10 and 80% of the variation observed in different species. There were marked differences in the time series of pollen accumulation and pollen/climate relationships for some species between traps within the forest related to the location of trees near the traps. This underlines the importance of using multiple traps in a region for this type of study. Time series analyses were used to test for cyclicity in pollen accumulation rates, which could be caused by resource limitations or internal biological factors. No significant autocorrelations were found, although Alnus glutinosa showed a tendency towards 3-year cyclicity. These results indicate that, with the possible exception of Alnus glutinosa, temperature and precipitation are the main factors controlling the annual variability in pollen deposition of the trees in Draved Forest.
23419852|In the DOORMAT (Direct Observation of Recent Macrofossils Across Treeline) project, the modern representation of local vegetation by pollen and plant remains (plant macrofossils) across a west Norwegian tree line, composed of Betula pubescens and Pinus sylvestris, has been studied over 2 years. The aim was to discover if the modern tree line could be detected and therefore how precisely past tree-line movements could be reconstructed and related to Holocene climate changes by using one proxy or a combination of both. Traps were placed in the vegetation from 663 to 1,120 m a.s.l., spanning the pine altitudinal species limit, the birch tree-line ecotone, and the vegetation zones up to the mid-alpine zone. Three traps were also set in the small lake Trettetjrn close to the modern tree line at 800 m a.s.l. Traps were emptied twice a year to sample both summer and winter seasons. Macrofossils represent their local vegetation well. However, tree Betula remains were trapped above the tree line and Pinus and Picea remains were recorded 1.01.5 km away from their sources, demonstrating considerable dispersal capacity. This shows that rare macrofossil remains do not necessarily represent the local presence of these trees. Aerial tree pollen deposition in traps at the upper limit of pine woodland and in the subalpine birch woodland was unexpectedly low, whereas pollen accumulation rates (PAR) were orders of magnitude higher in the lake traps. We hypothesise that the lake receives regional pollen rain washed in from its catchment by snow meltwater and that high values in traps are due to continuous suspension of pollen in the lake water during summer. The interpretation of tree-line changes from existing Holocene pollen and plant macrofossil data from Trettetjrn was supported and refined by the DOORMAT macrofossil data, but the modern pollen data were anomalous.
23419853|Considering the complexity of real-world pollen dispersal, a single set of parameters may be inadequate to model pollen dispersal, especially as dispersal occurs on both local and regional scales. Here we combine more than one dispersal function into a composite dispersal function (CDF). The function incorporates multiple parameters and different modes of pollen transportation, and thus has the potential to better simulate the relationship between deposited pollen and the surrounding vegetation than would otherwise be possible. CDFs based on different dispersal functions and combinations of dispersal functions were evaluated using a pollen-trap dataset from the Swiss Alps. Absolute pollen productivity (APP) was estimated at 7,700  2,000 grains cm-2 year-1 for Larix decidua, 13,500  1,900 grains cm-2 year-1 for Picea abies and 95,600  17,700 grains cm-2 year-1 for Pinus cembra (with 95% confidence level). The results are consistent with previous APP estimates made from the same dataset using different methods.
23419854|Tertiary-relict plants are survivors from the pre-Quaternary periods. Today, most European Tertiary relicts are confined to small, isolated stands distributed in the Mediterranean and Black Sea regions. In the past, however, the fossil record indicates that these species were probably distributed over large parts of the European continent and may have been important constituents of the vegetation. Little is known about their pollen representation, which limits our ability to reconstruct this past vegetation with any accuracy. This paper draws on the results of pollen trapping experiments in Bulgaria and Georgia, where relict stands of Aesculus hippocastanum, Cercis siliquastrum, Fagus orientalis, Juglans regia and Pterocarya fraxinifolia are still in existence. We compared average pollen accumulation rates (PAR) to vegetation data from around the trapping locations to derive estimates of absolute pollen productivity using various pollen dispersal functions. Composite dispersal functions that model pollen components carried above the vegetation canopy and falling as rain provided better relationships between PAR and plant abundance than functions that consider only a single component or the 'trunk-space' component carried under the canopy. A composite dispersal function with a simple model for regional pollen and the best overall correlation statistics gave the following estimates of absolute pollen productivity (grains cm-2 yr-1 with 1 SE intervals): Carpinus betulus 19,00028,700; Fagus orientalis 15,60020,400; Juglans regia 27,20036,200; Pterocarya fraxinifolia 182,000192,600; Quercus spp. 21,70024,800; Tilia begoniifolia 51,60068,300; and T. tomentosa 14,70018,200. These estimates were applied to fossil data from the Black Sea coast to reconstruct palaeovegetation using absolute and relative methods.
23419855|Thirteen surface moss samples were collected for pollen analysis from an area of heathland in western Norway. Vegetation composition at different distances around the sampling locations was measured using three different survey methods; rooted frequency within a subdivided 1 m  1 m quadrat, visual estimates of cover within a 1 m  1 m quadrat and a modified form of the 'circle-walking method'. Extended R-value analysis was used to explore the pollenvegetation relationships for five main taxa, Calluna vulgaris, Vaccinium-type, Cyperaceae, Poaceae and Potentilla-type. The estimates of relevant source area of pollen obtained were similar regardless of the vegetation survey method. Values obtained were always under 4 m. However, estimates of relative pollen productivity and the background pollen component (proportion of pollen coming from vegetation growing beyond the relevant source area of pollen) differ markedly depending on the method of vegetation survey chosen. This has important implications for the quantitative reconstruction of past vegetation cover.
23419856|This paper explores the spatial and temporal land-cover variability within the main cultural landscape units in Denmark during the last 3,000 years. Quantitative estimates of the cover of trees, grasses, Cerealia and Calluna around nine Danish lakes were obtained using the recently developed Landscape Reconstruction Algorithm (LRA) (Sugita 2007a, b). The performance of the approach was evaluated by comparing reconstructed vegetation based on A.D. 1800 pollen spectra to land cover from historical maps of the same period. Although the model tended to overestimate grassland cover by 1020%, the reconstructed vegetation was much more similar to the observed than the uncorrected pollen proportions. The LRA was then applied to 3,000 year long pollen records to reconstruct the vegetation development around each of the nine sites. The results support earlier conclusions regarding the relative stability of woodland, agrarian and heathland dominated landscapes in Denmark (Odgaard and Rasmussen 2000), with the distribution of the main landscape types determined by topography and soil characteristics. The present study indicates that the transition zones between agricultural and forest dominated landscapes were the most dynamic, acting as buffer zones where most of the expansions and contractions of agricultural activities took place. The quantitative vegetation reconstructions underline the importance of farming and especially pastoral activities in shaping the Danish landscapes throughout the study period.
23419862|This paper presents results from a modern dataset of non-pollen palynomorphs and its application to a ca. 2,000 year peat record from the same area in the western Pyrenees (Basque Country, France). The modern dataset is composed of 35 surface samples (moss polsters) from a mountainous pasture-woodland landscape. Airborne fungal spores (ascospores and conidia), found dominant in the dataset, are linked to the degree of landscape openness and grazing pressure. The complete spectrum of 13 selected spore-types of dung-related Ascomycetes is positively linked with grazing pressure. However, different dung affinities between the spore-types have been identified. These are types clearly related to high grazing pressure and types with no or unclear dung indicative value. The modern dataset is used to aid interpretation of the local fossil pollen record as an independent 'proxy' to assess past pastoral dynamics. This study confirms the utility of modern non-pollen palynomorphs from terrestrial ecosystems in the reconstruction of historical local pastoral activities but also shows their limitation. It may be necessary to extend such study to wetland ecosystems and to investigate the spatial dimension of some fungal spores.
23419863|The late Holocene environmental history of two karstic uplands in the Burren, western Ireland is reconstructed. The palaeoecological investigations focus on species-rich, upland plant communities of high biogeographic interest that include Sesleria-dominated grasslands and heath communities with Dryas octopetala, Arctostaphylos uva-ursi and Empetrum nigrum. Short monoliths taken from shallow peats were pollen analytically investigated. Particular attention was paid to non-pollen palynomorphs, and especially coprophilous fungal spores as indicators of environmental change and pastoral activity at local level. The exposed north-west Burren uplands carried Pinus sylvestris-dominated woodland during the mid and late Bronze Age. The demise of pine on these uplands at ca. 600 B.C. is ascribed to human impact. Evidence is presented for increased pastoral activity in the uplands from early medieval times (ca. sixth century A.D.) onwards. Farming, involving intensive grazing of the uplands, attained greatest intensity during the late 18th and early 19th century, and resulted in more or less total clearance of Corylus scrub which, prior to that, was common in both the upland and lowland Burren. The potential of non-pollen palynomorphs and especially the coprophilous fungal spore record for elucidating traditional Burren farming practices, including winterage (a type of transhumance), is highlighted.
23419864|Radiocarbon dating, pollen and non-pollen palynomorph analyses from a lake core were used to establish the timing and effects of farming activities around Lake Igaliku, Eastern Settlement, Greenland. The absence of agro-pastoral impact before the medieval colonization by Europeans provides an opportunity to understand the development of farming activity in a pristine landscape. The results show that the first phase of clearance and grazing pressure, without the expansion of the Norse apophyte (native plant, in habitats created by humans) Rumex acetosa type, could have occurred in the 910th century A.D. The presence of Norse settlers and livestock is clearly recorded from the 1112th century A.D. with increasing frequencies of the Norse apophytes Rumex acetosa type and Ranunculus acris type, and coprophilous fungi. This colonization phase is followed by a period of decreasing human impact at the beginning of the 14th century, with a decrease in weeds, apophytes and coprophilous fungi suggesting a reduced grazing pressure. The regrowth of Salix and Betula and the disappearance of anthropogenic indicators except Rumex acetosa type between the 15th and 18th century demonstrate the abandonment of the settlement, until the development of contemporary agriculture in the 20th century.
23419865|Pollen, micro-charcoal and non-pollen palynomorph (NPP) data from the mid Holocene Ulmus decline and the preceding millennium have provided evidence of repeated fire disturbance of the upland woodland at Bluewath Beck Head, on the North York Moors in northeast England. Woodland disturbance coincides with the Ulmus decline, which at several similar upland sites in northern England is dated to ca. 4800 uncal B.P. (ca. 5550 cal B.P.), and so to the early Neolithic period. Two fire events occur within a cycle of disturbance and regeneration between about 6100 (ca. 6950 cal B.P.) and 5700 B.P. (ca. 6475 cal B.P.), placing them in the later stages of the Late Mesolithic hunter-gatherer occupation of the upland and near the start of the transition to early Neolithic agricultural economies. Increased Melampyrum and Corylus pollen percentages characterise the post-fire vegetation response. These disturbances probably resulted from human activity, suggesting that fire was an integral part of the Late Mesolithic ecology. The local origin of some NPPs greatly enhances the palaeoecological interpretation, showing variations in the hydrological responses to disturbance that are much less visible in the pollen record, and helping to distinguish between local and regional vegetation changes. Other NPPs indicate burning near to the site. A substantial peak in spores of the wood-rot fungus Kretzschmaria deusta across the Ulmus decline may indicate girdling and other woodland management techniques as part of Neolithic woodland farming.
23419866|A 17.81 m sediment core from Lake Naleng, a freshwater lake in the south-eastern part of the Tibetan Plateau was examined for its non-pollen palynomorph (NPP) composition. The frequencies of 15 NPPs and three aquatic pollen types were determined in 160 samples. Since the origin of several NPP types is still unknown, multivariate analysis, supported by findings from the corresponding fossil pollen flora, was carried out to extract information about their ecological environments. The analysis allowed a classification of all microfossils in four groups of environmental response, which provided an approach to tracing lake history and palaeoclimatic changes in the area since the Late Glacial (since 17,700 cal years B.P.). Unstable lake conditions and a low organic productivity were reconstructed for the Late Glacial before 14,600 cal years B.P. with high inputs of terrestrial material. Climate conditions became wetter during the Blling/Allerd interval indicated by high productivity in the lake. After a short climate deterioration (12,50011,500 cal years B.P.), stable lake conditions were inferred from the record. During the late Holocene (since 2,700 cal years B.P.) changes in the NPP composition might be related to human impact, the latter being inferred from the pollen data through the presence of grazing indicators.
23419867|Information from pollen and non-pollen palynomorphs was used to reconstruct ritual burial traditions in the first half of the third millennium B.C. The floor of the burial chamber of the Paravani barrow and a ceremonial wagon were covered with flax textiles (Linum), as evidenced by the abundance of flax microfibres. The wagon was made of pine (Pinus), oak (Quercus) and juniper (Juniperus) wood. This is demonstrated by parenchyma cells of wood which were linked to the destroyed remains of the wagon. The presence of an animal skin could be established. The presence of the skin is evidenced by large amounts of pollen, ascospores of coprophilous fungi, hairs of dermestid beetle larvae and the bristle of a moth grub. According to the taxonomic composition of the flowers used for decoration of the ceremonial wagon and numerous mite remains, the burial occurred during the first half of the summer.
23419868|Pollen analyses were performed on sediment samples from ten different Saphar-Kharaba burials dating to the 15th14th centuries B.C. Along with pollen and spores, a large amount of micro-remains of textile fibres was found near skeleton bones and especially under big bones. It was established that in all the studied samples 95% of the remains of the clothing and shroud of the deceased was made of Linum (flax) and Gossypium (cotton). Wool fibres were found in very small quantities. Based on pollen spectra and the number of the fibres found in the samples taken from under the skull it became possible to identify the sex of the deceased and especially that of children, which is rather difficult to do using palaeoanthropological methods alone. The discovery of cotton fibres in the burials of the early late Bronze Age is new not only for the Georgian region under consideration, but also for the whole Caucasus. This might indicate trade relations of the peoples of the southern Caucasus with India, where at that time cotton textiles were manufactured.
23419869|Pollen analysis identified domestic Zea mays (corn, maize), Phaseolus vulgaris (kidney bean), Helianthus annuus (sunflower) and Cucurbita pepo (squash) accompanied by spores of fungi, many of which cause crop diseases, such as Ustilago maydis (=U. zeae, corn smut), Puccinia sorghi (corn rust), Uromyces appendiculatus (bean rust) and Puccinia graminis (wheat rust). Spores were most abundant in two intervals, ca. A.D. 1300 to ca. 1500 when prehistoric Iroquoian agriculture flourished near the lake and since 1830, when historic Triticum aestivum (wheat) agriculture began. In addition to dispersal by wind, Branta canadensis (Canada goose) also transported fungal spores to the lake via their dung. Spores of fungi that parasitize crop plants may be more abundant than pollen of their host plants and therefore spores may more readily indicate ancient agriculture.
23419870|As part of a regional research project on wetlands, a analysis was carried out on non pollen palynomorphs (NPP) from the upper sediments of a mountain peat bog in the Ligurian Apennines, northwest Italy. The aim of this project was to see if NPPs could yield useful results on local ecology and human activity in connection with the use of resources. More than 60 NPP types were found, among which a new type is described. A good agreement was observed between pollen assemblages and different NPP types, which are still an under-exploited source of information. Coprophilous fungi suggest the presence of livestock at the site after cal. A.D. 7701160, while various algae and other water-demanding organisms show an increasing eutrophication of the environment in the most recent phase after cal. A.D. 1500. This approach, which is new for this region, confirms the hypothesis that local farming practices, such as management of pasture and woodland, were not recently established here. The site features and both NPP variety and significance show that further improvement of this additional tool could contribute to answering some questions about past cultural landscapes.
23419871|In this work we investigate the development of a salt marsh environment during the Holocene marine transgression in the North Adriatic coast (North Italy) near the pre-Roman and Roman towns of Cittanova and Concordia Sagittaria. Pollen, plant macrofossils, non-pollen palynomorphs (NPPs) and foraminifers are analysed in cores and archaeological excavations to indicate the development of salt marsh plant communities. Other independent proxies (foraminifers, plant macrofossils, molluscs) confirm the ecological interpretation based on pollen records. The relevance of NPPs as indicators of salt marsh environment is evaluated. Linings of foraminifers are the most frequent NPP type, recorded in 85% of the brackish sediments. They may tentatively be referred to the genus Ammonia, a very common benthonic genus in the present lagoons of the North Adriatic Sea. Radiocarbon dates available from previous work allow the salt marsh development to be dated in the sector from the east of the Lagoon of Venice to the Lagoon of Caorle. Near Cittanova, salt marshes developed before 6700 yrs cal. B.P. At Concordia Sagittaria, the first evidence dates from ca. 6700 yrs cal. B.P. and a phase of freshwater conditions is recorded in the sediments of ca. 4500 yrs cal. B.P.
23419872|There have been few studies of non-pollen palynomorphs (NPP) in Holocene brackish water environments. The Black Sea is one of the world's largest and deepest bodies of stable brackish water and a natural laboratory for study of marine carbon cycling to anoxic sediments. The main NPP in the modern sediments of this brackish water sea are dinoflagellate cysts (dinocysts), acritarchs (mainly the prasinophytes Cymatiosphaera, Micrhystridium, Sigmopollis and Pseudoschizaea) and diverse fungal remains. Other NPP include colonial algae, tintinnids, copepod and cladoceran egg covers, testate amoebae and microforaminiferal linings. These NPP assemblages are similar to those in the marginal marine environment of the Pliocene St. Erth Beds (England), but have more abundant NPP, and virtually lack scolecodonts. In the Black Sea corridor, modern assemblages from areas with salinity >22 have higher percentages of microforaminiferal linings and fewer prasinophytes, colonial algae and fungal spores. Prasinophytes dominate only in mid-Holocene sediments, during a 2000 years interval of sea level transgression and sapropel deposition. Early Holocene sediments have lower dinocyst diversity, increased freshbrackish water colonial algae (Pediastrum spp. and Botryococcus braunii), zygnemataceous spores and desmids (including Zygnema, Cosmarium), ostracod linings and fewer foraminiferal linings. These assemblages are similar to those in the Baltic Sea where the annual salinity is about 68.
23419873|The recognition of Mesolithic impacts in mid Holocene pollen diagrams of the British Isles has led to the development of models describing sophisticated woodland management, particularly through the use of fire, by Mesolithic populations. However, the significance of human agency in creating mid Holocene woodland disturbances is unclear, with natural and human-induced clearings arguably indistinguishable in the pollen record. Analysis of non-pollen palynomorphs (NPPs) should aid the identification of events and processes occurring within these woodland disturbances and provide more precise palaeoecological data. In this paper we present pollen, charcoal and NPP analyses from a potentially critical location in the Mesolithic impacts debate. NPP types aid significantly in the reconstructions, suggesting periods of dead wood, grazing, local burning and wetter ground conditions. The results indicate that between 7700 and 6800 cal B.P., a predominantly wooded environment periodically gave way to phases of more open woodland, with inconsistent evidence for animal grazing. From 6800 cal B.P., a phase of open woodland associated with high charcoal concentrations and indicators of grazing was observed. This probably represents the deliberate firing of vegetation to improve grazing and browse resources, although it remains unclear whether fire was responsible for initially creating the woodland opening, or if it was part of an opportunistic use of naturally occurring woodland clearings.
23885153|Late Holocene vegetation, fire, climate and upper forest line dynamics were studied based on detailed pollen and charcoal analyses. Two sediment cores, from the Rabadilla de Vaca mire (RVM) and the Valle Pequeo bog (VP), with an age of about 2100 and 1630 cal yrs B.P., respectively, were taken at the modern upper forest line in the Parque Nacional Podocarpus (Podocarpus National Park) in southeastern Ecuador. The two pollen records reflect relatively stable vegetation with slight changes in floral composition during the recorded period. Changes of the proportion between subpramo and pramo vegetation are related to lower and higher frequency of fires. The RVM records show that the upper forest line moved to a higher elevation between 1630 and 880 cal yrs B.P., stabilising after 310 cal yrs B.P. Human impact is suggested by a high fire frequency, mainly between 18001600 and 880310 cal yrs B.P. The VP records indicate no marked changes in the upper forest line. The charcoal records suggest an increased human impact from 230 cal yrs B.P. to the present. The results indicate that high fire frequency is an important factor in reducing the expansion of subpramo vegetation and upper montane rainforest and in favouring the distribution of grass pramo. Since there is a clear correlation between fire and vegetation dynamics, it is difficult to detect how far climate change also played a significant role in upper forest line changes during the late Holocene.
23885154|To study the causes of agricultural declines in south-west Sweden, a multi-proxy study including pollen analysis, bog surface wetness indicators and aeolian sediment influx reconstructions was carried out on the Store Mosse Bog, situated on the coastal plain of Halland. Patterns of agricultural changes during the past 6,000 years from this study were compared to one additional site on the coastal plain (Undarsmosse Bog) and to four sites in the forested upland region. First, we compared land use activity on the coastal plain and in upland regions of south-west Sweden. Three periods with reduced agricultural activities were observed, primarily in records from the coastal plain. Next, the causes for these declines were studied by comparing land use indicators in the pollen records from the Store Mosse and Undarsmosse peat bogs to independent climatic reconstructions based on the same core material (past storm activity based on aeolian sediment influx onto the peat bogs; bog surface wetness reconstructed from organic bulk density measurements). Since the climatic reconstructions and pollen analysis were carried out on the same peat cores, a direct comparison between the timing of climatic events and land use changes was possible. Results indicate that climatic perturbations prior to ca. 1,000 years ago contributed to or possibly caused agricultural declines. The agricultural expansions near the Store Mosse and Undarsmosse bogs from 3000 to 2600 cal. yrs B.P. ended at the time when climatic proxy indicators recorded climatic instability (from ca 2600 to 2200 cal. yrs B.P.). The same sequence of events was recorded around 1500 cal. yrs B.P. and from 1200 to 1000 cal. yrs B.P., suggesting a climatic cause for these agricultural declines as well. The well-known climatic perturbations associated with the Little Ice Age, however, did not have a visible impact on agricultural activities. By this time, advances in land use knowledge and technology may have drastically diminished society's sensitivity to climatic changes.
23885155|A 7.5 m sediment core from Lake Bolata, a small former coastal liman lake in northeastern Bulgaria, was analyzed for pollen and plant macrofossil content in attempt to trace the changes in the vegetation, human impact and the influence of the Black Sea during the last ca. 6,000 years. Lake Bolata started its existence when the rising Black Sea level reached the elevation of the bottom of the depression. By that time nearly all tree species were already present in this area with the exception of Carpinus orientalis. The comparison of the arrival time of oriental hornbeam at different sites along the Bulgarian Black Sea confirmed the reliability of the local radiocarbon chronology. For the period under study the vegetation of the region around the site can be described as a forest-steppe due to NAP values higher than 40% of the pollen sum. Forests on the slopes of the river canyon consisted of Quercus spp., Acer, Carpinus orientalis, Fraxinus ornus, Fagus and possibly Tilia. Riverine forests formed stands composed of Salix, Alnus, Ulmus, Fraxinus, Carpinus betulus and Vitis as a liana. The vegetation on the Cape Kaliakra plateau, bordering the canyon, was dominated by diverse herbs and most of these could be considered xerophytes. The oldest occupation period belongs to the Eneolithic, documented by the occurrences of Triticum-type pollen at 5570-5170 cal B.P. (3620-3220 B.C.). The next period of higher continuous Cerealia-type values corresponds to 3450-1830 cal B.P. (1500 B.C.A.D. 120). The macrofossil record chiefly provides evidence about plant communities of aquatics and helophytes.
23885156|Despite the abundance of barley in the archaeobotanical record at Roman military sites along Hadrian's Wall in northern England, and the suitability of the British climate for growing the grain, contention still remains concerning the human consumption of this cereal in the Roman world. Previous experimental and archaeological work has demonstrated that cereal bran fragments in faecal material can be successfully assigned to species. Here, microscopic analysis of plant fragments is utilised to investigate the relative abundance of Triticum/Secale (wheat/rye), Hordeum (barley) and Avena (oats) from faecal deposits from two Roman military sites and a contemporary civilian settlement in Carlisle. Cereal bran was identified in all deposits, along with certain other edible plant fragments such as Coriandrum sativum (coriander) and Allium sp. (onion genus). The presence of barley in deposits from military sites appears to confirm its consumption, with the frequency and size of fragments hinting at likely occasional culinary use in soups and stews. Increased frequency at the contemporary civilian site indicates more widespread culinary use in non-military settlements. The practical and analytical limitations of this method are discussed.
23885157|In this paper we propose a methodological systematisation for the qualitative and quantitative characters and numerical description of carbonised cereal remains (basically caryopses) found at archaeological sites. The aim of this methodology is to study such remains after evaluating the significance of taphonomic processes, such as the degree of fragmentation, cause of fragmentation, overrepresentation of certain taxa, processes of erosion, transport and deposition, and combustion intensity. Attention is also paid to the fragmentation of the caryopses prior to charring, and a new method is presented for the calculation of the minimum numbers of individuals (MNI) of cereal caryopses. This methodology requires a seed-by-seed description in order to obtain fully quantified data of taphonomic importance, which is therefore time consuming, but at the same time achieves precise information of great value for the evaluation of the assemblage. Our case study has been the remains found in Layer 18 at the archaeological cave site of Can Sadurn (Begues, Barcelona province, Spain), one of the most important early Neolithic cereal assemblages on the Iberian Peninsula.
23885158|Analysis of wood charcoal that was conducted as a part of an interdisciplinary project at Pyeonggeo-dong, a multi-period agricultural complex located in Jinju, South Korea, reveals oak (Quercus sp.) to be the most commonly encountered wood over the period of 40001500 cal. B.P. The charcoal data indicate that Quercus was one of the most abundant woody plants in the surrounding vegetation, although its dominance in the charcoal assemblage may partly represent preferential human selection in the past. The data suggest that Quercus-dominant forest declined with the growth of a secondary forest of Platycarya strobilacea around the site from about A.D. 300. This change postdates by more than a thousand years the earliest evidence of largescale agriculture, which is visible in the form of carbonized crops and large tracts of prehistoric agricultural fields. A relatively large number of pit dwellings for the Three-Kingdoms period (ca. A.D. 300500) at Pyeonggeo-dong suggests that this late sign of human impact on vegetation is related to the extension of agricultural fields to previously uncultivated hilly areas and/or increased needs for fuel and timber caused by high population density of the site.
23885159|A monographic book volume on the history of the rural landscape of Europe is presented (Emanuelsson, The rural landscape of Europe. How man has shaped European nature, 383, 2009). The focus is on various land-use phases, their history from the Neolithic period to modern time and the survival of traditional farming today in Europe. This is described and illustrated by examples from marginal farming areas, particularly in mountainous regions of southern and northern Europe. Some of these are important as modern analogues when interpreting past cultural landscapes.
23885162|Despite the dominance of grasslands during the last glacial period, especially in South America, the highly uniform morphology of Poaceae pollen grains has so far allowed only very few palynological studies based on Poaceae pollen. In our study we compare two methods of distinguishing between South American grassland ecosystems based on quantitative morphology of Poaceae pollen grains. We investigated data sets from Pramo in southern Ecuador, Campos de Altitude and Campos in south-eastern and southern Brazil as well as data sets from the Pampa in Argentina by measuring the pollen grain length, grain width, pore diameter and annulus width. Firstly we investigated the potential influence of chemical treatment of pollen grains on pollen grain size as well as the measurement setting for defining the boundary conditions for using Poaceae pollen grains in a palaeoecological investigation. Finally the measured pollen grain parameters were analyzed by comparison of average grain length using statistical tests. This approach reveals highly significant differences in average grain size between all grassland ecosystems. Assuming that a certain grain size range can be assigned to a certain Poaceae taxon, conclusions about differences and similarities in taxa composition can be derived. We used two methods of multivariate data analysis. One uses the pollen grain parameters directly for a Principle Component Analysis (PCA). The other is an already established method in grassland ecology which defines parameter based pollen grain types to investigate similarities between grassland ecosystems. Both approaches confirm the results of the grain length analysis. In this work we demonstrate that the method we developed has the potential to provide acquisition of so far inaccessible information on spatial and temporal patterns and dynamics of South American grasslands.
23885163|During the Quaternary, in particular during glacial times, different grassland ecosystems played a much larger role and had a significantly larger distribution. Little is known yet about past development, biodiversity and dynamics of grassland ecosystems. In this innovative study, we attempt to distinguish between different South American grassland types in space and time based on morphological pollen grain characteristics of Poaceae. For this purpose >60-80 Poaceae pollen grains of 20 grassland samples were measured using their length, width and pore diameter as well as annulus width. Samples were taken from five sites in wet Paramo vegetation from the Late Pleistocene to the Late Holocene in South Ecuador and from two sites in the south-eastern Brazilian highlands (Campos do Altitude) of the same period. Additionally, we investigated two samples from a Pampa site as well as six samples from one Campos grassland site in southern Brazil from the Late Pleistocene to the Late Holocene. Subsets of samples of the Campos grasslands and of the Pramo were investigated in order to retrieve more detailed information on patterns within these vegetation types. Multivariate data analysis of the complete data set shows changes in taxonomic composition along an elevational gradient in the Pramo grasslands. Our results reveal a highly dynamic development of the individual grassland types; they also provide interesting information on Poaceae taxa composition patterns, development and possibly changes in biodiversity within these ecosystems. Moreover, our data provide an indication about the origin and dynamics of the Campos ecosystems in the southern Brazilian highlands during the Late Pleistocene and the Holocene before and after the onset of human activities.
23885164|Human activity has been widely implicated in the origin and expansion of montane grasslands in East Africa, yet little palaeoecological evidence exists to test whether these grasslands are natural or secondary. Pollen and charcoal data derived from two Holocene records in the Eastern Arc mountains of Tanzania are used as a case study to investigate the supposed secondary nature of montane grasslands in Africa. Fossil pollen data are used to detect vegetation change, and charcoal analysis is used to reconstruct fire history. The pollen data are characterised by stable proportions of local taxa suggesting permanence of grasslands throughout the past 13,000 years. Recent increases in fire adapted taxa such as Morella point towards the development of a grassland/forest patch mosaic possibly associated with burning. However, robust evidence of human activity is absent from the records, which may be attributed to the late human occupation of the mountains. The records indicate long-term persistence of grasslands which, coupled with a lack of evidence of human activity, suggests that these grasslands are not secondary. These data support the hypothesis that grasslands are an ancient and primary component of montane vegetation in Africa, but that they experienced some expansion during the late Holocene as a result of changing fire regime.
23885165|Sami reindeer herders in northern Fennoscandia have historically cut trees with high quantities of arboreal lichens to feed their animals during harsh winters. In this study we analysed temporal and spatial patterns of lichen-tree cuttings of Scots pine in a remote forest landscape in northern Sweden. We wanted to test the hypothesis that repeated cutting of such trees may have had long-lasting effects on the forest ecosystem that are still discernable today. Our analyses included an inventory of remaining lichen-tree stumps, and a field survey of forest variables to relate structural variation within the forest to these cuttings. We used dendrochronological methods to date stumps and reconstruct forest structure. Our results show that more than 7,000 trees were cut for this purpose over a period of almost 300 years within an area covering 6 km2. Lichen-tree cutting was most intense during the late 18th century when ca. 6001,000 trees were cut during each decade. We did not detect any significant relationship between past lichen-tree cutting and present small-scale forest heterogeneity, and suggest that this might be due to the small size of the cut trees and the long time elapsed since most of the cuttings. We conclude that vestiges such as stumps from lichen-tree cutting are highly valuable for our understanding of past land use. Furthermore, since they are located in an unlogged and very old forest, this highlights the need to acknowledge the interconnectedness between ecological and cultural values of such forests and the need to identify and protect them.
23885166|The focus of palaeoenvironmental sciences on past human activities and their impact on the environment necessitates a precise understanding of the history and functioning of past and present anthropogenic ecosystems. A process is outlined which uses palaeoenvironmental and historical documentation as well as present-day observations of vegetational changes from two different plant communities, which are characterised by a very specific anthropogenic flora: arable weeds and ruderals. This study is coupled with modern pollen deposition data to deduce a set of pollen types characteristic of the range of human activities practised in eastern France, a region rich in pollen data. First, phytogeographical analysis of the evolution of these plant communities since the Neolithic enables the comparison to be validated. By distinguishing between native plants and aliens introduced long ago (archaeophytes), or more recently (neophytes), and by refining their ecological characteristics, the method also enables identification of species that are strong indicators of human activities. Next, local pollen deposition in these vegetation types is examined with a number of statistical analyses (PCIA, Davis indices), confirming the relationships between a given vegetation community, its theoretical pollen rain and its actual pollen rain, thus distinguishing local and regional pollen indicators. Lastly, comparison of the results obtained by these two approaches leads to a critical synthesis of the traditional anthropogenic pollen indicators (Behre's "indicator species") in the study area and to the establishment of more specific local pollen indicators.
23885167|This research investigates the introduction and trade of numerous exotic food plants across northwestern Europe during the Roman and medieval periods. Data were collected from all available archaeobotanical records on taxa that cannot grow in the study area or which require considerable efforts for their cultivation, together with relevant archaeological information (date, site type, context, status) to put the results in context. The results showed that many true imports were completely absent from archaeological contexts. This was due to a variety of reasons, such as poor preservation and limited access according to economic and/or cultural factors. A number of other exotic spices, fruits, vegetables, nuts and cereals, however, were identified in the study area and period. Analysis of their social, spatial and temporal occurrence indicated that different groups of people had access to these exotics and were responsible for their dispersal in different periods, but despite their fluctuating fortunes, their use remained generally exclusive. This study of exotic food plant imports highlights their value in understanding socioeconomic impacts and changes in past societies.
23885169|Palaeoecology may contribute to the debate on nature conservation and the preservation of cultural heritage. Here we present two palaeo-records from the Lore Lindu Biosphere Reserve and National Park in central Sulawesi, Indonesia. The park comprises one of the largest remaining and most biodiverse mountain forests of Sulawesi. Outstanding megalithic sites reveal long-term human impact on the area. Thus, modern vegetation composition within the park has been determined by complex site histories, natural and anthropogenic. Palaeo-records from sites between 1,000 and 1,400 m a.s.l. demonstrate that human activity as well as climate variations have to be considered as the main drivers of vegetation changes in the region for the last 2,000 years. Human impact is reflected by large amounts of charred fragments in the pollen records plus low values of arboreal pollen resulting from forest clearance. The stratigraphy of one of the pollen records shows effects of a general cooling trend during the Little Ice Age (LIA). Biomass loss due to the conversion of lower montane rainforest to grassland has reduced the carbon storage potential in the area of the Lore Lindu Park. Recommendations for conservation policy that may be made from the environmental history within the biosphere reserve thus include the consideration of human influence in easily accessible areas, particularly in face of recent settlement intensification.
23885170|This paper focuses on the impact of Norse settlement on vegetation and landscape around the head of Tunulliarfik (Eriksfjord) in southern Greenland. Pollen, radiocarbon, microscopic charcoal and fungal spore data are presented from a peat monolith which was collected close to the ruins of a large Norse farm complex (group 39 at Qinngua in the former Eastern Settlement). Landnm is identified at ca. cal. A.D. 1020 by a small decrease in pollen from Betula, a slight increase in Poaceae, and the appearance of pollen from Norse apophytes (native plants favoured and spread by human activity) and anthropochores (not native and unintentionally introduced by people). Increases in microscopic charcoal and palynological richness are also apparent. This pattern is broadly consistent with that seen in other pollen diagrams from this region. The sequence is unusual for Greenland, however, in that relatively high Betula pollen percentages (average 20% TLP) are recorded throughout the period of settlement, up to the end of the 14th century A.D. before the profile becomes truncated. If these data are primarily representative of the dry land vegetation, then they suggest that birch woodland and scrub may well have persisted close to the farm throughout the Norse period. Given the potential resource value of woodland to the settlers, this may imply that birch was being managed sustainably, as was the case in Iceland during the medieval period. Coprophilous fungal spores typically found on animal dung are abundant during the early phase of settlement, yet subsequently decline in abundance. This may indicate a likely decrease in grazing intensity or livestock numbers over time, possibly in response to climatic deterioration and/or soil erosion that is expected to have placed increased stress on the pastoral farming system.
23885171|In the Maujahn peat bog the Slavic period is recorded with a high-resolution pollen diagram in 150 cm of the peat profile. In the upper part of the pollen diagram the time resolution is 3.2 years in the middle and lower part 5.2 years. The Slavic period can be divided into four stages according to different kind of land use and intensity of human influence. The main crop was Secale; less important was the cultivation of Triticum, Panicum, Hordeum, Avena and Pisum. The Slavic period lasted from about A.D. 8001200. The pollen diagram also displays a final part of the Migration period.
23885172|We present the results of a plant macroremain study of the late Neolithic lakeshore settlement Stare gmajne (SG) at Ljubljansko barje, Slovenia, with cultural horizons that ended around 3330 and 3110 cal. B.C., as obtained by dendrochronological and radiocarbon dating of the most frequent construction timbers of Quercus sp. (oak) and Fraxinus sp. (ash). Fourteen systematically taken samples were investigated, using standard methods for studying waterlogged plant remains, which had been developed during lake dwelling research north of the Alps. Most of the remains were preserved in a waterlogged state, and we identified a total of 93 taxa. The most important cultivated plants were Triticum dicoccum (emmer), Hordeum vulgare (six-rowed naked barley), T. monococcum (einkorn), Linum usitatissimum (flax) and Papaver somniferum (opium poppy). The numerous possibly gathered plants also included Trapa natans (water chestnut) and Vitis vinifera ssp. sylvestris (wild grapevine). Chenopodium album (goosefoot) and Brassica rapa (turnip) with seeds/fruits rich in oil and starch were probably gathered as well. Comparisons of the Stare gmajne results with contemporary north Alpine sites (NA) showed, among other things, that Triticum durum/turgidum (tetraploid naked wheat), frequent at NA, was not found at SG. Trapa natans (water chestnut) was rare and Vitis (grapevine) was not found at NA. The observed differences in the wild plant spectra may have ecological causes, for example a warmer climate south of the Alps, but differences in cultivar spectra are more likely for cultural-historical reasons.
23885173|We present archaeobotanical data from the early Islamic era (ca. A.D. 7501400) obtained from excavations at Essouk-Tadmakka, an important trans-Saharan trading town site in the West African Sahel and an early centre of the Tuareg. The paper provides insight into a little researched area of arid zone medieval West Africa and presents practically the only substantive archaeobotanical evidence of the medieval Tuareg. The evidence firstly enables us to shed greater light on the Arabic historical references to traditions of wild cereal gathering at Essouk-Tadmakka. It also establishes the presence at the site of a range of important taxa, including pearl millet, date, balanites, cotton and linseed, as well as a host of other fruits, legumes (Fabaceae) and wild plants. Perhaps the most striking finding is the earliest and largest archaeobotanical data set for wheat in West Africa. In addition to providing the first archaeobotanically based discussion of Essouk-Tadmakka's gathering traditions, agriculture, and grain importation, we also seek to highlight certain evidence for change over time in the archaeobotany recovered. The data seems to suggest that towards the end of the site's occupation (ca. A.D. 1300) there was a shift to increased presence of fruit and legumes and more limited presence of cereals, and we attempt to relate this to wider shifts in Sahelian culture at this time.
23885174|Difficulty in accessing high quality reference materials has been a limiting factor in the advancement of archaeobotanical research. However, new developments in online open source content management technology and faster downloading capabilities make high quality and low cost dynamic online curation of archaeobotanical reference images increasingly feasible. We describe the establishment of Paleobot.org, an open access online reference collection database for macrobotanical, microbotanical and isotopic data to help standardize and improve the identification of archaeobotanical remains.
23885178|Broad-scale patterns of vegetation response to three centuries of human disturbance in the northeastern United States are well understood, but stand-scale (0.110 ha) interactions between land-use history and the ecological processes underlying these patterns are not. Enduring legacies of land-use history, though pervasive in modern forests, are not always obvious or intuitive, particularly in the regenerating stands that cover most of the region. Focusing on a second-growth, post-agricultural landscape in Petersham, Massachusetts, this study integrates (i) a stand-scale sedimentary pollen and charcoal record, (ii) survey and dendroecological data from the surrounding forest, and (iii) analysis of historical documents describing site-specific ownership and land use history. We demonstrate the strength of this multifaceted approach to vegetation reconstruction on sites with long land-use histories that are typical of the modern landscape. We infer that periods of low and high intensity agriculture commenced around 1760 and 1850, respectively, and that the agricultural era was initiated and terminated by episodes of increased fire. Dendroecological data corroborate deed records and suggest that a portion of the forest regenerated and was used for small-scale timber production during the mid to late 1800s. Most of the forest established in the early 1900s, after which time the greatest disturbance was Cryphonectria parasitica (chestnut blight) induced mortality of Castanea dentata (American chestnut) and replacement by Betula (birch) species. This study highlights the potential to expand integrated historical ecological research into landscapes with lengthy histories of human disturbance and underscores the potential of this research to generate data with spatial and temporal resolution relevant to management and conservation efforts.
23885179|This article presents the results from a programme of bulk soil sampling and flotation of first and second millennium A.D. early farming, 'Iron Age', archaeological sites in Rwanda conducted in 20062007 alongside a new set of associated radiocarbon dates, which contribute toward the development of a chronology of plant use for the region. This research has identified the earliest examples of pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum), finger millet (Eleusine coracana) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) in Great Lakes Africa and thus this article also discusses the significance of these finds within the later archaeology of the region and presents a brief synthesis of the direct archaeological evidence for finger millet in sub-Saharan Africa.
23885180|Remains of fruit stones of Celtis australis were found at Iron Age Tel Rehov, Israel. Also, wood fragments from Iron Age Tel Rehov and Tel Jezreel are recorded. The fruits are edible, the wood is useful for house building and tool production, and the tree is an important element in local folklore and ethnography. The archaeobotanical finds strengthen the view that the tree is indigenous to the Levant.
23885181|This paper presents archaeobotanical and invertebrate evidence from the flotation and analyses of 46 archaeological contexts from six middens from the Samaca and Ullujaya basins, lower Ica Valley, south coast of Peru. This is part of one of the world's driest deserts and organic remains can enjoy extraordinary preservation in its hyperarid climate. Each of these contexts represents snapshots with which to piece together a picture of changing human ecology in the lower Ica Valley over nearly two millennia, from Ocucaje Phases 3/4 of the Early Horizon (c. 750 B.C.); through to Early Nasca Phases 2/3 (c. A.D. 100-450); Late Nasca Phases 6/7 (c. A.D. 450-600) and Middle Horizon Epoch 2 (c. A.D. 900). They also offer proxy evidence of wider ecological changes in these basins. Read together with geoarchaeological and pollen data, the archaeobotanical data we present show a gradual intensification of agriculture from small-scale Early Ocucaje societies subsisting mainly on gathered marine and terrestrial resources, through to sophisticated irrigation agriculture by Nasca times, but culminating in a collapse of agricultural production and a return to the gathering of wild marine and plant resources much later, during the Middle Horizon. This trajectory of human ecology is consistent with the model presented elsewhere of a gradual removal of Prosopis dominated riparian woodland for the purpose of increasing agricultural production, which in time exposed the landscape of the lower lea Valley to high-energy, episodic flood events and of one of the world's strongest and most persistent wind regimes.
23885182|The use of moss material to make boats watertight (caulking) has been a widespread practice in Europe, with records dating back to the Bronze Age. In this article we report the bryophyte assemblages from fifteen boats, which have been conserved as wrecks in the rivers of Upper Rhne and Sane near Lyons, France. The assemblages vary according to their composition, with Neckera crispa Hedwig being one of the dominant species overall. Following ancient technical descriptions we performed experimental collections from bark and rocks in the Jura Mountains. Comparing these to the archaeological records revealed that most of the mosses were probably of bark origin and were collected in base rich areas. Our data is discussed in the context of archaeological caulking in Western Europe. While in much of Europe N. crispa strongly decreased as a caulking material from the 14th century onwards, it remained much used in our study area. This is probably due to the persistence of suitable forests in the Jura mountains.
23885183|The domestication of the Neolithic founder crops of the Near East has recently been a topic of debate particularly with respect to how rapidly the domestication of these crops occurred. One school of thought maintains that these processes lasted several thousand years ('protracted model' with 'gathering', 'cultivation' and 'domestication' as three stages of a continuum, each taking up to several thousand years), while another favors the view that domestication occurred much more quickly, over several hundred years at most ('rapid transition'). Our study focuses on one of these crops, 1-grained domesticated Einkorn wheat, incorporating data from geology, vegetation history, and climate. In the Karacada region of southeastern Turkey, where 1-grained Einkorn wheat was domesticated, the climate was severe (i.e. cold and dry) during the Younger Dryas. The climate of the Younger Dryas acted as boundary during which a) conditions were not suitable for 'cultivation', and b) Einkorn would have retreated to refugia exhibiting more suitable moisture-bearing soils that would have made 'gathering' difficult. Around 11600 cal. B.P., the Younger Dryas ended and a very rapid climatic amelioration commenced at the beginning of the Early Holocene, enabling grasses to spread throughout the region. A ritual PPNA/PPNB site (Gbekli Tepe) and associated PPNB settlements such as Nevali ori and ayn were established at this time. In the settlements of Nevali ori and Cafer Hyk, the oldest domesticated Einkorn was found in the earliest archaeological layers. This confirms that the inhabitants made use of domesticated 1-grained Einkorn from the very beginning of settlement activity, although they continued to practice a mixed lifestyle as hunter-gatherers and farmers. For ayn the issue is more complex, but here domesticated Einkorn also appears around the same time. In summary, by 10400 cal. B.P. domesticated 1-grained Einkorn was present in large quantities at a variety of sites. This would give a maximum window of time lasting approximately 1,200 years and is therefore not in agreement with the 'protracted' model but would be consistent with a 'rapid transition'. It is improbable that the 'cultivation' of wild Einkorn was practiced in the Karacada region, since wild Einkorn was plentiful during the favorable growing conditions following the Younger Dryas, making it more likely that 'gathering' would have been practiced. Because Einkorn has not been found in early settlements in the southern Levant, this crop cannot have been 'gathered' and 'cultivated' there but instead was 'domesticated' independently and solely in southeastern Turkey. Therefore, the YD acts as a boundary, providing a maximum time frame for 1-grained Einkorn domestication.
23885394|Carbonized fruits and seeds from 17 Linearbandkeramik (LBK) sites in central Belgium are discussed. The number of cultivated plants is rather limited, and two cultivated cereals (maybe three with barley), two pulses and two oil plants have been identified. These results agree with those from other LBK sites. The uniformity of plant assemblages within the western LBK territory shows few variations at the regional and inter-regional levels. Gathering evidence seems to be more important west of central Belgium, but it has to be further investigated. Concerning cultivated plants, emmer is dominant west of the river Rhine whereas einkorn seems to have been preferred east of it. Naked barley could have been introduced to the western part of the LBK territory and indicates Mediterranean influence. Opium poppy seeds discovered in LBK sites confirm these influences, but poppy could have been cultivated for the first time by LBK people.
23885395|Ethnographic data combined with the characteristics of the weed species from Bandkeramik settlement sites give hints for the reconstruction of Early Neolithic agricultural practises in Central Europe. In contrast to the Balkan situation with a high diversity in cultivated crops, Bandkeramik field management can be reconstructed as a simple agricultural system with emphasis on summer crop growing. Permanent fields were treated with hoes, digging sticks or similar tools, sown in spring and grazed in autumn and winter. The intensity of field management seems to increase through time as shown by diachrone comparison of archaeobotanical data from Neolithic, Iron Age and Roman times. The absence of winter-cereals such as naked wheat, grown in the Balkan Peninsula, gives a hint of a certain emphasis on stock breeding. Summer crop growing would have had the advantage that the Bandkeramik fields could be grazed after harvest until next spring and would therefore be manured at the same time.
23885396|At the late Neolithic site Torwiesen II (3283 and 3279 cal. B.C.) a systematic sampling programme was carried out, covering the entire settlement area. Plastic tubes, 10 cm in diameter and 20-30 cm long were used for sampling, in which one sample per square metre was taken. For each plant species in every analysed sample the concentration, in remains per litre of sediment, was calculated and plotted with AutoCAD. Every plot shows the quantitative distribution of a taxon on the site and indicates a special pattern that may reflect economic conditions or even social differences within the settlement. With the plots, areas of special activity inside and outside the houses were detected: zones of crop processing, cooking areas and rubbish deposits. The socio-economic structure of the settlement with unspecialised farmers, crop specialists and gatherers is indicated by the content of crops and edible wild plants inside the houses. On the basis of the systematic sampling programme it could be shown that Torwiesen II was not a consistent community, but much more a structured one.
23885397|Archaeobotanical and archaeozoological analyses conducted on Late Neolithic settlement layers at Latsch provide the first data on the subsistence strategy, diet and environmental conditions in the valley of origin of the Alpine Iceman. The results prove that during the Late Neolithic, the valley was occupied by an agro-pastoral society based on the cultivation of Hordeum vulgare (hulled barley), Triticum monococcum (einkorn), T. dicoccum (emmer) and Pisum sativum (pea), as well as on the rearing of Ovis vel Capra, Ovis orientalis f. aries (sheep), Capra aegagrus f. hircus (goat) and Bos primigenius f. taurus (cattle). The settlement was located on a river terrace of the valley floor close to a river and was surrounded by mixed pine and oak woods beside alluvial woodland.
23885398|Pulses have constituted an important food source for prehistoric communities in the Old World, yet little is known as regards their processing for consumption through the archaeobotanical record. This paper provides an overview of archaeobotanical evidence for the use of pulses in prehistoric Greece based on two case studies from the north, and explores (a) their preparation for consumption, in particular their detoxification and (b) the consumption of pulses as a component of ordinary daily meals in prehistoric times, as well as those for special occasions, within a context of feasting and ritual. The paper examines charred remains of Vicia ervilia (bitter vetch) and Lathyrus sativus (grass pea) from early Bronze Age Agios Athanasios and late Neolithic Kremasti Koiladas, respectively, as the former provides a basis for a pilot exploration of pulse detoxification and the latter, due to its origin, offers a rare opportunity to discuss the context of consumption. In the pilot exploration of pulse seed preparation for consumption, the inner cotyledon morphology of modern V. ervilia seeds which were experimentally processed with water and pounding was examined macroscopically and through SEM micrographs. Preliminary observations suggest that intentional splitting of pulse seeds as part of processing for consumption as food may be recognisable in the archaeobotanical record. Processing with water may also be detected. The particular context of the Kremasti finds suggests that pulses, in this particular case L. sativus, may have constituted special foods for particular occasions, loaded with symbolic meaning.
23885399|Archaeobotanical studies carried out by rescue archaeology at Nmes and Marseille (Southern France) provided evidence of Cordia myxa during the 2nd and 3rd centuries A.D. The fruit stones were found both waterlogged in domestic contexts and charred in a cremation grave (plant offering). Data from these finds and a survey of historical documents and archaeobotanical literature are combined here to discuss the origins and uses of these fruits in the western world.
23885400|The discovery of seeds and textiles from Gossypium (cotton) in Achaemenian levels of the mid-6thlate 4th century B.C. at Qal'at al-Bahrain, Bahrain and in early 1st millennium A.D. at Mad'in Slih, Saudi Arabia, reveals the role played by the Arabian Peninsula as a textile production centre during the centuries before and after the beginning of the Christian era. Both these sites were situated on important trade routes, overseas (Qal'at al-Bahrain) and overland (Mad'in Slih), and it is likely that at least part of the cotton production was intended for trade, complementing and perhaps competing with other sources of cotton textiles in the contemporary Middle East. In the arid climate of the Arabian Peninsula, cotton was probably grown in association with irrigated date palm gardens where a wide array of other crops was grown, as is shown by the analysis of charred seeds and wood from occupation levels at both sites. The present article places these particular finds in the larger context of cotton cultivation in the Middle East and India.
23885401|The analysis of botanical macro-remains (seeds, fruits and wood) from the fortress site of glz, situated in the Anti-Atlas mountain range of southern Morocco, provides a first glimpse of the plant economy of a medieval rural community in this part of North Africa. Considered as the original stronghold of the religious community led by Ibn Tmart, the founder of the Almohad dynasty, the site was occupied from the 10th to the 13th century A.D. The crop assemblage identified from ashy contexts in a central grouping of buildings (the qasba) comprises barley (Hordeum vulgare), sorghum (Sorghum sp., earliest occurrence known so far from Morocco), wheat (Triticum sp.) and a pulse (Lathyrus sativus/cicera). Several arboreal fruit species are also identified: fig (Ficus carica), almond (Prunus dulcis), date palm (Phoenix dactylifera), grapevine (Vitis vinifera) and argan (Argania spinosa). The latter, predominant in the archaeobotanical record in the form of both fruit and wood remains, is of particular interest as it is the first time that this species, endemic to south-western Morocco and of prime economic interest regionally, has been identified from an archaeological context. In the past, as today, the argan tree seems to have played a major role in village economies as a source of wood for fuel and construction, fodder for livestock and food in the form of an edible oil, extracted from the oleaginous seeds. This article focuses on present and past uses of Argania spinosa as well as on the ecology and morpho-anatomy of this emblematic species.
23885402|Despite their name, the identification of seeds of Myosotis species (forget-me-not) has hitherto received little attention from archaeobotanists. In an attempt to assemble a collection of reliable identification criteria, digital image analysis was applied to photographs of Myosotis seeds by means of Fovea Pro 4.0. This program computes 23 features that describe the size and shape of the seeds shown in scale-normalized photographs. We computed the features for 1,453 individual seeds, and performed statistical analyses of the resulting data set with Discriminant Analysis, Correspondence Analysis, and t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbour Embedding (t-SNE). The combination of analyses provides clues as to how most of the seven western European species of Myosotis can successfully be distinguished. Using these clues, an identification key was developed for the identification of waterlogged Myosotis seeds.
23885403|Abundant and diverse Prunus fruitstone remains from cherries, plums, sloes, peaches, etc. are frequently recovered from archaeological waterlogged contexts such as wells, latrines, lake dwellings etc. in Europe. The distinction between most of the Prunus species, based on traditional morphological characters of the fruit stones, is usually not problematic. However the discrimination between P. avium L., P. cerasus L. and related cherry species, based on classical criteria alone, often turns out to be ambiguous because of the increasing number of varieties which have been bred since Roman times. By combining geometric and traditional morphometrical approaches, the overall variation in shape and size of stones from French and Swiss excavations dating from the 1st century to the 16th century A.D. were assessed. Among these important archaeobotanical data, the detailed examination of 100 waterlogged stones from the 16th century Htel-Dieu cesspit at Tours, France, revealed that the morphological diversity is structured into two distinct morphotypes which diverge mainly according to geometrical features. Finally, the comparison between morphological features of these well-preserved archaeological stones and modern reference material including P. avium, P. cerasus and P.  gondouinii, suggests that these two morphotypes, which have been initially attributed to P. avium (long stones) and P. avium/cerasus (rounded stones) according to traditional morphological parameters, would correspond to two different cultivated varieties, both belonging to Prunus avium. Results presented in this work constitute new and preliminary data obtained during the development of this project that throw light on morphological variability and biosystematic aspects.
23885404|Taxonomic advancement in the genus Bolboschoenus (Cyperaceae, formerly included in the genus Scirpus) have resulted in the re-classification of the plant previously known as Bolboschoenus maritimus (synonym Scirpus maritimus) into several closely-related but distinct Bolboschoenus species This improved taxonomy is of importance for archaeobotanical investigations of ancient sites within the temperate zones, where this genus frequently occurs, because it allows more precise definitions of the ecological requirements and growing habits of each species. Moreover, it details the distinct morphological and anatomical characteristics of the fruit (nutlets) of each species. Using these new nutlet classification criteria, we re-examined charred archaeological specimens which had previously been identified as B. maritimus (or S. maritimus), from five Near Eastern late Pleistocene and early Holocene village sites: Abu Hureyra, Hallan emi, Demirky, atalhyk and Aswad. Because three of these sites are located in Anatolia, data on the recent occurrence of Bolboschoenus in Turkey were also investigated. All archaeobotanical specimens were found to be B. glaucus. This species was also found to be the most common Bolboschoenus in present-day Turkey, indicating that it has a long history of occurrence in this region. The environmental, ecological and economic implications of this new information suggest that it is entirely feasible that this plant provided late Pleistocene and Holocene Near Eastern people with a dependable and possibly a staple food source.
23885405|To help the interpretation of possible olive processing residues at archaeological sites, this study examines the changes which occur in pre- and post-charring breakage surfaces of olive stones at tissue level. Fresh olives were experimentally broken before and after charring and heated to different temperatures (230, 330, 430C) in oxidising and non-oxidising conditions. The structures obtained by the experiment were studied with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and the characteristics for the different temperatures, oxidation regimes and pre- or post-charring fractures were recorded. Furthermore, the experimental specimens were compared with recent and possibly old fractures of several archaeological olive stones from Tell Tweini, Syria. Criteria to infer their formation are discussed. These criteria could be developed further through more experimental replication and additional charring variables, and verified extensively on archaeobotanical assemblages in future studies. The described structures and alterations in the olive stones can be observed using reflected light microscopy, which would allow the proposed approach to be rather easy to apply in practice.
23885406|Macrofossil data from 73 sites dating to the south Swedish Iron Age (500 B.C.A.D. 1100) have been compiled and analyzed in order to elucidate long term changes in cereal cultivation. The analyses indicate that "permanent field" agriculture was established at the end of the Bronze Age utilizing Hordeum vulgare var vulgare as a primary crop and Triticum aestivum ssp vulgare/compactum, Triticum spelta/dicoccum/monococcum, Avena sativa and Secale cereale as secondary crops. An observed change towards the end of Roman Iron Age (1A.D. 400) is the expansion of Secale cereale and Avena sativa cultivation. Evidence also suggests that winter sowing of the former commenced at the latest during the eighth, ninth and tenth centuries A.D. The introduction of winter sowing possibly coincided with the establishment of crop rotation agriculture. During most of the Iron Age southern Sweden displays significant regional variations with regards to cereal cultivation practice. There is however evidence that a more homogenous agriculture appeared across the investigated area from the beginning of the Viking Age (A.D. 8001100) onwards.
23885407|This paper reviews the remains of plants (cereals, pulses, fruit and vegetables) used as offerings in cremation burials in northern Italian Roman cemeteries between the 1st century b.c. and the 3rd century a.d. The custom of burning plant offerings on the funeral pyre was widespread in the Iron Age, but in the Roman Empire such offerings became more frequent and abundant, with fruit being prevalent and also the recurrent use of various prepared foods (bread, cakes and suchlike). In each cemetery this general scheme exhibits variations probably due to individual, social, ritual and economic differences, but this impression must be still confirmed. The absence of a systematic sampling strategy does not permit a statistical approach to offering data. The aim of this article is to encourage archaeologists and archaeobotanists to pay more attention to methodology in sampling. This would also permit careful comparison of the archaeobotanical data with archaeological, anthropological and historical information and that from written sources. The consistently recorded presence of fruit in cemeteries makes it possible to investigate some aspects of the introduction, cultivation and marketing of certain food plants in northern Italy.
23885222|The earliest recorded evidence of flax being cultivated in Sweden is from the end of the Bronze Age/beginning of the Iron Age. Later, from ca. A.D. 1100 and onwards, flax became an economically important plant in the country, and during the 12th to 16th centuries there was a substantial increase in the Swedish export of linen to other parts of Europe. Alongside its extensive cultivation, a set of cultural traditions and rituals was eventually built up around flax. The objective of this article is to draw an outline of the history of flax cultivation in Sweden and to present the relevant prehistoric and historic source material. A point of discussion will be the different roles that fibre flax and oil flax played over a long period of time and the problem of seed corn import for the development of domestic fibre flax in the country. The study is based on the prehistoric archaeobotanical record, mainly charred seeds from the Swedish Iron Age (ca. 500 B.C.A.D. 1050), the archaeological record, documentary evidence and folklore.
23885223|During the last decade, a new type of structure has been found at several archaeological sites in Denmark. These structures can be interpreted as having been used for retting the stems of textile plants such as Linum usitatissimum L. (flax), Cannabis sativa L. (hemp) and Urtica dioica L. (nettle). In order to obtain fine threads for textile production, these plants need to pass through several biological and technical processes. The first process is the retting of the plant stems to dissolve the pectin which fixes the fibres to the stalk. This can either be done by water retting, where the plant stems are soaked in lakes, rivers or waterlogged pits, or by field retting, where the stems are laid out in a field in order to absorb dew. The first method is shorter in time and the process is easier to control. In this article, details of archaeological structures are presented from eight sites in southern Scandinavia that can be interpreted as textile plant retting pits. The constructions of the pits are described, as well as the archaeological contexts and the relevant associated archaeobotanical records. Some of the presented sites, of which the oldest are dated to the late Bronze Age and early pre-Roman Iron Age (800-250 B.C.) and the youngest to the Viking Age (A.D. 750-1050), indicate a large-scale production of flax that had been underestimated up to now.
23885224|The transition from the early to the middle phase of the Late Neolithic (fourth-third millennium B.C.) is closely connected with the term "secondary products revolution", which involves the adoption of animal traction and an increased production of rendered animal commodities such as wool and dairy products. Based on measurements of Linum usitatissimum L. (flax) seeds and their abundance in 32 wetland settlements in southwest Germany, we presume that the introduction of a new flax variety, maybe a better flax for fibre, and the intensification of flax cultivation were also a part of this process. The morphometric analysis shows that flax seed sizes in the early phase of the Late Neolithic (4000-3400 cal. B.C.) differ significantly from those of the middle and latest phase (3400-2400 cal. B.C.).
23885225|Numerous artefacts from the area of textile production as well as finished products, fabrics and netting, dating from the period between 3900 and 800 B.C. have survived in the archaeological layers of late Neolithic and Bronze Age wetland settlements in eastern Switzerland. Archaeological investigations, experiments in textile technology and comparisons with Egyptian wall paintings, as well as analyses under the scanning electron microscope, allow us to almost completely reconstruct Neolithic textile production in prehistoric pile dwellings.
23885226|In the city centre of Modena (Emilia Romagna, Northern Italy) a noteworthy amount of carpological remains attributable to flax and weld came to light dated to the Imperial Age (first half 1st century A.D.). Flax remains, i.e. capsules and extremely small seeds, suggest the presence of either immature seeds and fruits of cultivated flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) or of a wild flax species (Linum bienne Mill.). The quantity of these remains along with the co-presence of seeds of Reseda luteola, an important dye plant, leads to the hypothesis of the cultivation of both flax and weld for textile manufacturing purposes, which are attested as important in the economy of the Roman period. the present day city centre (Fig. 2) involving a drainage canal dated to the Imperial Age (A.D. 1540), many seeds and fragments of falx capsules came to light together with numerous seeds of weld (Reseda luteola L.), a plant well-known for its dyeing properties. The present paper, apart from trying to clarify the presence of a significant amount of carpological remains of flax in this context, is an attempt to shed light on the contemporaneous presence of lfax and weld, perhaps both traces of practices connected to textile manufacturing and dyeing.
23885227|This paper presents an overview of archaeobotanical finds of Linum usitatissimum from Neolithic and Bronze Age Greece, bringing together published records of this plant as well as some recently retrieved, unpublished finds. In addition, charred flax seed concentrations from five prehistoric sites from the region of Macedonia in northern Greece, are examined in detail. The Neolithic sites are Makriyalos, Mandalo, Arkadikos, Dikili Tash, dated to the Late and Final Neolithic and Archondiko, dated to the end of the Early Bronze Age. Archaeobotanical composition and contextual information are used in order to explore the cultivation and potential uses of flax at each site. By the 5th millennium B.C. a flax weed flora had probably developed in the region. The use of flax seed for oil extraction and flax stems for flax fibre preparation can only be speculated upon and these uses are discussed within the context of other archaeological finds related to plant oil production and weaving. It is also possible that flax may have been used for medicinal purposes. Despite a striking paucity in archaeobotanical remains from southern Greece, textual evidence available from the Mycenean palace archives in Linear B clearly documents the cultivation of flax and flax fibre production.
23885228|Linum usitatissimum L. (flax) has been cultivated for more than 2,000 years in China. Throughout the history of its cultivation, flax was mainly used for oil and medicine. It was not until the last 100 years that fibre flax began to be cultivated and used. This paper discusses the distribution, cultivation and use of flax in China especially in the past, based on literature reviews and ethnobotanical surveys for its traditional uses. The modern distribution of wild flax species in China is also presented in this paper.
23885229|At present there are substantial amounts of archaeological and archaeobotanical data from the Late Neolithic wetland settlements of southern Germany on the oil and fibre plant flax (Linum usitatissimum L.). This is the result of 30 years of intensive excavations and research in 53 settlement areas. This article, on the one hand, will present the significance of flax remains, products made of flax and the inventory of relevant tools for evidence of and reconstruction of the flax production processes. On the other hand, based on the quantitative analysis of flax remains, the changing significance of this important cultivated plant during the course of the Late Neolithic will be demonstrated. From this it will be evident that textile production and in particular flax processing were part of a decisive upheaval in cultural development that initiated the transition to the middle phase of the Late Neolithic in the fields of agriculture and technology.
23885230|For thousands of years, flax was a winter crop of major importance in the ancient Levant, second only to wheat and barley. It was cultivated from the beginning of the early Neolithic period through to Roman times and it is still grown there today. Flax seeds (linseed) contain high concentrations of two essential polyunsaturated fatty acidslinoleic acid (-6) and -linolenic acid (-3), which cannot be produced by the human body. Their oxidation occurs rapidly in the air. So, long term storage of linseed needed airtight containers, and tightly stoppered bottles could be used to keep its oil as a remedy. However, were flax seeds consumed as a food, oil or medicament in ancient periods? How commonly were flax seeds eaten? From archaeobotanical finds of flax seed, it is difficult to determine whether the flax was cultivated for fibres alone or for its seeds that can be cold-pressed to release the valuable oil. We have therefore studied ancient written documents describing various uses of flax seeds, including their consumption as a food supplement and uses in medical applications. We conclude that until recently flax was grown primarily for textile fibres, and only smaller quantities of flax seeds were consumed. So, the flax seed finds from the early Iron Age site of Tel Beth-Shean also represent seed consumption or oil extraction.
43554140|Pollen was analysed from a sediment sequence collected in the close vicinity of the Mesolithic settlement Tgerup, southern Sweden. Macroremains were also retrieved from numerous samples taken at the site of the archaeological excavations of Kongemose and Erteblle settlement phases, 6700-6000 B.C. and 5500-4900 B.C. respectively. Plants and other organic remains were well preserved in the refuse layers from the settlements embedded in the gyttja. The pollen record includes no clear indications of human impact on the vegetation during the Mesolithic. The occurrence of charcoal particles and pollen of grass and herbs associated with nutrient-rich soils are contemporaneous with the Kongemose settlement. The Erteblle settlement phase, although characterised by considerable dwelling activities less than a hundred metres from the pollen sampling site, is scarcely seen in the pollen data. Numerous finds of crushed dogwood stones from the Kongemose phase, often partly carbonised, suggest that these stones were used for the extraction of oil. Other plants found in the Kongemose refuse layers that may have been used are apples, cherries, raspberries, acorns and rowan-berries. Based on the abundance of hazelnut shells found at the studied site and in other studies of Mesolithic sites in southern Scandinavia it is proposed that these remains may testify to an important food supply rather than just use as a supplement to animal protein. It is also hypothesised that a regional decrease in hazel populations and thus hazelnut availability at the end of the Mesolithic may have motivated the adoption of Neolithic subsistence.
43554141|The late-glacial vegetation development in northern Norway in response to climate changes during the Allerd, Younger Dryas (YD), and the transition to the Holocene is poorly known. Here we present a high-resolution record of floral and vegetation changes at lake Lusvatnet, south-west Andya, between 13500 and 8000 cal B.P. Plant macrofossil and pollen analyses were done on the same sediment core and the proxy records follow each other very closely. The core has also been analyzed using an ITRAX XRF scanner in order to check the sediment sequence for disturbances or hiatuses. The core has a good radiocarbon-based chronology. The Saksunarvatn tephra fits very well chronostratigraphically. During both the Allerd and the Younger Dryas time-periods arctic vegetation prevailed, dominated by Salix polaris associated with many typically arctic herbs such as Saxifraga cespitosa, Saxifraga rivularis and Oxyria digyna. Both periods were cold and dry. Between 12450 and 12250 cal B.P. during the Younger Dryas chronozone, the assemblage changed, particularly in the increased abundance of Papaver sect. Scapiflora and other high-Arctic herbs, suggesting the development of polar desert vegetation mainly as a response to increased aridity. After 11520 cal B.P. a gradually warmer and more oceanic climate initiated a succession to dwarf-shrub vegetation and the establishment of Betula woodland after 1,000 years at c. 10520 cal B.P. The overall late-glacial aridity contrasts with oceanic conditions in southern Norway and is probably related to sea-ice extent.
43554142|Three mires and a small lake in the Swiss and Austrian Alps were studied palynologically at high resolution, covering the last 1,000, 400, 50 and 1,200 years, respectively. Methodological lessons include: (1) Subdecadal resolution in upper, little-decomposed peat layers reveals recurrent marked fluctuations in both percentages and influx of regional tree-pollen types, reflecting variations in pollen production rather than in plant-population sizes. (2) Intermittent, single-spectrum pollen maxima in samples of sub-decadal resolution indicate pollen transport in clumps. This type of pollen transport may remain unrecognized in sections with lower sampling resolution, which may then lead to inappropriate interpretation in terms of plant-population sizes. (3) The detection of shortlived phases of human impact in decomposed peat requires sampling intervals as close as 0.2 cm. (4) PAR (pollen influx) may reflect vegetation dynamics more faithfully than percentages. Reliable PAR, however, is difficult to achieve in Alpine mires due to past human impact on peat growth, even when complex depth-age modelling techniques are used. Critical comparison of PAR with percentages is therefore essential. (5) Careful consideration of spatial scales in pollen signals (local-regional and subdivisions) is essential for a realistic palaeo-ecological interpretation. Results in terms of past human impact on vegetation are summarized as follows: (1) Trends in pollen types reflecting regional human action are in general agreement with earlier findings for the western Swiss Alps, allowing for regional differences. (2) All mires in the Alps investigated here and in an earlier study experienced human impact during the last millennium. The studied small lake, lying in sub-alpine pasture, records forest dynamics at a lower elevation since A.D. 800.
43554143|The Mespilus (medlar) fruit tree, non-native in Europe, is generally believed to have been introduced to central Europe during the Roman occupation of the region. Archaeobotanical remains of medlar are generally rare, resulting in a patchy knowledge of its early distribution. We here report the earliest finds of Mespilus seeds of the 2nd century A.D. in Switzerland, which were discovered in the Roman vicus of Tasgetium in Eschenz. We summarize the archaeobotanical evidence of Mespilus fruit stones in central Europe during Roman times, which indicate a wide geographical distribution of Mespilus. In addition, we give an overview of Roman sources about the use of medlar fruit and glance at medieval evidence.
43554144|The dimensions of archaeobotanical grains identified as Panicum miliaceum (broomcorn millet) vary greatly in size. This is illustrated by the remains from the archaeological site of Zanovskoe in eastern Ukraine (5th1st centuries cal. B.C.). We carried out experimental work on broomcorn millet plants and grains, aiming at a comprehensive understanding of factors that may have contributed to variation in the grain size of broomcorn millet in archaeobotanical assemblages. We analyzed the dependence of grain size variation on selected environmental and taphonomic factors. Our results indicate that immaturity is more likely than environmental stress to account for small grain size in broomcorn millet plants. Depending on charring temperature and time, immature broomcorn millet grains can withstand charring and are potentially preserved in archaeological assemblages. Depending on maturity level, such grains vary in size and shape. These results are potentially important for accurate identification of archaeobotanical specimens.
43554366|Recent research strongly suggests polyphetic origins of multiple cultigens across Southwest Asia approximately 11,000 years ago during the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A period. The harvesting practices that contributed to the dedicated use of cultivation as a plant exploitation strategy remain largely unidentified. Archaeobotanical data from el-Hemmeh, a settlement site dating to ca. 10850 cal. B.P., provides an opportunity to examine in close detail the harvesting strategies that may have contributed to the development of domesticated forms. Initial analyses indicate a variety of wild plant foods including barley, lentils, vetch, Pistacia cf. atlantica and fig were exploited, while the presence of large predomesticated barley grains and potential weed species suggest cereal cultivation was also pursued at the site. Barley rachis internodes from el-Hemmeh typically possess a wild morphology, but 22% of specimens show evidence of a forced or "ripped" disarticulation. This suggests barley may have been harvested while ears were partially immature and required subsequent processing in order to disarticulate spikelets.
43554367|The beginnings of agriculture throughout the Fertile Crescent are still not completely understood, particularly at the eastern end of the Fertile Crescent in the area of modern Iran. Archaeobotanical samples from Epipalaeolithic/PPNA Krtik Tepe in southeastern Turkey and from the Pre-Pottery Neolithic sites of Chogha Golan and East Chia Sabz in south western Iran were studied in order to define the status of cultivation at these sites. Preliminary results show the presence of abundant wild progenitor species of crops at the Iranian sites before 10600 cal. B.P., and very few wild progenitor species at Krtik Tepe dated to 11700-11250 cal. B.P. The Iranian sites also indicate size increase of wild barley grain across a sequence of 400 years through either cultivation or changing moisture conditions.
43554368|Identifying morphologically domestic cereals is essential to understanding the origins of agriculture. Charred spikelet bases provide the best evidence for distinguishing wild from domestic varieties of emmer, einkorn and barley; however until now, identification criteria have not been agreed upon or well established. We examined more than 20,000 remains of charred spikelets from eleven early Holocene sites in the Near East, classing them into nine groups. We show that damage and fragmentation of wheat spikelets probably due to dehusking makes identification problematic, and only when the abscission scar is well preserved is it possible to distinguish wild spikelets which shatter from domestic spikelets which adhere and separate during threshing. Barley spikelets were found to be less damaged and more easily identified, perhaps because the processing was less damaging. Einkorn was dominant over emmer on early sites, whereas on later sites emmer was dominant. Identifications presented here from eleven sites date from approximately 13000 to 8200 cal B.P. They give an incomplete picture, but no domestic cereals were identified during the PPNA (Pre-pottery Neolithic A). Early PPNB Aswad produced domestic barley but at other sites for this period the evidence is inconclusive. Unequivocal signs of domestic emmer spikelets appear during the Middle PPNB about 10,000 years ago but wild forms continue as part of the crop after this period. These conclusions are based on limited data. Future studies will undoubtedly produce a more accurate picture.
43554369|Charred plant remains from the Cypriot Pre-Pottery Neolithic site of Krittou Marottou 'Ais Yiorkis, situated in the foothills of the Trodos Mountains and dated to ca. 7500 cal. B.C., demonstrate the early introduction of two-grained einkorn (Triticum monococcum sensu lato). Grain measurements of two-grained einkorn from 'Ais Yiorkis are compared to those from Aceramic and early Neolithic sites elsewhere in Cyprus, in northern Syria and central Europe. The grains appear to be larger than domestic grains of a later date from the Levantine mainland. Recent work by Purugganan and Fuller (Evolution 65:171-183, 2011) demonstrates a slow evolutionary rate in increasing grain size relative to the rates of evolution in wild species subject to natural selection. When the measurements of two-grained einkorn wheat from 'Ais Yiorkis are compared with these same allochronic data the results indicate an accelerated rate in attaining larger grain size on Cyprus than on the mainland. The possibility of a domestication 'event' or rapid fixation of larger grain size characteristic of domesticated cereal crops in the context of an initially small island population is suggested by the colonisation by farmers of Cyprus in the Cypro-Pre-Pottery Neolithic.
43554370|Recent studies have suggested that domestication was a slower evolutionary process than was previously thought. We address this issue by quantifying rates of phenotypic change in crops undergoing domestication, including five crops from the Near East (Triticum monococcum, T. dicoccum, Hordeum vulgare, Pisum sativum, Lens culinaris) and six crops from other regions (Oryza sativa, Pennisetum glaucum, Vigna radiata, Cucumis melo, Helianthus annus, Iva annua). We calculate rates using the metrics of darwin units and haldane units, which have been used in evolutionary biology, and apply this to data on nonshattering cereal spikelets and seed size. Rates are calculated by considering data over a 4,000-year period from archaeological sites in the region of origin, although we discuss the likelihood that a shorter period of domestication (1,000-2,000) years may be more appropriate for some crops, such as pulses. We report broadly comparable rates of change across all the crops and traits considered, and find that these are close to the averages and median values reported in various evolutionary biological studies. Nevertheless, there is still variation in rates between domesticates, such as melon seeds increasing at twice the rate of cereals, and between traits, such as non-shattering evolving faster than grain size. Such comparisons underline the utility of a quantitative approach to domestication rates, and the need to develop larger datasets for comparisons between crops and across regions.
43554371|This paper reviews the archaeobotanical record of the transition from foraging to farming in the southern Levant. The concise presentation of the published botanical evidence follows a critical assessment of: (a) the nature of Epipalaeolithic plant management strategies, (b) the place of the southern Levant in the polycentric development of Near Eastern plant cultivation and domestication, and (c) region-specific pathways for the emergence of domesticated crop "packages". Some inferences are drawn and suggestions are made concerning the potential contribution of archaeobotanical research to questions of broader archaeological significance about socio-economic change in the southern Levant during the Pre-pottery Neolithic.
43554372|This short note adds to earlier attempts at identifying arable weeds on late Pleistocene/early Holocene sites in the Near East. Nineteen potential arable weed taxa that have no known use were selected. The occurrence of these taxa at sites with morphologically wild cereals was compared to sites with morphologically domestic cereals. The presumed arable weed taxa were as common on three PPNA (Pre Pottery Neolithic A) sites without domestication as they were on Middle PPNB (Pre Pottery Neolithic B) sites with domestication, which lends support to arguments for pre-domestic cultivation at the former sites. Arable weed taxa were less common at Natufian sites but their presence raises the question of whether they originated in cultivated fields or were the ancestors of weeds gathered accidentally alongside wild cereals in their natural habitat.
43554156|We reconstructed the palaeoenvironmental conditions of the last ca. 8,000 years in the Tres Lagunas region of the Quimsacocha volcanic basin (ca. 3,800 m a.s.l.) in the southwestern Ecuadorian Andes. By means of a pollen and charcoal record, we analysed vegetation, fire, and climate history of this area, which is sensitive to climatic changes of both the Pacific as well as of the eastern Andes and Amazon region. Sediment deposits, pronounced increases of pollen and charcoal concentrations, and pollen taxa reflect warmer and drier conditions in the early to mid-Holocene (~ 8000 to 3900 cal. B.P.). During the late Holocene (2250 to  57 cal. B.P.), five warm and cold phases occurred at Quimsacocha. The most prominent cold phase possibly corresponds to the globally recognized Little Ice Age (LIA; ~ 600 to 100 cal. B.P.). The cold phase signal at Quimsacocha was characterized by a higher abundance of Poaceae, Isoes and Gentianella, which are favoured by cold and moist conditions. Frequent charcoal particles can be recorded since the early to mid-Holocene (~ 7600 B.P.). The high Andean tree species Polylepis underwent several phases of degradation and re-establishment in the basin, which could indicate the use of fire by pre-Columbian settlers to enhance the growth of preferred herb species. The Tres Lagunas record suggests that human populations have been influencing the environment around Quimsacocha since the last ca. 8,000 years.
43554157|Moss polsters, pollen traps and lake surface sediment samples are commonly used as climate calibration data or as modern analogues for reconstructing vegetation from fossil profiles, but the differences in pollen content between these media have received little attention. This study aims to analyse how the three media differ in reflecting individual vegetation types and spatial differences in vegetation. 119 modern samples (64 moss polsters, 37 lake surface sediment samples and 18 pollen traps from which a collection was made annually) were taken from northern Fennoscandia and the Kola Peninsula as a broad transect crossing the northernmost forest limits of Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii (mountain birch), Firms sylvestris (Scots pine) and Picea abies (Norway spruce). The pollen assemblages from these samples were compared with the surrounding vegetation visually and via PCA (principle components analysis) and cluster analysis. Both comparisons allow a correct distinction between pollen assemblages of arctic/alpine heath, mountain birch dominated areas, and boreal coniferous forests. The differences between the vegetation zones are stronger than the differences between the sampling media. Nevertheless, lake sediment samples from the mountain birch woodland zone tend to overestimate pine and underestimate birch. Pollen traps are biased towards lower tree pollen percentages and higher values of shrubs, herbs and Cyperaceae. This bias is especially strong in traps that have missing years in the data. Irrespective of the vegetation zone, pollen traps tend to have lower Pinus pollen percentages than in the adjacent moss polsters.
43554158|This paper presents new results from the Early Neolithic Dutch wetland site of Bergschenhoek (ca. 4200 cal B.C., Swifterbant Culture), which are compared with finds from similar features and sites. The data indicate the presence of predominantly eutrophic, nutrient-rich reed and forb vegetation and suggest the preparation of meals consisting of fish and fruits. The finds from the hearth, dominated by uncarbonised remains of wetland taxa, form a remarkable part of the find assemblage. Therefore, the discussion concerns assemblages, deposition processes and interpretations of uncarbonised and carbonised finds from hearths at comparable, contemporary sites. The wide variation of macroremains assemblages of hearths indicates that plant deposition in hearths is understood only partly and remains a topic for further research.
43554159|The lucky find of 934 carbonized seeds of Abutilon theophrasti Medic, in a storage jar at the Late Neolithic site of Hdmezvsrhely-Gorzsa, south Hungary, suggests that the seeds of velvetleaf were intentionally gathered, processed and stored by the inhabitants of this Tisza culture tell-site. Today this ancient fibre and oil plant, the seeds of which can be used for food and medicine, has become a pestilential weed worldwide. Until now, there has been no archaeobotanical record of velvetleaf. Conflicting reports as to the native origin of velvetleaf exist, including India, China and even the Mediterranean area. Since the progenitors of velvetleaf have not yet been found the centre of origin of the species is still unidentified. The huge floodplain swamps and flood-free loess-silt areas in the heart of the Pannonian plain provide this temperate species with suitable growing conditions.
43554160|New archaeobotanical results from 15 Neolithic sites in northern Germany are presented in a review of the Neolithic plant economy in northern and northwestern Europe. Available archaeobotanical data from north-western Europe are evaluated and compared with our new results. In the whole region, barley and emmer were the main crops. Regional and diachronic differences are observed in the cultivation of einkorn, spelt and naked wheat. For oil plants and pulses only rare information from macro remains is available, as we mainly deal with charred material. It is noticeable that gathered plants played an important role in the Funnel Beaker economy. Plant choice, especially the relevance of cultivated versus gathered plants is discussed, based on new and existing data. Based on a structural comparison of charred plant assemblages from domestic sites and tombs, we develop a research hypothesis that settlement finds provide insight into production and consumption of food from crops, while tombs mainly yield evidence of plants gathered in the wild or in semi-wild areas in the vicinity of former settlements. Therefore, we suggest a model of different purposes and meanings of plants, depending on whether primarily an economic or a social/ritual sphere is regarded. But, for all evaluations and interpretations, it is essential to consider the taphonomic processes and conditions. Therefore, further research is necessary to verify our hypothesis, which derives from first insights into new material.
43554164|Past vegetation change and the influence of climate change and anthropogenic pressure during the Holocene is constructed from a series of palynological records sampled from three locations within the territory of the antique site of Sagalassos. The disappearance of the original deciduous oak woodlands and increases in anthropogenic indicator species around 5300 and 4300 B.C. correspond with an increase in settlements in the region. A period of drought following the deforestation may have hampered the recovery of deciduous oak. The timing of the onset of the Bey  ehir Occupation Phase (BO-Phase) in the territory differs between locations, estimates ranging from ca. 1000-800 B.C. to the start of the Hellenistic period (334 B.C.). The most intense period of arboriculture coincides with the Roman and late-Roman periods. Increases in human pressure on the landscape as reflected in the pollen record correspond with an increased rate of sedimentation and fire activity. The timing of the end of the BO-Phase again differs between locations. Estimates range from the 4th century A.D. to the mid 7th century A.D., when a regionwide shift to dry environmental conditions is observed. Numerical analyses show that post BO-Phase vegetation change is largely driven by climate and displays a succession of dry and wet periods that coincided with welldefined European climate shifts, including the Medieval Climate Anomaly and the Little Ice Age. Current agricultural activities in the region are of a very recent (20th century) origin.
43554165|Pollen assemblages recovered from a 5 m sediment core from the Vravron coastal marsh suggest a close correlation between vegetation development and human presence in Attica, and provide the first complete record of middle to late Holocene vegetation history. Correlation of pollen with archaeological data attempts to decode the man-environment relations of the past, within the context of the known climatic variability of the midlate Holocene, in the vicinity of ancient Athens, an area of high historical significance. The pollen record of Vravron denotes a rather variable landscape where open Mediterranean evergreen pine woods alternated with maquis shrublands and grasslands, where human activities and climate have left their imprints on vegetation. During the last 5,000 years agricultural practices displayed several variations: cereal cultivation appears more intense during the Bronze Age, especially in the Mycenaean, while a spread of Olea is observed during Geometric to Classical times. The gradual abandonment of Olea cultivation evidenced in our pollen diagram came as a result of the displacement of human activities in the interior of Mesogaia in Hellenistic and Roman times. Olea and cereal cultivation intensification is observed again during the Mesobyzantine period. In the upper part of the core evidence of intense soil erosion and expansion of Vravron wetland was recorded, coinciding with the Little Ice Age climatic event and the introduction of Arvanites populations in the area.
43554166|In this article, we discuss the Neolithic and Early Copper Age (ECA) part of two pollen records from the Middle Tisza Floodplain in association with the local archaeological settlement record. We address the hypothesis of Willis and Bennett (2004) that there was little human impact by farmers on the environment of SE Europe until the Bronze Age. Contrary to this hypothesis, our results show that small-scale agriculture and woodland clearance is already attestable in the earliest Neolithic in Eastern Hungary, there are signs of expanding scale of mixed farming in the Middle Neolithic and strong evidence for extensive landscape alterations with enhanced pasturing and mixed farming in the Late Neolithic (LN) and ECA. The main vegetation exploitation techniques in the alluvial plain of Sarl-ht were selective tree felling (mainly Quercus), coppicing (mainly Corylus and Ulmus) and woodland clearance to establish grazing pastures and smallscale crop farming. Comparison with other well-dated pollen diagrams from Eastern Hungary suggested that, in the Early and Middle Neolithic (8000-7000 cal. B.P.), Corylus and Ulmus coppicing were probably frequent, while pastoral activities and associated woodland clearance is distinguished in the LN (7000-6500 cal. B.P.). Our data also suggested a shift to moister summer conditions in the alluvium during the ECA, which may have contributed to a trend towards settlement dispersion and increased reliance on animal husbandry in the NE Hungarian Plain.
43554167|Holocene sediment cores from contemporary terrestrialised kettle holes on two islands in the Ostholstein lakeland area, Northern Germany, were investigated by palaeoenvironmental methods. Records from such isolated locations, such as these island mires, are an important source of information on small-scale vegetation changes. Pollen, non-pollen palynomorphs and macrofossils were used to reveal anthropogenic impact as well as lake level fluctuations. Changes in the peat decomposition and the ratio of organic to minerogenic content in the sediment facilitated correlation with past ground water table levels and accordingly with former lake levels. The palynological surveys indicate that human impact on the islands expanded in prehistoric times during phases of low lake levels or periods of stable hydrological conditions. The first distinct low level is recorded between ca. 8210 and 7740 cal. yr B.P., Another major low level period was detected for the time span from approximately 5290 to 4600 cal. yr B.P. After a subsequent period with a wetter climate, indicated by rising and fluctuating lake levels culminating at ca. 2420 to 2180 cal. yr B.P., a third lowering occurred until about 660 cal. yr B.P. This period was interrupted by minor fluctuations in lake levels from ca. 1770 to 1630 cal. yr B.P. and from ca. 1370 to 1010 cal. yr B.P.
43554168|Pollen and plant macrofossil records from the Sukharysh cave located in the southern forest-steppe zone of the Southern Trans-Urals provide material for reconstruction of palaeoenvironments. The obtained results reveal that within this territory in the Early Holocene before the Atlantic there was a forest-steppe zone with forbs and Artemisia communities and birch woodland stands. Anthropogenic influence on vegetation was insignificant at that time. In the Late Subatlantic, ruderal communities, cultivated land and pastures were widely spread across the forest-steppe landscapes. Active development of agriculture by the Southern Trans-Urals population started after the Russians had occupied this territory in the 17-18th centuries A.D.
43554169|New pollen and plant macrofossil data, backed by radiocarbon dates, from the Kulikovo battlefield area in the forest-steppe region of the Upper Don River basin (central part of European Russia) indicate that the area was covered by mosaic vegetation in the second half of the Holocene. Steppe communities dominated during the midlate Atlantic (7.2-5.7 cal. kyr B. P.) and early Subatlantic (2.7-2.4 cal. kyr B. P.), while forest-steppe dominated during the Subboreal (2.7-5.7 cal. kyr B. P.), middle and late Subatlantic (2.4 cal. kyr B. P. - present). Climatic reconstructions based on these data show that landscape dynamics in the region were most probably driven by changes in effective moisture: an excess of precipitation over evaporation. Even small reductions in annual precipitation, accompanied by a rise in summer temperatures by 1-3C above present values, were sufficient to increase the proportion of steppe communities within this landscape complex, and also probably resulted in higher frequencies of wildfires. Signals of anthropogenic disturbance of vegetation are clearly pronounced in the pollen and plant macrofossil records since the middle Atlantic. However, human-induced changes in the vegetation remain subtle until the medieval period.
43554170|Integration of pollen data from both marine and terrestrial cores contributes to the understanding of the timing of the climatic and human forces that shaped the cultural landscapes in the Italian peninsula. This paper focuses on the relation between natural and human landscapes, and the development of the cultural landscape from the Bronze Age to the medieval period and modern times. Two records were studied within independent projects, first the marine core RF93-30, from the central Adriatic, with a sediment source area including the Po valley and which spans the last 7,000 years, and secondly, material from the site of Terramara di Montale, a Bronze Age settlement on the Po plain, which was occupied from approximately 3550-3200 cal. B.P. The original chronology of the marine core was developed by using the magnetic inclination of the secular variation record and two C dates carried out on benthic and planktic foraminifera at depths of 527 and 599 cm. Its pollen record shows a gradual irreversible trend towards increasing aridity since 5700 cal. B.P. and, just after around 5100 cal. B.P., a Picea decline and a Quercus ilex type increase indicate less cool conditions. Human impact introduces rapid changes, such as the decrease of Abies alba, thinned by the reduction of precipitation and further cleared before or during the Early Bronze Age, followed by the fall of oaks. The latter started after around 3900 cal. B.P., and became evident at around 3600 cal. B.P. The gradual increase in signs of open landscape and woodland clearance correspond to the onset of Middle Bronze Age settlements in the Po valley, and to the development of the cultural landscape in the region. The impact of the terramare people includes woodland management by coppicing, and division of the territory into a patchwork of pastures and fields. Dry environments are indicated mainly by Cichorioideae, resulting from the continued human pressure, and these spread since the Recent Bronze Age. Of the possible causes for the decline of the terramare, we suggest that climate would have been less important in the decline than in the onset phases. The later cultural landscapes are mainly indicated by the trends of the Olea, Juglans and Castanea (OJC) records, besides those of cereals. At around 700 cal. B.P., the "chestnut landscape" spread while modern times are shown by the finds of Zea mays.
43554171|The principal objective of this research is to determine the maximum elevation reached by the treeline, as well as its altitudinal variations and composition throughout the Holocene, in a high mountain zone of the Pyrenean range. The temporal intervals of pedoanthracological data begin in 11000 cal. B.P. with the oldest dated charcoal, permitting a study of the entire Holocene period with the capacity to analyze climatic and anthropic situations. This is the first study to apply analysis of soil charcoals to the meridional slope of the Pyrenees for this purpose, and also its first use in research on the Iberian Peninsula. Eight pedoanthracological sites were sampled in a transect from 2,000 to 2,600 m altitude, with an altitudinal resolution of 100 m. The spatial precision provided by this proxy allows us to show that the maximum extension of the upper forest line was 400 m above the current line. This suggests a complete change in the landscape of a zone that is now covered with pasture from 2,000 m to the peak (2,593 m). Although pre-Neolithic fires appear to have a primarily climatic component, the fire origins during and after this period are more complex and far from being explained by a single, unequivocal cause.
43554172|Estanilles peat bog, located in the northeastern Iberian peninsula, was studied to determine the anthropogenic changes in the landscape over the past seven millennia. The pollen diagram and sedimentary charcoal analyses from this site permit us to reconstruct the landscape changes in an area of both Mediterranean and Atlantic influence. In addition, Montarenyo ombrotrophic peat bog was studied to strengthen the analysis of data from more recent centuries. This paper attempts a reconstruction of historical cultural landscapes using two complementary palaeobotanical proxies (pollen and charcoal) in high mountain environments. The macroscopic charcoal record shows a fire signal since 7500 cal. B.P. However, the relationship between fire frequency and human impact is not always linear. This divergence is linked to fuel availability and fire activity. Fire has been used repeatedly to clear ground and to maintain open areas, and has been a key tool for the management of these high mountain areas. The intensity of use of the landscape implies the expansion of agricultural areas into higher altitudes, including cereal cultivation above 2,200 m a.s.l., during the Middle Ages. The first clear human influence detected in the pollen percentage data is recorded between 6000 and 7000 cal. B.P. and, until present times, the greatest changes in vegetation and landscape history occurred during periods of particular specialization in socioeconomic activities during the Middle Ages.
43554173|Palaeoecological evidence indicates that highland pines were dominant in extensive areas of the mountains of Central and Northern Iberia during the first half of the Holocene. However, following several millennia of anthropogenic pressure, their natural ranges are now severely reduced. Although pines have been frequently viewed as first-stage successional species responding positively to human disturbance, some recent palaeobotanical work has proposed fire disturbance and human deforestation as the main drivers of this vegetation turnover. To assess the strength of the evidence for this hypothesis and to identify other possible explanations for this scenario, we review the available information on past vegetation change in the mountains of northern inland Iberia. We have chosen data from several sites that offer good chronological control, including palynological records with microscopic charcoal data and sites with plant macro-and megafossil occurrence. We conclude that although the available longterm data are still fragmentary and that new methods are needed for a better understanding of the ecological history of Iberia, fire events and human activities (probably modulated by climate) have triggered the pine demise at different locations and different temporal scales. In addition, all palaeoxylological, palynological and charcoal results obtained so far are fully compatible with a rapid human-induced ecological change that could have caused a range contraction of highland pines in western Iberia.
43554174|Palaeoecological reconstructions from the region of southwestern Bulgaria were used for inferring the human impact on the vegetation and landscape during the last 8 millennia. They are based on data from pollen analyses of lakes and peat-bogs, plant macrofossils, archaeobotanical finds and radiocarbon dating. During the early Holocene, after 7900 cal. B.P. (5950 cal. B.C.) the climate changed to cooler summers, milder winters and higher precipitation resulting in the formation of a coniferous belt dominated by Pinus sp. and Abies alba. These favorable environmental pre-conditions had a positive influence on the Neolithisation of the Balkans after the 8200 cal. B.P. (6250 cal. B.C.) cold event, which caused drought in the Eastern Mediterranean. Direct evidence from wood charcoal records from the Neolithic settlement layers in the study area shows a slight modification of the surrounding woodlands and an increase of the lightdemanding components, probably expressed through larger forest border zones and thinning out of the wood stands. The increase in the number of settlements in the valleys of southwestern Bulgaria intensified the human activity visible in the palaeobotanical record from 6950 cal. B.P. (5000 cal. B.C.) onwards. Between ca. 5700-5100 cal. B.P. (3800-3200 cal. B.C.) signs of anthropogenic influence on the vegetation are virtually absent. The intensity of human impact increased notably after 3200 cal. B.P. (1400-1250 cal. B.C., approx. Late Bronze Age), documented by a rise of pollen anthropogenic indicators. The final transformations in the natural forest cover after 2750 cal. B.P. (800 cal. B.C. onset of the Iron Age) marked the reduction of the coniferous forests dominated by Abies alba and Pinus sp. and the expansion of Fagus sylvatica and Picea abies. These vegetation changes are contemporaneous with increase of the palaeofire activities and the next peak of anthropogenic indicators. The changes in the landscape during the Roman period and the medieval period reflect regional environmental features and were forced by the diversification of anthropogenic activity.
43554374|Changes in distribution of semi-evergreen forest in the Yucatn peninsula and variation of precipitation during the late Holocene were inferred using a geographical information system. Deterministic methods for spatial interpolation using fossil pollen data from seven cores elucidated environmental changes. The changes in the distribution of the semi-evergreen forest allowed to us infer variations in precipitation in the area and to distinguish whether changes of forest cover are a consequence of climate and/or of human activities. The reconstruction of the Preclassic period (at 550 and 50 B.C.) indicates higher precipitation than at present and suggests a more closed vegetation cover. Around A.D. 450 the vegetation acquired an open character indicating a reduction in precipitation. During this time the decrease in forest was not homogeneous in the Yucatn peninsula, indicating human impacts in certain areas. A reduction in forest cover but not a complete deforestation of the region is assessed during the Classic period (A.D. 450). The reconstruction of A.D. 950 shows the recovery of the forest and is related to the Medieval warm period. Geographical information systems are useful tools to reconstruct the spatial history of the vegetation of the Yucatn peninsula during the late Holocene.
43554375|We aim to provide a long-term ecological analysis of land-use and floristic diversity in the transition from traditional to modern land-use management in the time A.D. 1800-2008 in southern Sweden. We use the Regional Estimates of Vegetation Abundance from Large Sites (REVEALS) model to quantify land-cover changes on a regional scale at 20-year intervals, based on the fossil pollen record. Floristic richness and evenness are estimated using palynological richness and the Shannon index applied to the REVEALS output, respectively. We identified a transition period of 60 years between 1880 and 1940 when the total tree cover increased and the tree composition changed from deciduous to coniferous dominance. Within the shrinking area of open land, arable land taxa expanded, while the number and coverage of herbs in the remaining grasslands decreased. The succession from open grasslands to more tree-covered habitats initially favoured palynological richness, which reached its highest values during the first 40 years of the transition period. The highest REVEALS-based evenness was recorded in the time of traditional land-use and at the beginning of the transition period, reflecting higher habitat diversity at these time intervals. Our results support a more dynamic ecosystem management that changes between traditional land-use and phases of succession (<40 years) to promote floristic diversity. We have developed and applied a palaeoecological methodology that contributes realistic estimates to be used in ecosystem management.
43554376|The lowland heathlands of southern England comprise ca. 14 % of the total area of this habitat in Europe yet their history is poorly understood. This paper presents the first detailed palaeoecological evidence (combining palynological, microscopic charcoal and radiocarbon data) relating to the origin and long-term dynamics of heathland vegetation in southern England. Valley peat sites, situated on the Lower Greensand Group (coarse-grained sandstones) at Conford (Hampshire) and Hurston Warren (West Sussex) have been investigated. The sequence from Conford indicates the unusually late survival of Pinus sylvestris (to as late as ca. 6050 cal. B.P.) in southern England. This is attributed to edaphic factors and, after ca. 7050 cal. B.P., to frequent fires. After intervening phases of dominance by deciduous woodland, heathland vegetation became established in the proximity of both sites in the Late Bronze Age (ca. 3000 cal. B.P.) with increases in indicators of grazing and burning demonstrating an association between the development of heathland and human activity. Thereafter, the pollen and charcoal records show that the vegetation remained in a dynamic state as the scale and nature of human activity varied through time. Major expansions in the extent of heathland occurred relatively recently; after ca. 1450 cal. B.P. at Hurston Warren and after ca. 850 cal. B.P. at Conford. A review of the palaeoecological evidence suggests that the most intense use and greatest coverage of heathland in southern England probably occurred during the medieval to post-medieval periods.
43554377|Pollen productivity estimates (PPEs) are indispensable prerequisites for quantitative vegetation reconstructions. Estimates from different European regions show a large variability and it is uncertain whether this reflects regional differences in climate and soil or is brought about by different assessments of vegetation abundance. Forests represent a particular problem as they consist of several layers of vegetation and many tree species only start producing pollen after they have attained ages of several decades. Here we used detailed forest inventory data from north-eastern Germany to investigate the effect of flowering age and understory trees on PPEs. Pollen counts were obtained from 49 small to medium sized lakes chosen to represent the different forest types in the region. Surface samples from lakes within a closed forest of Fagus yielded disproportionate amounts of Fagus pollen, increasing its PPE and the variability of all other estimates. These samples were removed from further analysis but indicate a high trunk-space component that is not considered in the Prentice-Sugita pollen dispersal and deposition model. Results of the restricted dataset show important differences in PPEs based on the consideration of flowering age and understory position. The effect is largest for slow growing and/or late flowering trees like Fagus and Carpinus while it is minimal for species that flower early in their development like Betula and Alnus. The large relevant source area of pollen (RSAP) of 7 km obtained in this study is consistent with the landscape structure of the region.
43554378|This paper presents an integrated archaeobotanical analysis carried out at the site known as "El Llano de la Horca", a Bronze and Late Iron Age (3rd-1st century B.C.) Carpetanian settlement in central Spain (3600  80 B.P.). Pollen and spore analysis indicates an open landscape dominated by the herb taxa Asteraceae, Chenopodiaceae and Poaceae with an important representation of Glomus. The combination of pollen and charcoal studies also reveals the presence of Pinus sylvestris-nigra, P. pinasterpinea, Juniperus thurifera, Quercus faginea, Q. ilex and Q. suber as the main trees used. Occurrences of Alnus, Corylus, Fraxinus and Jugions suggest the existence of water courses nearby. The archaeobotanical data is correlated with the geographical setting and archaeological context. The evolution of settlement patterns in central Spain, as well as the economy of other Carpetanian sites, is also considered to evaluate how this territory was managed for its vegetational resources since the Bronze Age (BA). Changes are expected as a consequence of different socio-economic factors at this site, especially when the settlement became an important Carpetanian oppidum. The combined results demonstrate a subsistence system based on cereal agriculture, in which naked wheat was dominant, together with some hulled barley and some erratic occurrences of hulled wheat. Furthermore, livestock breeding and metalwork activities seem to have resulted in a significant loss of woodland in order to clear land for crop fields and cattle grazing to cope with the needs of the growing Carpetanian community.
43554379|Lagenaria siceraria (Molina) Standl. (bottle gourd) is pantropic and displays large variation in fruit and seed shape. Two subspecies are currently recognized: the African L. siceraria ssp. siceraria and the Asian L. siceraria ssp. asiatica. The Asian type of bottle gourd belongs to the earliest domesticated plants in the Americas. In Europe, bottle gourd only appears with some frequency from the Roman period onwards. The paper is the study of ancient DNA (aDNA) and seed morphology of one almost complete bottle gourd fruit from the Roman site of Oedenburg/Biesheim-Kunheim, France (1st century A.D.), and from individual seed finds from the Roman vicus of Petinesca-Vorderberg, Switzerland (3rd century A.D.), both recovered from waterlogged layers. Width and length measurements of seeds show large variation. Based on the index of width to length, seeds from both sites differ significantly (p < 0.0001 Mann-Whitney) suggesting that there were different variants present north of the Alps. Genetically, the bottle gourd fruit from Roman Oedenburg/Biesheim-Kunheim and one commercial cultivar L. siceraria cv. 'Herkuleskeule' are of Asian origin as identified by three Asian and African specific chloroplast markers. These results support an early and longlasting presence of the Asian type of domestic bottle gourd in Europe. No chloroplast markers were found in the seeds from Petinesca-Vorderberg. However preserved nuclear high copy 5.8S rDNA fragments correctly matched to Cucurbitaceae, further supporting the evidence for preservation of DNA in waterlogged plant remains.
23419909|Palaeoecological investigations of mires suggest that agriculture was established north of the Arctic Circle in Norway during the late Bronze Age (1100500 B.C.) and Pre-Roman Iron Age (5001 B.C.). The lack of archaeobotanical and archaeological investigations has made it difficult to assess the nature of this early agricultural expansion into the Arctic in any detail. Here we present the first well documented archaeobotanical investigation from north Norway that covers this agricultural pioneer phase. Remains of charred seeds show that barley (Hordeum) was already being cultivated in the late Bronze Age, and that wheat (Triticum) was introduced in the Pre-Roman Iron Age. Large amounts of crowberry (Empetrum) seeds are also typical of the Pre-Roman Iron Age and were obviously an important food plant at the time, at least locally. Charcoal rich layers dated to the late Bronze Age suggest that the local birch forest was initially cleared away with the help of fire, possibly related to a slash-and-burn cultivation practice. Lithostratigraphic and pollen-analytical results indicate that the cultivation practice of the Pre-Roman Iron Age was a form of bush-fallow system with intensive soil re-working alternated with long periods of fallow.
23419910|Late-glacial vegetation changes were studied at Rieme, NW Belgium. Human occupation of this cover sand area occurred from the Final Palaeolithic onwards. The research area is situated on the northern side of a large cover sand ridge in an undulating landscape with small ridges and depressions. The past landscape was reconstructed using a multi-disciplinary approach, including geomorphological, sedimentological, loss-on-ignition, botanical (micro- and macrofossil) and zoological analyses. AMS 14C dating provided an accurate chronology for the sediments. Analyses were performed on three sequences located 200300 m apart. Our study shows that during the Blling (GI-1e) wet meadows developed on the sandy soils and groundwater levels increased probably as result of permafrost melting. Shallow pools formed in depressions. During the Older Dryas (GI-1d) shrubs with juniper, seabuckthorn and willow developed. Many shallow depressions were overblown with sand and deposition of organic material almost ceased. In the early Allerd (GI-1c) open birch woodlands developed. Due to the final melting of permafrost, groundwater levels rose further and ponds with floating-leaved open water vegetation developed. Large water level fluctuations occurred in one of the ponds. Accumulation of organic deposits ceased during the mid-Allerd. Indirect evidence for human occupation during the Allerd (GI-1c) was found in indications of burning of the reed-swamps in combination with the presence of large herbivores. Final Palaeolithic people probably used the northern side of the cover sand ridge as hunting area, while they settled their temporary (base) camps on the steep southern side along the extensive and deeper Moervaart lake.
23419911|The associations between floristic and palynological richness and landscape structure were studied based on modern pollenvegetation data from a patchy cultural landscape in southern Estonia (northern temperate vegetation zone). Nine study sites (small lakes and their surrounding vegetation) represent land cover gradient from closed forest to semi-open vegetation. Floristic richness (number of species) and floristic richness of pollen types (number of pollen-equivalent taxa) were used to describe the vegetation within the radius of 250 m from the pollen sampling sites. Palynological richness was calculated to describe the modern pollen samples diversity. Landscape structure was estimated on the basis of landscape openness and three landscape diversity measures: richness of community patches, Simpson evenness of community patches and Simpson diversity of community patches. To study the effect of the spatial scale of landscapes on the vegetationlandscape and pollenlandscape associations, landscape structure was estimated within eight radii (2502,000 m) around each lake. The results showed that landscape openness was the most important determinant of both floristic richness and palynological richness in southern Estonia and that landscape diversity estimated by Simpson diversity index was also significantly associated with the richness estimates. Floristic and palynological richness were significantly positively correlated with landscape structure within the radii greater than 1,000 m from the pollen sampling sites, which is similar to the estimated Relevant Source Area of Pollen in southern Estonia. We conclude that within one floristic or climatic region, palynological richness gives reliable estimates about the variation in floristic richness and landscape structure; however, caution must be taken when comparing pollen-inferred vegetation diversities from different regions or when interpreting fossil pollen records from times with highly different vegetation associations.
23419912|Analysis of wood charcoal and seeds from 'Doel sector M', a Swifterbant site (ca. 46004000 B.C.) from NW Belgium, provides information on the environment, plant food subsistence, animal husbandry practices and seasonality of this wetland camp site during the mesolithicneolithic transition period. The results of the analyses of both charcoal and seeds show that the site was located on the top of a sand ridge covered by an upper riverbank forest with Quercus sp., Tilia sp., Ulmus sp. and Fraxinus excelsior, and surrounded by Alnus woodland. Seeds and fruits of Quercus sp., Cornus sanguinea, Corylus avellana, Malus sylvestris and Prunus spinosa probably represent food plants. High numbers of Viscum album charcoal fragments and Hedera helix seeds suggest the use of these plants as leaf fodder, and thus animal husbandry at the site. In terms of seasonality, the use of both Viscum album and Hedera helix is a strong indication that these wetland campsites were occupied during winter/early spring.
23419913|Understanding terrestrial vegetation dynamics is a crucial tool in global change research. The Loess Plateau, an important area for the study of Asian monsoons and early agriculture, poses a controversial question on the potential vegetation and its pattern. Fossil charcoal as direct evidence of wood provides precision in species identification and hence vegetation reconstruction. Charcoals from the Dadiwan and Xishanping sites suggest a great variety of plants between 5200 and 4300 cal. B.P. in the valley area of the western Loess Plateau. The deciduous broad-leaf wood from Quercus, Ulmus, Betula, Corylus and Acer is very frequent and makes up almost half the total abundance ratio of the represented taxa. Meanwhile, some typical subtropical taxa such as Liquidambar formosana, Eucommia ulmoides, Toxicodendron and Bambusoideae, are present at the two study sites. The high abundance of Picea appearing between 5200 and 4300 cal. B.P. suggests the development of Picea forests in the valley of the western Loess Plateau. The assemblages of charcoal indicate that the mixed forest of evergreen deciduous and conifer-deciduous broadleaved trees developed in the valley of the Loess Plateau during the Holocene optimum. Precipitation is the main controlling factor for forest development. The increasing precipitation is the probable reason for the appearance of north-subtropical forests between 5200 and 4300 cal B.P.
23419914|Phytolith analysis has become an increasingly popular archaeobotanical tool in the past few decades. Phytoliths have been used to support key hypotheses relating to the domestication of several food crops and in the study of ancient diet, and they are of particular importance in contexts where other plant remains are poorly preserved. However, the discipline has also been subject to controversy and debate. This paper gives an overview of the technique and three key case studies covering a range of geographical areas. Some of the problems that are common to each are discussed and suggestions are made for how these problems could be resolved in future research. It is suggested that further caution should be taken during interpretation, and a greater consideration given to taphonomy. Despite these criticisms it is concluded that there is still much potential in the technique, particularly when integrated with other lines of microarchaeological evidence.
23419922|The lake sediment record was used to reconstruct past vegetation dynamics and human impacts from the middle Neolithic (6500 cal. B.P.) to the Middle Ages (1500 cal. B.P.) around Lac d'Antre in the southern Jura mountains of France. This lake was surrounded by the Gallo-Roman sanctuary of Villards d'Hria, which has been widely investigated by archaeologists and enables a comparison between palaeoenvironmental proxies and archaeological data. Pollen and microscopic charcoal analyses were conducted on a 500 cm sediment core with eleven radiocarbon dates providing the chronological control. In a mixed oak woodland context, the successive development of Taxus, Fagus and Abies were mainly caused by climatic variations during the Neolithic, in which there was weak human impact. The first significant signs of human activity were detected during the Bronze Age from 3900 cal. B.P., followed by an increase of human pressure and woodland clearances during the Iron Age, from 2700 cal. B.P. The occupation of the Gallo-Roman sanctuary was continuous with the Iron Age occupation. All the analysed palaeoenvironmental data indicate that the strongest human impact occurred during the Gallo-Roman period, which matches the occupation of Villards d'Hria previously dated by archaeologists from 2000 to 1700 cal. B.P., 1st to 3rd century A.D. Moreover, there appears to have been a new period of human settlement close to the lake at the beginning of the Middle Ages. The low charcoal accumulation rate (CHAR) recorded during the Bronze and Iron Ages suggests that fire was not the main agent used to clear the dense woods to create new cultivated fields and pastures. High CHAR values recorded during the Roman period may represent fire use for domestic and agro-pastoral activities.
23419923|A detailed, AMS 14C-dated, pollen record from Cooney Lough, a small lake in Co. Sligo, western Ireland, is presented. Fluctuations in the pollen curves, indicative of changes in pollen productivity and shifts in woodland composition, suggest that the period spanned by the record (9.46 ka) was characterised by considerable climate instability. In all, five climate anomalies are recognised (CA-1 to CA-5). The most pronounced anomaly, CA-3, is dated to 8.458.2 ka, with the high point of that anomaly (CA-3b) centred on 8.2 ka and lasting about a century. On the basis of age, and also intensity and structure, CA-3b is equated with the 8.2 ka event as recorded in many proxies and especially the Greenland ice-core 18O records. Key features of the event as recorded in the lake sediments include increased representation of Betula and Pinus (birch and pine; both widely recognised as cold tolerant trees) and a decline in Corylus and also Quercus (hazel and oak; both thermophilous). The anomalies CA-1 and CA-2 precede the 8.2 ka event, the former corresponding probably to the 9.2 ka event and the latter more pronounced, centred on ca. 8.8 ka and with a duration of approximately 100 years. The CA-4 event, at ca. 7.5 ka, is relatively minor as regards intensity while CA-5, which began at ca. 7.1 ka, initiated what seems to be a more long-lasting shift towards cooler conditions. The relationship of these developments to the arrival and expansion of alder (Alnus), a key feature of the Boreal/Atlantic transition in European, including Irish pollen records is also discussed.
23419924|Excavations on the Rock of Ifach, Alicante, Spain have revealed the remains of a medieval settlement that flourished between A.D. 1297 and 1359. Wood charcoal analysis combined with archaeological evidence and historical records allow an assessment of the local vegetation of the area during the medieval period, the obtaining and use of firewood and the commercial routes for supplying timber. Pinus halepensis and to a lesser degree various matorral taxa were used for fuel during the main occupation phases at the settlement. The resource exploitation network of the settlement expanded over the adjacent coastal area, with firewood obtained from pine woodlands there. The timbers used in the construction of the settlement were mainly from pines that originated nearby (P. halepensis) or which were transported by river from woodland areas to the north which were controlled by the Crown of Aragon (P. nigra/sylvestris, P. pinaster). The partial destruction of the village in A.D. 1359 and its gradual abandonment are reflected in changes observed in fuel supplying practices that then concentrated on the local matorral vegetation of the rock itself.
23419925|Archaeobotanical studies were undertaken at the Yuergou site, which is located in the Turpan basin in Xinjiang, China, and which has been dated to around 23002400 years B.P. Altogether 21 taxa were identified. Four cereal remains were identified, Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare var. coeleste, Panicum miliaceum and Setaria italica. The first three were probably cultivated while the last one may not have been grown deliberately, but probably grew together with plants of P. miliaceum. A fruit stone of Ziziphus jujuba (Chinese date) was discovered, which showed that this may have been cultivated around the site during that time. Charcoal of Picea sp. was found, from wood which must have been used as fuel by the indigenous people. Fifteen taxa of wild plants were also identified, most of which can be considered as weeds, and which grew near the site. Burs of Xanthium strumarium were discovered. As nearly all of them were broken, the seeds may have been used by the ancient inhabitants. Since most of the cereal remains consisted of chaff, they must represent by-products. Furthermore, grains of Echinochloa crus-galli may also have been exploited as complementary food resources. All the above indicate that both cultivated and wild plants were used for cereals, fuel, or other purposes, and plant resources played important roles in the daily life of the ancient inhabitants of the Yuergou site.
23419926|We present evidence from ethnography and experimental processing of foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.) in China that spikelets containing incompletely filled (or immature) grains constitute a significant portion of typical millet harvests and are removed along with other by-products after threshing and winnowing. This study provides a baseline for the identification of immature foxtail grains in archaeobotanical assemblages. Immature millet grains are a frequent component of archaeobotanical assemblages in Neolithic and Bronze Age China, and criteria for their recognition are presented based on our modern experimental result and illustrated with archaeobotanical examples from Shandong and Henan. It is seed morphology rather than size that plays a determinative role in the identification of foxtail millet. It is suggested that those grains with a narrow egg-shaped embryo, which is about 5/6 of the whole grain, and having a round shape can be classed as foxtail millet even though they are small, flat and squashed. While different grades of immaturity in millet grains might be defined, the interpretative potential of these appears to be negligible as all immature grains are concentrated in winnowing waste. This study confirms the suggestion that the ratio of immature to mature millet grains can be employed in archaeobotany in considering whether or not early stage crop processing (threshing and winnowing) contributed to the formation of particular archaeological millet assemblages.
23419927|Volcanic ash layers show that the products of Icelandic volcanism reached Britain and Ireland many times during the Holocene. Historical records suggest that at least one eruption, that of Laki in A.D. 1783, was associated with impacts on vegetation. These results raise the question: did Icelandic volcanism affect the Holocene vegetation history of Britain and Ireland? Several studies have used pollen data to address this issue but no clear consensus has been reached. We re-analyse the palynological data using constrained ordination with various representations of potential volcanic impacts. We find that the palynological evidence for volcanic impacts on vegetation is weak but suggest that this is a case of absence of evidence and is not necessarily evidence of absence of impact. To increase the chances of identifying volcanic impacts, future studies need to maximise temporal resolution, replicate results, and investigate a greater number of tephras in a broader range of locations, including more studies from lake sediments.
23419833|Silica phytoliths that form in plant tissues are useful to archaeologists because of their diagnostic value and longevity in ancient deposits. Palaeoecology, site formation processes, plant domestication, and other topics are routinely addressed using phytolith assemblages, especially when macrobotanical remains are not well preserved. However, little research has been conducted to document the effects of ecological variables on phytolith formation. Here, we investigate the effects of mosaic virus and bacterial wilt disease on diagnostic scalloped phytoliths in the rind of a wild-type Cucurbita pepo var texana (gourd). We observe a minimal change in phytolith size distribution between control plants and individuals with mosaic virus. However, we observe a notable difference between plants with bacterial wilt disease and control plants, with diseased individuals carrying a greater proportion of large-diameter scalloped phytoliths. This and similar phenomena could potentially confound archaeological interpretations of phytolith assemblages, and we suggest that the effects of this and other ecological variables should be studied in a diverse range of taxa.
23419834|The mid-continent of North America has experienced dramatic and abrupt climate change during the Holocene, but the response of grassland vegetation to past climate change has been difficult to quantify. To improve interpretation of tallgrass prairie vegetation from pollen assemblages, we acquired and analysed a surface sample set collected from 25 small ponds (less than 10 ha surface area) in the largest contiguous remnant of tallgrass prairie in the USA. We compared these tallgrass prairie assemblages to 476 modern pollen samples classified as "prairie" in the North American Surface Sample database. We then compared the surface pollen assemblages with fossil pollen assemblages from sediment cores at two sites in KansasCheyenne Bottoms and Muscotah Marshusing the modern analog technique. Pollen assemblages in the Flint Hills surface samples were very similar to each other, with an average squared chord distance of 0.19. They were different than other modern grassland pollen assemblages mainly due to higher percentages of pollen from six woody taxa: Carya, Cornus, Juniperus, Juglans, Maclura, and Platanus. Arboreal pollen percentages ranged from 17 to 62 % and did not correlate with woody cover among sites. Cheyenne Bottoms was open grassland for the past 25,000 years, but it did not have many tallgrass prairie analogs. Muscotah Marsh did not have many grassland analogs over the past 30,000 years, possibly due to its position on the prairie-forest border or its surrounding wetland vegetation.
23419835|The geomorphological analysis of the river Tocantins alluvial area was carried out by remote sensing techniques, jointly with studies of sedimentary facies, mineralogy and geochemistry, pollen and spores, C and N isotopes data and radiocarbon dating of a sediment core from a floodplain lake, near the river Tocantins in the southeastern Amazon region. The aim was to identify and discuss the relationship between the main geomorphological processes and climatic factors, as well as their influence on vegetation patterns. The data indicate three phases of sediment and organic matter accumulation associated with vegetation changes during the Holocene: in Phase 1 (>7760  80 cal yrs B.P.), the channel was gradually being disconnected from its main course, accumulating organic matter from terrestrial woody plants; in Phase 2 (>7760  80 to 5145  175 cal yrs B.P.), the very low energy flows allowed the deposition of autochthonous organic mud from suspension. Herbaceous vegetation and a Mauritia palm-swamp dominated the study area, followed by an increase in the contribution of freshwater dissolved organic carbon (DOC) to the lake; Phase 3 (5145  175 cal yrs B.P. until present) records the expansion of ferns and arboreal plants, and greater freshwater organic matter input into the lake with anoxic water conditions. The development of the studied lake occurred by geomorphological changes and the filling process of an abandoned channel according to hydrodynamics and vegetation changes which were probably influenced by climatic changes during the Holocene.
23419836|Human impact is a key factor in the evolution of landscape since the mid-Holocene. In this work landscape changes in a mountainous area in central Spain are examined through the analysis of pollen at Pea Negra mire (Cceres), since its formation during the transition period between the third and second millennium cal. B.C. The study focuses on anthropogenic dynamics linked to the effects of livestock husbandry and the use of fire for forest clearance, as the mire is located close to a natural pass across the Bejar Range. With this aim, non-pollen palynomorphs and charcoal accumulation rate are useful indicators to assess the increasing role of human influence on vegetation. Grazing activities are continuously detected from the base of the profile, with maxima in the last millennium, while the use of fire is more pronounced from 3000 to 1000 cal. B.P. The discontinuous presence through the profile of forest species like chestnut, walnut, beech, elm or yew has also been analyzed.
23419837|The origin and developmental history of Fagus sylvatica forests in south-eastern Norway have been studied through pollen analysis and AMS radiocarbon-dating of peat from two small forest hollows. In this area F. sylvatica appears to have a long history, from the first occurrence of F. sylvatica pollen at ca. 9100 cal. B.P. to its local expansion ca. 13001200 cal. B.P. At this time a shift from a diverse landscape mosaic with many plant taxa present, including broad-leaved trees, to a less diverse landscape mosaic with Picea abies and F. sylvatica trees is interpreted from the pollen data. The long history of F. sylvatica suggests that the existing forests are not recent plantations, but implies that these forests are native. The presence of pollen indicative of anthropogenic activity combined with charcoal before the expansion of F. sylvatica, as well as comparison with data from nearby sites, suggest that the forest development was likely to be a result of human activity and climatic changes, particularly changes in moisture conditions.
23419838|In archaeobotanical studies, the taxonomic classification of diaspores has usually been done by simple morphological observation and visual comparison with ex situ collections of seeds, although the use of biometric indices has often proved to be a powerful approach in the taxonomic studies of the genus Vitis as well as for the species attribution of archaeological remains. Using image analysis techniques, seeds from two Sardinian archaeological sites, the pre-Nuragic and Nuragic complex of Sa Osa in central-western Sardinia, attested as the oldest Sardinian archaeological site with remains of Vitis seeds, and the Isola di Coltellazzo in southwest Sardinia, were selected and characterized on the basis of morphological features and Elliptic Fourier Descriptors. Moreover, seeds of five modern populations of V. vinifera ssp. sylvestris collected from southwest Sardinia and the seeds of 41 cultivars of V. vinifera ssp. vinifera mainly from southern and central-western Sardinia were also analysed by computer image analysis. The obtained data were used to implement a database of biometric parameters and to compare the unknown archaeological seeds with the characterized recent seeds, using Linear Discriminant Analysis. The similarity of the archaeological seeds to V. vinifera ssp. vinifera cultivars rather than to V. vinifera ssp. sylvestris populations could allow it to be stated that, between the Middle and Final Bronze Age, varieties very close to modern V. vinifera ssp. vinifera were already being used to produce wine and/or to be preserved for foodstuffs. Moreover, the better matching of the archaeological seeds to white grapes rather than black grape cultivars could indicate the origins of the traditional cultivation of white grapes in these regions of Sardinia.
23419839|We present a new method of identifying past plant communities based on a palaeobotanical dataset. The dataset used as a case study consists of plant macroremains retrieved from the Neolithic settlement Swifterbant S4, The Netherlands. Taxa were grouped based on their present-day concurrence values. Subsequently, phytosociological analysis was performed on the subfossil taxon groups using the software package PALAEOASSOCIA, adjusted for this type of research. Results show that syntaxonomic knowledge on the concurrence of plant species can be used to reconstruct parts of the past vegetation. We further discuss the theory behind the reconstruction of syntaxa, with special emphasis on actualism.
23419840|This study summarises the current state of research on cultivated cereals from archaeological sites in the Czech Republic. We discuss the first appearances of particular cereals, their first proven cultivation (which usually happens much later) and their part within cereal husbandry. The questions of possible contamination of archaeobotanical material and problems concerning the identification of some cereal taxa are related to this topic. Trends in the importance of the cultivation of individual cereals are shown with generalized linear models (GLMs), based on an assemblage of 81 newly sampled sites. The results of GLM enable the division of the cereals into four groups characterised by: (1) species showing a gradual decrease in importanceTriticum monococcum (einkorn) and T. dicoccum (emmer), (2) species with progressively accumulating representation on sites during prehistoryHordeum vulgare (common barley) and T. spelta (spelt), (3) those with a marked increase by the end of prehistoryT. aestivum/turgidum (naked wheat), Avena sp. (oats) and Secale cereale, (rye) and (4) a specific group including only Panicum miliaceum (broomcorn millet). There is a gradual increase in the diversity of cultivated cereals through time, starting with T. monococcum and T. dicoccum, followed by Hordeum, Panicum, T. spelta and T. aestivum/turgidum, Secale and Avena. Comparison of the chronological development of cereal cultivation in the area of the Czech Republic and surrounding countries shows a general correspondence with the trends observed in other parts of eastern-central Europe, although with some local specific differences.
23419841|Precise and accurate reconstructions of past environmental parameters from high-quality palaeoenvironmental studies are critical for realistic testing of climate models. To ascertain the reliability of the reconstructions of the past, cross-validation from a variety of proxies and methods is essential. Mid-Scandinavia, showing a variety of palaeoecological studies, is a suitable region for comparing and validating environmental reconstructions. Here, pollen-based transfer-function reconstructions show inconsistent late-glacial temperature patterns. They also show that the Holocene Thermal Maximum (HTM) occurs at ca. 7.54.5 cal. ka B.P. However, thermal indicators (pollen, megafossils, plant macrofossils) place the HTM at no later than ca. 107.5 cal. ka B.P. It is argued that after the onset of the early Holocene warming equilibrium between vegetation and climate was established over a prolonged period; i.e. ca. 1,500 and 4,000 years in the mountains and lowlands, respectively. In the mountains, soil drought, wind and winter stress were important factors causing the lag, whereas interspecific competition and soil development delayed the succession within the species-diverse lowland forests. These lags when vegetation was not filling its thermal potential result in a distortion of the temperature signal as derived by transfer functions which assume that vegetation is essentially in equilibrium with climate. Due to widespread human impact and erosion today, many modern training set samples are unsuitable as reference material for past environmental conditions. Various recommendations are suggested towards making improvements in the pollen-transfer function approach to climate reconstructions. To overcome the difficulties resulting from vegetation lags in the early Holocene, proxies that have a faster response time to climate, such as chironomids and aquatic plants including algae, may replace terrestrial pollen.
23419877|To better understand the response of forest vegetation to climate and fire regimes with reference to human activities over the last deglacial period in the Aso Caldera, central Kyushu, southwestern Japan, a 33.9 m long sediment core was examined in order to reconstruct the vegetational and fire history using pollen and charcoal analyses. The results show that a cool temperate broad-leaved deciduous forest, dominated by Quercus (deciduous oaks) with Carpinus and Fagus, prevailed in the Aso Valley from ca. 14.6 ka cal. B.P., indicating warming since the last glacial period. The landscape was presumably covered by a mosaic of deciduous Quercus forests and terrestrial Artemisia communities. Around 12.811.7 ka cal. B.P., Quercus dominated the forest and fires occurred frequently. Co-expansion of distinctive UlmusZelkova and CeltisAphananthe forests coupled with a progressive retreat of Quercus in the early Holocene could reflect a strengthening of the East Asian summer monsoon under mild and humid climate conditions. Around 8 ka cal. B.P., significant increases in Cyclobalanopsis (evergreen oaks), Castanopsis/Castanea and Podocarpus indicate a further warming, in particular an increased winter temperature. Warm temperate lucidophyllous forests, dominated by Cyclobalanopsis, flourished after 7.3 ka cal. B.P., probably corresponding to the "Holocene Climatic Optimum" interval. Progressive expansion of Quercus at the expense of Cyclobalanopsis began around 6.4 ka cal. B.P. and paralleled an increase in charcoal until ca. 4.8 ka cal. B.P.; this could be evidence of fire disturbance induced by the early-middle Jomon people. The disturbed evergreen forest experienced a temporary recovery but then opened again from 3.6 ka cal. B.P. due to extensive fire deforestation, as suggested by the high charcoal levels during this time. Human exploitation and buckwheat (Fagopyrum) agriculture may have contributed to the opening of the forest, which allowed secondary forests (primarily Pinus and Quercus) and herbaceous communities (mainly Poaceae) to spread. These results are discussed in comparison with other high-resolution pollen data from western Japan to better elucidate the vegetation and fire history over the last deglacial in the Aso Caldera.
23419878|The present study reveals palaeoenvironmental changes in the coastal southern Brazilian highlands during the last 39720 B.P., by the means of pollen, charcoal and multivariate data analyses. The isolated mountain range of Serra do Tabuleiro corresponds to the southern distribution limit of many tropical plant species and is therefore sensitive to climate change. Palaeoenvironmental reconstructions from the Ciama 2 core at 860 m a.s.l. indicate that Campos (subtropical grassland) covered extensive areas on the highlands throughout the recorded glacial period, thus suggesting cold and dry climatic conditions. The initial development of the Atlantic rainforest occurred after the glacial period, whereas plant diversity began to increase at the beginning of the Holocene due to climate change towards warmer and wetter conditions. At about 10400 cal. B.P., the Atlantic rainforest started to move over the slopes and Campos retracted. Multivariate data analysis showed a change of vegetation dynamics after 11200 cal. B.P. with the initial development of the Atlantic rainforest continuing until the mid-Holocene. Major vegetation changes, including the further expansion of the Atlantic rainforest and the initial development of the Araucaria forest in the higher regions of the Serra do Tabuleiro, occurred during the late Holocene after about 3600 cal. B.P. These changes reflect higher precipitation levels without an annual dry season. Multivariate data analysis reveals a clearly directional change of vegetation dynamics corresponding to the progressive expansion of the Atlantic rainforest from 3850 to 1600 cal. B.P. A second directional change of vegetation dynamics occurred from 320 to 160 cal. B.P. (A.D. 1630 to 1790) with a further development of the Atlantic rainforest and the partial replacement of Campos by Araucaria forest and Atlantic rainforest. Thereafter, an ecosystem disturbance, which resulted in forest opening, took place. Palaeofires probably did not occur during glacial times, whereas fire events, which were probably caused by Amerindians, were common in the Serra do Tabuleiro region from ca. 10400 until 3600 cal. B.P.
23419879|The radiocarbon-dated palaeoecological study of Lago Riane (Ligurian Apennines, NW Italy) presented here forms part of a wider investigation into the relationships between Holocene vegetation succession, climate change and human activities in the northern Apennines. The record of vegetation history from Lago Riane indicates that, since the end of the last glaciation, climate change and prehistoric human activities, combined with several local factors, have strongly influenced the pattern and timing of natural vegetation succession. The pollen record indicates an important change in vegetation cover at Lago Riane at 85008200 cal. years B.P., coincident with a well-known period of rapid climate change. At 6100 cal. years B.P., Fagus woodland colonised Lago Riane during a period of climate change and expansion of Late Neolithic human activities in the upland zone of Liguria. A marked decline in Abies woodland, and the expansion of Fagus woodland, at 4700 cal. years B.P., coincided with further archaeological evidence for pastoralism in the mountains of Liguria during the Copper Age. At 39003600 cal. years B.P. (Early to Middle Bronze Age transition), a temporary expansion of woodland at Lago Riane has been provisionally attributed to a decline in human pressure on the environment during a period of short-term climate change.
23419880|The investigated area near Flintbek (SchleswigHolstein, Northern Germany) was used as a burial ground from the Neolithic until the Iron Age. Due to modern agriculture, the above-ground funerary monuments have been destroyed. Rescue excavations from 1976 to 1996 recovered the archaeological remains. In addition to the archaeological reassessment of the findings, further scientific analyses were carried out. The results of the charcoal analyses are presented in this paper. The overall spectrum of wood species represents the typical species composition of mixed oak forests. Over the whole investigated time span (NeolithicIron Age) these species alternate with a second group of taxa: species benefiting from better light conditions. In times of intensive human impact, these light-demanding taxa gained considerable importance, showing the opening of the wooded landscape. In phases with less human impact, a regeneration of mixed oak forest is detectable. For the Neolithic it was possible to develop a more detailed picture of wood usage based on 162 radiocarbon dates of 106 samples. These illustrate considerable changes during the Neolithic, which resulted in a varied pattern of open land and closed forest influenced by human presence and land use. Another important aspect of the Flintbek area is the handling of samples deriving from different contexts. While charcoal samples related to fire usage or grave constructions contain only slight contamination, samples from fillings (pits, burial layers) are characterized by charcoal dating being either too old or even too young for the archaeological context.
23419881|The exploitation of copper ore deposits of the northern Greywacke Zone was initiated by the implementation of metallurgic technologies in the Eastern Alps thousands of years ago. This multi-proxy study aimed to detect prehistoric mining phases in the vicinity of a prominent copper ore deposit in the Lower Inn Valley. Therefore we studied a peat core from a fen using pollen, micro charcoal and geochemical analyses. In the same fen, an archaeological investigation revealed an ore beneficiation site, well dated by dendrochronological analysis to the Late Bronze Age (9th century B.C.). First hints of mining activities reflected by the occurrence of anthropogenic indicators in the pollen diagram, associated with elevated metal values, at the beginning of the Bronze Age might result from early mineral prospecting and metallurgical experiments around the use of fahlore. The local ore deposit was then abandoned until during the Bronze Age mining activities started to increase. This is reflected by an expansion of the pioneer species Pinus and Larix on mine spoil heaps in the proximity. Concomitantly metal ratios and micro charcoal increase. From about 1000 to 850 B.C. a strong impact of mining activities is displayed in the multiproxy data. The local forest was partly cleared on and in the vicinity of the fen. According to dendrochronological data the ore beneficiation plant was in use from about 900 to 870 B.C. Until about 700 B.C. another period with moderate impact by mining activities in the further vicinity of the fen shows up.
43554184|A pollen diagram was constructed for the earlyto mid-Holocene transition (ca. 7350-5600 cal. B.P./5400-3650 B.C.) from the Burmarrad ria located in NW Malta. The vegetation at ca. 7350-6960 cal. B.P./5400-5010 B.C. was characterized by an almost tree-less steppe-like open landscape. Early Holocene dry climatic conditions were most probably due to intensification of the subtropical monsoon circulation that strengthened the subtropical anticyclonic descent over the central Mediterranean and blocked the penetration of humid air masses from the North Atlantic Ocean. At ca. 6950 cal. B.P.,/5000 B.C., the steppe-like vegetation was suddenly replaced by a Mediterranean evergreen forest or dense scrub dominated by Pistacia cf. lentiscus trees. This event, which has simultaneously been recorded in southern Sicily, was most probably caused by the southward shift of the ITCZ permitting the eastward movement of the North Atlantic cyclonic systems. Traces of human activities are evident in the pollen diagram since the beginning of the record but become more pronounced from the onset of the Temple Cultural Phase at ca. 6050 cal. B.P./4100 B.C. with a gradual decline of tree pollen. We suggest that the early- to mid-Holocene vegetation transformation was mainly controlled by a regional climatic change that occurred in a landscape only slightly impacted by human activities.
43554185|Holocene mangrove dynamics are reconstructed from pollen, sediment and radiocarbon analyses of three cores (ANR, BNR, CNR) located across a 20 km transect in the Rufiji Delta, Tanzania. At the base of the sediment sequence, dated to about 5600 cal. year B.P., the mangroves which are present suggest a low intertidal ecosystem in response to wet conditions and a higher sea level than at the present day. After around 5600 cal. year B.P. in core BNR, mangroves retreated seaward probably due to a lower sea level and drier environmental conditions. At around 4640 cal. year B.P., mangroves shifted landward suggesting a phase of sea level rise. In the late Holocene, mangroves became established at higher elevations of the Rufiji Delta, which is now a paddy field. Mangrove taxa decreased after 1170 cal. year B.P., suggesting drier conditions and less inundation frequency, possibly due to a lower sea level. Marked vegetation changes from mangroves to terrestrial vegetation occurred after around 750 cal. year B.P., possibly related to sea level regression and/or a desiccation phase recorded during the late Holocene. Paddy fields replaced mangroves in the landward part of the transect, reflecting an increase in human settlement in this area, a trend that continues to the present day. The recent decrease of mangrove species, particularly Rhizophora mucronata, could suggest less inundation by saline water and a lower sea level, although these changes may also be due to human activities during the last millennia as indicated by charcoal analysis.
43554186|The Vesuvius area near Naples, southern Italy, is one of the richest places for archaeological finds from Roman times. The A.D. 79 volcanic eruption also caused the preservation of a huge quantity of archaeobotanical material. In this paper the available wood and charcoal remains from the timber structures as well as from the garden soils of the Villa of Poppea at Oplontis are presented. The analyses provide new evidence of the history of some significant trees of the Mediterranean region, such as Abies alba and Cupressus sempervirens, and allow us to put forward hypotheses about wood use during the Roman period. The identification of the building material confirms that the Romans had a good knowledge of the technological properties of wood and mainly used local resources. There is also evidence of trade in high quality timber, in particular Picea abies. The strong presence of climbing plants and of branches and small size stems of wild trees together with typical ornamental plants in the two gardens of the villa reveals a lack of regular gardening maintenance. This evidence is in agreement with the absence of occupants at the moment of the eruption, since the villa was under restoration after the A.D. 62 earthquake.
43554187|Although world-renowned as an archaeological site, there have been few research projects in Pompeii looking at the spatial and chronological patterning of plant food use from an archaeobotanical perspective. The recent 12 years of archaeological excavations (1995-2006) by the Anglo-American Project in Pompeii have provided a rare opportunity to investigate a whole city block (Regione VI, Insula 1). This included a blanket sampling strategy of all contexts where archaeobotanical macro-remains, both carbonised and calcium phosphate replaced material, have been recovered, the results from which are reported here. The low density scatters of recurrent taxa from the majority of contexts examined in this study suggest that they were composed of table waste and kitchen food preparation waste and represent an expected 'background noise' of Roman cooking and consumption. This includes the standard 'Mediterranean package' of olives, grapes, figs, cereals and pulses. The general lack of evidence for cropprocessing within the insula suggests that this was probably carried out elsewhere, probably within the city's hinterland. These results support the established view that Pompeii was a fully urbanised city in the 1st century B.C. There appears to be an increase in olive consumption in the 1st century A.D., which may be suggested to correlate with 'Romanisation' and an increase in olive growing in the region.
43554188|While some consensus exists about the roles of southwestern China and northeastern India in the origin and diversification of the genus Citrus, the scarcity of its archaeological remains, as well as some methodological limits in unequivocally identifying taxa, do not facilitate reconstruction of the tempo and mode of spread of the genus towards other areas, notably the Mediterranean. Recent discoveries of archaeobotanical macro-remains (seeds and fruits) and pollen records from some important Italian sites in the Vesuvius area and Rome can be used to shed new light on this history. However, due to their morphological variability and the changes derived from the preservation processes, Citrus seeds appear difficult to recognise. In this paper, we present criteria to facilitate their precise identification, based on the observation of the morphology of modern seeds, and most of all the seed-coat patterns. The reference material consisted of "archaic" varieties of C. medica L. (citron), C.  limon (L.) Burm. f. (lemon) and seeds of C.  aurantium L. (bitter or Seville orange), C.  aurantiifolia (Christm.) Swingle (lime) and C. reticulata Blanco (tangerine, mandarin orange). Considering the fact that the general morphology of seeds, especially when mineralised, can confuse the identification of Citrus with Maloideae types, we also add criteria for the recognition of Cydonia oblonga Mill. (quince), Malus domestica Borkh. (apple), Pyrus communis L. (pear), Sorbus aria (L.) Crantz (whitebeam) and S. domestica L. (service tree). The observation of the keels and cell patterns was mostly useful to identify new material from Pompeii and Rome dating from the 3rd/2nd century B.C. and the Augustan period around the beginning of the Common (Christian) Era as C. medica L. (citron) and C. cf.  limon (L.) Burm. f. (possible lemon). The classical Greek and Latin sources helped us to understand the use and status of citrus fruits in the ancient world and, in combination with all available archaeobotanical remains compiled in this paper, have allowed us to discuss the spread of Citrus from its regions of origin to the eastern Mediterranean and then within the Mediterranean.
43554189|Forms of Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare (barley) that possess a naked caryopsis are an important human staple and are mainly found today in eastern Asia. However, naked barley has not always been an eastern crop: archaeobotanical data show that it was prevalent in Europe and the Near East during various periods in prehistory. In this review we have collated data on the incidence of hulled and naked barley at archaeological sites in Europe and the Near East from two sources: archaeobotanical literature reviews and an archaeobotanical database, both assembled by Helmut Kroll. We have also examined the incidence of hulled and naked barleys in extant germplasm collections. Our compilation of this archaeobotanical data has enabled us to elucidate long-term changes in the ratio of hulled to naked barley under cultivation in these regions; specifically, these records show that naked barley begins to disappear from the archaeobotanical record from the Chalcolithic/Bronze Age onwards in the Near East, and from the Iron Age/Roman periods onwards in Europe. We discuss the possible causes of this decline in naked barley cultivation in these regions, along with the present-day prevalence of naked barley landraces in eastern Asia, particularly in relation to genetic evidence, which shows that naked barley has a single origin.
43554382|As a part of the ELSA-project (Eifel Laminated Sediment Archive) new pollen and plant macro-remain analyses have been carried out on a series of Holocene lacustrine sediments from three open maar lakes of the Quaternary Westeifel Volcanic Field. In combination with already existing pollen analyses, the archaeological record and written sources, the present study casts new light on settlement activities and henceforth the development of agriculture from the prehistoric to historic times in this region. While there are clues that wood pasturing was practised in the Eifel region from the Michelsberg Culture onwards (c. 4300 cal. B.C.), the Vulkaneifel is a remote area with relatively poor soils and a humid climate and was not constantly settled until the Late Neolithic/Early Bronze Age, when cereal pollen was found regularly in the deposits. Plant macro-remains (chaff), which give us direct evidence for arable agriculture in the surroundings of the maars, were also found in layers belonging to the Early Bronze Age (c. 1900 cal. B.C.). At the same time we can observe the massive spread of Fagus sylvatica (beech) in all pollen diagrams, which was most probably caused by a combination of climatic, anthropogenic and competitive factors. Later impacts of agriculture were an abundance of crop weeds and pollen in the following Middle Bronze Age. Nevertheless human impact remained discontinuous until the Urnfield Culture (1200-800 cal. B.C.). A layer of weeds dating at the end of the Urnfield Culture was found and also flax (Linum usitatissimum) cultivation first becomes apparent. However, the subsequent Iron Age and Roman Period reveal only crop weeds and cereal pollen in slightly higher concentrations, but the abundance of Poaceae pollen at this time is most probably consistent with grazing activities. There follows compelling evidence of the importance of flax cultivation and processing at the maars from the Merovingian Period (5th century A.D.) onwards. A detailed insight into the agriculture of the High Medieval comes from flash flood layers of the 14th century A.D., where remains of Secale cereale (rye) and crop weeds reflect winter-sown cultivation of rye. Cannabis sativa (hemp) was also cultivated and processed during the medieval. Finally we can trace the Prussian reforestation in the 19th century A.D., with an increase in Pinus sylvestris (pine) and Picea abies (fir), by both pollen and plant macro-remains.
43554383|Studies of the modern relationship between pollen, vegetation and land-use are essential to infer past human impact on vegetation from pollen records. Nevertheless, such investigations are relatively few in China. We present here a study of pollen assemblages from sediment samples collected from irrigation pools in the Tuoliang and Qipanshan catchments in northern China. Pollen and spores from natural vegetation such as Artemisia, Chenopodiaceae, Pinus and Selaginella sinensis dominate the pollen assemblages, while pollen types which could be from crops such as cereals, Brassicaceae, Fabaceae, Solanaceae, Apiaceae and Cucurbitaceae are common but not abundant. Pollen percentages of Artemisia and Chenopodiaceae become less with decreasing altitude, while Pinus and S. sinensis percentages increase, indicating that saccate Pinus pollen and S. sinensis spores are transported further than non-saccate Artemisia and Chenopodiaceae pollen, and differential sorting of pollen is occurring during transport in river water. Proportions of pollen from farmland and crops increase with decreasing altitude, showing that pollen percentages of crops might be a good indicator of the extent of farmland. A linear correlation analysis between pollen percentages and vegetation proportions shows that pollen percentages of crops are positively correlated with proportions of farmland, while correlation between pollen percentages of trees, shrubs and herbs and proportions of woodland, scrubland and grassland respectively is poor. This study indicates that the relationship between pollen percentages and vegetation proportions can be explained by the differences of pollen productivity, dispersal and deposition, and might be the basis for a modelling approach to infer past vegetation cover in northern China.
43554384|Archaeobotanical material was recovered in two contiguous compartments of a compound in Monte Mozinho (Penafiel, northern Portugal). These areas comprise storage facilities from three different typologiesdolium, pits and above-ground quadrangular structures in the corner of the compartments. Few carpological materials were found inside the storage structures and all these are cereals which were most likely stored as clean grain. Recovered grains are probably remnants of the last stored crops prior to abandonment of the area. A radiocarbon date obtained on grains of rye positions this event at a time within the 3rd century and the beginning of the 4th century A.D. Outside the structures from compartment 2, abundant crop processing by-products, mostly weeds and chaff, were recovered. Since traditional agricultural communities tend not to waste such organic material, it is likely that it was kept in the area to be used as fodder. Data is ambiguous regarding the possible existence of fodder crops mixed with these by-products. Overall, there is a predominance of millets (Panicum miliaceum and Setaria italica) and rye (Secale cereale), but naked wheat (Triticum aestivum) is also a relevant crop. The presence of oat (Avena) is significant but it is difficult to interpret due to its exclusive presence alongside weeds and chaff. Grape pips (Vitis vinifera) were also found, but these are rare. The Late Roman carpological material from Monte Mozinho is of great relevance on a regional level. It documents and dates the presence of rye and testifies to a multifunctional system in which plant husbandry and animal breeding were intertwined.
43554385|During recent archaeological excavations in the alpine valley of Montafon, western Austria, a Bronze and early Iron Age settlement cluster located at about 1,000 m a.s.l. was excavated. The human impact on the woodland resulting from these prehistoric settlement activities has been evaluated by the analysis of charred plant macro remains from cultural layers from a hilltop settlement site and two other close-by settlements, all of them encompassing the Early and Middle Bronze Age (19th to 15th century cal. B.C.) and early Iron Age (6th/5th century cal. B.C.). Charred seeds and fruits have provided information on the supply of foodstuff while charcoal (anthracological) analyses of firewood have revealed the use of wood and consequently the changes in local woods. The latter analyses suggest that the spruce-fir woodland (Piceeto-Abietetum) was gradually cleared from the Early Bronze Age. During the Middle Bronze Age large amounts of Pinus sylvestris (pine), Betula (birch), Corylus avellana (hazel) and Sorbus (rowan) with some Picea abies (spruce) characterized the woods, and early succession stages indicate clearings. These anthracological studies are corroborated by pollen studies disclosing clearings in the woods since the Early Bronze Age, which gradually expanded during the Middle Bronze Age. Furthermore, several charcoals from a Middle Bronze Age hearth seem to be of the same age, and the pattern of their annual growth-rings suggests the pollarding of broadleaved trees.
43554386|Charred seed conglomerates of Linum usitatissimum (flax) and Camelina sativa (gold of pleasure) were found at Uppkra 2:25, a Roman Iron Age site in Skne, southern Sweden. The conglomerates showed no mixing with each other, as they were almost pure flax and gold of pleasure respectively. Together with other archaeobotanical data from the site, they provide new evidence on the use, processing and cultivation of these two plants in early Iron Age in Scandinavia. Metric analyses were applied to flax seeds from both conglomerates and other contexts at this site, and compared to seed assemblages from other Roman Iron Age sites in Europe. The comparison showed that the flax cultivation at Uppkra 2:25 was intended for the production of oil-rich seeds. The contextual relationship indicates that both flax and gold of pleasure seeds were processed in a similar way and used for oil. Furthermore, the pure seed conglomerate of gold of pleasure suggests that this plant was not a weed, but rather an intentionally grown crop which was cultivated separately from flax.
43554387|Modern pollen samples provide an invaluable research tool for helping to interpret the quaternary fossil pollen record, allowing investigation of the relationship between pollen as the proxy and the environmental parameters such as vegetation, land-use, and climate that the pollen proxy represents. The European Modern Pollen Database (EMPD) is a new initiative within the European Pollen Database (EPD) to establish a publicly accessible repository of modem (surface sample) pollen data. This new database will complement the EPD, which at present holds only fossil sedimentary pollen data. The EMPD is freely available online to the scientific community and currently has information on almost 5,000 pollen samples from throughout the Euro-Siberian and Mediterranean regions, contributed by over 40 individuals and research groups. Here we describe how the EMPD was constructed, the various tables and their fields, problems and errors, quality controls, and continuing efforts to improve the available data.
