4311965|An attempt is made to summarize the achievements of the UN Conference on the Human Environment and to describe the other environment conferences and activities that took place simultaneously in Stockholm this June, such as the Environment Forum, Dai Dong, etc.
4312018|The joint efforts of several research units have been directed towards four levels in the ecosystems of lake reservoirs: the physicochemical environment, the plants, the bottom animals and zooplankton, and the fish. To get a comprehensive picture of the effects of the lake transformations, information from different lake reservoirs must be compiled, and the aim of the present survey is to compile information from some recent Swedish studies. The overall effect of the transformations is a decrease in the production capacity and a simplification of the ecosystems of lake reservoirs. Fishing can be maintained, if based mainly on the production in the pelagic block of the ecosystem.
4314941|Flows of plant nutrients in the food and the fodder cycle were quantified in a district in southern Sweden. In the agricultural system with a livestock density 30% higher than the Swedish average, the N-surplus was 100 kg N ha
4313487|Implications of long-term resource exploitation in an eastern Canadian forest are examined. Resource use was strongly conditioned by the opportunity for society to achieve social benefits at no apparent cost of maintaining the publicly owned forest. Final realization that continued use of the resource for social development was imperiled, has led society to initiate management in the forest it owns. Redevelopment of the forest is complicated because the society which mandated the degradation wishes to continue receiving benefits from the resource. Controlled management of a forest imposes costs which reduce the flow of benefits available to society, and the implementation of management also constrains the way society uses the forest. While technical aspects of redeveloping the forest are straightforward, the social implications of the costs and constraints lead to conflict in the initiation of redevelopment. The technical design and implementation of redevelopment must account for the social conflicts if management is to be successfully introduced.
4314757| A sensitive bioassay, based on EROD induction in cultured chicken embryo livers, was used together with chemical analysis to determine levels of dioxin-like contaminants in particulate matter in Emn. Extracts of sediment and settling particulate matter (SPM) collected in the river system before, during, and after dredging of a PCB-contaminated lake, Jrnsjn, were separated into three fractions containing a) monoaromatic/aliphatic; b) diaromatic (e.g., PCBs and polychlorinated dibenzodioxins and dibenzofurans); and c) polyaromatic compounds (e.g., polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons). The samples from Jrnsjn contained the highest PCB concentrations and the diaromatic extracts from Jrnsjn samples showed the highest activities of EROD-inducing diaromatic compounds. The dioxin-like activity of the diaromatic fraction in sediment collected after the dredging of Jrnsjn had only around 1% of the activity of the pre-dredging sediment, showing that the remediation was successful in terms of removal of the PCB-contaminated sediment from the lake. In SPM collected immediately downstream from Jrnsjn, levels of diaromatic dioxin-like compounds were elevated during the dredging, and decreased after that. The post-dredging concentrations were however higher than in SPM from lakes upstream of Lake Jrnsjn, showing that elevated levels of dioxin-like diaromatic compounds were still present in the water system downstream of Jrnsjn a couple of years after the dredging. 
4313868|United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) considers desertification to be one of the major environmental problems of our time. According to UNEP, 35% of the world's land surface is currently at risk and more than 20 million hectares are reduced annually to near or complete uselessness. The Sahel of Africa is supposed to be the most stricken region of the world. The Saharan desert has been described to encroach southwards at an increasing rate. The desertification phenomenon is considered to be mainly man-made. The prevailing concept of desertification, status and rate of change has been seriously challenged during the 1980s by a growing number of individuals, research groups and international organisations. In particular, this is true for the Sahelian zone of Africa. It has even been questioned whether desertification is actually occurring and the word "myth" has been mentioned. There is a lack of data to substantiate the hypothesis of a secular, mainly man-made, trend towards desertlike conditions in the Sahel. The need for a "desertification" assessment, based on scientific principles, is strongly felt.
4314790| The Lomi region, located east of the Dja Faunal Reserve, is characteristic of the Cameroon humid forest biodiversity. The ecosystem has a rich and diverse fauna and flora, notably tree species. Since the end of the 1980s, the use of biodiversity resources has been motivated for the creation of income. The current economic crisis and the Structural Adjustment Program that followed are the sources of this evolution. The IUCN/DJA Project, implemented at the beginning of 1996 by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and its partners, aims to conserve the Dja Faunal Reserve and promote sustainable use of biodiversity by local people. Meanwhile, data collected through the main tools of the Participatory Rural Appraisal method have shown that there is an aggravation of proverty and a serious erosion of biodiversity in the region. This paper gives a qualitative description of this context and opens up some prospects. 
40928387|This study analyses the relation of forest cover and stream flow on the 266 km Koga watershed in a headwater of Blue Nile Basin using both observed hydrological data and community perception. The watershed declined from 16% forest cover in 1957 to 1% by 1986. The hydrological record did not reveal changes in the flow regime between 1960 and 2002 despite the reduction in forest area. This agrees with the perception of the downstream community living near the gauging station. The upstream community, however, reported both decreases in low flows and increases in high flows shortly after the forest cover was reduced. The upstream deforestation effect appeared to have been buffered by a wetland lower in the watershed. This study concludes that community perception can be a complement to observational data for better understanding how forest cover influences the flow regime.
4313769|The lateral distributions of plutonium and other metals of natural and anthropogenic origin were studied in recent sediments from the Gulf of Bothnia. Nonparametric rank and multivariate factor analysis indicate that the distribution of Pu is governed by runoff processes and by the deposition of metals and organic matter in deposition basins. Plutonium is probably adsorbed onto or complexed with organic matter in the sediments. Plutonium is interrelated with Mn, As, Mo, Pb, Cd and Fe from both natural sources and industrial emissions. Ni, Co, V, and Cu followed another distribution pattern, probably due to conservative mixing in the water column and due to the absence of local sources. Activity rations for
4314199|We examine whether and how global food production may be increased to provide for a world population expected to double by about 2050. Increasing current food production more than proportional to population growth is required so as to provide most humans with an adequate diet. We examine the possible expansion of food supplies to the year 2050, the inventory of presently utilized and potentially available arable land, rates of land degradation, and the limitations of water and biological resources. Serious degradation and loss of the world's arable land is taking place and expansion of irrigation, vital for food production, is becoming more costly and difficult. A business-as-usual scenario points to looming shortages of food. Additional stress from possible climatic alteration and enhanced ultraviolet radiation may make the provision of adequate food supplies extremely difficult to achieve. The nature of the changes that are required to make sufficient food available are identified.
4315756|Projected shifts in climate forcing variables such as temperature and precipitation are of great relevance to arctic freshwater ecosystems and biota. These will result in many direct and indirect effects upon the ecosystems and fish present therein. Shifts projected for fish populations will range from positive to negative in overall effect, differ among species and also among populations within species depending upon their biology and tolerances, and will be integrated by the fish within their local aquascapes. This results in a wide range of future possibilities for arctic freshwater and diadromous fishes. Owing to a dearth of basic knowledge regarding fish biology and habitat interactions in the north, complicated by scaling issues and uncertainty in future climate projections, only qualitative scenarios can be developed in most cases. This limits preparedness to meet challenges of climate change in the Arctic with respect to fish and fisheries.
40801586|The Energy Committee of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences has in a series of projects gathered information and knowledge on renewable energy from various sources, both within and outside the academic world. In this article, we synthesize and summarize some of the main points on renewable energy from the various Energy Committee projects and the Committee's Energy 2050 symposium, regarding energy from water and wind, bioenergy, and solar energy. We further summarize the Energy Committee's scenario estimates of future renewable energy contributions to the global energy system, and other presentations given at the Energy 2050 symposium. In general, international coordination and investment in energy research and development is crucial to enable future reliance on renewable energy sources with minimal fossil fuel use.
4311983|Urbanization disrupts the natural hydrological cycle and creates problems concerning the quality, quantity and distribution of water. Urbanization causes changes in the microclimate, the ground's hydrological response, the quality and quantity of groundwater, and the water balance. Urbanization often makes it necessary to transfer water from other regions. There is presently a great need for research on urban hydrology. The use of statistical and mathematical methods, especially systems analysis, has spurred progress in certain areas of hydrology.
4315015|The geomorphology of the present day and Holocene (3000 years ago) Humber estuary, United Kingdom, are described. More than 90% of the intertidal area and sediment accumulation capacity of the estuary has been lost to reclamation over this period. A similar situation prevails in many other urbanized estuaries. Nutrient budgets for the modern estuary are presented demonstrating little trapping of nutrients, due to the loss of intertidal areas. A speculative budget for the Humber during the Holocene is constructed, which suggests that the estuary was then an efficient sink for nitrogen and phosphorus. A budget is presented describing how nutrient cycling might operate in the Humber with contemporary nutrient loadings, but with the pre-reclamation geography. This suggests that in this form the estuary would significantly attenuate nutrient fluxes to the North Sea. The results are discussed in terms of options for managed realignment of estuaries in response to predicted sea-level rise.
4312055|From integrated biological studies of six acidified lakes in western Sweden it has been concluded that primary changes in the composition of plant and animal populations, caused by the supply of acid substances, induce other, long-term processes that will perturb the whole lake ecosystem and accelerate further acidification.
40390424|Ozone was measured using passive diffusion samplers at alpine Latnjajaure (980 m above sea level [asl]) in the northern Scandian Mountain Range during spring and summer 2006-2008, and year-round at three further sites in northernmost Sweden 2004-2008. These observations were compared with ozone concentrations from three permanent monitoring stations using ultraviolet absorption instruments. Ozone concentrations at Latnjajaure were higher than at the closest monitoring site, illustrating the importance of high elevation for ozone. At the northern sites the ozone spring peak was more pronounced, higher, and earlier (April maximum) compared to a site in south Sweden (May maximum). During summer, ozone concentrations were higher in south Sweden. Presently, the growing season largely starts after the ozone spring peak in north Sweden but is likely to start earlier in the future climate. This could lead to an increased risk for ozone effects on vegetation if the current yearly ozone cycle persists.
4312474|Chlorinated paraffins form a large group of products, used mainly as secondary plasticizers, oil additives and flame retardants. World production amounts to about 230 000 metric tons per year. Lack of specific sensitive analytical methods has made it impossible to explore the spread of these persistent chemicals in the environment. The extent of their degradation and the degradation products formed under natural conditions are not known. Uptake from water and accumulation in fish is dependent on the chemical structure of the product. Their acute toxicity to mammals is considered low but very little is known concerning their chronic toxicity. Symptoms of toxic effects in exposed fish, however, have been observed.
4313203|589 different pesticides of over 1,000 formulations are available for use in the South Pacific. Actual amounts used are hard to determine. Some of these pesticides are banned or are highly restricted elsewhere in the world. Despite this, neither effective legislation controlling pesticide importation and use, nor infrastructure for enforcement exist. The South Pacific Regional Environment Program established a Pesticide Project to review the availability and use of pesticides and make recommendations concerning their control and regulation.
4315186| The large lakes of Sweden, Mlaren, Hjlmaren, Vttern and Vnern, have been subjected to water-quality monitoring for almost four decades. Physicochemical variables, plankton and benthic invertebrates have been regularly assessed. Hydrological and sediment conditions, macrophytes, fish, primary production, bacteria and attached algae have been periodically investigated. The human impact, including industrial activities, was reflected in excessive amounts of organic matter, nutrients, metals and persistent organic compounds. From the late 1960s all municipal sewage works in the catchments of the lakes were upgraded to the highest technical standard, including chemical precipitation of phosphorus, and phosphorus discharge from the sewage works was thereby reduced by 90-95%. In addition, industries were obliged to restrict discharge of harmful substances. The reactions of the lakes to the remedial measures are discussed as well as the value of various indicators. The studies were instrumental in designing a national lake monitoring program. Additionally, results from large lake monitoring have contributed to the establishment of national water-quality criteria including, physical, chemical, and biological indicators. 
25434350|Greenland, and more specifically the present-day south west coastal district, is that exact spot on the world map where humankind completed its conquest of the Earth. As Norsemen coming over the Atlantic from Iceland and Norway encountered first North-American natives in present-day Labrador around year 1000, and about 150 years later the Inuit coming in from Baffin, slowly occupying the Greenland west coast, humankind had finally encircled the globe, unaware of the extraordinary aspect of the situation. The first few encounters in Labrador were violent, but later, cohabitation in South West Greenland had a mainly peaceful character. Present-day Narsaq district is the precise area where archeology gives witness to peaceful cohabitation between Inuit and Norsemen in the first half of the 15th century.
4314453|Each day millions of urban and rural poor around the world are forced to consume and bathe in water that contains high levels of bacteria and a vast number of commercial and industrial contaminates. Water resources have been considered endless and their exploitation a god-given right. This study focuses on the extent of the problem and the development of a step-by-step procedure for establishing a sustainable water-management plan for the Rio Yaque del Norte watershed.
4315645| The key objective of the European Water Framework Directive (WFD) is to promote sustainable water use by protecting water resources. Here, we investigate how the economic consequences of a set of water management regulations is received by a group of stakeholders in the Rnne catchment. We explore three themes from an economic point of view: i) perceived causes of eutrophication, ii) preferences regarding water use, and iii) the extent to which the polluter-pays principle should be applied. There is a common understanding about the intentions in the WFD to enhance cost-effective water use. All stakeholder groups largely share a similar picture of the causes of water quality deterioration. However, there is not one cost-effective and fair solution. Several mixes of remedial measures within the same catchment are possible, depending on the scale of action. Despite potential economic gains from cooperation between sectors, the participants regard the individual polluter-pays principle as the most feasible mode of funding for remedial programs, supported by subsidies. There is little demand for more market institutions (emission fees, tradable emission permits). The stakeholders have a conservative view of water management, i.e. they accept the present combination of regulations and economic incentives, and they are fully aware of the complexity of the issue. In general, the WFD recommendations for the calculation of cost-effective abatement strategies seem to imply an underestimation of the value of external effects in the decision-making process. 
4315047|In 1991, in order to assess changes in soil acidity, we resampled the mineral soil from 95 plots in beech forests distributed throughout northeastern France, ca. 20 years after a first sampling in 1970-1973. Changes between the two sampling dates were more conspicuous for acidic soils than for mesotrophic or calcareous soils. We observed a significant decrease in base saturation, exchangeable calcium, magnesium, and potassium in the whole profile of the acidic soils. Median cation losses calculated for these soils down to a depth of 80 cm were 18.7 kg ha
4315324|Evidence is provided for an internal CO
4312850|UNEP's Geneva-based Regional Seas Program is succeeding despite financial constraints: some 120 states, 14 UN agencies, and 12 other international organizations take part in it. UNEP's net now covers 10 regional seas around the world. But there is some danger that the "crown jewels" will be hocked for short-term financial gains. At a time when more money is needed to keep Regional Seas afloat, governments continue to pare the meat to the bone. The future of this program is still uncertain.
4312201|"Black episode" and "white episode" are terms used for situations when high concentrations of dark or colorless particles, respectively, are transported in over Sweden from distant sources. Particles in black episodes come from the European continent. They contain, ia, ammonium sulfate and nitrate, and are slightly acid. Black episodes are at times accompanied by increased concentrations of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide. Characteristic of white episodes are small particles consisting mainly of acid ammonium sulfates, probably formed photochemically over the North Sea during dry and sunny weather. Air flowing into Sweden from the north contains low concentration of particles consisting mainly of common salt and neutral ammonium sulfate.
4312347|Fishes were exposed to chlorinated paraffins in the water. Neutron activation analysis of chlorine in lipophilic extracts from the fishes indicated a considerable uptake from water containing 0.1 and 1.0 mg chloroparaffin/l. Symptoms of neurotoxic effects were observed after about two weeks of exposure.
4311966|In connection with a lake restoration project in which the hypolimnion was aerated, the distribution of the bottom fauna and the oil content of the sediment were studied. The oil content of the surface sediment is highest near the run-off water outlets from an industrial area and two filling stations. The high mineral oil content of the sediments seems to be an inhibiting factor. Although the hypolimnion aeration was a success, as the oxygen concentration was raised from almost zero to above 7 mg/l, the bottom fauna did not invade the bottom areas which had been anoxic earlier.
4314393|Spatial and temporal variations of dissolved inorganic nutrients, (phosphate, ammonia, nitrate and nitrite) were investigated in the Mapopwe Creek, Chwaka Bay, Zanzibar. Results indicate that there is a strong spatial variability in the nutrients in the creek with concentrations decreasing as the water traverses the waterway towards the open bay. There were significant differences in the concentration of ammonia with respect to wet and dry seasons, with average values of ammonia being higher in the dry season than during the wet season. However, this situation was reversed for nitrate/nitrite. It is thought that this may be due to a number of contributing factors such as changes in benthic oxygen concentrations, differences in water salinity, and changes in water movement and exchange with the open bay. Also, water-column primary production and benthic microbial processes are thought to play a role. Overall, this study showed no net export of these dissolved nutrients from the Mapopwe Creek into the adjacent bay.
41417348|Recovery from anthropogenic acidification in streams and lakes is well documented across the northern hemisphere. In this study, we use 1996-2009 data from the four Swedish Integrated Monitoring catchments to evaluate how the declining sulfur deposition has affected sulfate, pH, acid neutralizing capacity, ionic strength, aluminum, and dissolved organic carbon in soil water, groundwater and runoff. Differences in recovery rates between catchments, between recharge and discharge areas and between soil water and groundwater are assessed. At the IM sites, atmospheric deposition is the main human impact. The chemical trends were weakly correlated to the sulfur deposition decline. Other factors, such as marine influence and catchment features, seem to be as important. Except for pH and DOC, soil water and groundwater showed similar trends. Discharge areas acted as buffers, dampening the trends in streamwater. Further monitoring and modeling of these hydraulically active sites should be encouraged.
4313937|India has rich traditions of nature conservation as well as a vigorous official program of protection of nature reserves developed over the last 40 years. However, the official program suffers from total reliance on authoritarian management arrangements in which decisions are made centrally and coercion is used to implement them. At the same time, the state apparatus organizes subsidized resource flows to the urban-industrial-intensive agricultural complex which promote inefficient, non-sustainable resource-use patterns that are inimical to conservation of biodiversity. These processes are illustrated within the concrete setting of the district of Uttara Kannada in southern India. It is suggested that the interests of conservation would be served far better by an approach that withdraws the subsidies to the elite so that a much more efficient, sustainable and equitable pattern of resource use, compatible with conservation of biodiversity, can be instituted. In conjunction with this, the larger society should involve local people in working out detailed plants for conservation of biodiversity and offer them adequate authority as well as appropriate financial incentives to implement these plans. The paper goes on to illustrate how such an approach may be implemented in the case of Uttara Kannada.
4314517|The main miombo trees in Morogoro, Tanzania, were studied in the nursery and in the field to determine the ecological strategies by which they survive in the miombo woodland, i.e. in a hostile climate, bush fires and low soil fertility. Aspects studied included seed production, seed germination, nursery techniques, symbiosis and seedling growth characteristics. Miombo trees are known to produce huge amounts of seeds germinating immediately in most species studied, or have dormancy arresting germination until conditions are favorable. The tree's big seeds feed the seedlings in the initial establishment process. Miombo seedlings develop a strong taproot as a sure source of food and energy. Pruning this taproot proved to negatively affect seedling growth. Miombo trees were shown to form ectomycorrhizae with a wide range of fungi. Seedlings are colonized before epigeal germination is completed. Many strategies interact in complex ways to ensure tree regeneration and survival.
40730902|Climate policy has assumed an extreme degree of urgency in the international debate in recent years. This article begins by taking a critical look at the scientific underpinnings of the efforts to stabilize the climate. It points to several serious question marks on the purported relationship between greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, and expresses distrust about claims of impending catastrophes related to rising sea levels, hurricanes, and spread of infectious disease. It then reviews the concurrent climate policy efforts and concludes that they are incoherent, misguided and unduly costly, and that they have so far had no perceptible impact on anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. The exceedingly ambitious policy plans currently under preparation suffer from similar fallacies. For these reasons, but also because of the remaining scientific doubts and the exorbitant costs that have to be incurred, skepticism is expressed about the preparedness to implement the climate policy plans currently on the table.
4314718|Projects conceived and implemented internally by local communities in the developing world (Internally Motivated Projects = IMPs), inherently meet local needs, often addressing issues of livelihood security and income generation, and thus are more sustainable than externally motivated projects focused primarily on biological conservation. This paper evaluates whether internally motivated development projects exhibit resource conservation payoffs and offer an avenue for low cost and sustainable conservation outside of protected areas. IMPs were identified from the files of conservation and development agencies. Project activities were evaluated for their potential payoffs to soil, water, biodiversity conservation, and air quality. Results show that on-farm soil and water conservation are common, and acknowledged payoffs of IMPs. Biodiversity conservation payoffs do occur, but are not often explicitly recognized by the project implementers and are the secondary consequences of other activities. IMPs offer an avenue for direct resource conservation of on-farm soil, water and genetic resources, and indirect conservation of biodiversity by reducing off-farm impacts.
4313489|Man uses energy to produce order. The second law of thermodynamics requires that the energy used be degraded and that increased disorder (or entropy) results. This disorder can be thought of as environmental degradation and has been steadily increasing as a consequence of industrialization. World energy consumption is presently 10 TW which leads to an entropy increase of the order of 4TW. In addition, factors such as removal of vegetation cover result in an additional natural energy input removing soil cover. The total energy input devoted to environmental degradation as a result of man's activities is therefore substantial. This article challenges the view that environmental degradation (disorder) can be eliminated by better management. Rather, it emphasizes that environmental degradation is a corollary of human energy consumption and therefore of economic activity. This view is of importance in assessing the possible extent of environmental change in the Twenty-First Century and the remedies required to ameliorate the situation.
4313115|A new kind of forest damage has increased rapidly in range and severity in West Germany over the past ten years. There is considerable circumstantial evidence that ozone may be a contributing factor in this damage. Ozone concentrations in central Europe have increased over the past 30 years and the concentrations now recorded at rural mountain sites in Germany are similar to those recorded in areas of the United States, where ozone is known to cause forest damage, and above those which have been shown to damage sensitive tree species in fumigation experiments. However, there is, as yet, little direct experimental evidence relating to the species affected in Germany and until this is available it is impossible to assess the importance of the contribution of ozone in causing forest damage.
40730906|Humanity has entered a new phase of sustainability challenges, the Anthropocene, in which human development has reached a scale where it affects vital planetary processes. Under the pressure from a quadruple squeeze from population and development pressures, the anthropogenic climate crisis, the anthropogenic ecosystem crisis, and the risk of deleterious tipping points in the Earth system the degrees of freedom for sustainable human exploitation of planet Earth are severely restrained. It is in this reality that a new green revolution in world food production needs to occur, to attain food security and human development over the coming decades. Global freshwater resources are, and will increasingly be, a fundamental limiting factor in feeding the world. Current water vulnerabilities in the regions in most need of large agricultural productivity improvements are projected to increase under the pressure from global environmental change. The sustainability challenge for world agriculture has to be set within the new global sustainability context. We present new proposed sustainability criteria for world agriculture, where world food production systems are transformed in order to allow humanity to stay within the safe operating space of planetary boundaries. In order to secure global resilience and thereby raise the chances of planet Earth to remain in the current desired state, conducive for human development on the long-term, these planetary boundaries need to be respected. This calls for a triply green revolution, which not only more than doubles food production in many regions of the world, but which also is environmentally sustainable, and invests in the untapped opportunities to use green water in rainfed agriculture as a key source of future productivity enhancement. To achieve such a global transformation of agriculture, there is a need for more innovative options for water interventions at the landscape scale, accounting for both green and blue water, as well as a new focus on cross-scale interactions, feed-backs and risks for unwanted regime shifts in the agro-ecological landscape.
4314864|Northeast Asia is one of the most dynamic and diverse regions of the world. Fueled by high population growth and vibrant economies, energy consumption is currently 12% of the world's total and projected to increase by a factor of 2 to 3 by 2030. Because fossil fuels will provide much of this energy, emissions of sulfur dioxide are projected to increase by about the same amount. Northeast China is the main emitting region, and sulfur is transported across the Korean peninsula to Japan and beyond. Acid deposition is evident today and will increase dramatically in the future. It is projected that severe damage to ecosystems will occur throughout the region without the introduction of emission controls. Abatement technology could cost USD 10-30 billion annually by 2030 and still provide only partial protection. There is an urgent need for regional cooperation to improve the level of scientific understanding and develop a basis for regionwide control strategies.
4313154|The article describes development research conducted by the Kenya Woodfuel Development Program (KWDP) in Kakamega District in western Kenya. KWDP is concerned with alleviating the domestic fuelwood crisis in one of Kenya's most densely populated areas. Research has followed a line of increasingly detailed investigations at progressively more localized sites. The first part of the article describes a district-wide land-use survey based on aerial photography and a questionnaire survey of more than 500 households. The second part brings into focus the situation experienced by individual households. On-farm tree-growing practices indicate a strong potential for agroforestry, but the real issue seems to lie in the differing ways men and women perceive the problem.
40390242|The aim of this study was to investigate a combination of satellite images of leaf area index (LAI) with processbased vegetation modeling for the accurate assessment of the carbon balances of Swedish forest ecosystems at the scale of a landscape. Monthly climatologie data were used as inputs in a dynamic vegetation model, the Lund Potsdam Jena-General Ecosystem Simulator. Model estimates of net primary production (NPP) and the fraction of absorbed photosynthetic active radiation were constrained by combining them with satellite-based LAI images using a general light use efficiency (LUE) model and the Beer-Lambert law. LAI estimates were compared with satellite-extrapolated field estimates of LAI, and the results were generally acceptable. NPP estimates directly from the dynamic vegetation model and estimates obtained by combining the model estimates with remote sensing information were, on average, well simulated but too homogeneous among vegetation types when compared with field estimates using forest inventory data.
4312196| The yeast Scharomycopsis lipolytica was grown in seawater with Ekofisk oil as the carbon source, and the pH was kept constant by the automatic addition of NaOH. The experiments were performed at 8C and 20C respectively. In addition, the yeast was grown at 20C without pH control. The results indicated that the end products of biodegradation were similar in the experiments, and that the oil was dispersed thorugh the microbial activity. 
4315691|Carbon dioxide ( CO
4314124|Highly developed countries with expensive water-related infrastructure, sophisticated waterworks and treatment plants, still contribute to local and global pollution. Many developing countries still lack water-treatment facilities and environmentally-sound water management. These problems are especially accentuated in some of the large and fast growing cities of the world. Means of solving the problems involve a new holistic approach to resource management. The goal of such an approach is to close the cycles of residuals that damage the environment, and to recover resources lost in residuals emitted from human activities. The most important step is to apply pollution prevention, i.e. pollution control at the source. Present knowledge suggests technologies that can solve the problem of pollution from human settlements on a single-house level. Alternatively, wastewater may be treated locally and reused. Ecologically-sound technologies that already exist should be used whenever possible. Water management can be integrated with management of other human activities, such as waste handling, industrial production, transportation, etc. Tools for implementation of such solutions are: legislation coupled with education programs; changing competition rules of the market economy; i.e. developing a sustainable society through resource recovery and reuse. Demonstration projects, in which the rules of preventive approach and novel technology are applied, may constitute a practical means of implementing such an approach.
4313947|Desertification of arid and semiarid grazingland ecosystems is a serious problem in North China. Although desertification has historical precedence, the scale and extent of current grazingland desertification is without parallel. The contemporary desertification arises from the improper land use and production practices that are associated with economic, social and political agendas having precedence over ecological stability. Although degradation of grazingland leading to desertification is obvious and acknowledged, development emphasis continues to focus on sedentary agriculture. Academic and research institutions have an understanding of the desertification process on grazinglands, but until practical solutions acceptable to government and the agricultural administration are devised and tested, it is unlikely that the current apathy towards desertification will be surmounted.
4314219|This paper is an overview of the environmental situation in Greece in recent years: air, noise, water, soil, nature conservation, and the marine environment. The survey covers the whole country; large towns, the provinces, and enclosed seas. Available evidence indicates that the quality of the air, land, and water environment over the Greek region has deteriorated significantly during the past 10 years. The urban environments of Athens, Thessaloniki and other towns are subject to pressure from rapidly growing populations, increasing traffic, industrial expansion and uncontrolled development, and have become seriously degraded. The rapid and unplanned growth of the tourist industry has already resulted in damage to the natural environment, repercussions on the man-made environment, and disruption of the sociocultural environment. Air, water, and soil pollution, noise, sewage, oil, increasing desertification, water shortage, widespread and serious degradation of the maquis, forest fires, and nature conservation, appear to be the major problems. Recently compiled physical and chemical data and other available information on air, fresh water, soil, and sea pollution are reported. Nature conservation and fauna-flora extinction in Greece are also discussed.
4315850|Two backcountry trails located within the Mount Robson Provincial Park boundaries in British Columbia, Canada, are compared for the type of ecological characteristics and the influence of topographical use level and management on trail degradation. Data on five trail impact variables were collected at 68 fixed line transects, and information on management features, use level, and water-related problems were based on a survey of 31 km of trails. Results show that the two trails are similar in several ecological characteristics. The Berg Lake Trail (BLT), considered to be highly used and intensively managed, had more significant ecological problems than did Mount Fitzwilliam Trail (FWT), considered to be less highly used and intensively managed. However, ecological impacts on the FWT appear to be statistically no less different than on the BLT. It is concluded that effective trail management can mitigate many ecological problems that result due to the natural topographic conditions and use levels.
4314528|Nutrient stocks and budgets (positive minus negative flows) are quantifiable indicators of sustainability, and are applied in this paper to classify agro-ecosystems. Earlier work revealed that most agricultural systems in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) can be labelled nonsustainable due to low nutrient stocks and negative nutrient budgets. To increase production and build sustainable agro-ecosystems in SSA, technologies that rank under "integrated nutrient management" (INM) should be adopted, to save nutrients from being lost, and to add new nutrient supplies to the system. An account is given of the socioeconomic factors at national and farm level, the interplay of which determines the actual adoption rate of INM. Based on an overview of what we do know and what we don't know, an INM research agenda is proposed that is based on the knowledge gaps.
4314093|Running waters are sensitive and rapid indicators of how whole watersheds become anthropogenically affected by, e.g. acidification. This paper reports and discusses the results of Swedish freshwater acidification research, for the period 1988-1993 and earlier. Changed biotic patterns are exemplified by increased occurrence of those green algae that indicate an increase in nutrients (nitrogen), reduced species richness of invertebrates (especially mayflies, crustaceans, gastropods), a general shift in proportion from invertebrate grazers towards shredders, decreasing populations of fish (salmonids, roach, burbot, minnow). Impact on birds (dipper, grey wagtail) appears less validated. The mechanisms for the changes in individual, population and community levels include elevated hydrogen, aluminum and cadmium concentrations that affect ion balance and respiration in fish and invertebrates, but also various behavior patterns (avoidance reaction, downstream movement, choice of spawning site), and developmental stages (molt and emergence of insects, hatching and growth of early fish stages). Al can ameliorate low pH temporarily, but does not biomagnify along food chains and neither predatory insects nor flycatchers seem to accumulate Al. It seems less likely that cadmium is a serious threat to invertebrates in "normal" concentrations at low pH. Iron precipitation can affect feeding ability and respiration of mayfly nymphs. That humic substances may mitigate metals still seems uncertain for fish and invertebrates. Generally, most changes in the biotic patterns of streams seem to be related to abiotic impact routes. Fewer changes are due to changed biotic interrelations, but some examples of changed competitive situations are given for invertebrates and fish. In all these cases of sublethal acidification stress, the ultimate effect is that growth, development and reproduction of the organisms are retarded. Relevant and sufficient knowledge seems to be lacking in three research fields of acidification impact on streams; viz increasing occurrence of green algae in acidified streams; role of invertebrates in decomposition of leaves in acid waters; and recovery processes of fish and invertebrates after liming.
4314853| The results from an investigation performed at the Ar Laboratory, Gotland, Sweden during the period 1994-1998 revealed no reproduction disturbances in brown trout similar to those found in Atlantic salmon from the Baltic sea. Female-specific mortality of yolk-sac fry never exceeded 11%. The mean total thiamine concentration in yolk-sac fry (
4315044|Emissions of ozone precursors are expected to multiply the next 20 years in China, and the levels of photo-oxidants may increase substantially. Increased surface ozone gives cause for concern regarding the prospects for Chinese agricultural production. We show that crop production may be substantially reduced in the future due to elevated ozone concentrations, and that productivity may already be affected for some crops. However, crop-yield loss estimates obtained by using alternative exposure-response functions vary substantially. Spring wheat, soybean, and corn may be especially vulnerable to future ozone increases, due to a likely concurrence of peak levels of ozone and the growth season of these crops.
4314411|Following rapid industrialization in China, traditional integrated-farming techniques are being lost before their potentials have been properly assessed. South of Canton, organic farming and waste recycling has been practiced for centuries in a dike-pond system, which still offers sustainable income opportunities and a multiple-crop yield which is, per area, among the highest in the world. Within the system, leakage of nutrients and the use of chemicals are minimized. A study of the dike-pond concept points at simple ways to reduce unfavorable environmental impacts of food production.
4314942|On two Brazilian sites (Acre and Rondonia), and on two Peruvian sites (Yurimaguas and Pucallpa), deforestation rates and patterns are very different. To illustrate these differences, two major factors contributing to deforestation are selected: how accessible the frontier is for people including access to markets; and land abundance and land rights and markets. Even if there are commonalties between Brazil and Peru, major differences are identified. Road access to the frontier is much greater in Brazil, linking the forest to the rest of the country; most of the Brazilian farmers have gained legal title through colonization projects or by claiming land after clearing. However, access to good land in Brazil is limited and land speculation is high, whereas, in Peru there is plenty of room for expansion and land access is free.
4313276|About a quarter of the earth's surface is water deficient. It has long been recognized that manipulation of the natural water cycle in arid lands is necessary to feed existing and future populations. This paper emphasizes the role of cloud seeding in potential cycle changes and details the condensation process and the actual techniques involved. Cloud seeding is analyzed vis-a-vis alternative schemes related to other processes in the water cycle, especially soil moisture conservation and groundwater management.
24708799|The linkage between ecosystems and human well-being is a focus of the conceptualization of "ecosystem services" as promoted by the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment. However, the actual nature of connections between ecosystems and the well-being of individuals remains complex and poorly understood. We conducted a series of qualitative focus groups with five different stakeholder groups connected to a small-scale Kenyan coastal fishery to understand (1) how well-being is understood within the community, and what is important for well-being, (2) how people's well-being has been affected by changes over the recent past, and (3) people's hopes and aspirations for their future fishery. Our results show that people conceive well-being in a diversity of ways, but that these can clearly map onto the MA framework. In particular, our research unpacks the "freedoms and choices" element of the framework and argues for greater recognition of these aspects of well-being in fisheries management in Kenya through, for example, more participatory governance processes.
4315765|Safety assessment related to the siting of a geological repository for spent nuclear fuel deep in the bedrock requires identification of potential flow paths and the associated travel times for radionuclides originating at repository depth. Using the Laxemar candidate site in Sweden as a case study, this paper describes modeling methodology, data integration, and the resulting water flow models, focusing on the Quaternary deposits and the upper 150 m of the bedrock. Example simulations identify flow paths to groundwater discharge areas and flow paths in the surface system. The majority of the simulated groundwater flow paths end up in the main surface waters and along the coastline, even though the particles used to trace the flow paths are introduced with a uniform spatial distribution at a relatively shallow depth. The calculated groundwater travel time, determining the time available for decay and retention of radionuclides, is on average longer to the coastal bays than to other biosphere objects at the site. Further, it is demonstrated how GIS-based modeling can be used to limit the number of surface flow paths that need to be characterized for safety assessment. Based on the results, the paper discusses an approach for coupling the present models to a model for groundwater flow in the deep bedrock.
4315364|Algal assemblages can be highly responsive to environmental changes in recovering acidified lakes. We compared epilithic algal assemblages in boreal lakes during chemical recovery from atmospheric (Killarney Park, Ontario) and experimental (Lake 302S, Experimental Lakes Area, Ontario) acidification to assess the impact of spatial and temporal scale of severe acidification on taxonomic resilience (i.e. recovery rate). Resilience was measured as the distance traveled by lakes in ordination space during pH recovery based on canonical correspondence analysis. Resilience was relatively negligible in the Killarney lakes, suggesting that eight years of experimental acidification in Lake 302S had less impact on biological recovery than did decades of regional acidification. Increases in dissolved organic carbon, dissolved inorganic carbon, and calcium best explained temporal variance of epilithic species abundances in the recovering acidified lakes. In Lake 302S, contrasting trajectories of taxonomic resilience and resistance, i.e. displacement from reference conditions following a perturbation, indicated that ecological factors affecting epilithon differed at corresponding pH levels during recovery and acidification. Our findings reveal that modeling of ecosystem recovery from severe acidification must account for the spatial and temporal scale of the perturbation, and biological delay responses that result in differences between recovery and acidification trajectories.
4314846|Most Baltic salmon populations are affected by the M74 syndrome, which has been linked to the feeding ecology of sea-run fish. A 2-year study in 1995-1997 showed that sprat (Sprattus sprattus) dominated the salmon diet in the Baltic proper (45-90% of the stomach content by weight), followed by herring (Clupea harengus, 9-39%) and three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus, 0-14%). These figures are similar to those recorded in the early 1960s. There was a consistent tendency for sprat to make up a higher proportion of the diet in the winter from January to April, and later in the year the proportion of herring and sticklebacks increased. When comparing the eastern and southern parts of the Baltic proper, there was also a tendency in the eastern part in January-September for the diet to have a lower proportion of sprat and a higher proportion of herring. This difference was, however, not significant according to the more conservative of 2 different statistical tests. There were also indications that wintertime feeding by salmon had increased compared with the early 1960s. In a regression study, the incidence of M74 was found to be strongly correlated to several parameters that describe the status of the Baltic sprat stock, two of which were weights of sprat. This suggests that the analysis of factors influencing the development of M74 needs to be expanded to include lower trophic levels as well.
4315528|An assessment of impacts on Arctic terrestrial ecosystems has emphasized geographical variability in responses of species and ecosystems to environmental change. This variability is usually associated with north-south gradients in climate, biodiversity, vegetation zones, and ecosystem structure and function. It is clear, however, that significant east-west variability in environment, ecosystem structure and function, environmental history, and recent climate variability is also important. Some areas have cooled while others have become warmer. Also, east-west differences between geographical barriers of oceans, archipelagos and mountains have contributed significantly in the past to the ability of species and vegetation zones to relocate in response to climate changes, and they have created the isolation necessary for genetic differentiation of populations and biodiversity hot-spots to occur. These barriers will also affect the ability of species to relocate during projected future warming. To include this east-west variability and also to strike a balance between overgeneralization and overspecialization, the ACIA identified four major sub regions based on large-scale differences in weather and climate-shaping factors. Drawing on information, mostly model output that can be related to the four ACIA subregions, it is evident that geographical barriers to species re-location, particularly the distribution of landmasses and separation by seas, will affect the northwards shift in vegetation zones. The geographical constraints-or facilitation-of northward movement of vegetation zones will affect the future storage and release of carbon, and the exchange of energy and water between biosphere and atmosphere. In addition, differences in the ability of vegetation zones to re-locate will affect the biodiversity associated with each zone while the number of species threatened by climate change varies greatly between subregions with a significant hot-spot in Beringia. Overall, the subregional synthesis demonstrates the difficulty of generalizing projections of responses of ecosystem structure and function, species loss, and biospheric feedbacks to the climate system for the whole Arctic region and implies a need for a far greater understanding of the spatial variability in the responses of terrestrial arctic ecosystems to climate change.
4314660|This work was directed to the repopulation of the pearl oyster Pteria sterna through artificial seeding techniques. Four different seeding conditions were tested on 658 young cultured pearl oysters: protected substrate, unprotected substrate, natural substrate, and artificial substrate. Two other bioecological variables were tested: depth and specimen size. We assessed survival, settlement speed and strength, and the in situ growth of specimens. With the best results obtained, we attempted to define the optimum depth, size, and seeding materials to be used for further extensive repopulation actions. Protection was a very important factor for the survival of individuals; all oysters seeded on unprotected substrates were killed in few days. Natural substrates enhanced settlement speed and the strength and growth of individuals, whereas artificial substrates did not. A depth of 9 m and small-medium sizes gave the best results in terms of survival, settlement speed, and strength, and growth.
24708784|Olympic shooters discharge, annually, thousands of tons of lead shot which pose toxic risks to animals and may pollute both surface and ground waters. Non-toxic steel shot is an acceptable and effective substitute, but International Shooting Sports Federation (ISSF) rules prevent its adoption. The present policy and rules of the ISSF on lead shot use contravene the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Charter position on environmental protection. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), a formal Olympic partner on environmental protection, has no stated policy on contamination from lead ammunition, despite having declared lead a Priority Area for remedial action, and is pressing to remove lead from the global human environment. The IOC Sport and Environment Commission and UNEP could examine the continued use of lead shot ammunition and advise the IOC Executive Board on appropriate changes in policy and rules that could halt the massive lead shot contamination of shooting range environments world-wide.
4313803|An attempt has been made to estimate the carbon dioxide budget of Sweden. Fluxes considered include fossil-fuel combustion and limestone processing as well as changes in the carbon stores in forests, peatlands, cultivated soils and sediments. The estimations indicate that more than half of the carbon released as carbon dioxide during fossil-fuel combustion (c. 16 Mton C per year) is currently accumulating in terrestrial ecosystems, mainly in the form of forest biomass (c. 9 Mton C per year). Cultivated organic soils release c. 1-2 Mton C per year to the atmosphere, while peat and the sediments of lakes and coastal waters accumulate c. 4 Mton C per year.
4313796|Increases in soil acidity, thought to have resulted from man-made emissions of mainly SO2 and NO x, are documented for a number of countries in Europe (1-14). Here evidence is presented that suggests acidification has occurred also in one part of Britain, over a 33-year period. The soils investigated (15) occur in a part of Britain having one of the highest recorded rates of wet deposition of acidifying substances (16), and some of the most sensitive ecosystems (17). The extent of acidification appears to be broadly inversely related to the soil acidity value of the initial determination. It is suggested, from other work (18-20), that man's industrial activities have been a substantial factor in causing the increased acidification.
4315500| A reaction of the European Arctic landscape to a climate change on the scale of a typical middle-sized region is outlined. A wide scope of the methods was used, first of all field mapping and observations. Glaciers are important in the Srkapp Land landscape because they cover the majority of its territory and undergo quick recessions as a result of the 20th century warming. Glacial recession influence intensively: relief with Quaternary deposits, waters, animals, vegetation and soils. The most important landscape changes in the 20th century are: uplift of the equilibrium line altitude on glaciers by 100-200 m; large glacial recession in both surface and volume; significant decrease of the land area due to recession of tidewater glaciers; lengthening of the coastline, and especially of glacial cliffs; development of the land water network; start of the plant succession in areas abandoned by glaciers. No isostatic uplift has taken place in Srkapp Land since the Little Ice Age. 
4315690|The conversion of closed forest (CCF) in Carrasco Province, Bolivia, is monitored using a series of four midresolution satellite images from 1986 to 2002. The conversion of forests into nonforests from 1986 to 2002 is 1.5% annually. Inclusion of conversions into open forest doubles the annual CCF rate to 3.1%. Five predictors for CCF are tested in a spatial model: land tenure regime, distance from roads, distance from settlements, topography, and soil suitability for farming. Only three out of the five predictors tested are found to be required: land tenure regime, distance from roads, and distance from settlements. University reserve and indigenous land show substantially and significantly less CCF than national park and untitled land. In addition the spatial model shows that the greater the distance of forest from roads or settlements, the less CCF. Topography and soil suitability for farming lack predictive power for CCF and are therefore excluded from the spatial model.
41805978|Models that can project ecosystem dynamics under changing environmental conditions are in high demand. The application of such models, however, requires model validation together with analyses of model uncertainties, which are both often overlooked. We carried out a simplified model uncertainty and sensitivity analysis on an Ecopath with Ecosim food-web model of the Baltic Proper (BaltProWeb) and found the model sensitive to both variations in the input data of pre-identified key groups and environmental forcing. Model uncertainties grew particularly high in future climate change scenarios. For example, cod fishery recommendations that resulted in viable stocks in the original model failed after data uncertainties were introduced. In addition, addressing the trophic control dynamics produced by the food-web model proved as a useful tool for both model validation, and for studying the food-web function. These results indicate that presenting model uncertainties is necessary to alleviate ecological surprises in marine ecosystem management.
41510579|The rapid development of parks and ecotourism in China has attracted worldwide attention, not only for the beauty of the landscape that the parks are protecting but also for their abundant and often unique biodiversity. However, in some areas, the development of ecotourism has actually led to the degradation of local ecological, economic, and social systems. Using National Forest Parks for demonstration, this article analyzes the current political, institutional, legal, environmental, and economic issues concerning National Parks in China, and examines their potential future development. Although the intention of National Park systems in China is to raise environmental quality, and to protect biodiversity and social livelihoods, their success has varied. Future success will be measured by their capacity to reduce poverty, to promote long-term rehabilitation of wildlife habitats, and to simultaneously protect Chinese culture and biodiversity.
4314304|This paper presents a pilot survey of blood-mercury levels and renal biomarkers in 11 Amazonian villagers in the state of Para, Brazil. The village, Ponta de Pedra, is located on the banks of the Tapajos River, a tributary of The Amazon, 800 km downriver from the gold-mining industry where mercury is used in the refining process. Residents of this village are a high fish-eating population and are at risk of environmental mercury poisoning from contamination of the aquatic food chain. While mean mercury concentration in the blood of these villagers (29.1 mg L
4312772|The nuclear arsenals of the two superpowers dwarf those of the other nuclear powers. Together they total more than 50 000 nuclear warheads, with an explosive power one million times that of the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. More accurate delivery systems and more efficient weapons may actually increase the risk of a nuclear war, since they may encourage one side or the other to believe that a pre-emptive strike could destroy an enemy's power to retaliate. To that extent, improved weapon systems may come to be seen as suitable for tighting, rather than deterring, a nuclear war.
4313135| Acidification in a number of lakes in western Sweden reached a maximum during the middle of the 1970s, with sulfate concentrations of 270-290 eq/l and pH values of 4.4-4.5. Between 1977 and 1983 this trend was reversed, and decreases in the concentrations of sulfate and hydrogen ions were observed. The reason for this partial improvement, corresponding to a maximum of 0.3-0.4 pH units, was a decrease in sulfate loading. However, increased acidity in wet deposition counteracted, to some degree, the improvements obtained by reduced sulfate concentrations. The increased acidity of precipitation may be a result of increased emissions of nitrous oxides. 
4313255|Degradation and destruction of the limited land resources in Egypt is a serious and far-reaching problem. The magnitude of land degradation problems in terms of the large areas affected and the millions of people who suffer the consequences constitutes an imminent danger to Egyptian agriculture, and therefore, an additional burden on the already scarce resources for much needed development. The causes, extent and effects of land degradation problems caused by misuse and mismanagement of land resources are discussed. The specific situation of desert encroachment on Egypt's Nile Valley and some conclusions and recommendations are included.
4312852|To the extent that environmental problems are tending to become international if not supranational in scope, we need to develop responses of similar capacity. For a variety of reasons, our present institutional mechanisms among the community of nations often prove to be inadequate-and this seems to apply especially to the United Nations system, which is inclined to reflect the competitive rivalries of the nation-state tradition rather than the collaborative spirit that we need to articulate if we are to safeguard the environmental welfare of humankind. It is only through a strong consensus about the nature and extent of common heritage resources that we are likely to develop the political, economic and other institutions that will translate the concept into action. A powerful medium for expression of the common heritage appears to lie with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which can build constituencies that transcend national frontiers and sectoral interests. A key question arises: will the NGOs recognize their exceptional potential in this regard, and make common cause among themselves by aligning their activities in a manner that reflects the communal needs of our One-Earth Home?
4315412|Transformation in Polish agriculture initiated by political changes in the 1990s brought about essential variations in the structure of agricultural land use. The share of cereals in cropping patterns increased, while fodder plants decreased. In addition, the level of mineral fertilization was reduced. In livestock production animal stock showed a sharp fall, which led to a decreased load of organic fertilization. The changes in cropping pattern and lower fertilization rates resulted in a decrease in the organic matter level in soils, which may impair soil quality status. These phenomena were strongly manifested in the Wielkopolska Region mainly because of the prevalence of light soils in this area, from which nutrients are readily washed out to groundwaters. It was found that many of the negative aspects of these changes in the agricultural landscape can be mitigated by establishing shelterbelts. We conclude that shelterbeds are especially effective in the control of nutrient output from a watershed.
4313018| We appear to be poised on the verge of an extinction spasm. By the end of the next century, we could lose a substantial portion of the present spectrum of species. The size of this extinction phenomenon, together with its compressed timescale, will represent a biological dbcle to rival any since the emergence of life on Earth. The principal cause will be the upsurge in human numbers. But the population factor is likely to be aggravated by extreme poverty on the part of one billion "poorest of the poor", and by excessive consumerism on the part of the "rich" world. The mass-extinction episode will constitute a severe setback for human welfare, stability of the planetary ecosystem, and the future course of evolution itself. 
4312749|The bioaccumulation of mercury in sarcosaprophagous insects was studied by rasing blowflies on carcasses contaminated with varying amounts of inorganic mercury or methyl mercury. In additional studies mercury-loaded fly larvae or adult flies were fed to their insect predators. A clear bioaccumulation process was noted, and a correlation between the mercury content of the food and the subsequent mercury content was observed in adult blow flies. Blowfly larvae and adults were found to have a very good ability to excrete mercury. Bioaccumulation of mercury was also found in scavengers fed on mercury-loaded blowfly larvae. Clear health effects were not found in blowflies or scavengers, perhaps because of successful evolutionary adaptation to high levels of mercury.
40801535|Four mean temperature variables, namely maximum (MAX), minimum (MIN), mean (MEAN) and diurnal temperature range (DTR), were considered for 14 selected observational stations throughout Sudan. The objectives were to investigate the seasonal and annual regimes, the seasonal and annual trends, the intra-annual variability (IAV) by the coefficient of variation (CV), and the interrelationships between the temperature variables and percent of possible sunshine. A mounting evidence of daytime and nighttime warming since the 1940s until 2005 is presented. The exception is the dry season which is dominated by daytime cooling attributable to the damping effect of dust haze/storms. Apparently, the progressive drought across inland locations has raised the MAXs, and to a lesser extent the MINs, of the wet season over those for the hot season. Accordingly, maximum rates of 0.451 and 0.336C decade were found for the nighttime and daytime temperatures, respectively. The extreme eastern and western locations have been frequently dominated by the warmest trend rates obtained nationwide. The prevalence of significant decreases (increases) of DTR is more apparent in the dry, hot and annual series (wet series). Depending on the temperature variable under consideration, many stations possessed significant trends toward either increased or decreased variability of the within-year monthly values, i.e. IAV. The correlation between the time series of annual CV and extreme values for each of the four temperature variables shows generally that warmer climate in Sudan is associated with higher intra-annual temperature variability and vise versa, i.e. the CV is directly correlated with the highest value within the year, but inversely correlated with the lowest one. The findings of this investigation also indicate that the DTR is directly related to percent of possible sunshine, but the relationship of the latter parameter is not so clear with MAX, MIN and MEAN.
4313780|This article analysis the problem of land degradation from an economic perspective, with particular attention to the situation in developing countries. It also discusses how economic analysis can contribute to efficient land rehabilitation. A brief review of available evidence of land degradation, physical as well as economic assessments, is presentd. The driving forces behind land degradation are discussed in terms of market failure and policy failure that contribute to land degradation or hamper effective countermeasures. There is a brief discussion about the attempts made to remedy the situation. In general, soil conservation appears to have been unsuccessful. New ideas are merging that set a challenging agenda for the future. It is argued that economics can play a positive role on the project level and on the level of national and international planning in improving land management.
40928398|The prevalence of epidermal conditions in a small population of coastal bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Monterey Bay was evaluated between 2006 and 2008. Five different skin condition categories were considered, including Pox-Like Lesions, Discoloration, Orange Film, Polygon Lesions, and Miscellaneous Markings. Of 147 adults and 42 calves photographically examined, at least 90 and 71%, respectively, were affected by at least one or multiple conditions. Pox-Like Lesions were the most prevalent, affecting 80% of the population, including adults and calves. This condition warrants the most urgent investigation being possibly indicative of the widespread presence of poxvirus or a similar pathogen in the population. In view of the high number of individuals affected, standard monitoring of the health status of Monterey Bay bottlenose dolphins is considered imperative. Discoloration was strongly associated with Pox-Like lesions. Orange Films were likely an epifaunal infestation caused by diatoms, which have been documented in other cetacean species. Polygon Lesions, a newly described category, could be the result of infestation by barnacles of the genus Cryptolepas. Miscellaneous Markings were variable in appearance and may not have the same causative factor. Although none of the proposed etiologies can be confirmed without appropriate clinical tests, recognizing common visible characteristics of the conditions could aid in preliminary comparisons across populations and individuals.
4314397|The release of inorganic nutrients into the sea by domestic sewage is a major threat to many marine systems. This eutrophication affects coral-reef organisms indirectly by increased growth of microalgae, leading to increased sedimentation, decreased light availability, rapid growth of opportunistic macroalgae, etc. In this paper, we report a decrease in the cover of an important group of coral-reef builders, the coralline algae. This decrease might be caused by the outlets of sewage water from Zanzibar town. Laboratory and field experiments show that both the growth rate and the calcification of these organisms are negatively affected by high phosphate levels, but not by nitrate or ammonia.
4315425|The study provides an example of mapping tropical forest cover from SPOT-Vegetation satellite images of coarse spatial resolution (1 km) for the subregion of insular Southeast Asia. A satellite image mosaic has been generated from satellite images acquired for the period 1998 to 2000. Forest cover has been mapped by unsupervised digital classification. The mapping result has then been compared to selected forest maps from the subregion, demonstrating the potential to provide basic information on forest area extent and distribution, but also on massive forest cover change in the subregional context. Forest area estimates derived from the map for the subregion have been found comparable to those compiled by FAO. The results indicate that many of the remaining tropical forests in Southeast Asia, rich in timber resources and biodiversity, may be lost in the near future if deforestation continues at present or previous rates.
25515846|Despite a growing body of evidence demonstrating the importance of cities as sources of many local, regional, and global impacts on the atmosphere, ecosystems, and human populations, most theories on the relationship between society and the environment have focused on the global or national level. A variety of theories exist on human-environment interactions; for example, ecological modernization, urban transitions, and human ecology. However, with the exception of urban transitions, these theories have been mainly concerned with nation states and have ignored the subnational and local (city) levels. This article aims at filling this gap by employing ordinary least squares regression to examine these theories at the city level using the STIRPAT formula. It finds that with the exception of population (which shows an unstable relationship with the impacts indicators applied in the analysis) a remarkable level of variation exists in the importance of drivers across the three exercises. This led us to conclude that urban atmospheric pollutants result from diverse activities (e.g., transportation, industrial), are formed through different processes (vehicle combustion, biomass burning), have a residence time ranging from hours to years, and are the outcome of diverse sets of societal and environmental drivers.
4312372|Over large parts of the Earth, bedrock and sediments contain too little selenium for agricultural products and fodder to satisfy nutritional requirements (<30 ppb). Little is known, however, about the significance of selenium present in concentrations somewhat above the deficiency level, and its importance for organisms may be much greater than is generally recognized. Deficiency is most likely to occur in areas where the bedrock is composed of silicic igneous or highly metamorphic rocks and where the sediments are predominantly composed of minerals resistant to weathering. Colloid-rich sediments usually contain enough of the element (100-300 ppb). Selenium forms insoluble hydrous iron selenites, and in podzolic soils its availability for plants is decreased. Selenium deficiency may also occur in peat soils not receiving outside nutrients from circulating waters, and in colloid-poor sandy sediments from which selenium is leached out. On the basis of geological knowledge, areas where the concentration of selenium may be too small for nutritional purposes can be identified.
4314685|Soil respiration rate and a variety of soil characteristics including heavy metals, mineral content and organic matter quality were investigated at a forest site close to a former chloralkali factory. The data were analyzed using partial least squares regression (PLS). The respiration rate was most strongly correlated to contents of Ca, Mn, K and pH, while a smaller part of the variation could be explained by models using carbon fractionation data or heavy-metal contents. Hg and Pb concentrations, at average levels of 0.71 and 80 mg g
40928415|Organic farming is believed to improve soil fertility by enhancing soil organic matter (SOM) contents. An important co-benefit would be the sequestration of carbon from atmospheric CO . Such a positive effect has been suggested based on data from field experiments though many studies were not designed to address the issue of carbon sequestration. The aim of our study was to examine published data in order to identify possible flaws such as missing a proper baseline, carbon mass measurements, or lack of a clear distinction between conventional and organic farming practices, thereby attributing effects of specific practices to organic farming, which are not uniquely organic. A total of 68 data sets were analyzed from 32 peer-reviewed publications aiming to compare conventional with organic farming. The analysis revealed that after conversion, soil C content (SOC) in organic systems increased annually by 2.2% on average, whereas in conventional systems SOC did not change significantly. The majority of publications reported SOC concentrations rather than amounts thus neglecting possible changes in soil bulk density. 34 out of 68 data sets missed a true control with well-defined starting conditions. In 37 out of 50 cases, the amount of organic fertilizer in the organic system exceeded that applied in the compared conventional system, and in half of the cases crop rotations differed between systems. In the few studies where crop rotation and organic fertilization were comparable in both systems no consistent difference in SOC was found. From this data analysis, we conclude that the claim for beneficial effects of organic farming on SOC is premature and that reported advantages of organic farming for SOC are largely determined by higher and often disproportionate application of organic fertilizer compared to conventional farming.
4314091|This article summarizes a series of experiments involving low-dose additions of phosphorus, nitrogen, and organic carbon, performed to test hypotheses concerning the oligotrophication of acidified and limed lakes. Gradual fertilization of a whole lake stimulated productivity, via chrysophytes and cladoceran zooplankton, through the entire pelagic food chain without causing structural damage to the system. Although P is considered the primary limiting nutrient for phytoplankton growth in acidified and limed lakes, in two out of four lakes we found a close balance between P and N limitation. In acidified Lake Njupfatet, phytoplankton community structure changed depending on the form in which nitrogen, added together with phosphorus, was supplied. A cyanophyte was favored with ammonium, whereas a dinoflagellate dominated when nitrate was the nitrogen source. Chrysophytes, the desired "edible" phytoplankton, were only stimulated when organic carbon was added together with N and P. Many flagellates are mixotrophic and they may have responded to an increase in heterotrophic bacterial growth. Nutrient additions during late summer, when cyanophytes dominated, did not improve the growth of any component of the plankton community. Liming of Lake Njupfatet resulted in decreases both in phosphorus concentration and in standing stock of phytoplankton. The phytoplankton community after liming changed markedly, the cyanophytes disappeared, while the zooplankton community composition remained typical of acidified lakes. Nutrient additions during late summer resulted in increased growth of both phyto- and zooplankton. We argue that controlled nutrient additions may be a necessary complement to liming in order to restore acidified lakes.
4315033|Interactions between eutrophication and organic pollutants (PCB, DDTs and -HCH) were investigated during 1996-1997 in two lakes, one eutrophic (Lake E) and one oligotrophic (Lake O) but with otherwise similar morphometry and water chemistry. Soil samples from the watersheds indicated similar atmospheric exposure of the lakes. No biomass dilution was observed in Lake E compared to Lake O. Lake E had higher levels of PCB based on organic carbon and lipid mass in sedimenting matter (1.5), surface sediment (1.4) and perch (Perca fluviatilis) (2.4), and also higher settling fluxes of particulate matter and PCB measured in sediment traps and in surface sediment. Phytoplankton was responsible for most of the PCB transport to the sediment in Lake E. Higher DDD/DDE ratios seemed to correlate to a high load of p,p-DDT more than to that of anaerobic conditions. A high DDD/DDE ratio was recorded in the deep sediment core from Lake O together with high levels of sDDT and was also highest in the sediment traps during periods with, probably, the highest runoff of parental DDT from the watershed.
4312087|This paper contains a discussion of the most important photochemical reactions in the stratosphere which determine the abundance of ozone in the atmosphere. Special emphasis is given to several of man's activities which can reduce the total amount of atmospheric ozone appreciably, such as nuclear warfare, stratospheric aviation and the continued use of chlorofluoromethanes (eg "freons") in aerosol cans and refrigerators. Estimates of possible effects are given.
4312284|The incidence of ingested lead shot pellets in 928 ducks of nine species collected in Sweden during the hunting season was determined. Lead shot pellets were found in ducks from six of the eight localities. The following species contained pellets: mallard, wigeon, pintail, pochard, tufted duck and goldeneye. Normally one or two pellets were found, but ducks with up to 62 pellets were present in the material.
4312835|European coal consumption may increase by as much as 600 million metric tons by the end of the century, an increase of 50 percent. In the absence of control measures, sulfur depositons would then increase by about one third, from approximately 57 million metric tons in 1982 to approximately 74 metric million tons in 2002. Because emissions are distributed widely and unevenly in Europe, some nations will not be able to reduce depositions in their territory, even if they are successful in limiting their own emissions. A region-wide co-operative abatement program is therefore necessary.
4314036|Cameroon has one of the highest species densities of any African country, but its biodiversity is threatened by deforestation and hunting. Current and proposed protected areas cover 4 to 5% of the country and contain examples of the major terrestrial habitats. However, areas are not adequately funded or staffed, and governmental policies call for intensified logging of remaining forests. Relatively good information is available on plant community distributions and on vertebrates of the southwestern humid lowland and montane forests. Conservation projects are associated with protected areas at Dja, Kilum Mt., Korup, Mt. Cameroon, and Mt. Kupe. Other international support for the conservation of biodiversity includes projects in natural-forest management, forest inventories, and research and training at Dschang, Garoua, Maroua, and Mbalmayo. At least three international conservation organizations and six foreign assistance agencies lead or fund these activities. Conservation could be strengthened by establishment of additional integrated conservation and development projects in parks and wildlife reserves, by closer links between existing agricultural and conservation projects, and by research on project impacts.
4315361|Reductions in North American sulfur dioxide ( SO
40390418|In this review the main growth responses of Finnish birch (Betula pendula, B. pubescens) and aspen species (Populus tremula and P. tremuloides x P. tremula) are correlated with ozone exposure, indicated as the AOT40 value. Data are derived from 23 different laboratory, open-top chamber, and free-air fumigation experiments. Our results indicate that these tree species are sensitive to increasing ozone concentrations, though high intraspecific variation exists. The roots are the most vulnerable targets in both genera. These growth reductions, determined from trees grown under optimal nutrient and water supply, were generally accompanied by increased visible foliar injuries, carbon allocation toward defensive compounds, reduced carbohydrate contents of leaves, impaired photosynthesis processes, disturbances in stomatal function, and earlier autumn senescence. Because both genera have shown complex ozone defense and response mechanisms, which are modified by variable environmental conditions, a mechanistically based approach is necessary for accurate ozone risk assessment.
4312669|Noise was once regarded as a mere nuisance, but it is now known to have adverse effects on human health. Noise levels are steadily increasing; in the industrialized nations, 15 percent of the population-100 million people in the 24 OECD countries-is exposed to "unacceptable" noise levels each day, and half the population is exposed to "uncomfortable" levels. These numbers will increase by a further 30 percent by the end of the century if present policies are not changed. But more stringent regulations could reduce the number exposed to "unacceptable" noise levels by 80 percent.
4315806|SANBALTS (Simple As Necessary Baltic Long-Term Large-Scale) is a model of the coupled nitrogen and phosphorus cycles. This model has been developed as an integral part of the decision support system Marine Research on Eutrophication's Nest with the overall aim to evaluate management options for reducing Baltic Sea eutrophication. Simulated nutrient and oxygen concentrations as well as transport flows and major biogeochemical fluxes can be analyzed in many different ways, including construction of detailed nutrient budgets and tracing the fate of nutrient inputs. The large amounts of data that exist for this sea makes it possible to validate model results with observations. Major biogeochemical properties of the Baltic Sea are discussed through an analyses of model sensitivity to external forcing and internal parameterizations. Model results emphasize two features that are especially important for ecosystem management: i) impacts of local measures would always be modified by the long-range transports from other regions and ii) the response to significant changes in loads would only be seen after several decades.
4315628|This study addresses the consequences of repeated human handling on the survival of an endangered phocid, the southern elephant seal and the implications for wildlife research. Southern elephant seal pups were repeatedly handled during the first six weeks of their lives. The possibility that such anthropogenic research may have altered the very parameters that were being investigated is a topical and relevant study area that we address here. Our results show that there were no measurable effects on pups that were repeatedly handled and subjected to invasive research methods with respect to survivorship in the short term (the 24-day nursing period) nor in the long term (the first year of life and beyond) and hence fitness one year after handling. In support of this conclusion we were unable to detect any significant differences in the survival rates of the most intensively handled seals and the least intensively handled seals.
4315166|Rural people in the Peruvian Amazon practice agriculture and extract a wide range of products from natural forests, rivers and lakes. Their diversified livelihood system includes fish, game, and plant products. In 2 flood-plain villages, data for one year have been collected to compare the economy of local agriculture with the economy of extracted forest products for subsistence as well as for commerce. The study includes both fauna (game and fish) and flora (timber as well as nontimber). The results show that extracted forest products for subsistence, especially fish, are a main factor in the local economy. The daily net income from extraction activities exceeds both income from cultivation and the normal daily wages for unskilled workers, emphasizing the need for thorough socioeconomic investigations before any alternative land-use option is implemented. The average value per ha of natural forest used for extraction is in the order of USD 13 yr
4315325|Research on the terrestrial carbon cycle is an important component in the study of global change. Soil organic carbon, as the main part of the terrestrial carbon reservoir, plays an important role in the Earth's carbon cycle. To accurately estimate soil organic carbon storage, its composition and dynamic change must be determined. This presents a challenge to research on the soil carbon cycle, especially in China where the nationwide soil organic carbon reservoir largely remains unknown. This paper reports a research project that attempts to estimate the nationwide soil organic carbon reservoir. Data from 2473 soil profiles from the second national soil survey were collected and GIS technology was employed to quantify the national soil carbon reservoir. The analytical results show that the total amount of soil organic carbon is about 92.4 Pg (
4315852|Indigenous peoples are often considered potential allies in the conservation of biological diversity. Here we assess whether ethnobotanical skills of indigenous people contribute to a reduction in the clearance of tropical rain forest. We measured ethnobotanical skills of male household heads and area of rain forest cleared for agriculture among 128 households of Tsimane', a native Amazonian group in Bolivia. We used multivariate regressions to estimate the relation between ethnobotanical skills and area of rain forest cleared while controlling for schooling, health status, number of plots cleared, adults in household, and village of residency. We found that when the ethnobotanical skills of the male household head were doubled, the amount of tropical rain forest cleared per household was reduced by 25%. The association was stronger when the area of old-growth forest cleared was used as the dependent variable than when the area cleared from fallow forest was used as the dependent variable. People who use the forest for subsistence might place a higher value on standing forest than people who do not use it, and thus they may be more reluctant to cut down the forest.
40928403|We studied geographical and temporal body size trends among 169 adult museum specimens of the Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra) collected in Sweden between 1962 and 2008, whose sex, year of collection, and locality were known. Skull size and body mass increased significantly in relation to the year of collection, and skull size (but not body mass) was significantly and negatively related to latitude, contrasting Bergmann's rule and the trend found for Norwegian otters. Latitudinal differences in body size between the two countries may be due to differences in food availability. The temporal increase in body size among Swedish otters resembled that observed for Norway otters, though Swedish otters are smaller with respect to their Norwegian counterparts. Latitude and year represent a combination of environmental factors, including ambient temperature in the year of collection as well as the number of days of ice coverage. We replaced the above factors with mean annual temperature or the number of days of ice coverage, and found that each of these factors explains a similar proportion of the variation in body size as did latitude and year. We hypothesize that this temporal increase in body size is related to a combination of factors, including reduced energy expenditure resulting from increasing ambient temperature, and increased food availability from longer ice-free periods.
4314863|The pedosphere lies at the juncture of the atmosphere, biosphere, hydrosphere and lithosphere. Heavy-metal pollution of soil greatly affects not only the yield and quality of crops, animal and human health, but also the quality of the whole environment. The current status and the effects of heavy-metal pollution in the soils of China are reviewed in this paper. Soil contamination by heavy metals from sewage irrigation and metal mining, smelting, and processing activities was seen to be serious. Urban enterprises also contribute to heavy-metal pollution of soils in China. The effects of soil pollution on plants, animals, and human beings are discussed. Effective countermeasures for pollution control are also presented.
4313393|The presently dominating plants and animals and their biomasses in the man-made Lake Kariba are described for the major subsystems: the inundation zone, the littoral zone, the submerged tree zone and the pelagic zone. Since earlier investigations, undertaken in the 1960s, large changes have occurred in the biota of most subsystems. Invasions of several new species have occurred with consequent chain effects throughout the ecosystem. Lake adapted species are replacing the originally riverine flora and fauna. Large yearly water-level fluctuations do not seem to have hampered the functioning of the lake ecosystem. However, during the drawdown period large quantities of invertebrates are stranded and devoured by terrestrial scavengers.
4313338|The present position of multiple-use forestry in the United Kingdom is outlined, in very general terms, with brief reference to the situation in some other temperate countries. Further development of multiple-use forestry is seen to depend on the adoption of methods or rules-of-thumb for the placing of values on nonmarket benefits, in addition to timber and other marketable goods.
4313014|It is likely that the global climate in the 21st century will be considerably warmer than it is today. This is due to the increasing concentration of CO
4314468|Even with changes in the industrial structure and continued improvement in energy efficiency, China's economic development and strong reliance on its indigenous coal resources will lead to large increases in its CO
4311959|Scientists should participate as citizens and professionals in the work of improving and maintaining a viable environment, and should use their knowledge to help right the ecological wrongs that have been committed in the name of scientific and technological progress. Physicists, for example, could make important contributions in the development of improved instrumental methods of monitoring and through studies of environmental systems, resources and energy production.
4314658|Mercury and methylmercury levels in fish muscle and scats of the giant otter (Pteronura brasiliensis) of Manu National Park, Peru, and in one gold-mining area in the vicinity of its borders were analyzed. In 68% of fish muscles, total mercury levels exceeded the proposed maximum tolerable level of 0.1 mg kg
4314013|The distribution and concentrations of selected 2,3,7,8-substituted polychlorinated dibenzo-para-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) are presented for ringed (Phoca hispida), grey (Halichoerus grypus), and harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) from the Baltic, Kattegat, and Skagerrak. The study was initiated to determine if factors including spatial variation, age, sex, species or health status, could be correlated to the concentrations and patterns of PCDD/Fs in seal. A total of 15 pooled samples were analyzed, including seal killed during the 1988 epizootic, which represent the most diverse set of PCDD/F measurements for seal in Scandinavian waters to date. Our results show remarkably low variations in blubber concentrations of the study compounds with respect to many of the above sample parameters. A rapid catabolism or elimination of PCDD/Fs is suggested to explain surprising similarities seen in the blubber concentrations of these compounds for seals from the Swedish west coast and Baltic. This contrasts to PCDD/F concentrations in herring, a key seal prey from the regions of study, which are known to differ. The relatively low concentrations of PCDD/Fs found in seal versus their expected high intake from fish further supports a presumed rapid catabolism or elimination. The most obvious variation seen is the higher relative concentration of PCDD/Fs in ringed versus either grey or harbor seal. This confirms an earlier finding to the same effect and might be attributed to a feeding behavior or a lower catabolism/elimination capacity unique to ringed seal.
41417271|The term governance describes the multitude of actors and processes that lead to collectively binding decisions. The term risk governance translates the core principles of governance to the context of risk-related policy making. We aim to delineate some basic lessons from the insights of the other articles in this special issue for our understanding of risk governance. Risk governance provides a conceptual as well as normative basis for how to cope with uncertain, complex and/or ambiguous risks. We propose to synthesize the breadth of the articles in this special issue by suggesting some changes to the risk governance framework proposed by the International Risk Governance Council (IRGC) and adding some insights to its analytical and normative implications.
4312062|The question of man's feeding needs to be confronted in terms of current population growth in numbers (one billion in little more than ten years). Demographic speculations about the year 2000 poorly recognize the grave realities of today, with a backlog of more than two billion who are short of most of life's necessaries, inclusive of food. This paper reviews the needs in land, capital, and water. The repercussions in the waste of crops, livestock, and man himself are surveyed. The gross inequities of a well-to-do world of one-third disposing of more than two-thirds of the globe's primary production on land and in the seas need to be tackled through new approaches on several fronts. There is not a separate food or population issue. All phases of human existence are involved, not the least world economy and the selection of techniques.
25094554|Commercial, recreational, and subsistence harvesting of chanterelle mushrooms (Cantharellus formosus (cibarius) and C. subalbidus) on the Olympic Peninsula Biosphere Reserve was investigated during three fall harvest seasons (1994-1996). This article describes i) sociocultural characteristics of harvesters (ethnicity, class, power, gender, age, and kinship); ii) the organization of harvesting (unit of production, strategies, practices, harvest methods, division of labor, and rights to resources); and iii) economic values derived from commercial harvesting. Participant observation and interviews with 79 commercial harvesters and participant observation and a mail survey of 53 recreational harvesters were the chief methods used. Ethnicity and social class were the most prominent social dimensions of purportedly antagonistic relations between commercial and recreational harvesters, who otherwise had surprisingly broad overlap in values, norms and collective understandings. Among commercial harvesters, Latinos were replacing Southeast Asians and Euro-Americans. Gross incomes were low, averaging about USD 30 picking
4312423|This scenario can be summarized as "simple is sophisticated"-in technology, in R and D, in professional values, and in openness to learning from rural people. The environmental case for the scenario is based on: very low demand for non-renewable energy sources; the village uses human, animal, organic and solar sources, and practices communal energy-farming; stable exploitation of land and water within the village; and very little pollution. However, population increases provoke migration to environments which are irreversibly degraded.
4313091| New estimates of the total nutrient (N and P) load to the Baltic Sea are considerably higher than earlier calculations. Estimated total nitrogen loads is 1.2 10
4315439|Habitat models may provide viable tools for co-management of large ungulates and forest resources, yet their applicability has not been comprehensively evaluated in managed forest. We examined 2 inherently different approaches to model the relative winter habitat suitability for moose (Alces alces) in the coastal area of northern Sweden. An empirical approach based on GPS positions of 15 female moose was used to scrutinize the assumptions and functional mechanisms of a process-oriented, conceptual approach, based on published material on the species' preferences for habitat components related to food and cover. For both model approaches habitat was described using estimates of forest-stand characteristics based on satellite imagery. The empirical model also included variables relating to topographic properties of the landscape as well as distances to landscape features. The output from both models was a habitat suitability index (HSI) score, enabling the models to be compared with each other. The models showed different results, highlighting the need to include the spatially explicit distribution of environmental variables in future conceptual, process-oriented models.
41417384|Mistra's Climate Policy Research Program, Clipore, is one of the largest research programs directed to support international climate policy development, involving research groups in Sweden, Norway, United States and India. It has been running from 2004 to 2011 with a budget of more than 100 MSEK (15 MUSD). The paper briefly describes the program and its outcomes in relation to climate policy development. Discussion focuses on how the program has been able to be in the front of and include the development of emissions trading systems in Europe and the United States and how the program has been able to follow and produce inputs to the agenda of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The paper also discusses how the program has managed to present its outcomes and maintain an active dialogue with the various stakeholders. The paper emphasises options and obstacles in the communication between science and policy.
25547883|Large-scale development of irrigation has long been an attractive option of postwar development, and the Mekong region has been no exception. Thailand has developed approximately four million hectares of irrigated land, and its northeastern region (Isaan)-both the driest and poorest part of the country-has been the target of many water projects. However, "full development" of its potential has been constrained by the lack of storage sites and the difficulty of diverting water from the Mekong River. Several ambitious projects have been discussed during the last 50 y, all of which have been aimed at "greening Isaan." In 2003, the Thai administration launched the idea of a national "water grid" that would triple the area of irrigated land in the country. This paper analyzes the emergence of this megaproject, its governance, and its economic and environmental soundness.
4314943|This paper describes the characteristics of acid rain in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region/RMBH, Brazil, a region influenced by sulfur dioxide and nitrogen-oxides emitted by industries and automotive vehicles. The region also receives the prevailing winds from the large karstic area where an intensive calcareous exploitation occurs. The supply of alkaline calcareous dust to neutralize anthropogenic acids in the atmosphere can control the acidity of the RMBH precipitation. Rainfall was collected from 3 monitoring stations, on a daily basis, using bulk collectors, from October 1993 to February 1994. The volume-weighted mean pHs ranged from 4.98 to 5.27. Ca
4314345|In order to monitor a possibly changing environment there is a need for historical archives and appropriate methods that enable us to decipher them. Natural isotopic ratios such as
4313411|The development of management strategies for the protection of environmental quality usually involves consideration both of technical and nontechnical issues. A logical, step-by-step framework for development of such strategies is provided. Its application to the control of cultural eutrophication of lakes and reservoirs illustrates its potential usefulness. From the perspective of the policymaker, the main consideration is that the eutrophication-related water quality of a lake or reservoir can be managed for given water uses. The approach presented here allows the rational assessment of relevant water-quality parameters and establishment of water-quality goals, consideration of social and other nontechnical issues, the possibilities of public involvement in the decision-making process, and a reasonable economic analysis within a management framework.
41417395|The decline in sea cucumber fisheries that serve the Asian dried seafood market has prompted an increase in global sea cucumber aquaculture. The tropical sandfish (Holothuria scabra) has, in this context, been reared and produced with mixed success. In the Western Indian Ocean, villagers often participate in the export fishery for sea cucumbers as a source of income. However, with a growing concern of depleted stocks introduction of hatcheries to farm sandfish as a community livelihood and to replenish wild stocks is being promoted. This review identifies and discusses a number of aspects that constitute constraints or implications with regard to development of sandfish farming in the region. The conclusion is that for sandfish farming to live up to its expectations the possible impacts need to be further studied, and that improved evaluation of ongoing projects is required. In the interim, a precautionary approach toward new enterprise activities is suggested.
4312246|Multipurpose use of water implies threats to human and animal health, not only by the spread of infectious diseases but also through contamination of water bodies with intentionally spread and inadvertently released chemicals. This pollution increases with urbanization, industrialization and intensive agriculture. Humans and animals may be affected directly by drinking or indirectly through food, and also by changes in their ecosystem. Certain physical factors, like thermal pollution or increased water use per se, may also have adverse effects on human ecosystems. Contamination may occur as a result of human intervention in natural chemical cycles or by release of man-made chemicals. The effect of certain contaminants is accentuated by bioaccumulation. The type of countermeasure which should be taken varies with the pollutant, depending on whether this is a substance also possessing positive biological effects, or a noneternal biodegradable nonbiological pollutant, or an eternal pollutant which irreversibly accumulates in the environment.
4312640|The Man and the Biosphere (MAB) program is testing new approaches to scientific research and cooperation in the environmental sciences. MAB fosters interdisciplinary research and training centered on concrete problems of resource management. It seeks to provide the scientific knowledge that can be used to help solve the practical problems facing decision-makers. In this introductory article to a special issue of Ambio, MAB is described in terms of a system evolving in response to changing constraints within an increasingly unpredictable socio-economic environment. Criteria for evaluating MAB, after ten years' existence, are outlined.
4313694| In the short perspective, human activity is either directly or indirectly a major causal factor for changes in the transport of dissolved substances in Swedish rivers. Anthropogenic pollution of air and water is of major importance for some substances, sulfate being a well-known case. This finding is strongly corroborated by the data presented here. Additions of agricultural fertilizers and lime increase the riverine flux of several other elements, including calcium. Deicing of roads is one of the human activities which leads to increased chlorine concentrations in river water. The data presented lack proof of increases in the chemical weathering of regolith and bedrock. Contrary to earlier studies, my data show that total alkalinity has increased in a number of rivers. Besides the absolute increase the proportion of total alkalinity (bicarbonate) has decreased in relation to calcium and sulfate. There has been a strong latitudinal trend in the changes of dissolved substances during this century. In rivers north of 60N, changes in calcium and total alkalinity have been limited; the former has increased slightly while the latter remains more or less unchanged. Sulfate has increased substantially, and has generally doubled since early this century. For southern Sweden all the examined substances seem to have increased. The heaviest increase is for sulfate which has generally doubled. Calcium has also increased by about 50%. Data for total alkalinity include only six of the best buffered rivers, which show increases of between 30 and 70%. For weakly buffered rivers, no early-century data exist. Disregarding analytical difficulties, the increase in chlorine in southern Sweden since early this century is probably larger than that of any of the other components discussed. The pattern revealed by this investigation constitutes a consistent northward extension of that in continental Europe. 
4315264|The coastal ecosystems in Southeast Asia are under increased pressure from local and global change. This paper examines human migration and the use of marine resources in coastal villages in the Minahasa district of North Sulawesi, Indonesia. Primary data were collected through interviews with village leaders, focus groups, and a sample survey of 600 fishing households. Migration is responsible for at least one quarter of the total growth during the past decade. All groups of fishermen report falling productivity of the nearshore fisheries. Econometric analysis is used to examine the weekly fish catch of the artisanal fishing sector. Migration status and socioeconomic variables seem to have no systematic effect, while fishing effort (labor, boat, and gear), the degree of specialization, and the remoteness of markets are found to be positively related to weekly fish catches.
4312728|Natural perturbations of Caribbean forests, such as hurricanes, occur at predictable intervals to which the forests are adapted, and in some cases have beneficial effects. In contrast, man-made disturbances take longer to heal and may be irreversible. Human disruption of forests is related to the intensity of human activity, which in turn is dependent on energy consumption and land use policies. Since the coming of European settlers the Caribbean has been subjected to alternating periods of deforestation and reforestation, depending on social and economic conditions. Some alternatives for forest management are suggested.
25547851|Fluctuations in the 20-year record of nitrate (NO) and total organic carbon (TOC) concentrations and fluxes in runoff at the small headwater catchment Storgama, southern Norway, were related to climate and acid deposition. The long-term decline in NO related to reduced NO deposition and increased winter discharge, whereas the long-term increase in TOC related to reduced sulfur deposition. Multiple regression models describing long-term trends and seasonal variability in these records were used to project future concentrations given scenarios of climate change and acid deposition. All scenarios indicated reduced NO fluxes and increased TOC fluxes; the largest projected changes for the period 2071-2100 were -86% and +24%, respectively. Uncertainties are that the predicted future temperatures are considerably higher than the historical record. Also, nonlinear responses of ecosystem processes (nitrogen [N] mineralization) to temperature, N-enrichment of soils, and step-changes in environmental conditions may affect future leaching of carbon and N.
4315049|The distributions of both the organismal and ecological diversity of Peru were evaluated through cartographic analyses in relationship to Peru's national system of protected areas. Also identified and mapped were areas so poorly known that they represent conservation information gaps, areas that cannot currently be evaluated, but which should not be overlooked. These methods revealed that the protected area system in Peru did not adequately protect either organismal or ecological diversity. In the short term, inclusion of unprotected priority areas in the national system is the best way to improve biological conservation. Over long time periods, it is also important to make decisions about the priority of areas that are information gaps. This study provides a useful point of comparison with other countries that are at different stages in the task of assembling biodiversity information. It was clear that i) the identified priority areas were important for national-level planning; ii) the drier and nonforested ecosystems seldom have been included in conservation efforts; iii) because degradation processes will constantly change, the conservation status of a particular area will also change and should not be confounded in priorization with the value of the biological diversity present; and iv) the identification of information gaps is the most transparent method for keeping decision-makers advised as to the limits of scientific knowledge on the distribution of biological diversity.
41417421|Dye-sensitized solar cells (DSC) are based on molecular and nanometer-scale components. Record cell efficiencies of 12%, promising stability data and means of energy-efficient production methods have been accomplished. As selling points for the DSC technology the prospect of low-cost investments and fabrication are key features. DSCs offer the possibilities to design solar cells with a large flexibility in shape, color, and transparency. The basic principles of the operation of DSC, the state-of-the-art as well as the potentials for future development are described.
40801537|The life of impoverished people can be damaged by adverse environmental conditions, but these people can also be harmed by environmental conservation programs, particularly when the guiding policy ignores their needs. To improve the social and economic effectiveness of environmental protection, governments must understand that the ultimate goal of environmental protection is to improve human livelihoods, not just restore vegetation. The elimination of poverty by the development of sustainable, long-term enterprises is a precondition for successful ecological restoration.
4313300|The element selenium has attained increased interest during recent years. Previously, selenium was known as a potent poison, but nowadays a major emphasis is put on its anticarcinogenic properties, its ability to alleviate metal toxicity and its role as an essential trace element. In this paper we will briefly discuss these biological properties. It will be shown that there are important gaps in our knowledge about selenium metabolism and that several questions may be raised about its regulation. Recent studies in our laboratory have led us to suggest that redox cycles are involved in selenium biotransformation.
4314862|The scale and severity of soil erosion within the headwaters of the Yangtze River in Yunnan Province are discussed. The Yangtze River rises in the western uplands of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau and traverses 6380 km through southern and central China. The headwaters are in tectonically active and geologically unstable uplands. The basin is also generally under intensive agricultural use, mainly for rice cultivation. Hence, erosion rates are high and of increasing concern, especially considering the construction of the Three Gorges (Sanxia) Dam in the middle section. Sedimentation within the proposed reservoir could impair its efficiency and therefore soil conservation must be an integral component of basin management. Soil conservation efforts in Yunnan are reviewed and the local-scale planned approach to soil conservation is illustrated, using Dongchuan and Xundian as case studies. An ongoing runoff plot study at Yunnan Agricultural University (Kunming) is used to evaluate the effectiveness of various soil conservation measures. Maize (Zea mays) cropping treatments, typically employed in local agronomic practices, are applied to 30 erosion plots at 3 different slope angles, cultivated both parallel and perpendicular to the contour, thus, simulating a range of agricultural conditions on arable slopes. Plot data from 1993-1996 suggest several suitable soil conservation measures. Erosion rates were generally lower on plots where contour cultivation was used. The mean contour cultivation erosion rate was 0.69 of the mean downslope orientated cultivation rate. Straw mulch and contour cultivation seem particularly suitable soil conservation measures.
4315780|Wild piscivorous fish, mammals, and birds may be at risk for elevated dietary methylmercury intake and toxicity. In controlled feeding studies, the consumption of diets that contained Hg (as methylmercury) at environmentally realistic concentrations resulted in a range of toxic effects in fish, birds, and mammals, including behavioral, neurochemical, hormonal, and reproductive changes. Limited field-based studies, especially with certain wild piscivorous bird species, e.g., the common loon, corroborated laboratory-based results, demonstrating significant relations between methylmercury exposure and various indicators of methylmercury toxicity, including reproductive impairment. Potential population effects in fish and wildlife resulting from dietary methylmercury exposure are expected to vary as a function of species life history, as well as regional differences in fish-Hg concentrations, which, in turn, are influenced by differences in Hg deposition and environmental methylation rates. However, population modeling suggests that reductions in Hg emissions could have substantial benefits for some common loon populations that are currently experiencing elevated methylmercury exposure. Predicted benefits would be mediated primarily through improved hatching success and development of hatchlings to maturity as Hg concentrations in prey fish decline. Other piscivorous species may also benefit from decreased Hg exposure but have not been as extensively studied as the common loon.
25547809|Coastal areas are exposed to a variety of threats due to high population densities and rapid economic development. How will this affect human welfare and our dependence on nature's capacity to provide ecosystem goods and services? This paper is original in evaluating this concern for major habitats (macroalgae, seagrasses, blue mussel beds, and unvegetated soft bottoms) in a temperate coastal setting. More than 40 categories of goods and services are classified into provisional, regulating, and cultural services. A wide variety of Swedish examples is described for each category, including accounts of economic values and the relative importance of different habitats. For example, distinguishing characteristics would be the exceptional importance of blue mussels for mitigation of eutrophication, sandy soft bottoms for recreational uses, and seagrasses and macroalgae for fisheries production and control of wave and current energy. Net changes in the provision of goods and services are evaluated for three cases of observed coastal ecosystem shifts: i) seagrass beds into unvegetated substrate; ii) unvegetated shallow soft bottoms into filamentous algal mat dominance; and iii) macroalgae into mussel beds on hard substrate. The results are discussed in a management context including accounts of biodiversity, interconnectedness of ecosystems, and potential of economic valuation.
4313620|Recent Soviet studies on the problems of "nuclear winter" theory show that there are some partial natural analogs of the meteorological and climatic consequences of blasts and fires of major nuclear exchange-mass forest fires on earth and global martian dust storms. Series of semi-laboratory experimental fires were performed during the summers of 1985, 1986, and 1988. Results of these experiments help to explain the phenomena of "blue" sun and moon, seen through the layer of forest smoke, and to provide some detailed information on the climatic effects of nuclear war.
4312622|The use of industrially produced chlorofluoromethanes (CFMs) may lead to a noticeable reduction in the earth's ozone shield in the next 20 years. The authors calculate an ozone depletion on the order of 11 to 16 percent in steady state toward the end of the next century, given 1977 values for the release of F-11
40801529|The ongoing oil spill from the blown-out well by the name of Macondo, drilled by the ill-fated rig Deepwater Horizon, has many features in common with another blowout in the Mexican Gulf that happened three decades ago. Then the oil gushed out from the Ixtoc I well drilled by the Sedeo 135-F semi-submersible rig. In the years between these catastrophes, the source and nature of oil spills have undergone large changes. Huge spills from tankers that ran aground or collided used to be what caught the headlines and caused large ecological damage. The number and size of such accidental spills have decreased significantly. Instead, spills from ageing, ill-maintained or sabotaged pipelines have increased, and places like Arctic Russia, the Niger Delta, and the northwestern Amazon have become sites of reoccurring oil pollution. As for blowouts, there is no clear trend with regard to the number of incidences or amounts of spilled oil, but deepwater blowouts are much harder to cap and thus tend to go on longer and result in the release of larger quantities of oil. Also, oil exploration and extraction is moving into everdeeper water and into stormier and icier seas, increasing potential risks. The risk for reoccurring spills like the two huge Mexican Gulf ones is eminent and must be reduced.
4312240|Irrigated agriculture constitutes the main source of food production in arid and semi-arid regions of the world. Waterlogging and salinity are major land problems under irrigation due to improper land use and water management practices. As a result, soil deterioration is taking place at an alarming rate. The decline of many early civilizations in arid and semi-arid regions is attributed to loss of soil productivity due to salinity and waterlogging. About 50 percent of the world's population produce their food under some degree of irrigation. If developing countries are to meet the challenge of the increasing food demands, they need to place more land under irrigation and above all to improve the management and use of the existing land and water resources. Development of water resources may not in itself lead to higher yields unless it is associated with proper on-the-farm water management.
23322910|Debate and literature on the link between degrading environments and human mobility has been increasing exponentially. There is little concrete evidence, however, of efforts or policies that support the management of environmentally influenced mobility. Through discourse analysis using Q-methodology, this research aimed to scrutinize the standoff between opposing views under a fresh lens. One-hundred and ninety-seven experts from 49 nations completed an on-line survey asking them to sort, by level of agreement, 42 statements gleaned from the literature concerning the environment-mobility nexus. Four very different discourses emerged: determined humanists, benevolent pragmatists, cynical protectionists, and critical realists. The complexity of these discourses helps explain the stalemate while confirming the inappropriateness of one-sided terminology and linear quantifications. Despite diametrically opposed viewpoints, experts unanimously agree that human mobility is connected to environmental change. Dissection of these social perspectives builds a new foundation for the Rio+20 analysis and policy deliberations related to environmentally influenced human mobility.
4313206|Over a one-year period, heavy metal distribution in unfiltrated water samples of the most important rivers and lakes of northern Greece was studied. The high level of heavy metals found in some of the water systems was indicative of anthropogenic contamination. The heavy metal concentrations were correlated with the pollution sources and the results discussed and compared with those of other regions. A direct dependence of the suspended heavy metals on the rivers' discharge could be only partially determined.
4313870|The African drylands have proven staggeringly vulnerable during the last two decades. This article summarizes major current research on environment/development issues in the drylands, with respect, not only to environmental vulnerability, but also to other major obstacles towards sustainable development. It highlights three interrelated dimensions of security; environmental security, food security, and international security. It is illuminated that food production may be undermined by regional armed conflicts which block efforts to improve food security as well as jeopardize sustainability. Once this obstacle is removed, the major issue is; how to offset food production and environmental management. To secure livelihood at the local level, demands the effectuation of levels of empowerment appropriate and capable of transcending the conventional notions of popular participation. Of greatest significance is the comprehension of decision-making processes to encompass the local community, national, regional and even global perspectives. It is suggested here that efforts towards sustainable environment/development are better based on interdisciplinary research and cross-sectoral profile linking policy and adaptive research.
4314303|The Three Gorges Project of China will provide flood control, hydroelectric power and navigation improvement for the Changjiang (Yangtze River) Basin. On the other hand, this megaproject will result in the drowning of, wholly or partly, 19 cities and counties, 238 km
4315079|Rainwater harvesting agriculture (RHA), which was first developed by scientists in Gansu province over a decade ago, is an integrated system for water management on rainfed land in semiarid areas. This system consists of three main components including rainwater harvesting system, water-saving irrigation system, and highly effective crop production system. Its main function is to provide farmers in water-limiting environments with access to the water needed to meet domestic and agricultural water needs. The preliminary implementation of RHA in Gansu and other provinces in northwest China suggests that RHA has the potential to improve performance in rainfed farming systems and to address environmental problems such as soil erosion. The small-scale and low cost of RHA systems make application by household farmers simple. However, to be successful RHA needs to be integrated in a comprehensive agricultural-management system; i.e. management of RHA must be combined with other agricultural technologies and management practices. In addition, the spread of RHA over large areas entails consideration of a range of technological, agrohydrological, ecological, social, cultural, economic, and political factors. In particular, there is a need to provide training and extension services to farmers, to develop and disseminate more effective and affordable types of RHA technologies as alternatives and to design and develop alternative policy instruments and social institutions that facilitate adoption of RHA practices.
4314426|Worldwide population growth is posing difficulties for all countries, especially in relation to housing. To solve housing construction and environmental problems on a large scale is, therefore, not only a problem for the developing countries, but also for the developed countries. This article introduces some appropriate methods such as overall planning, simultaneous construction, and the coordination of development for residential areas and for housing construction, in solving urban environmental problems.
4313755|This paper calls attention to the importance of natural products in the development of new drugs. It stresses the adequacy of the ethnopharmacological approach as a research strategy for underdeveloped countries, as well as presenting research results that may have significant impacts on the health-care systems of these countries. To illustrate the research strategy pharmacological results are reported for extracts of Dorstenia asaroides. This species is used by natives as an analgesic and positive results in writhing and formalin tests suggest the presence of active analgesic compounds in the aqueous extract.
23253248|Trees are taller than shrubs, grasses, and herbs. What is the disadvantage of being tall so that trees are restricted to warmer regions than low stature life forms? This article offers a brief review of the current state of biological treeline theory, and then explores the significance of tallness from a carbon balance, freezing resistance, and microclimatological perspective. It will be argued that having of a woody stem is neither a burden to the carbon balance nor does it add to the risk of freezing damage. The physiological means of trees to thrive in cold climates are similar to small stature plants, but due to their size, and, thus, closer aerodynamic coupling to air circulation, trees experience critically low temperatures at lower elevation and latitude than smaller plants. Hence, trees reach a limit at treeline for physical reasons related to their stature.
4315332| On 25 April 1998, a breach of the tailings dam of the Los Frailes pyrite mine in southwestern Spain resulted in the release of 6 million m
4315369|The recolonization of acid-damaged lakes in Killarney Park, Canada is described for 3 species of benthic invertebrates; 2 mayfiles (Stenonema femoratum, Stenacron interpunctatum) and an amphipod (Hyalella azteca). Synoptic surveys of 119 lakes for amphipods and 77 lakes for mayflies were conducted between 1995 and 1997 and defined pH thresholds of 5.6 for S. femoratum and H. azteca and pH 5.3 for S. interpunctatum. In an intensive study of 2 acid-damaged lakes and 2 reference lakes from 1997 to 2002, reestablishment of S. interpunctatum, S. femoratum and H. azteca occurred, when timing of the events could be estimated, less than 4-8 years after pH thresholds for specific taxa were reached. Dispersal of S. interpunctatum to all habitat patches within a lake was completed 3 years after recolonization was detected in the smallest lake (11 ha). It is anticipated that dispersal throughout the largest lake (189 ha) will take much longer. The time lag from estimated pH recovery to reestablishment and subsequent dispersal of mayflies to all suitable habitats within a lake was as much as 11 to 22+ years. The density of S. interpunctatum increased in the recovering lakes to levels higher than in reference lakes, but stable endpoints have not yet been reached during 6 years of monitoring.
4312262|Along with the population growth in the developing countries, the accumulation of waste products of agricultural, industrial, animal and human origin is also increasing at an alarming rate, resulting in pollution of land, water and air resources in those countries where environmentally unsound waste disposal is practiced. As these wastes contain considerable amounts of nitrogen and other plant nutrients, it is necessary to recycle them, not only to generate wealth from such harmful wastes but also to ensure a healthy environment. An attempt is made here not only to identify the nature and magnitude of wastes generated in a typical village but also to describe how they can be recycled by the development of a rural bio-industry.
40730905|Humankind is currently faced with the huge challenge of securing a sustainable energy supply and biofuels constitute one of the major options. However, the commercially traded edible crops are barely sufficient to meet food demand of the present world population. Certain regions, for example EU-27, do not even have a sufficient indigenous crop production. Of this follows that motor biofuels based on edible crops should be avoided. To replace more than some percent of the fossil motor fuels, non-edible biomass rest products and wastes should instead be considered for conversion to biofuels. In this way, about 10% of the current fossil fuels can be replaced. Feeding a world population expected to grow by some 50% during the next 50 years will be a major challenge. For environmental reasons it seems that agricultural land cannot be expanded very much, maybe not at all. The solution to the increasing food demand seems therefore to be using the present crop production more efficiently and increasing output from present agricultural land, maintaining biodiversity and climate stability within reasonable limits. In the future, agriculture will need more energy and more water irrigation. Food production is, however, already very energy demanding, requiring several times more externally provided energy than the energy content of the food itself. A sufficient energy supply will be a key issue for the future farming!
4312774|This reference scenario, which forms the basis for all other articles in this issue, assumes that a nuclear war begins on a week-day in early June, 1985. The nuclear arsenals of the US and the USSR at that time are calcualted to total approximately 12 000 Mt, deployed in 55 000-60 000 tactical and strategic warheads. North America, Europe and the USSR are assumed to be the main strategic targets for these warheads, although cities, industrial and economic centers, military bases, and mineral and energy resources in some other parts of the world are also targeted. These targets would expend a total of 14 741 warheads and 5 742 Mt, of which 5 569 Mt would be exploded in the Northern Hemisphere.
4314895|A new icebreaker-based expedition covering terrestrial and freshwater ecology is to be carried out in the summer of 1999. This Swedish-Canadian joint effort will bring some 70 scientists through the Canadian High Arctic, cruising the North West Passage twice in a single season. The scientific program comprises 5 major themes: plant-animal interactions; biodiversity; bird migration and navigation; freshwater ecology; bioclimatology and ecotoxicology. Sampling along the major latitudinal and longitudinal transects in the Arctic will provide the scientists with a unique possibility to gather data sets with extensive cover of geographic and environmental space within a single season.
4315177|Eggs from 21 resident great blue heron (Ardea herodias) rookeries were monitored from 1983 to 1998 along the coast of British Columbia, Canada, for contamination with polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and biphenyls (PCBs). Dominant congeners (1,2,3,7,8-PnCDD, 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD, 2,3,7,8-TCDD, 2,3,7,8-TCDF, 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD and 2,3,4,7,8-PnCDF) fell markedly in the early 1990s after pulp mills changed from molecular chlorine bleaching to alternative bleaching technologies, and the use of chlorophenolic wood preservatives and anti-sapstains was severely restricted. Strong positive linear regressions between prey fish and heron egg contaminant levels suggested that local dietary uptake was an important route of exposure for herons. Toxic equivalent concentrations (TEQs) sufficient to produce embryotoxicity in great blue heron chicks were measured in eggs from 1985 to 1991 at some colonies. Despite reduction in PCDD/Fs, estimated TEQs remained elevated throughout the 1980s at some urban colonies due to contributions from PCBs.
4312567|The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area was signed in March, 1974, by all countries around the Baltic. This Convention is the most comprehensive so far concluded in the field of regional environmental protection. It deals with pollution from land-based sources (including airborne pollution), dumping, and pollution from ships, and contains provisions for international collaboration to combat spillages of oil and other hazardous substances at sea. The Convention entered into force on May 3, 1980. Considerable progress in implementing the Convention has already been made. This work is reviewed here. A number of other conventions in the field of marine environment protection, which were negotiated and signed during the 1970s and which also more or less cover the Baltic Sea area, are also reviewed.
4314561|In 1993/94, very large volumes of saline waters intruded the Baltic Sea from the North Sea. Following a stagnation period of almost 15 years, this caused a sudden redox turnover in the bottom water of the central deep basins. In the Eastern Gotland Basin, oxygen levels not observed since the 1930s, replaced the highest H
4315072|The village of La Morada on the northeastern slopes of the Andes, Peru, is a typical example of a recent settlement founded in the Ceja de Selva Alta by families of indigenous and mestizo descent, who originally came from the highlands. They have accumulated experiences of the impact of their resource-management practices, but with heavy emphasis on their highland background. Tremendous changes in the environment have been catalysed by road construction, introduction of new settlements, crops, and most of all by the introduction of large numbers of cattle.
4314261| Eutrophication may occur in northwestern Pacific coastal zones (e.g. in the Yellow Sea) where nutrient concentrations in seawater are quite low (oligotrophical areas). This study provides evidence of a correlation between harmful plankton blooms and episodic atmospheric depositions of nutrients in coastal oligotrophic zones. Time and space coincidences suggest that eutrophication may be induced by the atmospheric supply of nutrients and trace species. In the Yellow Sea, where the influence of waste runoff from land is very limited and/or completely absent, atmospheric deposition may become the major source of nutrient elements to the euphotic zone particularly in regions where upward input (e.g. upwelling) is small. On an average, episodic deposition of nutrient elements accounts for only a small fraction ( 10%) of the concentrations in seawater. However, individual rain events may result in temporal eutrophication of surface waters, which may cause harmful blooms to develop in the northwestern Pacific shelf regions. 
25547948|Quantification of the downed woody materials that comprise forest fuels has gained importance in Caribbean forest ecosystems due to the increasing incidence and severity of wildfires on island ecosystems. Because large-scale assessments of forest fuels have rarely been conducted for these ecosystems, forest fuels were assessed at 121 US Department of Agriculture forest service inventory plots on Puerto Rico, Vieques, and the US Virgin Islands. Results indicated that fuel loadings averaged 24.05 Mg ha in 2004-2006. Forest litter decreased from wetter to drier forest life zones. These island forests showed a paucity of coarse woody fuels (CWD) (2.91 Mg ha) and relatively greater quantities of smaller-sized fine woody fuels (FWD) (10.18 Mg ha for FWD and 10.82 Mg ha for duff/litter) when compared to continental tropical forests. Between 2001 and 2006, CWD fuel loads decreased, while fine fuels and litter increased, such that total fuel loads remained constant on a subset of plots on Puerto Rico. This trend indicates that continued decomposition of CWD deposited by the last severe hurricane is balanced by increasing inputs of FWD from recovering and maturing secondary forests. Forest disturbance cycles and successional development must be taken into account by agencies charged with fire protection and risk assessment.
4314855| PCBs have been found to impair both reproduction and development in fish. We have investigated the effects of 3 PCB congeners, 2,3,34,45,6-HpCB (PCB-190); 2,3,4,4-TeCB (PCB-60); and 2,2,4,6,6-PeCB (PCB-104), and the estrogenic hormone 17-estradiol on fecundity, early life-stage mortality, gross morphology and histology of zebrafish (Danio rerio). While none of the studied substances reduced fecundity, they increased embryo and larval mortality. The most severe effects on viability were observed following treatment with 17-estradiol or the weakly estrogenic PCB-104. Following 17-estradiol or PCB-104 exposure, mortality continued through the yolk-sac absorption phase. PCB-60, on the other hand, resulted in mortality between the 30% epiboly stage and 75% epiboly stage. At the same time as embryos started to die, embryo development and hatching were delayed. PCB-190 showed only moderate effects on early-life stage mortality. The fish were reared until sexual maturation whereafter they were subjected to gross morphological and histological analyses. Changes in morphology were observed following PCB-104 and PCB-190 treatment. Both substances gave rise to craniofacial malformations while PCB-104 also led to lordosis in females and scoliosis in fish of both sexes. From histological analysis it was found that PCB-104 and 17-estradiol resulted in karyorrhexis and karyolysis in the kidney. Possible signs of bile stasis were observed following 17-estradiol and PCB-190 treatment. Some effects were observed on the gonads, including areas in the ovary showing atresia and limited failure of testicular spermatogenesis in 17-estradiol, PCB-104, and PCB-60 treated fish. While all studied substances resulted in effects on offspring, the observation that estrogenic substances are highly embryotoxic, raises concern that endocrine disrupting substances may severely reduce fish populations in polluted areas. 
23253247|Plant species distributions are expected to shift and diversity is expected to decline as a result of global climate change, particularly in the Arctic where climate warming is amplified. We have recorded the changes in richness and abundance of vascular plants at Abisko, sub-Arctic Sweden, by re-sampling five studies consisting of seven datasets; one in the mountain birch forest and six at open sites. The oldest study was initiated in 19771979 and the latest in 1992. Total species number increased at all sites except for the birch forest site where richness decreased. We found no general pattern in how composition of vascular plants has changed over time. Three species, Calamagrostis lapponica, Carex vaginata and Salix reticulata, showed an overall increase in cover/frequency, while two Equisetum taxa decreased. Instead, we showed that the magnitude and direction of changes in species richness and composition differ among sites.
4315349|The international trade in corals has been identified as a potential cause of localized depletion of coral populations in the major coral-exporting countries. The international coral trade is regulated by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES) agreement, which requires that export of corals is not detrimental to the species. The primary coral importing regions (USA and Europe) have threatened to limit or ban coral imports unless sustainable practices can be demonstrated. The spatial and temporal scale at which sustainability is defined is important in evaluating sustainability, e.g. at geological, regional or local scales. Other major issues are: the ecology of the target species; management options including provision of no-take areas; and the potential for coral culture. Implementation of practices that enhance ecological sustainability in the coral harvest fishery is possible, but may be difficult in some developing countries because of limited natural-resource management capacity.
41418336|We summarize the latest results on the rapid changes that are occurring to Arctic sea ice thickness and extent, the reasons for them, and the methods being used to monitor the changing ice thickness. Arctic sea ice extent had been shrinking at a relatively modest rate of 3-4% per decade (annually averaged) but after 1996 this speeded up to 10% per decade and in summer 2007 there was a massive collapse of ice extent to a new record minimum of only 4.1 million km. Thickness has been falling at a more rapid rate (43% in the 25 years from the early 1970s to late 1990s) with a specially rapid loss of mass from pressure ridges. The summer 2007 event may have arisen from an interaction between the long-term retreat and more rapid thinning rates. We review thickness monitoring techniques that show the greatest promise on different spatial and temporal scales, and for different purposes. We show results from some recent work from submarines, and speculate that the trends towards retreat and thinning will inevitably lead to an eventual loss of all ice in summer, which can be described as a 'tipping point' in that the former situation, of an Arctic covered with mainly multi-year ice, cannot be retrieved.
25547901|Exceedance of steady-state critical loads for soil acidification is consistently found in southern China and parts of SE Asia, but there is no evidence of impacts outside of China. This study describes a methodology for calculating the time to effects for soils sensitive to acidic deposition in Asia under potential future sulfur (S), nitrogen (N), and calcium (Ca) emission scenarios. The calculations are matched to data availability in Asia to produce regional-scale maps that provide estimates of the time (y) it will take for soil base saturation to reach a critical limit of 20% in response to acidic inputs. The results show that sensitive soil types in areas of South, Southeast, and East Asia, including parts of southern China, Burma, Hainan, Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, and the Western Ghats of India, may acidify to a significant degree on a 0-50 y timescale, depending on individual site management and abiotic and biotic characteristics. To make a clearer assessment of risk, site-specific data are required for soil chemistry and deposition (especially base cation deposition); S and N retention in soils and ecosystems; and biomass harvesting and weathering rates from sites across Asia representative of different soil and vegetation types and management regimes. National and regional assessments of soils using the simple methods described in this paper can provide an appreciation of the time dimension of soil acidification-related impacts and should be useful in planning further studies and, possibly, implementing measures to reduce risks of acidification.
4314661|Protected areas in India have historically been established on an ad hoc basis with little attention to the conservation value of an area. This study focusses on a set of protected areas in the Agastyamalai region of the Western Ghats (WG), India. We examine forest loss and land-use changes in the study area from the early 1900s to 1960 and from 1960 to 1990. We use GIS to perform a biodiversity gap analysis of the protected areas in the study site. We produce a detailed map of existing floristic types and use it to generate layers corresponding to floristic species richness, zones of floristic endemism, floristically unique areas, and habitat distribution of representative endemic faunal species. These layers are combined with a map of the protected area network to highlight areas of high conservation value excluded from adequate protection. Deforestation rates are high in the study region and several areas of high biodiversity value are excluded from the highest levels of protection. We offer this method as a step toward developing a utilitarian conservation value index for assigning conservation and management priorities.
4313076|Traditional South Pacific societies conceived of their environment through a religious world view that enabled them to identify closely with the environment, treating it with a degree of awe and respect. Their environmental practices whether for agriculture, for fishing, or for harvesting the wild produce of nature were simple, Usually small in scale, creating minimum disturbances to nature. Their methods of resource utilization facilitated by their systems of "taboo" ensured continuity of vital species and were, in effect, practical conservation measures.
4315176|Organochlorine pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are ubiquitous and persistent in the environment. They are known to concentrate in cold environments as a result of progressive evaporation from warm regions, and condensation in colder regions. In this study we show that melting glaciers supply 50 to 97% of the organochlorine inputs to a subalpine lake in Alberta, Canada, while contributing 73% of input water. Tritium analyses indicated that during the mid- to late summer warm period, at least 10% of the glacial melt originated from ice that was deposited in 1950-1970, when it was more contaminated with organochlorines. This finding suggests that climate warming may cause melting glaciers to become increasing sources of contaminants to freshwaters. Organochlorines from glacial streams were largely in dissolved form because the organic-poor glacial clays had a limited sorption capacity for the more hydrophobic chemicals.
4312323|This article deals with the impact of human activities on arid land ecosystems in the Mediterranean basin. Owing to the demographic explosion which started some fifty years ago, arid lands are under increasing pressure from man and animals. This pressure is expressed through the extension of cultivation to areas where it should not occur ecologically, a general overstocking and overgrazing, the removal of woody plants for fuel, salination of land due to faulty irrigation schemes etc. These various human actions result in widespread erosion, sedimentation and salination which radically reduce to long-term productivity of arid land ecosystems. Large tracts of land become storile each year and the desert encroaches on former productive land thus reducing the size of the ecumene.
4313225|Since 1967 biological samples from various parts of the Swedish environment have been collected and analyzed for levels of DDT and PCB. Pike, herring and eggs of guillemot were chosen as material for these trend monitoring studies. There has been a 90 percent reduction of the DDT levels in the Baltic proper since the beginning of the 1970's and a 50 percent reduction in PCB. Available data on production of DDT and PCB are sparse, but indicate a delay of several years between decrease in production and decrease in environmental levels. The article also discusses the time perspective of pollution in the Baltic and the measures needed to protect the Baltic environment.
4315414|Both frequency and intensity of disturbances in many ecosystems have been greatly enhanced by increasing human activities. As a consequence, the short-lived plant species including many exotics might have been dramatically increased in terms of both richness and abundance on our planet, while many long-lived species might have been lost. Such conclusions can be drawn from broadly observed successional cycles in both theoretical and empirical studies. This article discusses 2 major issues that have been largely overlooked in current ecosystem management policies and conservation efforts: i) life history constraints; and ii) future global warming trends. It also addresses the importance of these 2 factors in balancing disturbance frequency and intensity for optimal biodiversity maintenance and ecosystem management.
4313331|World consumption and production of forest products continues to increase. This is especially the case for newsprint, writing and printing paper and other paper products. Consumption increase in sawnwood has almost stagnated and consumption increase in woodbased panels is much lower than previously. Lower rates of growth are forecasted for Europe than for the world as a whole. Supplies of roundwood and the available forest resources seem to be adequate enough to cover the world demand for forest products, at least up to the year 2000. The decrease in forests in large areas of the developing world is leading to a serious shortage of fuelwood and to the degradation of soils due to erosion.
4314967|Tree-ring size and chemistry of healthy and declining sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.) trees, growing in nutrient-poor soils derived from the Precambrian Shield in Ontario, were used to document historical changes in tree nutrition since the mid-1940s. At Dorset, a site showing extensive decline symptoms which have been observed annually since 1986, a reduction in tree-ring width occurred in rings formed during the 1940s, although after 1950, tree-ring size and concentrations of Ca, Mg and Mn have been constant. Concentrations of Ca (680 mg kg
4313453|This paper reviews the effects of long-term protective management on fish abundances at coral-reef reserves and nonreserves and on fish yields at nonreserves at four small islands in the central Philippines. One of the studied reefs lost its protection after ten years, becoming a natural experiment on the effects of protection. Factors influencing fish yields and management problems affecting Philippine marine reserves are briefly discussed. Fish abundances were censused visually; data showed that fish abundances and standing stock of highly fished species were significantly higher in reserves than in nonreserves and control sites. Annual fish yields were estimated with daily records of fish catches from various types of gear, and with monthly samples of catches. The data revealed that protection at the ten-year site was responsible for maintaining high fish yields; it also revealed that the reserve exported biomass to the nonreserve (fishing) area. The effects of less than five years' protection at two other reefs were not evident, although some species increased in abundance. A fish-monitoring program at the protected reefs is intended to test the generality of the conclusions drawn from data on one reef.
4313944|Embankment and subsequent reclamation of coastal salt marshes in The Netherlands started about 1000 years ago. Thousands of km
24708983|Ecologists are increasingly actively involved in conservation. We identify five key topics from a broad sweep of ecology that merit research attention to meet conservation needs. We examine questions from landscape ecology, behavioral ecology, ecosystem dynamics, community ecology, and nutrient cycling related to key topics. Based on literature review and publication trend assessment, consultation with colleagues, and roundtable discussions at the 24th International Congress for Conservation Biology, focused research on the following topics could benefit conservation while advancing ecological understanding: 1. Carbon sequestration, requiring increased linkages to biodiversity conservation; 2. Ecological invasiveness, challenging our ability to find solutions to ecological aliens; 3. Individual variation, having applications in the conservation of rare species; 4. Movement of organisms, integrating ecological processes across landscapes and scales and addressing habitat fragmentation; and 5. Trophic-level interactions, driving ecological dynamics at the ecosystem-level. Addressing these will require cross-disciplinary research under the overarching framework of conservation ecology.
23322911|This study maps current understanding and research trends on the human dimensions of climate change (HDCC) in the eastern and central Canadian Arctic. Developing a systematic literature review methodology, 117 peer reviewed articles are identified and examined using quantitative and qualitative methods. The research highlights the rapid expansion of HDCC studies over the last decade. Early scholarship was dominated by work documenting Inuit observations of climate change, with research employing vulnerability concepts and terminology now common. Adaptation studies which seek to identify and evaluate opportunities to reduce vulnerability to climate change and take advantage of new opportunities remain in their infancy. Over the last 5 years there has been an increase social science-led research, with many studies employing key principles of community-based research. We currently have baseline understanding of climate change impacts, adaptation, and vulnerability in the region, but key gaps are evident. Future research needs to target significant geographic disparities in understanding, consider risks and opportunities posed by climate change outside of the subsistence hunting sector, complement case study research with regional analyses, and focus on identifying and characterizing sustainable and feasible adaptation interventions.
4314249|Although 25% of the population in developed countries consume more than 75% of the natural resources, misconceptions persist that population is a major threat to the world's natural resources. This article puts unsustainable consumption patterns and population in proper perspective. Local environmental problems in developing countries, viz. safe drinking water, clean fuels, sanitation have been emphasized as priority problems and compared to global environmental problems. It is also suggested that a tradeable emissions quota system for greenhouse gases constitutes an efficient and socially just mechanism for tackling local and global environmental problems. Greenhouse-gas emission activities and socioeconomic aspects of emissions reduction, from various activities, are discussed.
4315241|The Pearl River Delta Economic Zone is the most dynamic economic area in South China. One of the major problems in the region is the sustainable utilization of the water resources. On the basis of analysis of the water environment status and pollution sources, it is suggested that domestic sewage is the primary cause of pollution. Two new concepts "degradation coefficient" and "degradation volume" of water resources, due to pollution, which may be used to assess macroscopically the carrying capacity of the water resources and sustainability of the water environment, are proposed by the authors. The results calculated indicate that the volumes of degraded water resources will be up to 204, 352, and 537 million m
4312332|Effects of the water soluble fraction of Ekofisk crude oil were tested on zoeal larvae of the brachyuran crab Hyas araneus (Linnaeus). The water soluble fraction had no acute effect on survival at concentrations of 0.3, 1.5, and 3.0 ppm hydrocarbons. A long-term effect on survival was observed at the 3.0 ppm concentration. While 95 to 100 percent of the first zoeal larvae survived to the megalopa stage in the control and in the two lower concentrations of hydrocarbons, only 25 percent reached this stage at 3.0 ppm. It was also found that the duration of zoeal development lengthened significantly with an increase in hydrocarbon concentrations.
25547878|The wetlands of the lower Mekong River Basin are ecologically and socioeconomically significant, but they are threatened by predicted climatic change. The likely response of wetland ecosystems to altered flooding regimes and surface-water chemistry is unknown in detail and difficult to model. One way of exploring the impact of climate change on wetland ecosystems is to utilize proxy environmental data that reveal patterns of change over geological time. In recent years, the coverage and resolution of proxy climatic data have improved markedly in the region. Recent evidence of the South China Sea transgression into southern and central Cambodia and paleobotanical evidence from the Tonle Sap ("Great Lake") and elsewhere allow us to explore how periods of higher-than-present sea level and increased monsoon rainfall in the past have impacted the wetland ecology of the lower Mekong River Basin.
4315782|In this paper, we synthesize available information on the links between changes in ecosystem loading of inorganic mercury (Hg) and levels of methylmercury (MeHg) in fish. Although it is widely hypothesized that increased Hg load to aquatic ecosystems leads to increases in MeHg in fish, there is limited quantitative data to test this hypothesis. Here we examine the available evidence from a range of sources: studies of ecosystems contaminated by industrial discharges, observations of fish MeHg responses to changes in atmospheric load, studies over space and environmental gradients, and experimental manipulations. A summary of the current understanding of the main processes involved in the transport and transformation from Hg load to MeHg in fish is provided. The role of Hg loading is discussed in context with other factors affecting Hg cycling and bioaccumulation in relation to timing and magnitude of response in fish MeHg. The main conclusion drawn is that changes in Hg loading (increase or decrease) will yield a response in fish MeHg but that the timing and magnitude of the response will vary depending of ecosystem-specific variables and the form of the Hg loaded.
4313832|The work of the World Commission on Environment and Development urged governments to accept their international responsibility for conserving nature. One of the most important tasks for Norway is to conserve representative examples of ancient and virgin conifer forest. The conservation of selected types of nature will play an important role in guaranteeing the survival of endangered species, protecting genetic resources at all trophic levels, conserving the range of representative ecosystems, and providing reference sites for scientific research. In Norway, modern forestry threatens endangered species and forest types of high conservation interest. A plan to protect coniferous forests within reserves was initiated in 1984. The 1990s will be decisive for the fulfilment of the Norwegian responsibility for nature conservation in this field.
4312157|Every year insect devastation causes severe increment losses in Swedish forests. The hard-pressed economic situation in the forest industry has resulted in a careless exploitation of forests. It is high time to make use of the fundamental biological knowledge at our disposal in the planning of systems and routines in forestry. A thoughtful long-term planning is called for.
4313258|The viviparous blenny seems to have properties necessary for indicating environmental effects of harmful substances. It has two main advantages over most other marine fishes: it is stationary during its life-span and the hatched fry live within the mother for several months. It was established that pregnant females are suitable for laboratory experiments and that exposure to a pulp mill effluent at concentrations which did not affect the survival of the mothers caused mortality and reduced growth of fry.
24709003|Coastal and other area resources such as tidal wetlands, seagrasses, coral reefs, wetlands, and other ecosystems are often harmed by environmental damage that might be inflicted by human actions, or could occur from natural hazards such as hurricanes. Society may wish to restore resources to offset the harm, or receive compensation if this is not possible, but faces difficult choices among potential compensation projects. The optimal amount of restoration efforts can be determined by non-market valuation methods, service-to-service, or resource-to-resource approaches such as habitat equivalency analysis (HEA). HEA scales injured resources and lost services on a one-to-one trade-off basis. Here, we present the main differences between the HEA approach and other non-market valuation approaches. Particular focus is on the role of the social discount rate, which appears in the HEA equation and underlies calculations of the present value of future damages. We argue that while HEA involves elements of economic analysis, the assumption of a one-to-one trade-off between lost and restored services sometimes does not hold, and then other non-market economic valuation approaches may help in restoration scaling or in damage determination.
4313707|Three-spined stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus L. larvae and immature rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri (Richardson) were exposed to six different bleached kraft-mill effluents (BKME) from mills using different bleaching sequences. The sticklebacks were exposed from the egg stage to age 5-months and the rainbow trout for 7 weeks. Effects on growth, mortality, liver-tissue structure, and parasite frequency were noted in the stickleback populations. These effects are combined with effects obtained on the mixed function monoogygenase (MFO), 7-ethoxyresorufin-o-deethylase enzyme (EROD) in the rainbow trout into a hypothetical model of BKME effects on fish. BKMEs are extremely complex mixtures of toxic and potentially toxic compounds. The relative concentrations of these compounds in BKMEs may vary and may thus induce different biological responses depending on the length of exposure, time of observation, and the degradability/lipophilic properties of substances. Due to its central role in detoxification of xenobiotic substances as well as in the transformation of endogenous substances such as hormones, the MFO-system is used to determine the effects of exposure to BKMEs. Effects on growth, liver structure, and diseases are described as secondary effects elicited by an affected detoxification system.
4312911|The Biatowieza Forest on the border between Poland and the Soviet Union is one of the best-preserved woodlands in central Europe, and a natural refuge for the largest remaining herd of European bison. The geography and ecology of the Forest are described, and the measures taken to preserve the natural characteristics of the woodland outlined. The National Park also supports a substantial research program, and Bialowieza Forest has been instrumental in preserving the European bison, which almost became extinct following World War I.
4314251|The impact of integrated watershed management on composition of cattle population, cattle migration, fodder production, feed availability, and village economy has been assessed in a typical Shiwalik foothill village in northern India. The village derived 54% of its total income from animal husbandry, 33% from agriculture and the rest from off-farm activities. The number of buffaloes and cows increased whereas the number of goats decreased over a 7-year period between 1983/84 and 1990/91. People's participation played a significant role in increasing the productivity of arable and nonarable land on a sustainable basis. The availability of green fodder, dry fodder and concentrates increased by 144%, 56% and 95%, respectively, on completion of the project. However, the gap between need and availability did not narrow significantly because of the change in livestock composition. Cows continued to migrate to other places in search of fodder and water whereas buffalo migration decreased from 87% to 36% after the program. The villagers gained 25% of their total income from migrating animals, which help to reduce income inequalities among the families.
4314956|Since the 1950s, the public have become increasingly concerned about the risks associated with emerging technologies. It is, however, important not to reify the concept of risk perception as an explanatory construct, in a way which does not take account of other factors incorporated into the way people represent technology and emerging technologies. Ethical concerns, trust and distrust (in scientific institutions, risk regulators and information providers) and perceptions of social exclusion from risk-management processes should be incorporated into theoretical models used to explain the evolution of public resistance to emerging technologies. In particular, increased efforts to involve the public in risk-management processes is likely to be the best way to redress issues associated with perceptions of social exclusion, although it is important to benchmark public participation exercises in terms of their acceptance to the public, and effectiveness as processes.
4314657|The 'Pigmented Salmon Syndrome' is a noninfectious haemolytic anaemia with associated clinical jaundice of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), caused by exposure to a combination of chemical pollutants. The disease has been restricted to the migrating adult Atlantic salmon population of the River Don, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, UK, where it reached epidemic proportions in the early 1980s. Effluents from paper mills, from the oil-servicing industry and from an airport were implicated as causative factors in the syndrome. Subsequent experiments showed that symptoms of the syndrome could be reproduced by the sequential or combined exposure to petroleum hydrocarbons (such as diesel) and resin acids. The Pigmented Salmon Syndrome has not recurred in wild River Don salmon since 1989, and our research suggests that this is due to directed improvements in the water quality of the River Don. The disease is a good example of how multiple contaminants can collectively cause biological effects which are not apparent from exposure to single substances. This article describes how the causes of the disease were determined.
4314412|Wing bones from several thousand young-of-the-year ducks from across Eastern Canada were analyzed for lead content, and the geographical pattern of elevated lead concentrations was determined and compared with the presence of activities known to cause environmental contamination with lead, namely waterfowl hunting, nonferrous metal mining/smelting, and urban/industrial development. Results indicate that ingestion of spent lead-shot pellets from waterfowl hunting is probably the primary source of elevated lead exposure for wild ducks in Canada. Proximity to metal mining sites, especially gold, silver, and copper/zinc mines, was also a significant correlate, accounting for about a quarter of the total area characterized by a high incidence of elevated lead exposure. In areas where significant waterfowl hunting occurs, results indicate that rather than a few small local sites of high lead exposure, a rather widespread pattern of elevated bone-lead in young-of-the-year ducks exists. These results, combined with other considerations, have caused Canada to abandon its nontoxic shot-zoning approach in favor of a broader ban on the use of lead shot. Beginning in 1997, all migratory game-bird hunting in Canada will require the use of nontoxic shot.
4312608|In the sublittoral, hydrocarbons from the Amoco Cadiz affected mainly the fine sediment, bottom communities which are located in the bays and estuaries. High mortalities were concentrated in time to the early phase of pollution. They involved a limited number of species, but entailed in some cases substantial loss of biomass and production. Long-term effects, such as an increase in the volume of opportunistic species, have been noticed, as well as an absence of larvae settlement on very polluted fine sands. Repopulation will be difficult for some species.
24708984|This perspective paper argues for an urgent need to monitor a set of 12 concrete, measurable indicators of food and water security in the Arctic over time. Such a quantitative indicator approach may be viewed as representing a reductionist rather than a holistic perspective, but is nevertheless necessary for actually knowing what reality aspects to monitor in order to accurately understand, quantify, and be able to project critical changes to food and water security of both indigenous and non-indigenous people in the Arctic. More relevant indicators may be developed in the future, taking us further toward reconciliation between reductionist and holistic approaches to change assessment and understanding. However, the potential of such further development to improved holistic change assessment is not an argument not to urgently start to monitor and quantify the changes in food and water security indicators that are immediately available and adequate for the Arctic context.
4313703|Sinharaja is Sri Lanka's least disturbed and the most extensive patch of lowland rain forest. It is the island's first national Wilderness Heritage Area, a Biosphere Reserve, and a World Heritage Site. Chances of its survival have been enhanced during recent years by a new awareness and commitment to conserve Sri Lanka's remaining wet-zone forests. The long-term success of conserving Sinharaja depends upon the sustainable development of its buffer and peripheral zones through a participatory approach emphasizing the involvement of local people. This is the primary objective of the Conservation Plan for Sinharaja which is now being implemented.
4312796|Flux of elements from the Bohemian Massif via Elbe river water is estimated by comparing analyses made in 1892 with similar analyses made in 1976. The present-day anthropogenic contribution, estimated in
4314809|A study was carried out to provide information about the importance of the management of coastal resources in Bagamoyo, Tanzania. The results showed that the coral reefs at Mwamba Kuni and Mshingwi are the main fishing grounds for the artisanal fishermen. Trawlers compete and conflict with artisanal fishermen. The mangroves provide habitats for fish and other animals and are a source of fuelwood, charcoal, fishing stakes, building materials, and traditional medicines. Solar salt production is also an important activity. Although Bagamoyo depends on renewable resources, the harvesting rates of most resources are not known. Habitat destruction and overexploitation of resources have resulted in declining catches. There is unawareness among the resource users of the linkages between the various coastal ecosystems, but they do have vast traditional knowledge about the resources. In this article, we present the crustacean resources, fish, sea cucumbers, mangrove products, coral reefs, tourism, and salt production activities.
4314233|Investigations of nitrogen retention in artificially flooded wetlands were performed in southern Sweden during 1991-1993. The purpose of the study was to investigate whether artificial flooding of meadows would be a possible means of reducing the nitrogen content in streams and rivers. Two case studies are presented, one from a sandy/organic soil, one from a peaty soil. Overall nitrogen retention was estimated by mass balance. Denitrification activity and plant biomass incorporation of nitrogen were used to complement and verify the mass-balance data. The study shows that artificial flooding of meadows did not contribute significantly to nitrogen retention in the introduced river water under the irrigation regimes utilized. The technique stimulated mineralization of the soil nitrogen pool to an extent which corresponded to the reduction of nitrate caused by denitrification. In the sandy/organic soil, denitrification was enhanced by the artificial flooding, while in the peat area the activity was lower than in a nonflooded reference area. Plant uptake of nitrogen was stimulated by flooding.
4315195| The past effluents of mercury (Hg) into Lake Vnern were considerable. The consequences of, and recovery from these have been monitored through continuous measurements of mercury in sediment and fish. Mercury levels in lake sediments in the vicinity of the main source of mercury, a chloralkali plant on the northern shore, have only decreased by slightly more than a half since the mid-1970s, despite a radical decrease in effluents from the source, already during the 1960s. The mercury levels in pike (Esox lucius) have decreased to a similar extent during this time period. They are now about 30% higher in the worst affected parts of the lake compared to the least affected parts. Lower levels have been measured in perch (Perca fluviatilis) and salmonoid fish in the lake. Despite the increased presence of mercury in the sediment of Lake Vnern, the mercury levels in the fish of the lake are relatively low compared to fish in lakes situated in the same region, but not affected by any local mercury effluents. As calculated, the total fish biomass of L. Vnern holds less than 1000th of the amount of mercury contained in the upper, biologically active layers of the bottom sediment of the lake. This demonstrates the potential influence of various environmental factors and motivates continued monitoring of mercury levels in the lake in the future. 
41417242|The Persian Gulf is a semi-enclosed marine system surrounded by eight countries, many of which are experiencing substantial development. It is also a major center for the oil industry. The increasing array of anthropogenic disturbances may have substantial negative impacts on marine ecosystems, but this has received little attention until recently. We review the available literature on the Gulf's marine environment and detail our recent experience in the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.) to evaluate the role of anthropogenic disturbance in this marine ecosystem. Extensive coastal development may now be the single most important anthropogenic Stressor. We offer suggestions for how to build awareness of environmental risks of current practices, enhance regional capacity for coastal management, and build cooperative management of this important, shared marine system. An excellent opportunity exists for one or more of the bordering countries to initiate a bold and effective, long-term, international collaboration in environmental management for the Gulf.
4314772|Gross nitrogen leaching loads from Swedish agricultural land within the Baltic and the North Sea catchment areas were estimated for 1985 and 1994 as part of an investigation prompted by Sweden's declared resolution to reduce nitrogen loads to the sea by 50%. Standard leaching rates, i.e. nitrogen leaching from the root zone for a year with normal climate and harvest, were calculated for different regions, crops, soils and fertilization regimes using a simulation model. Nitrogen leaching decreased by 25%, from 30 kg N ha
4314406|The Niger Delta is the richest part of Nigeria in terms of natural resources. The area has large oil and gas deposits, as well as extensive forests, good agricultural land and abundant fish resources. Despite the tremendous natural and human resource base, the region's potential for sustainable development remains unfulfilled and its future is being threatened by environmental degradation and deteriorating economic conditions which are not being addressed by present policies and actions. Twenty-five years of oil development have not brought significant benefits to the region. Resource-use decisions are being driven by a lack of development, poor health, stagnant agricultural productivity, very limited opportunities in urban areas, rapid population growth, and tenuous property rights. The article attempts to advance beyond the prevailing emotive arguments on the causes of environmental degradation by examining the full range of environmental issues to determine priorities and to suggest options for sustainable development within an integrated coastal zone management framework.
4313317|Hazardous chemicals have, in recent years, become a major focus for the environmental management activities of the OECD. This has culminated in recommendations for a set of physical, chemical and biological tests and an evaluation procedure which will form the basis for predicting the possible environmental effects of new chemicals. The evaluation proceudre attempts to trace the fate of a chemical from discharge and dispersal to subsequent effects on biota. It provides a conceptual framework for the development of a new scientific discipline described as ecotoxicology.
4314487| In the second half of the 20th century, the largest single engineering project in Europe has changed land-use patterns on the Hungarian Lowland. The recent impacts on the former riverine floodplain are related to industrialized agriculture. The concept of landscape nitrogen metabolism has been used to quantify the economic processes in terms of nitrogen. The computed national nitrogen budget was verified against the trend for riverine nitrate. These results testify to the impact of industrialized agriculture. Nitrogen pollution sources include, 617  10
4314057|Reconciling and operationalizing the three main concepts of sustainable development-the economic, ecological, and sociocultural-poses formidable problems. Environmental economics and valuation can play a key role in helping to incorporate concerns about biodiversity loss into the traditional decision-making framework. A case study from Madagascar examines the impact of a new national park on tropical forests by using both conventional and newer techniques to economically value damage to forests and watersheds, timber and nontimber forest products, other impacts on local inhabitants, impacts on biodiversity, and ecotourism benefits. In the Sri Lanka case study, an integrated energy-environmental analysis was developed, which helps to eliminate projects with unacceptable impacts, and redesign others. Where economic valuation of environmental impacts was not possible, multiple attribute evaluation techniques were used. Improving the incomes and welfare of local communities, especially poor ones, while simultaneously preserving physical and biological systems, offers opportunities for developing countries to pursue all three goals of sustainable development in a complementary manner.
4314396|Red marine macroalgae of the genus Eucheuma were introduced from the Philippines to Zanzibar in 1989. Their cultivation is of growing importance, especially on the islands of Zanzibar and Pemba. The algae are cultivated for the production of carrageenan, a thickener used in many food products. Dried algae are the major export article of the islands today. This paper describes experiments performed with Eucheuma spp., mainly E. denticulatum. Problems related to epiphytes and grazers on Eucheuma are discussed, as well as the stress-induced disease ice-ice and the production of hydrogen peroxide. Eucheuma spp. also produce volatile halogenated compounds which may be part of their chemical defence. Good water exchange is of importance since carbon dioxide is the main form of inorganic carbon taken up. A potential threat to the cultivation of Eucheuma on Zanzibar is the narrow genetic base.
41417420|The first example of a ruthenium sensitizer (TUS-22) having a natural dye, bisdemethoxycurcumin, as a ligand has been synthesized. The dye-sensitized solar cell based on this novel dye showed 5.8% conversion efficiency under AM 1.5 (100 mW/cm) irradiation.
4312673|The magnetic spherule content of recent ombrotrophic peat is estimated by measurement of magnetic susceptibility and saturation isothermal remanent magnetization. Results are combined with the annual moss-increment method of peat dating to reconstruct the recent history of magnetic atmospheric fallout at four sites in south, central and eastern Finland. The results demonstrate a direct relationship between the fallout and the combustion of fossil fuels.
4312229|Methyl sulfone metabolities of PCB and DDE have been found in grey seal from the Baltic. This was accomplished using a new clean-up method in which the substances were extracted from 90 g of isolated fat by the means of acetonitrile. These hirherto unknown metabolites are soluble in concentrated sulfuric acid, which could be used for their isolation. The concentrations of the sulfones of DDE and PCB in seal blubber were estimated to be 4 and 16 ppm respectively. The metabolic origin of these substances was verified by mink fed with DDE and PCB.
4312358|Freshwater fish hold a position of prime importance in the diet of the population in Thailand. The present observations show that the baseline mercury contaminations of Thai fish are among the lowest in the world (mean 0.07 ppm, range 0.002-0.30 ppm in flesh). The amount of mercury in human hair was also rather low in unpolluted areas (mean 2.33 ppm, range 0.77-14.0 ppm). Aquatic birds had a mean mercury content in the pectoral muscle of 0.27 ppm (range 0.15-0.56 ppm). A local increase was, however, observed in the flesh of the fish Ophiocephalus striatus in the vicinity of a recently established Japanese caustic soda factory, where the observed mercury values varied from 0.32 ppm to 3.6 ppm. Signs of mercury accumulation in the tip portion of human hair were observed in males but not in females living in the polluted area.
41417423|There is an urgent need to develop sustainable solutions to convert solar energy into energy carriers used in the society. In addition to solar cells generating electricity, there are several options to generate solar fuels. This paper outlines and discusses the design and engineering of photosynthetic microbial systems for the generation of renewable solar fuels, with a focus on cyanobacteria. Cyanobacteria are prokaryotic microorganisms with the same type of photosynthesis as higher plants. Native and engineered cyanobacteria have been used by us and others as model systems to examine, demonstrate, and develop photobiological H production. More recently, the production of carbon-containing solar fuels like ethanol, butanol, and isoprene have been demonstrated. We are using a synthetic biology approach to develop efficient photosynthetic microbial cell factories for direct generation of biofuels from solar energy. Present progress and advances in the design, engineering, and construction of such cyanobacterial cells for the generation of a portfolio of solar fuels, e.g., hydrogen, alcohols, and isoprene, are presented and discussed. Possibilities and challenges when introducing and using synthetic biology are highlighted.
4313779|Although there is widespread agreement on the importance of maintaining natural areas and their associated flora and fauna, the total amount of area given protected status is frequently less than desirable, and the level of funding provided for management is almost always inadequate to do the job. A major reason for this is that the benefits to society from protected areas are often grossly underestimated, and the immediate costs of protection appear large in comparison. As a result of this "market failure," government investment in protection is usually required. Economics can play a key role in understanding why benefits are underestimated and how benefit estimation can be improved. This information can, in turn, be used to justify increasing the extent of publicly supported protected areas and providing larger budgets for management. The major benefits and costs associated with protected areas are identified, and examples of quantitative and qualitative analysis of these factors in protected areas in Asia, Africa and Latin America are discussed.
4312260|Nitrogen oxides are important air pollutants which are associated with photochemical reactions in the atmosphere and adverse health effects. Although inaccuracies recently uncovered with the widely used colorimetric method invalidated much of the historical data for NO
4315534| Barren-ground caribou (Rangifer tarandus) herds in North America may reach considerable size and undertake large-scale seasonal migrations from the Arctic tundra to the boreal forest. To test the caribou decline hypothesis associated with native harvesting and fire, we have documented the long-term trends of caribou activity based on a novel approach which uses tree-ring dated trampling scars produced by caribou hooves in the extensive trails distributed over the summer and winter ranges of the Rivire-aux-Feuilles herd (RAF herd, east of Hudson Bay in northern Quebec). The age structure data of trampling scars from lichen woodlands distributed over the entire RAF range confirmed the overall trends of caribou activity from the late 1700s to present time. Over the last 200 years, the RAF herd has undergone two highs in the late 1700s and 1900s separated by a moderate activity pattern in the late 1800s. Native harvesting was possibly involved in the early 1900s decline, although at a moderate level. The reduced magnitude of caribou activity during this period has not modified the natural cycle of highs and lows, which suggests that other demographic factors were controlling the changing caribou abundance. Our data also show that only exceptionally large fires may have a minor, short-lived impact on caribou migrations but not on caribou numbers. 
4313508|The wide use of herbicides in agriculture leads to contamination of the environmental biotope via runoff into lakes and ponds. Impacts on fish species such as cyprinids, either wild or raised on fish farms, can be expected. Food containing 10, 100 or 1000 ppm of atrazine, a commonly employed triazine herbicide, was fed to carp for up to 2.5 months (84 days). The concentration of atrazine in whole body, liver and lymphoid organs was determined. On day 84, only the kidney was slightly contaminated. No effect of atrazine was observed for two aspects of immunological response: splenic index, and antibody production against Yersinia ruckeri bacteria in sera. After 84 days, few variations were shown in the total liver-glycogen reserves and the activity of liver neoglucogenic enzymes (stress indicator). Hepatic cytochrome P-450 content and monooxygenase activity were not modified, neither was blood glucose. In muscle, no changes were observed in lipidic composition of membranes, but the activities of membrane-bound enzymes were disturbed after 14 days at 1000 ppm. Levels of sialic acid in corporal mucus were always decreased in intoxicated carps. Thus, atrazine intoxication via food induces slight and reversible perturbations, which do not seem to affect fish life or the quality of fish as a source of human food.
4312982|A non-destructive X-ray back-scatter method for field measurements of eggshell quality was tested by repeated measurements of eggs of domestic hens during incubation. Each egg was measured at six marked points, at intervals of two or three days. The calcium index was found to decrease, and the coefficient of variation for each set of six measurements to increase, after about five days of incubation. The observed variations are assumed to be due to influence from the embryonic development.
4315741|Intensification of farming practices is still a major driver of biodiversity loss in Europe, despite the implementation of policies that aim to reverse this trend. A conceptual framework called MIRABEL was previously developed that enabled a qualitative and expert-based assessment of the impact of agricultural intensification on ecologically valuable habitats. We present a quantitative update of the previous assessment that uses newly available pan-European spatially explicit data on pressures and habitats at risk. This quantitative assessment shows that the number of calcareous grasslands potentially at risk of eutrophication and overgrazing is rapidly increasing in Europe. Decreases in nitrogen surpluses and stocking densities that occurred between 1990 and 2000 have rarely led to values that were below the ecological thresholds. At the same time, a substantial proportion of calcareous grassland that has so far experienced low values for indicators of farming intensification has faced increases between 1990 and 2000 and could well become at high risk from farming intensification in the near future. As such, this assessment is an early warning signal, especially for habitats located in areas that have traditionally been farmed extensively. When comparing the outcome of this assessment with the previous qualitative MIRABEL assessment, it appears that if pan-European data are useful to assess the intensity of the pressures, more work is needed to identify regional variations in the response of biodiversity to such pressures. This is where a qualitative approach based on regional expertise should be used to complement data-driven assessments.
4314768|The purpose of the paper is to demonstrate how rapidly abandoned agricultural and grazing land becomes naturally forested. The study was carried out in The Romerike Landscape Protection Area in southern Norway. The area is a ravine landscape in a southern boreal vegetation region used for agricultural production and grazing of domestic animals for several hundred years. When agriculture was mechanized and single-product specialization was introduced about 1950, the area was gradually abandoned as agricultural land and lay open for regrowth as a forest ecosystem. The open areas, previously used for grazing, decreased by close to 50%, with an increase in areas covered by shrubs and forest, mainly grey alder. Succession rate of regrowth depended upon distance to forest edge and vegetation type with slower regrowth in wet areas at the bottom of the ravines compared to the dryer areas. The consequences of changes in land use are less diverse communities and a reduction in the length of ecotones between, e.g. forest and open land. The regrowth with forest could reduce the diversity of flora and fauna in the long term.
4312314|At the Intergovernmental Conference on the Protection of the Mediterranean (Barcelona 1975) a Coordinated Mediterranean Pollution Monitoring and Research Program (MED POL) was approved. The pilot phase of the program, consisting of several projects, will last until the end of 1978. At present almost 80 Mediterranean research centers actively participate in MED POL under the over-all coordination of UNEP and in cooperation with eight specialized bodies of the United Nations system.
4313754|The major contributors to pollution of the Malaysian environment are the effluents from the palm oil and rubber industries. While anaerobic-aerobic ponding is generally used for the treatment of these effluents, nutrients are lost when the final effluents are discharged into the waterways. Utilization of the effluents for algal production can transform the nutrients into a beneficial product. Algae generated in high-rate algae ponds can be used as protein and vitamin-rich animal feed. Valuable chemicals like lipids and carotenoid can be extracted from the algae. Local algae are screened for growth in the various wastes as well as for valuable chemicals. Optimization of growth and product formation in various culture systems are discussed. The integration of fish culture, concomitant to treatment of both agro-industrial wastes and farm-animal wastes, offers an attractive system for rural application.
24708860|Herein we develop a means to differentiate between the energy required to expand and the energy required to maintain the economies of cities. A nonlinear model is tested against historical data for two cities, Hong Kong and Singapore. A robust fit is obtained for Hong Kong, with energy for maintenance close to that for growth, while Singapore, with a weaker fit, is growth dominated. The findings suggest that decreases in either of the per unit maintenance or growth demands can simultaneously cause gross domestic product (GDP) and total energy use to increase. Furthermore, increasing maintenance demands can significantly limit growth in energy demand and GDP. Thus, the low maintenance demands for Hong Kong, and especially Singapore, imply that, all other things being equal, GDP and energy use of these cities will continue to grow, though Singapore's higher energy use for growth means it will require more energy than Hong Kong.
4311977|Potential hazards in the use of sewage sludge as a plant nutrient source are discussed. Accumulation in the soil of heavy metals and other trace elements (Hg, Zn, Cu, Se, Ni, Cr, Pb, Mo, As, B) due to repeated application of sewage sludge as a plant nutrient source is reported. In some cases increased contents in plants are found in consequence of the enrichment in soil. The sludge's content of arsenic seems to be easily available to plants.
4313147|Recently energy problems have quietly slipped down or off the agendas of both industrialized and developing countries. Unfortunately, oil and wood supply and related energy problems have not gone away. Critical issues of bioenergy, rural energy use and energy planning are among those clamoring to be addressed. Continued research into demand and supply and alternative fuels and technologies must be matched by increased funding and committment from government agencies and nongovernmental organizations.
24708979|This study investigates whether non-human biota are protected against harmful effects of ionizing radiation after a possible future release of radioactive matter from a planned repository for spent nuclear fuel. Radiation dose rates to a broad spectrum of organisms were calculated based on data from sampled organisms and modeled activity concentrations. Calculations were performed with the ERICA Tool, a software program which applies a screening dose-rate value of 10 microgray per hour (Gy h1) for all types of organisms. Dose rates below this value are thought to result in minimal risk to the individual or population. All calculated dose rates were below the screening value and below the lowest relevant band of "derived consideration levels" proposed by the International Commission on Radiological Protection. This provides a sound basis for arguing that no individuals or populations of examined species would be harmfully affected by a possible radioactive release from the repository.
24708785|This study investigates the influence of knowledge on opinions about climate change in the emerging adults' age group (1617 years). Furthermore, the effects of a lecture in climate change science on knowledge and opinions were assessed. A survey was conducted in Austria and Denmark on 188 students in national and international schools before and after a lecture in climate change science. The results show that knowledge about climate change science significantly affects opinions about climate change. Students with a higher number of correct answers are more likely to have the opinion that humans are causing climate change and that both individuals and governments are responsible for addressing climate change. The lecture in climate change science significantly improved knowledge development but did not affect opinions. Knowledge was improved by 11 % after the lecture. However, the percentage of correct answers was still below 60 % indicating an urgent need for improving climate change science education.
4312271|Nitrogen fixation is a property possessed only by prokaryotes. Genetic methods have been developed in the last few years which allow the transfer of some of the genes for nitrogen fixation to new hosts, and new species of nitrogen-fixing bacteria (eg Escherichia coli or Salmonella typhimurium) have been generated. Such transfers have so far only been to bacteria and the presence of the nitrogen fixation genes does not necessarily confer upon the recipient the ability to fix nitrogen. Mechanisms for regulating, transcribing and translating the genes, and for protecting the gene product from oxidative damage, are necessary but may not be present. Possibilities exist for using gene transfer to extend nitrogen fixation to new plants and the consequences would be largely beneficial, but at present they are long-term possibilities only.
4314573|The New Zealand Resource Management Act (1991) requires that resources should be managed in a way that maintains their potential to meet the reasonably foreseeable needs of future generations, and the 1994 'High Country Review' considered that high country tussock grasslands should be managed in a manner "that will maintain or improve soil organic matter and soil nutrient balance." Nutrient change in grazed, unfertilized tussock grasslands has been measured or estimated from biomass changes, nutrient cycling estimates, temporal soil trends, and spatial biomass and soil comparisons of differently managed areas. There has been a net decline of nutrients in biomass and soils under grazing, or grazing with burning. Maximum measured losses are N 27 kg ha
4315114|Through a case study on lead pollution in the former Soviet Union, the linkage of policy, environmental science, and environmental management is explored, and compared with the US experience. Soviet bans on leaded gasoline and lead-based paint appear to have been effective. Regional governments, in cooperation with the petroleum industry, are taking the initiative in phasing out leaded gasoline, to some extent in defiance of federal policy. Problems with management of lead-acid batteries have been worsened by the collapse of the political system. Lack of reliable environmental data impedes reliable environmental assessment. The types of environmental measurements reflect an emphasis on multipollutant environmental contamination, rather than on human exposure to single pollutants.
4314089|Lake acidification mechanisms are reviewed with emphasis on Swedish lakes in forested regions with podsolized soils, and the combined influence of atmospheric deposition and forest growth. Short-term changes in surface water acidity are determined by the alkalinity and total salt concentration in the infiltrating water, the relative mobility of the anions, and by the main water-flow paths. Long-term effects on lake acidity are mediated through changes in soil base saturation; these changes are determined by the balance between atmospheric deposition of strong acids and internal soil acidification processes on the one hand and weathering of soil minerals on the other. Estimates of current soil acidification due to annual base-cation accumulation in trees, were obtained by combining results from inventories of volumetric growth and specific studies on biomass and nutrient distribution in different tree species. The soil acidification due to base cations is in the same order of magnitude as the soil acidification associated with the deposition of strong acids, regardless of geographical region. Both processes increase from north to south. The total impact on surface water chemistry is enhanced in southwestern Sweden, by the combination of high tree growth rate and high atmospheric load of marine chloride salts, sulfate salts and sulfuric acid.
4313794|Heavy withdrawals of irrigation water from the Syr and Amu, the Aral Sea's two main tributaries, have for all practical purposes eliminated their spills and led to a sharp decrease in the level of the sea. This and the disruption of ecological equilibrium in this immense region have had catastrophic consequences for both the inhabitants of the region and for the environment. The circumstances leading up to and important features of some of the principal consequences are described.
4312584|The world's climate has clearly undergone many changes in the past, and it now appears that new man-induced changes are looming on the horizon. There are a variety of human activities capable of changing the delicate heat balance of the planetary system that determines climate (atmosphere, oceans, land, ice masses of the polar regions, and living things), most of which lead to a warmer surface. The largest single factor is probably the addition of carbon dioxide ( CO
24708793|Through a comparative analysis of prices in capture fisheries and aquaculture sectors, the objectives of this paper are a) to investigate three the trends in prices of forage catches to feed the aquaculture species, b) to analyze the amount of fish species need to feed aquaculture species in order to assess the level of efficiency in resource use, and c) to examine the degree of economic concentration either in wild-catch industry and aquaculture sectors. The results show that prices of cultivated species are higher than prices of the same species when harvested from the sea. We explain this fact by the interplay of three forces. First, the amount of wild fish to feed aquaculture species continues to improve over time. Second, the pressure of fishing activities has not been reduced since catches of most forage fishes are declining, which induce higher prices of capture species that feed aquaculture production. Third, the level of seafood market concentration is significantly higher in aquaculture than in wild catches, which generates higher prices in aquaculture.
4315754|In general, the arctic freshwater-terrestrial system will warm more gradually than the global average, particularly during the winter season. The decline or loss of many cryospheric components and a shift from a nival to an increasingly pluvial system will produce numerous physical effects on freshwater ecosystems. Of particular note will be reductions in the dominance of the spring freshet and changes in the intensity of river-ice breakup. Increased evaporation/evapotranspiration due to longer ice-free seasons, higher air/water temperatures and greater transpiring vegetation along with increase infiltration because of permafrost thaw will decrease surface water levels and coverage. Loss of ice and permafrost, increased water temperatures and vegetation shifts will alter water chemistry, the general result being an increase in lotic and lentic productivity. Changes in ice and water flow/levels will lead to regime-specific increases and decreases in habitat availability/quality across the circumpolar Arctic.
4313116|The use of organotins in industrial applications and consumer products is increasing rapidly, primarily because of their substitution for traditional materials. Diorganotin antioxidants in plastics and triorganotin biocides have made significant penetration into their respective use categories. It has been only within the past several years that environmental effects accompanying expanding use have been considered. Discussion in this review points out that triorganotins are very toxic, slow-acting substances. In impact areas of France and England, notably harbors where boats painted with organotin antifouling paints are moored, there have been significant effects on survival, settlement and growth of oysters, Crassostrea gigas. These examples illustrate the potential for deleterious effects in areas of high triorganotion use. The present production figures, however, do not suggest that triorganotins pose a significant general environmental risk as long as broadcast applications remain low. Diorganotins are clearly less toxic, but environmental effects are much more difficult to judge since so little information is available. The greatest present perception of risk of diorganotin use stems from the possibility of triorganotion contaminants formed either during synthesis or as a result of redistribution reactions involving transfer of organic ligands from one tin atom to another.
4315605|Phosphorus index (PI) is a risk-assessment tool that combines phosphorus (P) source factors and transport factors to rank the vulnerability of fields to P losses. Here we present the structure and concepts of conditional PI, developed as an educational and P-management tool adjusted for Swedish conditions. Because the significance of certain factors for P losses depends on their interplay with other factors, conditional rules are needed for a more accurate process description and quantification. Accounting for P losses through the soil profile, separate calculations for reactive and unreactive P and a changed approach to P loss assessment from erosion losses are some of the new features included in the tool presented here. The performance of the tool was tested by comparing the calculated PI values with measured annual P transport from seven observation fields included in a Swedish water quality monitoring program. This first test indicated that the tool could be used successfully for P loss risk assessment.
4314977|The Gongga Mountain, with the highest peak (7556 m a.s.l.) in the Hengduan Mountains, is located in the middle and south section of the Daxue Mountain (Big Snow Mountain) Range and on the southeastern fringe of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. There are many special characteristics of the mountain ecosystem and environment in the Gongga Mountain Region. Representing an intact vertical zonality from the subtropical zone to the frigid zone, characteristics which have been discussed and analyzed include the multizone nature of the mountain ecosystems, the diversity of the forest ecosystem types, the intersect of many species of fir and spruce genera, the changes with altitude and regional differences of productivity of a particular Abies fabri forest community, and vegetation succession and environment changes in the deglaciation slash of the subalpine dark coniferous forest zone.
24708800|Salmon aquaculture has emerged as a successful economic industry generating high economic revenues to invest in the development of Chiloe region. Southern Chile. However, salmon aquaculture also consumes a substantial amount of ecosystem services, and the direct and indirect impacts on human wellbeing are still unknown and unexplored. This paper identifies the synergies and trade-offs caused by the salmon industry on a range of ecosystem services. The results show that large economic benefits due to the increase of provisioning ecosystem services are also causing a reduction on regulating and cultural services. Despite the improvement on average income and poverty levels experienced in communities closely associated with the sector, this progress is not large enough and social welfare did not improve substantially over the last decade. The rest of human wellbeing constituents in Chiloe region have not changed significantly compared to the development in the rest of the country.
4313278|Satellite images of the Coastal Zone Color Scanner show distinct patterns of suspended matter including phytoplankton organisms near the river outlets of the southeastern Baltic. Certain classifications can be obtained by processing satellite data using different algorithms. The images in this study demonstrate the extent of suspended matter carried to the sea by the rivers in the southeastern Baltic and indicate eutrophication processes in that area.
4315262|The following paper analyzes the economic and demographic factors determining the conversion of mangroves in the coastal provinces of Thailand to commercial shrimp farming. Mangrove conversion therefore is determined by the returns to shrimp farmers, (i.e. the price of shrimp), the input costs to farming shrimp (e.g. feed price and wages) and the "accessibility" of mangrove areas. Additional exogenous influences, such as income per capita, population growth, and inmigration (i.e. the number of shrimp farms) also are important. Both a mangrove conversion and a shrimp farm expansion relationship are estimated empirically through a panel analysis across 21 coastal provinces of Thailand between 1979-1996. Results show that the price of shrimp, minimum wage, distance from market, feed price, population growth, income per capita, and shrimp-farm density all have important influences on mangrove loss due to shrimp farming in Thailand.
4312387| From 1965 to 1977 the chemical company BT Kemi manufactured pesticides at its factory at Teckomatorp in southern Sweden. It was soon discovered that the company discharged toxic wastes-chlorinated phenols and phenoxy acids-into the small stream Bran, without any permission from the authorities. In 1975 and 1977 it was also discovered that the company illegally had buried toxic wastes. The subsequent investigation that this article describes involved both local and national authorities and cost some 10 million Skr. The factory was permanently closed by the goverment in October 1977. 
4311988|The variation of transition metals in dissolved forms in the Baltic in space and time is reported. Applying the standard addition method, analyses have been carried out for zinc, copper, nickel, cobalt, iron and lead in filtered samples by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The relation between the concentrations of some of the metals and primary production in the photic zone is discussed. In anoxic water variations in the concentration of iron and copper seem to give a fair indication of water quality. A possible explanation for the chemistry of nickel in sea water is suggested.
4313704|Mining polymetallic nodules from the deep-sea bottom may occur within only one or two decades, but potential impacts should be studied in advance and must be minimized through international regulations. The first large-scale experiment for mining impact evaluation, "Disturbance and Re-Colonization Experiment in the Deep South Pacific Ocean (DISCOL)" is described and future demands for research are presented. Most important in the development of mining is the careful and extensive monitoring of Pilot Mining Operations, in which mining will be conducted on a scale that is lower than that of commercial mining. Only large-scale monitoring will yield results that allow an impact extrapolation to full-scale mining. Monitoring of Pilot Mining Operations will spread over a large number of months during and after the actual mining and, therefore, requires closely integrated international cooperation.
4312174|Nitrites are formed by reduction of nitrate and are present in the environment at low concentrations. Nitrites can react with secondary and tertiary amino compounds to form N-nitroso compounds, a broadly acting and potent group of systemically acting carcinogens. These reactions taking place in the human stomach could constitute an important source of carcinogens. Restrictions on the amount of residual nitrite in cured meats and fish processed with nitrite would reduce exposure of man to these carcinogens.
4313277|Short episodes of increased acidity in streams, associated with severe damage to the stream fauna, have been observed in many Scandinavian water courses during recent decades. Such an acid surge has been studied in a normally well-buffered stream in the north of central Sweden. The rapid snowmelt in combination with extended areas of bogs and fens causes the acidity in the snowpack to be released more or less directly into the stream via a superficial flow path of melt water. The oxidation of iron and manganese with subsequent hydrolysis was not found to be a major contributor of acidity.
23257421|Under increasing water scarcity, collective groundwater management is a global concern. This article presents an interdisciplinary analysis of this challenge drawing on a survey including 50 large and small farms and gardens in a village in an agricultural land reclamation area on the edge of the Western Desert of Egypt. Findings revealed that smallholders rely on a practice of shallow groundwater use, through which drainage water from adjacent irrigation areas is effectively recycled within the surface aquifer. Expanding agroindustrial activities in the surrounding area are socio-economically important, but by mining non-renewable water in the surrounding area, they set in motion a degradation process with social and ecological consequences for all users in the multi-layered aquifer system. Based on the findings of our investigation, we identify opportunities for local authorities to more systematically connect available environmental information sources and common pool resource management precedents, to counterbalance the degradation threat.
4314331|Studies in the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) lagoon near to Low Isles indicate that significant increases in phytoplankton concentrations have occurred over the past 65 years. The results show a change from a system characterized by both centric and pennate diatoms to one that is now dominated by pennate diatoms and small flagellates. Such changes in class structure are indicative of anthropogenic eutrophication, the most likely cause of which is runoff from agricultural development. The remote nature of Low Isles suggests that the eutrophication is a large-scale phenomenon and as such poses both direct, e.g. by algal overgrowth, and indirect, e.g. by promotion of crown of thorns starfish, threats to many reefs in the GBR. The lack of recovery of the shallow-water coral cover at Low Isles and at other locations is consistent with the hypothesis that large-scale eutrophication is already a significant problem in the GBR lagoon.
4314954| For a variety of reasons the construction of large-scale industrial plants or infrastructure projects such as roads, railways or airfields, which have a considerable impact on the local community and its environment, are often controversial and strongly contested. This article addresses the responses of the local community to the building of a huge railway tunnel through the Hallandss ridge in the south of Sweden. One of the crucial issues in contemporary industrial societies is how nationally designed and conceived projects deemed necessary for economic growth can be implemented in a local environment, situated in a specific, historically and traditionally conditioned context of time and space. Issues of risk perception, trust in authorities, industry and managers, as well as the related issue of what kinds of knowledge are deemed relevant by various groups are discussed with reference to the Hallandss tunnel case. 
4312538|Eight years ago at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment the need for assessing global environmental problems was strongly emphasized. It is proving to be an increasingly important and difficult task. This article outlines current thinking on the global assessment of pollution, gives details of international activities which provide the foundations for global assessment, and offers some suggestions for progress.
4313067|Relatively small amounts of nuclear waste have been stored on Pacific islands and dumped into the Pacific Ocean since 1945 Governments of Pacific countries possessing nuclear power plants are presently seeking permanent waste storage and disposal solutions at Pacific sites including subseabed emplacement of high-level nuclear wastes and ocean dumping of low-level wastes. This article examines these plans and the response of Pacific islanders in their development of policies and international strategies to ban the proposed dumping on a regional basis. Island governments are preparing for a Regional Convention during which a treaty concerned with radioactive waste storage and disposal will be signed.
4314073|The prime aims of social-forestry programs, which include agroforestry and forestry components, are to provide the basic consumption needs, i.e. staple food, fuelwood, fodder and small timber for construction and agricultural implements, and employment for the poor in order to generate income and to raise living standards. Although the concept of social forestry was formally proposed as early as 1893, real progress was made only from the early 1980s. It is argued that the differing socioeconomic environment, in which social forestry is being implemented in various states of India, has resulted in differential uptake by villagers. The socioeconomic variables affecting social forestry uptake are identified and it is suggested that for social forestry to be successful these variables must be incorporated in social-forestry planning.
4314398|Seagrasses together with mangroves and coral reefs are known to be the most productive communities in shallow-water ecosystems. In southern Mozambique, south of Maputo Bay, the marine botanical communities can be divided into seagrass and seaweed types. Seagrass occurs in the dark sandy areas of sheltered locations and the seaweed in rocky sandstone areas with high hydrodynamics. Seagrass beds are exploited quite intensively for fishing activities and by collectors of edible marine invertebrates. At least 20 nets and 100 collectors were observed each day during the spring-tide period (15 days per month) around Inhaca Island. The present study emphasizes aspects of seagrass and seaweed biodiversity and conservation of these ecologically important communities.
4313723|Global atmospheric pollution presents national legislatures with a unique challenge. One example of the problem is destruction of stratospheric ozone caused by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and similar manufactured compounds, an environmental crisis that requires a global solution. Scientific evidence developed after the signing of the historic Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer (the Protocol-an international agreement to reduce consumption of CFCs in industrialized nations 50% by 1998) has demonstrated that the control measures set forth in that agreement are inadequate. Despite renewed activity to strengthen the Protocol, several nations are proceeding with additional controls to abate the threat of global atmospheric pollution and destruction of stratospheric ozone. An examination of environmental and economic factors suggests that such unilateral action is both necessary and proper as a supplement to ongoing efforts to strengthen the Montreal Protocol.
4314978|Rooted in thousand of years of traditional Chinese agricultural practices and techniques, the Integrated Farming System (IFS) is planned and widely practiced in different regions according to the principles of agronomy, ecology, economics and systems science. Its purpose is to establish agroecosystems with high efficiency and sustainability. Because the Chinese IFS makes it possible to meet the requirements of sustainable agriculture in China, it has been recognized by different levels of governments and by farmers. This paper presents an overview of the IFS concept, principles, development, history and current status, classification, typical models, as well as trends for future development.
4315161|The evolution of thinking about energy is discussed. When the authors began collaborating 20 years ago, energy was typically considered from a growth-oriented, supply-side perspective, with a focus on consumption trends and how to expand supplies to meet rising demand. They were deeply troubled by the environmental, security and equity implications of that approach. For instance, about two billion people lack access to affordable modern energy, seriously limiting their opportunities for a better life. And energy is a significant contributor to environmental problems, including indoor air pollution, urban air pollution, acidification, and global warming. The authors saw the need to evolve a different perspective in which energy is provided in ways that help solve such serious problems. They argued that energy must become an instrument for advancing sustainable development-economically viable, need-oriented, self-reliant and environmentally sound development-and that the focus should be on the end uses of energy and the services that energy provides. Energy technological options that can help meet sustainable development goals are discussed. The necessity of developing and employing innovative technological solutions is stressed. The possibilities of technological leapfrogging that could enable developing countries to avoid repeating the mistakes of the industrialized countries is illustrated with a discussion of ethanol in Brazil. The role foreign direct investment might play in bringing advanced technologies to developing countries is highlighted. Near- and long-term strategies for rural energy are discussed. Finally, policy issues are considered for evolving the energy system so that it will be consistent with and supportive of sustainable development.
4312820|A large number of national parks seem to be located in economically underdeveloped areas. Consequently, they frequently face the problem of inadequate financing. Using the Plitvice National Park in Yugoslavia as an example, this paper points to some ways of improving park revenues. Efficient park management, good organization and control of park attendance, together with suitable package tours, may not only improve park financing, but may also contribute to the welfare of the area in which the park is located.
4314386|Three years of frequent hydrographic measurements in the Puttalam estuary, a large (226 km<sup>2</sup>) and shallow (1.5 m) lagoon on the west coast of Sri Lanka, were used to study annual and seasonal salinity variations, including their relation to the net freshwater supply. The average salinity from 1990-1992 was approximately 37 psu (compared to 34 psu in the ocean), while the maximum values during drought periods exceeded 50 psu. This hypersaline climate is different from the situation in 1960-1961, when the average salinity was less than 30 psu under similar meteorological conditions. The increase in salinity is most likely due to reduced river discharge. The seasonal salinity variation is closely related to the monsoon climate, with rapidly decreasing salinities during rainy seasons and increasing salinities during drought. Because we experienced great difficulties in obtaining reliable data on the river discharge, we calculated the water residence times during periods of reduced runoff and minimum rainfall. The average residence time was found to be of the order of 40 days, but periods with higher freshwater supplies indicate that the residence time may be up to 50% greater.
4312259|Possible ways in which disturbances of the nitrogen cycle might result in deleterious effects on human and animal life are discussed, including the hazardous properties of oxides of nitrogen. NO
25547933|Falco biarmicus feldeggii is one of the most threatened taxa in Europe. Its global population is estimated at a few hundred pairs unequally scattered in a vast and fragmented area stretching from Sicily to the Caspian Sea. Most recent counts showed that Italy hosts a large part (>25%) of the whole population. Consequently, Italian authorities promoted a national action plan. In this framework, we carried out the first national survey for the Lanner Falcon in Italy (2003-2004). Our study area covered the whole breeding range, i.e., Sicily and the Italian peninsula (n = 2909 cells 10  10 km). When possible, we considered also additional information from previous regional investigations (1993-2001). First, we estimated size and distribution of each breeding sub-population. Then, we tried to identify, at landscape level, the main environmental features linked to the spatial distribution of the nesting sites. We found the Lanner Falcon in 184 cells (6.4% of the total grid map), but we estimated no more than 140-172 pairs (70-80 of which are in Sicily) in the same breeding season. Higher levels of isolation characterize the continental breeding cells whereas in Sicily cells are much more clustered. Altitude is the main factor influencing cell aggregations in Italy; nevertheless, other environmental variables, such as climate, precipitation, and vegetation may be important. Our results show that the conservation measures adopted in Italy are somewhat inadequate given the low number of breeding pairs included in protected areas (23%-28%). Many small and scattered special areas of conservation (SAC) devoted to conserve priority habitats fit the irregular spatial aggregations of Lanner Falcon sites better than several large special protection areas (SPA).
40730901|The first part of the paper is an attempt to demonstrate that what we are going through at the present time is not just an economic-financial crisis, but a crisis of humanity. It seems that for the first time in human history several crises converge to simultaneously reach their maximum level of tension. The dominant economic model is to a great degree responsible for the world's collision course. Hence a number of myths that sustain the model are listed and analyzed. It is argued that a new economy, coherent with the problematiques of the twenty first century, needs urgently to be devised. The second part proposes the foundations for a new economy based on five fundamental postulates that allow the construction of transdisciplinary, holistic, and systemic visions to adequately understand the interdependence of all the elements that sustain life. It is stressed that it is no longer acceptable that Universities still teach economic theories of the nineteenth century in order to tackle twenty first century problems that have no precedence.
4313488|A country at the intermediate stage of economic development, Yugoslavia has not yet experienced the acute generalized effects of development-induced air and water pollution that more heavily industrialized countries in Europe are undergoing. However, economic growth, based on increased consumption of energy and materials, remains the country's goal, and if only a few of the planners' projections are realized Yugoslavia will have created for itself an environmental problem similar to that of its European neighbors. Counterposed to the environmental stresses that will result from economic growth is an increasing ecological awareness among the general public and the scientific community.
4312309|The basic dichotomy between man and his environment since the technological revolution has had tremendous impact on the Mediterranean region, which was a well-defined ecological framework for human development circumscribed by constraints of climate, geography, natural resources. Respect for these constraints permitted the austere yet highly developed civilizations of the past, but the present absorption into a larger industrialized world has made such excessive demands on space, water and human mobility that it may well be too late to save the balance between man and nature in the Mediterranean basin.
23322918|A limited battle involving the nuclear arsenals of India and Pakistan would have significant climatic impacts upon agricultural crop production in the United States; corn, soybeans, and winter wheat yields would be significantly reduced in the Corn Belt region of the US. The most severe impacts would occur during the second year after the modeled nuclear battle.
4314471|China, India, and Brazil are three of the largest developing countries. Carbon emissions from the energy sector dominate total greenhouse gas emissions from China and India, and are becoming more significant in Brazil. We compare least-cost scenarios of carbon emissions from the energy sector for each country. Each scenario was developed using the same linear programming approach. In addition to the costs of providing energy services, we analyze the foreign exchange and capital investment required for alternative scenarios. The results indicate that energy efficiency improvements offer a cost-effective option for restraining emissions in each country. Because of Brazil's abundant natural resources, hydropower and biomass significantly add to the potential for restraining future CO
4312078|With the pH in pine bark and two common tree lichens as indicators, the area studied was divided into regions with different degrees of air pollution (mainly sulfur dioxide) from a sulfite plant. By employing growth quotients it was proved, that the differences between these regions in the growth of annual rings of spruce over recent decades were significant. The air pollution has reduced the growth of spruce and pine, but some stimulation has also occurred. This is confirmed by multiple regression analysis which showed relationships between the pH in pine bark and differences in mean growth for five-year periods.
4313179|Colonial methods of forest management have remained dominant in post-independence India. Emphasis has been placed on the economic exploitation of the forest to the detriment of the land. Governmental afforestation programs have suffered from a one-dimensional approach that diverts fertile agricultural land to wood production and further degrades land that needs afforestation. An end-use classification of forest land is urgently needed and a policy should be adapted to account for the role of the forests in soil and water conservation.
41417247|As human populations expand and nonhuman animals decline, understanding the interactions between people and wildlife is essential. For endangered species, appreciating the effect of human disturbance can be important for their conservation. However, a human disturbance angle is often absent from ecological research, despite growing evidence of the negative impact of nonfatal human interference. Here, we monitored Hainan Eld's deer living within a reserve and translocated animals living amongst villagers. We show that translocated deer deviated from a crepuscular activity pattern and became increasingly nocturnal, and most active when villagers were not. It appears that translocated deer adapted over time to human disturbance and this pattern is similar to that of other species during periods of hunting. People do not pose an actual threat to Eld's deer, but their presence triggered a response akin to predator avoidance and may be interfering with broader aspects of their biology and conservation.
25547898|Mediterranean mountain biomes are considered endangered due to climate change that affects directly or indirectly different key features (biodiversity, snow cover, glaciers, run-off processes, and water availability). Here, we provide an assessment of temperature, precipitation, and spring precipitation changes in Mediterranean mountains under different emission scenarios (Special Report on Emission Scenarios) and Atmosphere-Ocean-Coupled General Circulation Models for two periods: 2055 (2040-2069 period) and 2085 (2070-2099). Finally, the future climate trends projected for Mediterranean mountains are compared with those trends projected for non-Mediterranean European mountain ranges. The range of projected warming varies between +1.4C and 5.1C for 2055 (+1.6C and +8.3C for 2085). Climate models also project a reduction of precipitation, mainly during spring (-17% under A1fi and -4.8% under B1 for 2085). On the contrary, non-Mediterranean European mountains will not experience a reduction of annual and spring precipitation. Implications of predicted climate change for both human and physical features are coupled in an integrated framework to gain a broad perspective on future trends and their consequences.
4314266|This paper argues that deforestation in the Amazon rain forest is the result of the interaction of a domestic structural factor as well as macroeconomic disequilibria in the Brazilian economy. The structural feature is the Brazilian land-tenure system, whereas the macroeconomic factors are chronic inflation, and the trade and the foreign debt of Brazil. We show that deforestation is due to circular causation; inflation leads to deforestation and land enclosures, which lead to the expulsion of peasants from the enclosed lands, with further deforestation. Furthermore, Brazilian international trade follows the demand patterns established by world markets, which put added pressures on the forests. We also argue that the extractive reserves and other extractive-based solutions are not viable in the long run. Finally, we show that the Convention on Biological Diversity is necessary but not sufficient to ensure sustainable use of Amazon biological resources.
4314868|Inventing or sustaining cultural systems and institutions that provide people with an adequate standard of living while preserving forest ecosystems and their biological diversity is a great challenge facing humanity now and in the coming century. This paper describes an effort to use participatory research and environmental education to affect forest preservation by a community in southwestern Ecuador. The sustainability of lowland agriculture in this area is partially dependent on fog-capture by the hill forests. Once the community of Loma Alta understood and valued fog-capture, they used their own system of governance and decision making to preserve the forest. The case study is presented in a theoretical framework of general interest to social and natural scientists concerned with tropical forest preservation. It has particular relevance for integrated conservation and development efforts.
41417322|We report on a revisit in 2009 to sites where vegetation was recorded in 1967 and 1970 on Disko Island, West Greenland. Re-sampling of the same clones of the grass Phleum alpinum after 39 years showed complete stability in biometrics but dramatic earlier onset of various phenological stages that were not related to changes in population density. In a fell-field community, there was a net species loss, but in a herb-slope community, species losses balanced those that were gained. The type of species establishing and increasing in frequency and/or cover abundance at the fell-field site, particularly prostrate dwarf shrubs, indicates a possible start of a shift towards a heath, rather than a fell-field community. At the herb-slope site, those species that established or increased markedly in frequency and/or cover abundance indicate a change to drier conditions. This is confirmed both by the decrease in abundance of Alchemilla glomerulans and Epilobium hornemanii, and the drying of a nearby pond. The causes of these changes are unknown, although mean annual temperature has risen since 1984.
25094576|This paper discusses some of the difficulties in establishing the location of the Arctic treeline and forest line on a circumpolar basis, and the contribution that remote sensing, particularly from spaceborne platforms, can make in resolving them. Spaceborne techniques can provide spatial resolutions as fine as a few meters, although the requirements for regional or global coverage are likely to limit the resolution to 30 to 100 m. Since this will preclude the identification of individual trees, the definition of the treeline will be based on statistical parameters estimated from satellite images. The optimum criteria for these parameters remain to be determined. Most remote-sensing observations that are suited to the measurement of the distribution of vegetation, and identification of its type, are based on the visible and near-infrared (VIR) parts of the electromagnetic spectrum, although there is increasing interest in the use of active microwave (radar) techniques. We discuss the basis of both types of approach and the techniques that follow from them, and present 3 case studies from the Russian Arctic.
4314937| The atolls of the Chagos Archipelago occupy a key location in the central Indian Ocean, in biogeographical terms. They are remote and largely uninhabited, and its reefs have almost completely escaped most forms of direct human impact. Despite this, there has been a marked decline in their coral cover over the last 20 years. In particular, live coral cover fell markedly following the warm sea-water episode of 1998, such that on seaward reefs of all six Chagos atolls, only 12% of the substrate is now living coral compared with 50-75% before the warming event. On seaward reefs, 40% of the substrate is now covered by dead coral, and another 40% by unidentifiable dead coral and bare substrate. Lagoonal reefs fared better than seaward reefs, but still lost half of their corals over the last year. All reefs now have large quantities of mobile, dead coral fragments which may inhibit new recruitment and growth. Weather data have been recorded in Chagos since 1973. Statistically significant trends include a 1C rise in mean air temperature over 25 years, and a 2C rise in the warmest 95 percentile temperature. At the same time there has been a fall in mean annual pressure, a reduction in cloud cover, and winds have become more variable. Fourier analysis of temperature data shows several cycles of 2 years or longer, which when combined indicate a greater climate variability today compared with 25 years ago. Periods of higher temperatures coincide with several previous EI Nio events and other climatic records of warming. Although the latest warming of 1998 is responsible for the recent mass coral mortality, it is seen to be a severe continuation of a longer trend, which if continued leads to a poor prognosis for rapid recovery. 
4314181|The paper discusses the major natural-resource-management issues in relation to land, forests, and water in Bangladesh. It shows how government policies and programs in one sector may affect other sectors. A lack of land use, and forest policies can be responsible for degradation of agricultural land and deforestation. The paper argues that better management of the natural resources can only be achieved by an integrated approach covering all the sectors of development. In Bangladesh, with a freely elected government in power, there is a unique opportunity to formulate an integrated natural-resource-management strategy.
4315583|Drawing reliable conclusions on changes in the trophic state of various subareas of the Baltic Sea is problematic, in large part because the monitoring of productivity parameters exhibiting high natural variability is based on sparse sampling. This emphasizes the importance of long-term data sets. Here we present a 30-year chlorophyll  data set from the western Gulf of Finland. The trophic state of the study area showed an increasing trend in the 1970s and 1980s manifested mainly as strengthened vernal blooms. This trend did not continue in the 1990s, and the seasonal phytoplankton biomass maxima since then has begun to show some bias toward the late summer. The changes in seasonal maxima of phytoplankton blooms probably reflect i) decreased availability of N suppressing the magnitude of the vernal bloom, which increases the P reserves for the summer, and ii) enhanced internal P loading, which further increases the summer P reserves.
4315062|Timber harvesting in British Columbia influences (a) forest hydrology; (b) fluvial geomorphology; (c) terrain stability; and (d) integrated watershed behavior. Impacts on forest hydrology are well understood and include increased average runoff, total water yield, increased storm runoff and advances in timing of floods. Stream channels and valley floors are impacted differently by fine sediment, coarse sediment and large woody debris transport. Terrain stability is influenced through gully and mass movement processes that are accelerated by timber harvesting. Impacts on integrated watershed behavior are assessed through disturbed sediment budgets and lake sediments. The Forest Practices Code (1995) is a significant step towards sustainable management of the land in so far as it attempts to minimize these geomorphic impacts of forest i B. C.
25434345|Humanity has always lived under the threat of disasters such as famine. Now that these threats have diminished considerably in the West, it seems like people need a new scare that can be shared, thereby having a uniting effect. The possible impact of an increased atmospheric green-house gas concentration seems to have taken over this role. However, new dating techniques and numerous new studies have now added information that can bring about a reevaluation of the opinion that it is only human activity that can explain recent climatic changes. A distinction between trends and variability in climate is only possible if long-term records can be studied. Greenland ice core data yield well-dated information about climate over an extended period that, seen together with other data series, indicates that large, probably global scale changes have occurred at numerous times in the past. The warming during the past 100 y is not likely to be unique.
25547927|To conserve biodiversity efficiently, an international framework is needed to ensure that national priorities take into account regional and global priorities. BirdLife International has published five comprehensive assessments of the global status of the world's birds and two evaluations of the status of Europe's birds at a continental level. This paper analyzes the results of these assessments in relation to Europe's 56 species of raptors and owls, 18% of which are of global conservation concern, and 64% of which have an unfavorable conservation status in Europe. The European Union (EU) holds half of the total estimated European breeding population of raptors and owls, and European Russia supports another third, but every European country has a responsibility for at least two species of European conservation concern. During the 1990s, more raptors increased than decreased in most EU member states, but the opposite was true in eastern Europe, where many of the most threatened species are concentrated. Given the popularity of these species with the public, and the political commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010, much more action is needed to monitor and conserve birds of prey.
4314466|This article examines the potential for greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation in the Thai power sector and evaluates the possibility of GHG reduction due to new government plans and policies for the power sector through the year 2030. First, electricity demand and supply are estimated for the base case or "business-as-usual" scenario by assuming that present patterns of electricity production and use continue in the future. The amount of fuel used for power generation and subsequent GHG emissons are calculated for the base case scenario. General mitigation options for reducing GHG emissions in the Thai power sector are evaluated. Mitigation options include reducing electricity use via energy efficiency and energy conservation; shifting to low-carbon fuels (e.g., coal to oil or natural gas); using nonfossil related energy sources (e.g., renewable energy); and using nuclear energy. This analysis shows that the government's new emissions standards for power plants and new policies regarding demand-side management (DSM), although they were not designed primarily for reducing CO
41805977|To reduce eutrophication of the Baltic Sea, all nine surrounding countries have agreed upon reduction targets in the HELCOM Baltic Sea Action Plan (BSAP). Yet, monitoring sites and model concepts for decision support are few. To provide one more tool for analysis of water and nutrient fluxes in the Baltic Sea basin, the HYPE model has been applied to the region (called Balt-HYPE). It was used here for experimenting with land-based remedial measures and future climate projections to quantify the impacts of these on water and nutrient loads to the sea. The results suggest that there is a possibility to reach the BSAP nutrient reduction targets by 2100, and that climate change may both aggravate and help in some aspects. Uncertainties in the model results are large, mainly due to the spread of the climate model projections, but also due to the hydrological model.
41417296|Previous research showed a regional Cu enrichment of 6 mg kg in the top soil of the Ypres war zone (Belgium), caused by corrosion of WWI shell fragments. Further research was required since in addition to Cu, also As, Pb, and Zn were used during the manufacturing of ammunition. Therefore, an additional data collection was conducted in which the initial Cu data set was tripled to 731 data points and extended to eight heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, and Zn) which permitted (1) to evaluate the environmental impact of the heavy metals at a regional scale and (2) to assess their regional spatial occurrence by performing an optimized geostatistical modeling. The results showed no pollution at a regional scale, but sometimes locally concentrations exceeded the soil sanitation threshold, especially for Cu, Pb, and Zn. The spatial patterns of Ni and Cr were related to variations in soil texture whereas the occurrences of Cu and Pb were clearly linked to WWI activities. This difference in spatial behavior was confirmed by an analysis of coregionalization.
41418343|The term "tipping point" has become increasingly popular in scientific and media usage to refer to the world in which we live, to describe the probable effects of the processes arising from the consequences of the ways we live with and transform the world, to describe our relationships with the environment, and the effects of our actions. Through this shift in scientific thinking, climate is talked about and represented as having the power to influence our lives in ways we have never before experienced or imagined, suggesting something transformative, disruptive, and decentering. Yet, in doing so, the complexity of the human world is explained in terms of scientific models that suggest a return to climatic determinism that simplifies our understanding of human-environment relations. How is anthropology to contribute to this discussion and to research and policy action on climate change? This article reflects on this and other questions as a way of contributing to the discussion of tipping points: are tipping points and thresholds metaphors, are they to be understood within contexts of speculative forecast, or are they descriptions of real events and indications of future change? What do we mean when we use these terms to imagine, describe, and represent the world? What relevance do they have for anticipatory knowledge and anticipatory practice? Indeed, how does anticipation guide us through a world of shifting conditions and sudden surprises and influence ways we orient ourselves toward the future?
41417291|Rapid changes to the Arctic hydrological cycle challenge both our process understanding and our ability to find appropriate adaptation strategies. We have investigated the relevance and accuracy development of climate change projections for assessment of water cycle changes in major Arctic drainage basins. Results show relatively good agreement of climate model projections with observed temperature changes, but high model inaccuracy relative to available observation data for precipitation changes. Direct observations further show systematically larger (smaller) runoff than precipitation increases (decreases). This result is partly attributable to uncertainties and systematic bias in precipitation observations, but still indicates that some of the observed increase in Arctic river runoff is due to water storage changes, for example melting permafrost and/or groundwater storage changes, within the drainage basins. Such causes of runoff change affect sea level, in addition to ocean salinity, and inland water resources, ecosystems, and infrastructure. Process-based hydrological modeling and observations, which can resolve changes in evapotranspiration, and groundwater and permafrost storage at and below river basin scales, are needed in order to accurately interpret and translate climate-driven precipitation changes to changes in freshwater cycling and runoff. In contrast to this need, our results show that the density of Arctic runoff monitoring has become increasingly biased and less relevant by decreasing most and being lowest in river basins with the largest expected climatic changes.
4312775|A nuclear world war of the type outlined in this issue would kill nearly 750 million people outright, leaving some 340 million seriously injured, mostly in the Northern Hemisphere. Of the 200 million initial survivors, many of them would perish from the latent effects of radiation as well as infectious diseases like cholera, typhus, tuberculosis and dysentery. Caring for the vast number of injured would greatly hamper post-war recovery efforts.
4314324|Increases in solar UV radiation could affect terrestrial and aquatic biogeochemical cycles thus altering both sources and sinks of greenhouse and chemically-important trace gases (e.g., carbon dioxide ( CO
4314819|The bio-indicator function of butterflyfish (Chaetodontidae) was investigated by studying habitat and disturbance effects on chaetodontid species in Sri Lanka. This was done by counting fish within 147, 50-meter belt-transects in 3 different reef types including coral, sandstone and rock reefs; all of which contained a variety of habitats. Habitat distribution patterns for 36 species were observed. The relationships between habitat structure and butterflyfish assemblages were established in Spearman-rank correlations and in multidi-mensional scaling ordinations, and the similarities in the two multivariate patterns of habitat and fish community composition were statistically confirmed using the RELATE-procedure. Most species were restricted to a few habitats, however, the 3 most numerous species, Chaetodon decussatus, C. trifascialis and C. trifasciatus had ubiquitous distributions, although the two latter species dominated the coral-rich areas. Food availability seemed to be an important factor influencing assemblage-specific distribution patterns. Coral-reef habitats had, in comparison with sandstone and rock reefs, the most diversified and abundant butterflyfish community overall. These habitats were dominated by corallivores, the overall most abundant trophic group, which showed strong positive correlations with live coral cover. Omnivores though, had more general preferences than corallivores occurring in various habitat types. Habitat dependence was further confirmed by comparing coral reefs in sanctuaries with disturbed areas that had received extensive habitat destruction. The latter reefs had a more depauperate fauna with lower densities and diversity. Results from this study suggested that butterflyfish can act as indicators of habitat structure and disturbances in coral reefs in Sri Lanka. However, the butterflyfish bio-indicator hypothesis has received ample criticism in a number of studies, and with the complexity characterizing tropical-reef ecosystems and the multitude of processes structuring reef-fish communities, the global applicability of chaetodontids as bio-indicators is questionable.
4312907|Mount Nimba's blessing is becoming its bane. The same geologic and geomorphic traits responsible for its impressive relief, scenic beauty, and biological diversity could bring about its destruction, for Nimba is actually a mountain of iron ore. If mining continues to eat away at this extraordinary site, we might well lose an irreplaceable part of our world heritage.
4315602|Food 21, an interdisciplinary research program encompassing the whole agro-food chain, was conducted in Sweden during 1997-2004. The challenges undertaken were to come up with environmental tools and solutions to existing nonsustainable practices along the entire food chain. This required close collaboration between the scientists and the food chain stakeholders. A set of goals characterizing sustainable food production is presented in this paper. Synthesis and systems analysis were the main tools used to analyze the sustainability of proposed changes. In this introduction we give an overview of the Food 21 concept and highlight some results. For example, we found that organic farming and organic products were not in general superior to conventional products and practices with respect to environmental impact and product quality. We also summarize the management experiences in this article, since we consider them to be rather unique and since they contributed to the overall success of the program.
23253246|This article gives an overview of the studies on the environment surrounding the Abisko Scientific Research Station in Swedish Lapland. The long-term monitoring of the Station on processes related to the climate, and to the physical, biotic, and chemical environmental conditions is particularly addressed. Some variables are recorded since more than 100 years. The obtained data in combination with results from short-term studies and manipulation experiments are important to understand past and future conditions of the ecosystems. This has practical applications for the planning of tourism, transports, reindeer herding, and for societal purposes.
4312392|Since chemical pollution continues to be a persistent problem, control over toxic chemicals is becoming a major concern to all governments. This article, taken from UNEP's annual report, 1978, reviews the problem from a global perspective.
4315205| The goal of this study is to investigate the impact of deforestation on ozone dynamics and deposition in the Brazilian Amazon basin. This goal is accomplished through i) analyses of ozone levels and deposition rates at a deforested site during the rainy season; and ii) comparisons of these data with similar information derived at a forest. At the pasture site maximum ozone mixing ratios reach 20 parts per billion on a volume basis (ppbv) but about 6 ppbv prevail over the forest. Maximum ozone deposition velocities for pastures can reach 0.7 cm s
4315040|A systematic investigation of PCB in coastal sediments of the Baltic Sea was initiated in 1996 by retrieving dated subsurface layers (1992-1994) from 88 sites in 19 sheltered archipelago areas, where laminated sediments were found to be common. PCBs7 (HELCOM's standard sum of 7 congeners, 1/6 of total PCB) was quantified, as well as the abundance and isotopic composition of nutrients (N, C), in order to trace effects of eutrophication and potential influences on the turnover of PCB. In most of the areas, the median of PCBs7/C was within 70 to 120 ng g-1 C. This is similar to recent values in regional offshore sediments, and thus consistent with a rapid exchange between coastal and open waters. Elevated PCBs7 levels up to around 1000 ng g-1 C were found within 50 km from Stockholm. Here, but not in other areas, PCBs7/C increased linearly with the degree of eutrophication. This was evident from the isotopic composition of sediment N and C, reflecting local eutrophication as well as its link to freshwater input. In contrast, concentrations or ratios of nutrients in sediments were poor indicators of eutrophication. Our results demonstrate that the Stockholm watershed still is a source of both PCB and excess nutrients to the Baltic Sea, but do not support any enrichment or dilution of PCBs7/C ratios caused by eutrophication.
4313749|To solve the problem of tropical forest destruction demands a strategy which is of necessity complex, and yet must also be aggressive, if the remaining tropical forest areas with their ecological riches and biological diversity are to be preserved. Intensive livestock production models, based on true tropical resources, appear to offer real alternatives to the pressures exerted by the major enemy of the forests-the extensively grazed beef animal. The model developed in Colombia employs perennial crops with high biomass production potential (sugarcane and forage trees) and complementary livestock species (pigs and sheep) managed in confinement. Productivity is a function of sugarcane yield which depends on soil fertility, water availability and variety. For the world average yield of 50 tonnes per ha per year, total liveweight production per year from pigs and sheep can be 1500 kg per ha per year. However, with appropriate management, sugarcane can yield up to 180 tonnes per ha per year, which will give 8000 kg liveweight per hectare per year. Implementing these models on a massive scale will result in a substantial reduction of the area required to support resource-poor farmers, committed to colonizing the forest. At the same time, existing grazing areas can be transformed into more productive units with obvious advantages in terms of job creation and economic stimulus to rural development. More research and development is needed, and especially the validation of the technologies in areas where the rate of forest destruction is most acute.
4315529|An assessment of the impacts of changes in climate and UV-B radiation on Arctic terrestrial ecosystems, made within the Arctic Climate Impacts Assessment (ACIA), highlighted the profound implications of projected warming in particular for future ecosystem services, biodiversity and feedbacks to climate. However, although our current understanding of ecological processes and changes driven by climate and UV-B is strong in some geographical areas and in some disciplines, it is weak in others. Even though recently the strength of our predictions has increased dramatically with increased research effort in the Arctic and the introduction of new technologies, our current understanding is still constrained by various uncertainties. The assessment is based on a range of approaches that each have uncertainties, and on data sets that are often far from complete. Uncertainties arise from methodologies and conceptual frameworks, from unpredictable surprises, from lack of validation of models, and from the use of particular scenarios, rather than predictions, of future greenhouse gas emissions and climates. Recommendations to reduce the uncertainties are wide-ranging and relate to all disciplines within the assessment. However, a repeated theme is the critical importance of achieving an adequate spatial and long-term coverage of experiments, observations and monitoring of environmental changes and their impacts throughout the sparsely populated and remote region that is the Arctic.
4315381| The reduced emissions of acidifying sulfur and nitrogen in Europe since the late 1970s will be further reduced when the Gothenburg protocol is fully implemented by 2010. Here we address the consequences for the recovery of acidified terrestrial ecosystems using the acidification model MAGIC applied to 3 large-scale "clean rain" experiments, the so-called roof experiments at Risdalsheia, Norway; Grdsjn, Sweden, and Klosterhede, Denmark. Implementation of the Gothenburg protocol will initiate recovery of the soils at all 3 sites by rebuilding base saturation. The rate of recovery is small and base saturation increases less than 5% over the next 30 years. A climate-induced increase in storm severity will increase the sea-salt input to the ecosystems. This will provide additional base cations to the soils and more than double the rate of the recovery, but also lead to strong acid pulses following high sea-salt inputs as the deposited base cations exchange with the acidity stored in the soil. Future recovery of soils and runoff at acidified catchments will thus depend on the amount and rate of reduction of acid deposition, and in the case of systems near the coast, the frequency and intensity of sea-salt episodes as well. 
4315125|Watershed Development Programmes (WDPs) have been initiated in India to improve and sustain productivity and the production potential of the dry and semiarid regions of the country at higher levels, through adoption of appropriate production and conservation techniques. The aim is also to meet the needs of rural communities for food, fuel, fodder, and timber and, thereby, reduce pressure on natural forests. In view of their potential for growth, for improving income, and the natural resource base of the disadvantaged regions of the country, WDPs are being accorded importance in the development plans for India and by donor agencies. This paper presents a social cost-benefit appraisal of a watershed development project in Karnataka, India. Using alternate viability measures, i.e. Net Present Value (NPV), Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR), and rigorous tests and sensitivity analyses, the results show that if expected full benefits are realized, the benefits derived from the watershed project are quite high, with the IRRs ranging from 19 to 96%. If, however, expected full benefits were to fall short by 25%, and net costs of (including the opportunity cost of grazing benefits foregone by the villagers on account of establishing community woodlots on degraded forestlands and village commons used earlier for free grazing of their cattle) the project will report losses. Even these losses can be contained if the direct benefits from some community woodlots, for which information was not available, and other indirect benefits, mostly of an environmental nature, are included. The findings of this study suggest that watershed development projects initiated to improve the economy and ecology of India's dry and semiarid regions are economically viable and socially desirable.
4312563|The major pollutants present in direct municipal and industrial discharges, and in river water flowing into the Baltic, are reviewed. Estimates of the total land-based inputs of organic matter, nitrogen, and phosphorus indicate that rivers transport more than half of the load of these substances to the Baltic. Other contaminants in domestic and industrial wastes are considered on a qualitative basis.
4315725|We present an updated, harmonized hydrologic base map of the entire Baltic Sea Drainage Basin (BSDB), including 634 subdrainage basins. The updated map has a level of detail approximately 5 to 10 times higher than the current standard and includes various spatial-aggregation possibilities of relevance for water management. All 634 subdrainage basins and their various spatial aggregations are characterized in terms of population, land cover, drainage density, and slope. We identify, quantify, and characterize, in particular, drainage basins that are unmonitored with regard to the combination of water-flow and nutrient-concentration measurements needed to monitor coastal nutrient and pollutant loading. Results indicate that out of a total BSDB population of 84 239 000 in 2002, 24% lived in unmonitored coastal drainage basins that cover 13% of the total BSDB area. A more detailed analysis of Swedish catchments indicates that Sweden has a particularly large proportion of unmonitored coastal catchment areas (20% of the total Swedish area) with high population pressures (55% of the total Swedish population), when compared with average conditions for the whole BSDB. In general, the investigated characteristics of unmonitored coastal basins vary and differ largely from those in adjacent monitored drainage basins within the BSDB.
40928386|Traditional approaches to ecosystem restoration have considered afforestation to be an important tool. To alleviate land degradation in China, the Chinese government has therefore invested huge amounts of money in planting trees. However, the results of more than half a century of large-scale afforestation in arid and semi-arid China have shown that when the trees are not adapted to the local environment, the policy does not improve the environment, and may instead increase environmental degradation. When precipitation is lower than potential evaporation, surface soil moisture typically cannot sustain forest vegetation, and shrubs or steppe species replace the forest to form a sustainable natural ecosystem that exists in a stable equilibrium with the available water supply. The climate of much of northwestern China appears to be unsuitable for afforestation owing to the extremely low rainfall. Although some smallscale or short-term afforestation efforts have succeeded in this region, many of the resulting forests have died or degraded over longer periods, so policymakers must understand that these small-scale or short-term results do not support an inflexible policy of large-scale afforestation throughout arid and semi-arid northwestern China. Rather than focusing solely on afforestation, it would be more effective to attempt to recreate natural ecosystems that are better adapted to local environments and that thus provide a better chance of sustainable, long-term rehabilitation.
4312500| To investigate to what degree the temperature increases in a water body receiving cooling water from a power influence the bioaccumulation of PCBs and DDT in fish, pilot experiments concerning uptake and elimination of these substances at different water temperatures were made. The results confirm earlier published results that a rise of 10C resulted in a doubling of the accumulation rate. In the elimination experiment a significant decrease of levels was found after one week of recovery. However, temperature differences had no observable influence on the elimination rate. 
24708780|Trace elements (n = 23) in Irish headwater lakes (n = 126) were investigated to determine their ambient concentrations, fractionation (total, dissolved, and non-labile), and geochemical controls. Lakes were generally located in remote upland, acid-sensitive regions along the coastal margins of the country. Total trace metal concentrations were low, within the range of natural pristine surface waters; however, some lakes (20 %) had inorganic labile aluminum and manganese at levels potentially harmful to aquatic organisms. Redundancy analysis indicated that geochemical weathering was the dominant controlling factor for total metals, compared with acidity for dissolved metals. In addition, many metals were positively correlated with dissolved organic carbon indicating their affinity (or complexation) with humic substances (e.g., aluminum, iron, mercury, lead). However, a number of trace metals (e.g., aluminum, mercury, zinc) were correlated with anthropogenic acidic deposition (i.e., non-marine sulfate), suggesting atmospheric sources or elevated leaching owing to acidic deposition. As transboundary air pollution continues to decline, significant changes in the cycling of trace metals is anticipated.
4313963|The concept of critical load addresses the level of environmental stress that will not harm ecosystems in a long-term perspective. Methods used to calculate critical loads do not take the time scales of acidification and recovery into account. Therefore, the environmental consequences of different emission reductions can not be fully assessed using only the empirical and steady-state methods used to calculate critical loads. Using dynamic chemical models, the change in key chemical parameters in three Nordic ecosystems were predicted for several deposition scenarios. Target loads for S deposition were set, using 3 different dynamic models, under the condition that the chemical criteria should be met by 2037. For catchments with shallow soils, the target loads for S in surface water, calculated with all models, were similar. All models indicate that the S deposition at Birkenes in southern Norway must be reduced to < 0 meq m
41417397|Bathymetry, the underwater topography, is a fundamental property of oceans, seas, and lakes. As such it is important for a wide range of applications, like physical oceanography, marine geology, geophysics and biology or the administration of marine resources. The exact requirements users may have regarding bathymetric data are, however, unclear. Here, the results of a questionnaire survey and a literature review are presented, concerning the use of Baltic Sea bathymetric data in research and for societal needs. It is demonstrated that there is a great need for detailed bathymetric data. Despite the abundance of high-quality bathymetric data that are produced for safety of navigation purposes, the digital bathymtrie models publicly available to date cannot satisfy this need. Our study shows that DBMs based on data collected for safety of navigation could substantially improve the base data for administrative decision making as well as the possibilities for marine research in the Baltic Sea.
4315302| Coastal resource utilization and management systems, both traditional and more recently conceived, were studied in Mecfi district, northern Mozambique in a post-conflict situation prior to which a significant migration of people to the coast had occurred. A wide variety of coastal biotopes containing a multitude of resources had been affected in various ways. Intertidal organisms exhibited signs of decreasing abundance and average size, whereas offshore fishes and mangrove forests did not show signs of overutilization. It was observed that traditional coastal management systems were still influential, but that newer initiatives were only beginning to enter into significant dialogue and cooperation with these. In the current circumstances of peace and political stability, the principal threat to coastal management and the interests of local people in Mecfi is considered to be potential loss of common property resources and land tenure in the face of prospects of privatization, but Mozambican authorities are presently addressing these issues with legal reforms. 
4312456|DDT, in sublethal dosages (1.5 and 15 mg/kg body weight), was orally administered to flounders kept in slightly hypotonic brackish water. In order to study the effects of DDT on osmotic and ionic regulation, the osmolality, as well as the concentrations of various inorganic ions and total protein in blood plasma, were measured after three and six weeks. DDT caused significant decreases in chloride and magnesium concentrations, suggesting an impaired ability to maintain ion homeostasis.
25515830|The dramatic population crashes of 3 species of Gyps vulture have raised concerns about the status of their lesser-known congeners. Among these is the Himalayan griffon, G. himalayensis, an iconic vulture of the Tibetan plateau. The continued existence of this scavenger has not only ecological but also cultural implications because of their unique role in the centuries-old sky burial tradition that is followed by nearly 5 million Tibetan people. A lack of baseline information of the Himalayan griffon limits our ability to take conservation measures. The presented data, which were collected during 1996 and 2004 to 2007, indicate that this species is still widespread throughout the plateau and has not experienced a major population decline, likely as a result of protection by Tibetan Buddhism and limited disturbances from human activities largely due to the remoteness of the plateau. Both site and road counts showed that open meadow habitats had the highest griffon abundance, followed by alpine shrub and forest habitats. Estimates based on road transect counts showed that 229 339 Himalayan griffons ( 40 447) occupy the 2.5 million km Tibetan plateau. In contrast, the maximum carrying capacity of the plateau, on the basis of the total biomass of potential food resources, is 507 996 griffons, with meadow habitats accounting for about 76% of the total population. Griffons depend largely on livestock carcasses for food and forage in groups averaging 5.5 (range 1-100) individuals. Domestic yaks provide about 64% of the griffons' diet, while wild ungulates and human corpses provide 1% and 2%, respectively. Compared with its lowland congeners, this, the only high-elevation Gyps species, had both low population density and small group size, a likely response to the harsh environmental conditions. Although griffon abundance appears relatively stable in their fairly pristine environment, precautionary measures, including investigation of threats, monitoring of population dynamics, and establishment of modern conservation consciousness among Tibetan Buddhists, should be carried out to ensure that this abundance continues.
4315577|The Swedish coastal zone is a scene of conflicting interests about various goods and services provided by nature. Open-access conditions and the public nature of many services increase the difficulty in resolving these conflicts. "Sustainability" is a vague but widely accepted guideline for finding reasonable trade-offs between different interests. The UN view of sustainable development suggests that coastal zone management should aim at a sustainable ecological, economic, and social-cultural development. Looking closer at economic sustainability, it is observed that economic analyses about whether changes in society imply a gain or a loss should take into account the economic value of the environment. Methods used for making such economic valuation in the context of the Swedish coastal zone are briefly reviewed. It is noted that the property rights context matters for the results of a valuation study. This general background is followed by a concise presentation of the design and results of four valuation studies on Swedish coastal zone issues. One study is on the economic value of an improved bathing water quality in the Stockholm archipelago. The other studies are a travel cost study about the economic value of improved recreational fisheries in the Stockholm archipelago, a replacement cost study on the value of restoring habitats for sea trout, and a choice experiment study on the economic value of improved water quality along the Swedish westcoast.
4312041| It is shown that there is considerable spread in the values of the boron/chlorinity (B/Cl) ratio in the Baltic. The results may be summarized by the following equation: B(mg/kg) = 0.227  Cl() + 0.050 which implies that the boron/chlorinity ratio will increase in brackish waters with lower chlorinities than sea water. When the data are split up in different sampling periods, there is a definite indication of a decrease in the B/Cl ratios over the last 15 years from 0.264 to 0.236, in spite of the increased use of boron. This may be explained by an increased sedimentation rate of mineral particles and removal of boron in the Baltic. Some aspects of the boron regulation in the oceans are discussed on the basis of the present investigation in the Baltic. 
4315353|In the Adayar riverbed and its estuary 5 undisturbed sediment cores were drilled using a petrol-driven hammer. Cores of a depth of 4-5 m were sampled in 0.5 m steps. The distribution of heavy metals (Cr, Mn, Ni, Cu, Zn, Cd and Pb) in the top layers of fluvial and estuarine sediments indicates recent anthropogenic input: Revealing that the river acts as a sink for drainage from the residential and industrial zones. In this study, the mobilization of heavy metals into greater depths and their probable effects on the groundwater body are discussed. The high concentration of heavy metals and the influent character of the river Adayar allow the mobilization of metal ions and their transport into the deeper layers of the sediment. A changing environment due to effects such as saltwater intrusion and monsoon floods is the driving force for this phenomenon.
4312432|Multinational corporations play only a minor role in the economic life of developing countries despite what is usually believed, hence this is a complementary-not a total-scenario. Their environmental impact comes from the size and nature of their individual operations and their tendency to benefit primarily the urban, industrial sector. On balance, the activities of the MNCs provide access to advanced pollution control technology and environmentally sensitive planning techniques so that their environmental impact is often less than that of purely national enterprises. By their multinational operations they tend to accelerate the transfer of environmental values and hence encourage local groups to take direct action to protect the environment.
4312498|Environmental risk management embraces three techniques for project appraisal: cost benefit analysis, environmental impact analysis and risk assessment. It also explicitly relates scientific investigations to political judgments, sometimes so closely that the two cannot be separated. Indeed it is now apparent that environmental risk management encompasses procedures both to review the relative merits and priorities of policies as well as to appraise the environmental risks of particular schemes. Until recently this relationship has not been fully appreciated, so much imagination and innovation is still required to develop the most suitable mechanisms for review.
4314662|Determinants of low deforestation in Bolivia are analyzed, based on the Bolivian experience and general deforestation literature, and lessons are drawn for other countries with low deforestation. Weak domestic demand for agricultural products and poor transportation infrastructure are the principal causes of low deforestation. Weak domestic demand is related to small population and low per capita income, and poor transportation infrastructure is a function of a country's low capacity for investment in infrastructure and political factors. Production for export plays an important role in deforestation in these contexts, and is influenced by policies such as road building, appreciated exchange rates, and subsidies for commercial agriculture. Factors influencing land-clearing by poor families are less relevant. Political and institutional factors deserve greater attention than they have received in previous deforestation literature.
41510582|Decaying root systems of harvested trees can be a significant component of belowground carbon storage, especially in intensively managed forests where harvest occurs repeatedly in relatively short rotations. Based on destructive sampling of root systems of harvested loblolly pine trees, we estimated that root systems contained about 32% (17.2 Mg ha) at the time of harvest, and about 13% (6.1 Mg ha) of the soil organic carbon 10 years later. Based on the published roundwood output data, we estimated belowground biomass at the time of harvest for loblolly-shortleaf pine forests harvested between 1995 and 2005 in South Carolina. We then calculated C that remained in the decomposing root systems in 2005 using the decay function developed for loblolly pine. Our calculations indicate that the amount of C stored in decaying roots of loblolly-shortleaf pine forests harvested between 1995 and 2005 in South Carolina was 7.1 Tg. Using a simple extrapolation method, we estimated 331.8 Tg C stored in the decomposing roots due to timber harvest from 1995 to 2005 in the conterminous USA. To fully account for the C stored in the decomposing roots of the US forests, future studies need (1) to quantify decay rates of coarse roots for major tree species in different regions, and (2) to develop a methodology that can determine C stock in decomposing roots resulting from natural mortality.
4314432|Solving solid-waste problems in Riga city will help to strengthen the idea and fulfillment of sustainable development. According to suggestions of Carl Bro Environment a/s and the World Bank Mission, Riga City Council has accepted a strategic plan for solid waste management. The solid-waste management program includes institutional changes, modern collection and recycling, new landfill construction in the first stages and a biogas plant and incinerator construction in the latter stages. Implementation of this plan by time scale depends on the ability of the residents of the Riga to cover the expenses involved.
4314694|Andalusian Mediterranean steppes, which have marked floristic similarities with steppes from the Maghreb, exhibit a wide diversity of features. Aboveground perennial phytomass was found to differ considerably between the different Andalusian steppes: steppe with Stipa tenacissima, steppe with Artemisia barrelieri, steppe with Lygeum spartum and steppe with Chenopodiaceae. The intensity of degradation from man and livestock, which is partly responsible for the current floristic composition and physionomy of these steppes, was reflected by the values of phytomass and carbon storage, which generally decline with increasing steppization.
4314506|Free-living bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) were sampled in the pollution gradient from a Swedish sulfide ore smelter and at a control site. Animals were placed in metabolic cages for 24-hours-collection of urine. Blood plasma and whole kidneys were analyzed for plasma creatinine, and metal concentrations, respectively. Urine was analyzed for volume, total protein, creatinine, and metals. Voles from the polluted site showed 30-40 times increased cadmium levels in kidney, polyuria, and increased proteinuria. Kidney concentrations of other metals than cadmium, were similar in the voles from the two locations, as were variables related to glomerular function. The proteinuria and increased urine production, appearing at 4 mg Cd kg
4315666|An overview of the importance of fossil fuels in supplying the energy requirements of the 21st century, their future supply, and the impact of their use on global climate is presented. Current and potential alternative energy sources are considered. It is concluded that even with substantial increases in energy derived from other sources, fossil fuels will remain a major energy source for much of the 21st century and the sequestration of CO
4312009|This report deals with observations of and experiments on the ecological effect of selenium addition to fodder crops through soil application. The biological half-life of selenium has been investigated for some terrestrial and freshwater organisms, and it is shown that an increase in the average selenium level does not change the relative distribution between these organisms in the ecosystem. The results, therefore, support the view that such an application does not constitute a risk of accumulation of selenium in the food chain.
4315680|To improve coral reef management, a deeper understanding of biodiversity across scales in the context of functional groups is required. The focus of this paper is on the role of diversity within functional groups in securing important ecsystem processes that contribute to the resilience of coral-dominated reef states. Two important components of species biodiversity that confer ecosystem resilience are analyzed: redundancy and the diversity of responses within functional groups to change. Three critical functional groups are used to illustrate the interaction between these two components and their role in coral reef resilience: zooxanthellae (symbiotic micro algae in reef-building corals), reef-building corals, and herbivores. The paper further examines the consequences of undermining functional redundancy and response diversity and addresses strategies to secure ecological processes that are critical for coral reef resilience.
4312514|This article describes the current state of biogas development within China and its extension to other countries. While intensively popularized inside the country and rapidly gaining in scientific sophistication, it is largely concentrated in one area, Sichuan. But that province has taken the lead in opening up the technology to the Third World: the Office for the Propagation of Biogas in Sichuan Province hosted the first international biogas training program for developing countries in August 1979, sponsored by the Environment Protection Office of the State Council of China and the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP).
4315853|Nature can survive without humans, but humans cannot survive without nature. Despite a clear understanding of this dependency, humans continue to exist in disharmony with nature, and our current environmental and human dilemmas reflect old problems with a long history. Societies have historically experienced many transitions from harmony between nature and society to a crisis of disharmony, followed by a subsequent transition from crisis to harmony. Such ecological crises arise when society no longer practices sustainable consumption of resources within the limits imposed by the environmental carrying capacity. Over the long term, the growth in human desires has always exceeded the growth in the environmental carrying capacity. Science, technology, and social institutions must all be improved to resolve the ecological crises that arise from this imbalance. This paper discusses how increasing understanding of the problem by the public and by decision makers is the key to minimizing the undesirable impacts of the coming bottleneck for sustainable development. Furthermore, we emphasize how this awareness must be translated into fundamental political and economic changes.
24708864|The finding of dieldrin (88 ng/g), DDE (52 ng/g), and heptachlor epoxide (19 ng/g) in earthworms from experimental plots after a single moderate application (9 kg/ha) 45 years earlier attests to the remarkable persistence of these compounds in soil and their continued uptake by soil organisms. Half-lives (with 95 % confidence intervals) in earthworms, estimated from exponential decay equations, were as follows: dieldrin 4.9 (4.35.7) years, DDE 5.3 (4.76.1) years, and heptachlor epoxide 4.3 (3.84.9) years. These half-lives were not significantly different from those estimated after 20 years. Concentration factors (dry weight earthworm tissue/dry weight soil) were initially high and decreased mainly during the first 11 years after application. By the end of the study, average concentration factors were 1.5 (dieldrin), 4.0 (DDE), and 1.8 (heptachlor epoxide), respectively.
4314448|The article estimates the total costs of a comprehensive program aiming at protection and sustainable management of all tropical moist forests to be USD 2.25 bill. annually in 20-30 years. As a central issue the program includes area-dependent payments to concessionaires as a compensation for additional costs related to the implementation of sustainable forest-management practices. It is argued that economic incentives at production level are far more efficient than trade measures. We suggest a development scheme based on existing organizations and consisting of a triangular arrangement with units for support, monitoring and implementation. The needed funds can be raised by an export tax of around 1.5% if levied on all timber products. Simulations using a general equilibrium model clearly demonstrates that taxes on both temperate and tropical timber products are preferable to taxes imposed solely on tropical producers.
4313679|Intensive measurements of nutrient fluxes, carbon and nitrogen assimilation, sedimentation and oxygen consumption within the SE Kattegat are used in an effort to follow the coupling between increasing nutrient supply and decreasing deep-water oxygen concentrations. The investigated area is a part of the strongly stratified Baltic estuary, with a hampered deep-water exchange and a large supply of nitrogen from nearby anthropogenic sources. Measurements were undertaken during 1981-1988. The results are discussed, mainly in terms of annual or seasonal mean values. The average primary production, $11.4\ {\rm mol}\ {\rm C}\cdot {\rm m}^{2}$ (corresponding to $45\ {\rm mmol}\ {\rm C}\cdot {\rm m}^{-2}\cdot {\rm d}^{-1}$ during the "productive season"; from March to October), was surprisingly well correlated with the uptake of inorganic nitrogen, which averaged $1.68\ {\rm mol}\ {\rm N}\ {\rm m}^{2}$ ($11.1\ {\rm mol}\ {\rm C}\cdot {\rm m}^{-2}$, using the Redfield ratio). The oxygen consumption (deep water and benthic) which averaged $20\ {\rm mol}\ {\rm O}_{2}\cdot {\rm m}^{2}\cdot {\rm d}^{1}$, was well correlated both with the measured nitrate uptake and with the external supply of nitrate to the surface water. The consumption was twice as high as that in the open Kattegat.
4312518| Effects of the exposure to the effluent from a titanium-dioxide industry located on the southwest coast of Finland, were measured on two fish species, the perch (Perca fluviatilis L) and the bleak (Alburnus alburnus L), by means of the rotatory-flow technique. The fish were exposed for 14 and 28 days to effluent concentrations of 300, 500 or 600 l/l of brackish water (salinity 7 percent) with a continuous flow. One group of bleak was exposed to a concentration of 1250 l effluent/l medium for two days and then left as a recovery group. The fish displayed statistically significant decreases in ability to compensate for torque in the rotating current in all exposed groups except that in the 300 l/l concentration for 14 days. A dose-dependent gill precipitate seemed to be the primary reason for this phenomenon. 
41418338|The Arctic marine ecosystem contains multiple elements that present alternative states. The most obvious of which is an Arctic Ocean largely covered by an ice sheet in summer versus one largely devoid of such cover. Ecosystems under pressure typically shift between such alternative states in an abrupt, rather than smooth manner, with the level of forcing required for shifting this status termed threshold or tipping point. Loss of Arctic ice due to anthropogenic climate change is accelerating, with the extent of Arctic sea ice displaying increased variance at present, a leading indicator of the proximity of a possible tipping point. Reduced ice extent is expected, in turn, to trigger a number of additional tipping elements, physical, chemical, and biological, in motion, with potentially large impacts on the Arctic marine ecosystem.
4314417|Fishing is the most widespread human exploitative activity on tropical reefs and the survival of many coastal societies is dependent on the productivity of their fisheries. Existing fishery management strategies focus primarily on target fish populations, but they may not be appropriate when fishing initiates shifts in the reef ecosystem. Such shifts may not be reversible, and can impair the processes which guarantee future fish production. We describe a number of alternative approaches to management and consider which of these may help to maximize yield whilst minimizing the probability of unwanted ecosystem shifts. One of these approaches is already adopted by a number of island societies but, ironically, it has proved to be incompatible with many fishery development programs.
4313059|Europe has nearly vanished from the Pacific Region. Its position has been taken over by the USA and Japan. At the moment, only France has full-fledged colonies (French Polynesia) in the South Pacific, while Britain has a number of dependencies. However, economic ties, now almost non-existent, can be built between Europe and the South Pacific. There is still a chance for Europe to exert a positive influence in the Region, despite a long (and sometimes bitter) colonial experience.
4313675|The reported biological effects of the increased nutrient load on the Baltic Sea are summarized, with some comparisons with the Kattegat and Skagerrak. Interest is focused on the coastal zone, where effects are more obvious than in offshore areas, but from which results have not often been published internationally. Reports demonstrate environmental degradation over extensive coastal areas of the Baltic Sea. Recorded effects include increased nutrient levels; increased algal blooms, chlorophyll a concentrations, and primary productivity; decreased water transparency, and decreased depth penetration of Fucus vesiculosus; increased deposition of organic matter on the bottom and increased frequency and severity of oxygen deficiency in bottom waters; and reduction of bottom fauna. It is concluded that for most Baltic countries efforts to reduce local eutrophication are likely to have important positive effects, even when reductions in discharges of nutrients are relatively insignificant in comparison to the total nutrient load on the Baltic Sea.
4314399|Preliminary studies were carried out to investigate the possibility of using local species of macroalgae for the purification of polluted water, primarily sewage water, from village households in East Africa. The work was done on Unguja Island, Zanzibar, Tanzania. Seaweed species diversity of intertidal flats on the east coast of Unguja was studied outside villages with beach hotels. Nutrient samples (N and P) were taken in the sea close to sewage outlets. Growth characteristics and nutrient uptake rates were investigated for 14 macroalgae and 3 were selected for further study in a model system for wastewater treatment. No effects on macroalgal species composition were found. High uptake rates for ammonium, nitrate and phosphate were found in the three selected species. Nutrient load and composition, mainly N:P ratio, were varied to optimize uptake efficiency. We conclude that local macroalgae are suitable for efficient nutrient removal and suggest that a system with simple tanks or ponds with macroalgae be used for small-scale purification of sewage water in the region.
4314670|We review the current knowledge on biodiversity in soils, its role in ecosystem processes, its importance for human purposes, and its resilience against stress and disturbance. The number of existing species is vastly higher than the number described, even in the macroscopically visible taxa, and biogeographical syntheses are largely lacking. A major effort in taxonomy and the training of a new generation of systematists is imperative. This effort has to be focussed on the groups of soil organisms that, to the best of our knowledge, play key roles in ecosystem functioning. To identify such groups, spheres of influence (SOI) of soil biota-such as the root biota, the shredders of organic matter and the soil bioturbators-are recognized that presumably control ecosystem processes, for example, through interactions with plants. Within those SOI, functional groups of soil organisms are recognized. Research questions of the highest urgency are the assignment of species to functional groups and determining the redundancy of species within functional groups. These priorities follow from the need to address the extent of any loss of functioning in soils, associated with intensive agriculture, forest disturbance, pollution of the environment, and global environmental change. The soil biota considered at present to be most at risk are species-poor functional groups among macrofaunal shredders of organic matter, bioturbators of soil, specialized bacteria like nitrifiers and nitrogen fixers, and fungi forming mycorrhizas. An experimental approach in addressing these research priorities is needed, using long-term and large-scale field experiments and modern methods of geostatistics and geographic information systems.
41417281|Research on the benefits of local ecological knowledge for conservation lacks empirical data on the pathways through which local knowledge might affect natural resources management. We test whether ethnobotanical skills, a proxy for local ecological knowledge, are associated to the clearance of forest through their interaction with agricultural labor. We collected information from men in a society of gatherers-horticulturalist, the Tsimane' (Bolivia). Data included a baseline survey, a survey of ethnobotanical skills (n = 190 men), and two surveys on agricultural labor inputs (n = 466 plots). We find a direct effect of ethnobotanical skills in lowering the extent of forest cleared in fallow but not in old-growth forest. We also find that the interaction between ethnobotanical skills and labor invested in shifting cultivation has opposite effects depending on whether the clearing is done in oldgrowth or fallow forest. We explain the finding in the context of Tsimane' increasing integration to the market economy.
4315846|To get a proper perspective on the current status of atmospheric ozone, which protects the biosphere from ultraviolet-B (UV-B; 280-315 nm) radiation, it would be of value to know how ozone and UV-B radiation have varied in the past. The record of worldwide ozone monitoring goes back only a few decades, and the record of reliable UV-B measurements is even shorter. Here we review indirect methods to assess their status further back in time. These include variations in the Sun's emission and how these affect the atmosphere, changes in the Earth's orbit, geologic imprints of atmospheric ozone, effects of catastrophic events such as volcanic eruptions, biological proxies of UV-B radiation, the spectral signature of terrestrial ozone in old recordings of star spectra, and the modeling of UV-B irradiance from ozone data and meteorological recordings. Although reliable reconstructions do not yet extend far into the past, there is some hope for future progress.
4314572|The human appropriation of net primary production (NPP) significantly alters the energy flow of ecosystems. The NPP-appropriation, defined as the difference between the NPP of the hypothetical undisturbed vegetation and the amount of biomass currently available in ecological cycles, is investigated for the 99 political districts of Austria (1990). Calculations are based on data for land-use, forestry, yield, and climate. Total aboveground NPP of the actual vegetation was found to be 7% less than that of the potential natural vegetation. Additionally, 34% of potential production is harvested, resulting in a total reduction of ecologically available aboveground NPP of 41%. Since this could have significant ecological effects, e.g. on biodiversity, it is of potential interest for strategies of sustainable development, indicators for stresses on the environment, and the environmental effects of increased utilization of biomass.
4313542|Atmospherically correct normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) data have been generated from the red and near infrared channels of the advanced very high resolution radiometer (AVHRR) onboard NOAA-9. Fourteen single-date images were processed for 1985 and one for 1986. This paper describes the findings from a comparative study of satellite-derived NDVI for March 1986 and detailed ecological information collected in the field during March and April of the same year. Strong positive relationships were found for NDVI against above-ground green biomass and percentage vegetation cover. Evidence suggests the existence of a threshold beyond which the NDVI as a vegetation index becomes uncertain. NDVI extracted from the fourteen 1985 images were used to study the relationship between the NVDI and monthly precipitation for four selected study sites.
41417267|This article examines the views of scientists on intricacies of scientific knowledge that affect sciencepolicy interface in the Baltic Sea eutrophication governance in Finland. The analysis demonstrates that these intricacies can be divided into five categories: (1) uncertainty of knowledge concerning ecological processes, (2) heterogeneity of knowledge, (3) societal and political call for (certain) knowledge, (4) contingency of the knowledge that ends up taken as a baseline for decision making and further research, and (5) linkages of knowledge production, processing, and communication to particular characteristics of individual researchers and research societies. By explicating these aspects, this article illustrates the ways in which scientific knowledge concerning eutrophication is human-bound and susceptible to interpretation, thus adding on to the uncertainty of the Baltic Sea environmental governance. The aim is, then, to open up perspectives on how ambiguities related to science-policy interface could be coped with.
4314067|In 1987, the Danish Government passed the Action Plan on the Aquatic Environment, the main objectives of which were to reduce nitrogen and phosphorus discharge to the aquatic environment by 50% and 80%, respectively, before 1994. At the same time a harmonized nationwide monitoring program was established to monitor the reduction in nutrient load from different sectors and the ecological effects in the aquatic environment. The monitoring program covers all aquatic media and provides spatial and temporal information on the land-use related distribution of nutrients and their effects on the aquatic environment. Results obtained during the first year are presented together with long-term trends in nutrient loading and surface-water quality. Nitrogen has been documented to be the limiting nutrient for phytoplankton production in Danish marine waters, except in many inshore waters for a short period in spring where phosphorus is the limiting nutrient. One of the main objectives of the Danish Action Plan is therefore to reduce nitrogen loading of the aquatic environment by 50% before 1994. Preliminary model estimates show that a similar reduction in the nitrogen input from Sweden and Germany to the Kattegat and the Belt Sea will lead to an increase in autumn bottom-water oxygen concentration of 0.5-1.0 ml L
4314337|This case study attempts to evaluate self interest in wildlife management by the local community of the Mumbwa Game Management Area in Zambia. The discussion centers on the methods employed, i.e. namely contingent valuation methods. The results show a positive reception to the new approach in wildlife-utilization management employed by the National Parks and Wildlife Services Department. The CVM approach has been to determine the willingness to pay and willingness to accept within the local community. This is based on their consumption of wildlife seen, partly, as a public good. However, there is a land-use conflict with negative responses in the form of willingness to accept. This article discusses the implications vis-a-vis wildlife utilization management in Zambia.
4314605|Nitrogen retention in waterbodies from the mesotrophic/eutrophic Eikeren watercourse and the oligotrophic Bjerkreim watercourse was estimated by mass-balance studies over a period of three years. Studies of lakes of different trophic status revealed that the total annual nitrogen retention was higher in eutrophic lakes (20-30%) than in oligotrophic lakes (< 5%). In contrary to other studies, the N retention seemed not to be associated with water residence time. These findings indicate that N retention is bound to biological processes and not to passive sedimentation processes. A high N:P ratio in most of the lakes indicates that only part of the N pool in the lakes is involved in the biological processes leading to N retention. Thus, we suggest that N retention in Norwegian lakes seems to be phosphorus limited, i.e. high N retention is not to be expected unless the N:P ratio is close to the proportional needs for the aquatic plants.
4313524|This paper reviews the problem of Arctic haze as a well-defined case of air pollution in the polar regions. Horizontal, vertical, and seasonal distributions of particulate matter in the Arctic are presented. Physical and chemical properties of the haze particles are compared to those of continental aerosols. The radiative effect of the aerosol is quantified in terms of instantaneous heating rates. Meteorological and chemical evidence is reviewed relating Arctic haze to mid-latitude anthropogenic sources. After discussion of possible secular trends in Arctic air pollution a number of unresolved issues are discussed.
4315035|In order to examine the possible interactions of eutrophication and hydrophobic organic contaminants, data for polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) concentrations (${\rm C}_{{\rm PCB}}$) in three species of bivalves and in sediments were examined. These were correlated to total organic carbon content of sediments (${\rm TOC}_{{\rm sed}}$), which was assumed to represent the trophic status of the sampling sites. Almost all ${\rm C}_{{\rm PCB}}$ on dry weight basis in the bivalves and in the sediments were positively linearly correlated to ${\rm TOC}_{{\rm sed}}$. Regarding the sediments, this simply reflects the high affinity of these compounds for TOC, but for the bivalves the correlation was not explained. In the bivalves, the difference in PCB homologue concentration was positively linearly correlated to ${\rm TOC}_{{\rm sed}}$. To understand these field data, a box model was used to simulate the fate of PCB in oligotrophic, mesotrophic, eutrophic, and hypertrophic marine environments. The calculated results qualitatively predicted the change in ${\rm C}_{{\rm PCB}}$ for the sediment correctly. For increased trophic status of the water compartment, on a scale from oligo- to hypertrophic, the model predicted decreasing fugacities for the PCBs, and thus could not support the observations of increased bivalve ${\rm C}_{{\rm PCB}}$ seen in the field data study. It was suggested that the PCB pattern change in the bivalves could be influenced by algae-growth dynamics in the watercolumn. This would selectively intensify the washout of the lighter chlorinated homologues from the water and, thereby, decrease their concentrations in the bivalves.
4313016|Food production has risen faster than population in the world and in developing countries as a whole. The probability is that this will continue. But at the same time, developing countries will need increasing imports of cereals, the numbers of malnourished may rise, and around thirty countries-most of them in Africa-can expect serious problems unless they reduce population growth and give greater priority to agriculture and conservation. Raised carbon dioxide levels may, on balance, improve the prospect marginally, but local disruptions could be serious, and must be prepared for.
4312256|Nitrogen, exclusive of that contained in the earth's crust and sediments, is distributed largely in the atmosphere as nitrogen gas. An essential constituent of all life forms, it also functions as an energy metabolite and for this reason is one of the more actively cycled elements. The present atmosphere is not thermodynamically stable but rather is the steady-state result of these interactive biological processes. Human activities, particularly agriculture and its supportive industries, have greatly altered the historic nitrogen cycle. The global significance of this alteration is difficult to assess.
4315621|This study examines the dependency between physical and anthropogenic systems in arable farming. The dynamic simulation model, which has its methodological origins in the modeling traditions of environmental systems analysis and micro-simulation, reproduces the mutual links between the physical flows (e.g. energy, materials, emissions, and products), the farmer as a decision-making agent, and structural conditions influencing the farm. In running the model, the intention is to answer the question: What are the impacts on profitability and the environment (i.e. greenhouse gas effects, eutrophication, acidification, and energy use) of variations in prices, subsidies, the farmer's environmental values, and the farmer's skill in making production allocation choices? The results of the model simulations indicate, for example, that in terms of economic performance, a farmer can choose between two relatively sustainable strategies-either to specialize in organic production (thereby benefiting from higher subsidies and output prices), or to focus on conventional cultivation and use of pesticides and fertilizers (thereby benefiting from large yields). Regarding environmental impacts, there was no clear-cut divide between organic and conventional farming due to difficulties in allocating the use of manure. This finding is essentially related to the choice of system boundary, which is thoroughly discussed in the paper.
4312933|Persistent organochlorine pollutants in tissues of seals from Norwegian coastal waters were analyzed by gas chromatography (GC) and neutron activation analysis (NAA). The results indicate that the organochlorine pollution level along the Norwegian coast is generally low. An expected difference in levels between northwestern and southern waters was not found. Comparisons of amounts of chlorine associated with persistent compounds, as determined by NA and GC analysis respectively, indicate that unidentified organochlorine compounds are present in the samples. This is more pronounced in organs than in blubber.
4314907|Knowledge of the N accumulation rate in soil is crucial for the calculation of "critical loads" of N in forest ecosystems. Calculations of an average rate is based on an assumed constant rate of N accumulation, which may not be correct. In the present study, variations in N accumulation in forest soil due to i) stand age; and ii) N deposition have been investigated. An increase in total amount of N in the mor layer with increasing forest stand age was observed, indicating a constant N accumulation rate of approximately 0.16 g N
4315265|Markets, Population Dynamics, and Coastal Ecosystems Sara Curran and Maria Cruz Our synthesis focuses on how markets influence the population and environment relationship within coastal ecosystems by considering the differential valuing of environmental resources and ecosystem services through 3 perspectives: livelihood, globalization, and public goods and externalities. These are not new perspectives when considering how markets shape demographic and environmental outcomes. However, we suggest that the insight offered by viewing coastal and marine health through these combined lenses brings into focus with renewed urgency the perils facing these vital ecosystems.
4314048|In the past decade a great deal of attention has been focused on the problem of protecting endangered species. Indeed, for historical reasons, biodiversity has largely been discussed by biologists in terms of the diversity of species, leading economists and others to reasonably conclude that conserving Earth's species diversity is the crucial task before us. But the loss of species is only one aspect of the extinction crisis, and in many parts of the world may not be the most important facet of the decay of biological diversity (biodiversity). This paper examines the complementary issue of the extinction of populations, offers a preliminary assessment of its importance relative to the extinction of species, and examines relevant policy implications.
4314659|Land development ranks among the most significant human threats to coral reefs, causing damage by promoting the erosion and transport of soil-called sediment once suspended in water. We studied the impacts of sediment on the coral communities of St. Lucia following a tropical storm. We found more sediment and coral damage on reefs closest to the mouths of large rivers. Coral mortality exceeded 50% at some sites, and the degree of coral mortality and bleaching depended on the amount of sediment at the site. Despite exemplary efforts by engineers to reduce erosion rates, we found more sediment at sites near a road under construction at the time of the storm. Collectively, our data demonstrated a major negative impact of land development on coral reefs, a problem likely to grow in scale given the growing demands for developed land and the recent frequency of large storms in the tropical Atlantic.
4315367|Paleolimnological and molecular genetic techniques were combined to reconstruct the long-term patterns in Daphnia community composition in Hannah Lake-a lake recovering from industrial acidification, metal contamination and faunal extirpation. Like many zooplankters, Daphnia produce diapausing eggs that can remain viable for decades and even over a century. Yet, the appearance of D. mendotae in Hannah Lake during the last two decades is likely the outcome of dispersal from other nearby lakes, not by colonization from the sediment egg-bank. Our genetic tests using PCR, SSCP and sequencing indicate that D. mendotae diapausing eggs are absent within the sediment record of the previous 250 years and that, prior to metal smelting operations in the region, the community was dominated by D. pulicaria. This species shift following the lake's chemical restoration is consistent with earlier historical changes in lake acidity. Environmental fluctuations may have governed community composition throughout Hannah Lake's more ancient past. Extending this molecular-paleolimnological approach to other lakes should help develop more accurate formulations of the biological recovery process.
4313570|The article presents the results of a first reconnaissance-level inventory of wilderness on the land areas of the world. Wilderness is defined as undeveloped land still primarily shaped by the forces of nature. Only large blocks of wilderness over 400 000 hectares were identified. The inventory was based on global navigation charts which show high levels of detail in remote regions. The findings suggest one-third of the global land surface still is wilderness, with 48 069 951 square kilometers identified in 1039 tracts. However, 41% of the amount is in the Arctic or Antarctic and 20% in temperate regions. Most of the settled continents are beween one-fourth and one-third wilderness, Europe being the exception. Only a small share of this wilderness has been given protected status.
4313222|Most of the land surface of the Caribbean island of Dominica is covered by rain forest which is thought to have a controlling influence upon the cycling of nutrients and water upon the island. A long-term project started in 1982 aims to determine the best ways to conserve a sustainable portion of the rain forest while encouraging the development of the country's economy. Detailed studies of the effects of different forms of land use upon representative species (woody plants, reptiles, amphibians, birds and mammals) were made. Some forms of land use are clearly much better for animal communities than others. It will probably be necessary to intercrop with various other tree and root crops, particularly for domestic or regional consumption. However, this may be impractical in the near future, thus efforts could concentrate on making forest management more economic through floriculture and the stocking of agouti, for example.
4313681|This paper describes the large-scale distribution of laminated sediments and the deposition of nutrients in the Baltic offshore accumulation region. The area of laminated surficial sediments in the Baltic proper, excluding the Gulf of Finland and the Gulf of Riga, has been estimated to cover approximately one third of the total area. Accumulation of autochthonous and allochthonous material accounts for only a minor part of the total amount of nutrients sequestered in these deep offshore accumulation bottoms; most of the nutrients may originate from shallow sediments that are eroded as a result of the isostatic land uplift.
4313252|Water is the most important link in all biogeochemical cycles; it acts as a mobile solvent, catalyst and regent. Human activities such as phosphorus mining, pollution and over-use have disrupted these cycles. Of special concern is the perturbation of water cycles through the pursuit of energy for human development. The author postulates that first and second generation water problems, i.e. localized pollution by sewage and industrial wastes and pollution by synthetic chemicals, while often severe, may be solved. The third generation problem, i.e. perturbation of biogeochemical cycles, may be more difficult to address.
23257418|The water-soluble fraction (WSF) of petroleum contains a mixture of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, volatile hydrocarbons, phenols, and heterocyclic compounds, considered deleterious to aquatic biota. Marine "pejerrey" Odontesthes argentinensis (Teleostei: Atherinopsidae) has a great commercial importance in local fisheries and a high potential for aquaculture. The aim of this study was to evaluate the histopathological effects in "pejerrey" larvae exposed to different concentrations of petroleum WSF. The chronic toxicity test was conducted with newly hatched larvae exposed for 21 days to sublethal concentrations of WSF (2.5, 5, 10, and 20 % of WSF), plus one control. Survival and growth were significantly lower in the highest concentration. Several histopathological changes were found in the gills (e.g., hyperplasia, aneurisms, edema, and necrosis), kidney (e.g., nuclear alterations, decrease in the hematopoietic cells), and liver (e.g., hypertrophy, karyorrhexis, and karyopyknosis). An index of branchial lesion was proposed to standardize gill lesions to different pollutants.
4313063|The many varied island economies have increasingly become incorporated into the global economy. Populations have grown rapidly in the post-war years. Family planning has rarely succeeded but migration beyond the South Pacific provides some respite to increased population pressure. Urbanization, the search for employment and education, and growing population densities have resulted in increased unemployment, shantytowns and social and environmental problems which are beyond the capacity of small countries to resolve. Policies to minimize rural-urban migration have been few and although an emphasis on rural development has provided some solutions, environmental problems may worsen.
4313897|There are no widely accepted models for specifying how economic and institutional variables are linked. In practice, the linkages between institutions and economic performance have differed by development level and by type of country. Nevertheless, there are some empirical generalizations which can be made. The first section of this paper describes the role of institutional change in economic development at the macro level. The second section illustrates how, in an African village, institutional change is used to shift the incidence of population-growth induced environmental degradation disproportionately onto the poor.
4313438|This article analyzes the historical background to land degradation, examines the present severity of the problem and describes the efforts to control land deterioration in central Tanzania. The initiation of degradation of land and vegetation in semiarid Tanzania dates back at least 150 years. The transformation from wooded landscapes to open grass- and farmlands, in some instances even further to barren eroded tracts, is documented in accounts by early European travellers, researchers and colonial administrators. By combining historical information and data on present erosion rates a picture of the environmental change over time has emerged. Account is also given of the latest developments in the efforts to halt and reverse the ongoing degradation. This includes the drastic move by the Tanzanian Government to evict some 90 000 head of domestic animals from a
4315004| Deforestation has been occurring in Ethiopia for millenia and has accelerated during the last century. On the other hand, historical accounts indicate that restricted afforestation of mountainous areas was initiated already 550 years ago. One of these areas was the Menagesha Forest. To reconstruct forest site history, soil samples from the Menagesha Forest and Wendo-Genet areas were analyzed for
4315065|Despite their protected status, aquatic ecosystems of Banff National Park have been subjected to a number of human stresses. Largely as the result of stocking programs earlier in the century, 10 species of nonnative fishes now occur in the Park, while one endemic subspecies of fish have been extirpated, and 2 other species are threatened. A number of rate invertebrates occur in hot springs and caves, including one mollusk that is endangered. Key invertebrates were extirpated from a number of fishless lakes by stocked fish, and in some cases have not returned, even though fishes did not survive. Restoration efforts in 2 small alpine lakes are described. Addition of nutrients and road salt have changed the chemical nature of the Bow River and its tributaries, and caused incidence of benthic algal mats to form in some sections. Impoundment and diversions affect over 40% of the Bow River catchment within the Park. Airborne organic contaminants concentrate in glaciers and high elevation snowpacks, yielding amounts high enough to contaminate fisheries to levels that in some cases approach guidelines for human consumption.
4314976|Alpine meadow and shrub are the main pasture types on the Tibetan Plateau, and they cover about 35% of the total land area. In order to understand the structural and functional aspects of the alpine ecosystem and to promote a sustainable animal production system, the Haibei Alpine Meadow Research Station was established in 1976. A series of intensive studies on ecosystem structure and function, including the energy flow and nutrient cycling of the ecosystem, were the main tasks during the first 10 years. Meanwhile, studies with 5 different grazing intensities on both summer and winter pasture have been conducted. In the early years of the 1990s, the research station started to focus its research work on global warming, biodiversity and sustainable animal production systems in pastoral areas. Various methods for improving degraded pasturelands have been developed in the region.
24708847|Mountaintop removal mining (MTR) is a major industry in southern West Virginia with many detrimental effects for small to mid-sized streams, and interest in alternative, sustainable industries is on the rise. As a first step in a larger effort to assess the value of sport fisheries in southern West Virginia, we estimate the potential abundances of two popular sport fishessmallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu) and brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis)in the Coal River Basin (CRB). A self-thinning model that incorporates net primary production and terrestrial insect subsidies is first used to predict potential densities of adult (age 1+) small-mouth bass and brook trout. Predicted densities (fish ha1) are then multiplied by the surface area of the CRB stream network (ha) to estimate regional abundance. Median predicted abundances of bass and trout are 38 806 and 118 094 fish (total abundances with the CRB), respectively. However, when streams that intersect permitted MTR areas in the CRB are removed from the dataset, predicted abundances of bass and trout decrease by  1214 %. We conclude that significant potential exists in the CRB to capitalize on sport fisheries, but MTR may be undermining this potential.
4312887|After a discharge of a wood-impregnating solution into a river-lake ecosystem, the fate and transport of chlorinated phenols was studied. Two months after the accident, chlorophenols were detected in fish liver 15 km from the point of discharge. Microbially formed chloroanisoles were also detected in the fish.
4315226|The global challenge of meeting increased food demand and protecting environmental quality will be won or lost in cropping systems that produce maize, rice, and wheat. Achieving synchrony between N supply and crop demand without excess or deficiency is the key to optimizing trade-offs amongst yield, profit, and environmental protection in both large-scale systems in developed countries and small-scale systems in developing countries. Setting the research agenda and developing effective policies to meet this challenge requires quantitative understanding of current levels of N-use efficiency and losses in these systems, the biophysical controls on these factors, and the economic returns from adoption of improved management practices. Although advances in basic biology, ecology, and biogeochemistry can provide answers, the magnitude of the scientific challenge should not be underestimated because it becomes increasingly difficult to control the fate of N in cropping systems that must sustain yield increases on the world's limited supply of productive farm land.
4314936|An assessment of environmental issues that might emerge in the 21st century suggests that the high priority issues will be: - Transformations of old issues-continually evolving, and in most cases broadening, in response to increasing scientific and technological knowledge and to changing socioeconomic, cultural and environmental conditions. For example, the issues of sustainable water use, urbanization and natural disasters will change in character as a result of climate warming, economic development and evolving cultural norms. This means that environmental policies ought to be adaptive, and should be supported by early warning systems, using appropriate indicators. - Policy issues, the long-term environmental consequences of which may already be of concern, e.g., the growing water shortages in parts of Africa, and the long-term environmental impacts of direct foreign investment and of changing world trade patterns. The implications of many such socioeconomic and cultural trends on the environment are yet to unfold, and need to be given serious attention. - Accidents waiting to happen, e.g., chemical time bombs. - Surprises, in the responses of ecosystems to new and different stresses, as well as in the nature of the socioeconomic drivers of environmental change.
4315133|The distributions of carotenoid pigments were studied in recent and postglacial sediments collected in the Gotland Basin, in the northern part of the Baltic proper, and in the eastern Gulf of Finland in May 1999. The aim was to provide a systematic, historical review of the occurrence and intensity of cyanobacterial blooms in the Baltic Sea in recent centuries. The presence of pigments was determined using high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), with attention mainly focused on pigments considered as markers for cyanobacteria. The pigment concentrations in sediments from the 3 sampling locations were found to differ markedly. In general, concentrations were highest in sediments from the Gotland Basin, and lowest in sediments from the eastern Gulf of Finland. In all 3 cores echinenone was the dominant carotenoid in the topmost layer of the sediment (0-1 cm). In the deeper sections of the cores, myxoxanthophyll and zeaxanthin dominated. To our knowlledge, this is first time that myxoxanthophyll and echinenone have been detected in Baltic Sea sediments from the early Litorina stage. The decrease in the pigment content with sediment depth coincides with a decrease in carbon content, and also fits in with general historical records of the occurrence and intensity of cyanobacterial blooms in the Baltic Sea, which show that cyanobacterial blooms were seldom recorded before World War II.
4315541|This study is focused on the global expansion of protected-area coverage that occurred during the 1980-2000 period. We examine the multi-scale patterning of four of the basic facets of this expansion: i) estimated increases at the world-regional and country-level scales of total protected-area coverage; ii) transboundary protected areas; iii) conservation corridor projects; and iv) type of conservation management. Geospatial patterning of protected-area designations is a reflection of the priorities of global conservation organizations and the globalization of post-Cold War political and economic arrangements. Local and national-level factors (political leadership and infrastructure) as well as international relations such as multilateral and bilateral aid combine with these globalization processes to impact the extent, type, and location of protected-area designations. We conclude that the interaction of these factors led to the creation and reinforcement of marked spatial differences (rather than tendencies toward worldwide evenness or homogenization) in the course of protected-area expansion during the 1980-2000 period.
4312959|This article focuses on the East African Region's conflict over conservation vs. development. All too often, needed conservation programs get tossed into the shade in favor of brighter, more obvious development benefits. The author argues that this dichotomy needs to be breached and soon, while there is still time to preserve what remains of East Africa's coastal and marine environments-the resource base responsible (in large measure) for the Region's economic development.
4315094|In the autumn of 1995, coordinated national lake surveys were conducted in the Nordic countries, including Russian Kola. The 11 metals (Pb, Cd, As, Zn, Cu, Ni, Co, Fe, Mn, Cr, V) investigated in nearly 3000 lakes have generally low concentrations and distinct geographical patterns. Direct and indirect influence of longrange transported air pollution is the major important factor for distribution of Pb, Cd, Zn and to a certain degree Co. Total organic carbon (TOC) concentrations in lakes are important for Fe and Mn but also to a certain degree for As, Cr and V. Bedrock geology is the major controlling factor for Cu and Ni, with the exception of areas around the smelters in the Kola peninsula, where the Cu and Ni concentrations in lakes are very high due to local airborne pollution. Bedrock and surficial geology is also an important factor for controlling the concentrations of As, Co, Cr and V. The results indicate that heavy metal pollution in lakes is a minor ecological problem on a regional scale in the Nordic countries.
4313094|Allozyme variability was studied in the fourhorn sculpin (Myoxocyphalus quadricornis), a proposed indicator species for monitoring the effects of pollutants in the Baltic. There were significant genetic differences, both between samples from different localities and between samples from the same locality taken in different years. The temporal variations in allele frequency coincide with significant changes in the incidence of vertebral anomalies. The generally low degree of genetic differentiation throughout the range makes this species a good candidate for monitoring programs, but the temporal changes in the genetic structure of local populations should be better understood before such programs are implemented.
4313964|Three European maps on critical loads demonstrate that extensive areas in the Nordic countries exhibit extreme sensitivity to acidic deposition. The objective of this paper is to evaluate the present maps of critical loads of acidity in Nordic ecosystems, and to demonstrate the different ways of using critical loads in designing emission abatement strategies. The critical loads in the Nordic countries show a considerable variability on both small and large spatial scales. By assessing the areas where critical loads are exceeded it is shown that it will be difficult in the near future to reach critical-load levels. These difficulties have led to the formulation of target loads. The critical-loads concept is meant to be used as a guiding principle for negotiations on emission controls and to target the emission reductions to areas where they are needed most by assigning national or region specific target loads which are based on the critical loads. The information on regional distributions of critical loads and on the amount they are exceeded at individual sites forms a basis for setting national or international targets for emission reductions. The evaluation of the preliminary target loads for Nordic countries shows that there is a need for harmonization of the target-load criteria. The target loads should reflect the varying sensitivity in different regions, and this can only be done by relating target loads to critical loads.
25094556|The MAB Mushroom Study was designed to promote sustainable natural and human communities and to involve multiple stakeholders having widely varying styles and knowledge of forest management. It used an interdisciplinary and collaborative research approach that united biologists, social scientists, land managers, and nonprofit volunteers from academic, federal and state government, and commercial sectors. Because of the cooperative and interdisciplinary nature of the project, study developers were awarded another competitive grant to summarize their work as one of four academic teaching case examples for Oregon State University's Sustainable Forestry Partnership. This second grant produced three products. First, a Narrative, which includes the theoretical basis and definitions of sustainability, how the MAB Mushroom Study operated within a sustainability framework, how stakeholders were chosen and worked in the study, and five key elements of sustainability research. Second, a Teaching Notes packet, which explains how students, resource managers, scientists, and others can use the case study to develop their own interdisciplinary and sustainabilty studies. Third, a set of 64 slides with captions illustrates examples of nontimber product resources in the Pacific Northwest. The case study example can be taught either as a formal university course or a 1-day continuing education workshop.
4312017|Environmental Impact Reports in Southern California are comprehensive informational documents similar to but expanded beyond requirements for US Federal Environmental Impact Statements. EIRs in Southern California are applicable to private developmental proposals as well as public projects. They are new and are undergoing a rapid evolution. Problems found to be associated with EIRs are the lack of a proper information base, absence of competently trained professionals, and the questionable objectivity of the reports themselves. As a result, EIRs in Southern California have proven to be limited aids in the decision-making process by authorities involved in environmental management and protection.
4313419|The aim of the present paper is to compare changes that occurred from the period 1926-27 until the period 1982-85 in stands of different ages in two areas with different acid deposition load and different forest history. The relative roles of tree species, stand age, and acid deposition for soil acidification are discussed. Soil horizons in two forest areas with different climate, history and acid deposition load were examined electrometrically for acidity in 1926-27
25547913|Minimal-impact interpretation is widely used to reduce the ecological impacts of visitors to protected areas. We tested whether verbal appeals and/or role-model demonstrations of minimal-impact behavior by a trained guide reduced noise, litter, and trampling impacts on hiking trails in a subtropical rainforest. Interpretation did reduce impacts significantly. Different interpretive techniques were more effective for different impacts. The experimental groups were mature, well-educated professionals; interpretation may differ in effectiveness for different visitors. Interpretation by skilled guides can indeed reduce visitor impacts in protected areas, especially if role modeling is combined with verbal appeals.
4313648|Tanzania is one of the least developed countries in the world. However, the country has abundant resource potentials. The Rufiji River basin, the largest in the country, is graced with some of the most spectacular scenery and is of high tourist attraction. Other significant potentials include irrigation agriculture, development of hydropower, fisheries and forestry. Properly planned development of these resources could help to boost the economy of the country. But, sustainable development of these resources requires integrated approaches. The Rufiji Basin Development Authority is planning development on a sectoral basis. Such approaches can lead to degradation of resources and land-use conflicts.
4313519|Largely through imperfect understanding, most mid-latitude dwellers perceive the natural environment of the polar regions as either hostile or fragile. These views have colored attitudes to exploration and development, often with damaging consequences and unnecessary conflicts between administrators, environmentalists, and indigenous inhabitants. Lack of understanding also represents a lost opportunity in that polar natural systems play a key role in modulating the global environment. An improved understanding is necessary if we are to make meaningful predictions of environmental change on a global scale.
25515855|Northern Canada is projected to experience major changes to its climate, which will have major implications for northern economic development. Some of these, such as mining and oil and gas development, have experienced rapid expansion in recent years and are likely to expand further, partly as the result of indirect effects of changing climate. This article reviews how a changing climate will affect several economic sectors including the hydroelectric, oil and gas, and mining industries as well as infrastructure and transportation, both marine and freshwater. Of particular importance to all sectors are projected changes in the cryosphere, which will create both problems and opportunities. Potential adaptation strategies that could be used to minimize the negative impacts created by a climate change are also reviewed.
4313503|The demand for sensitive and specific biological assays to assess the effects of pollutants on fish populations has recently led to a number of sophisticated analytical methods. The concept adopted in this study is that the overall effects of pollutants on ecosystems originate from a biochemical reaction in an individual organism. Detection of the primary interaction between toxicant and fish can serve as an early warning indicator and, thus, be of maximum predictive value in terms of protection of the whole population and ecosystem. At least two different systems have been identified that represent detoxifying mechanisms active at the subcellular level; the cytocrome P-450 monooxygenase system, also named the mixed-function oxidase system (MFO), and metallothioneins (MTs). The MFO system metabolizes many drugs and a variety of organic contaminants, while MTs can bind certain heavy metals. Exposure of fish to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) or heavy metals induces the MFO or MTs. The induction results in an increase of protein(s) or activity, which can be assessed by various biochemical methods. These methods may represent the most sensitive and specific early warning indicators for assessing the effects of contaminants on feral (wild) fish. The development and application of these methods are discussed.
4314747|The aim of the paper is to demonstrate the critical position of the Tatra Mountains in terms of the accelerating and detrimental anthropogenic changes that are affecting the natural environment. The major landform change is associated with infrequent hydro-meteorological events, mainly debris flows. But the overall geomorphic impact of rapid mass wasting is accelerated both by natural and anthropogenic influences. Strong human impact, and weather instability observed since the beginning of the 1980s have collaborated in making the natural environment less resistant to denudation. The major threats to the geoecological system of the Tatras are most marked at the interior of the mountains in the altitudinal zone above the upper timberline (dwarf-pine belt). A general description of exceptional flash flooding in June 1997 is included.
4315274|The recent decline in species richness in (semi)-natural habitats in northern Europe has largely been attributable to habitat destruction, and to subsequent limitation in seed dispersal among fragments. However, some habitat types were probably split up already in the historical landscape, but the segregated parts were probably not isolated to the present degree. This paper seeks evidence for livestock as vectors for propagules at 3 spatial scales in the past cultural landscape. Three main scales at which livestock acted as seed dispersers are important: free movement in the landscape (1-10 km), driving animals to mast feeding or to manors (10-50 km), and the export of living animals (hundreds of km). The emerging picture is for most plant species a dramatically decreased chance of dispersal in the modern landscape. The consequence is probably decreasing species richness in (semi)-natural plant communities, such as pasture, meadow, and heathland.
4313431|Overloading of lakes by nutrients from external sources often creates long-term eutrophication problems. Even if the external loading is reduced to normal levels, internal loading from the nutrient-rich sediments can prevent recovery. Lake restoration refers to activities carried out in the lake itself in order to adjust and steer the ecosystem. Ecosystem redvelopment concerns both lake restoration and all preparative work for normalizing the nutrient supply to water bodies from watershed and airshed. Methods to restore lakes irreversibly damaged by pollution, water-level-lowering, etc. are also available. Redevelopment of degrading as well as severely degraded lakes and wetlands is exemplified by case studies from different latitudes. Problems, methods, results and socio-economic aspects connected to degradation and redevelopment of water resources are treated.
4313896|With huge populations and limited natural resources, Asian countries are forced to depend on the development of human resources in order to progress. This is especially true for East Asia. The impact of economic growth on human development varies widely in the three sub-regions of Asia; East Asia, Southeast Asia and South Asia. Where economic growth has been rapid, as in East Asia, the impact on human resources development has been favorable but where it has been slower, as in Southeast Asia, the impact has been less favorable, and where it has been slowest, as in South Asia, the results have been poor. In turn, slower population growth reduced the number of people requiring food, education and health services and lessened the need to provide jobs. This paper examines the postwar experiences of Asian countries to illustrate the above processes.
4314678|The importance of biological processes for soil functioning is frequently stressed. In spite of this, the biological soil component has seldom been used to assess soil quality, while optimal and threshold values have been identified for many physical and chemical soil parameters. In this investigation, the variation in a number of microbiological, chemical and physical variables was studied on two scales. Small scales were studied with 52 samples from a single agricultural field, and large scales with a set of 26 samples from very diverse agricultural sites in Sweden. In addition, the functional structures of the two scales were studied by means of principal component analysis (PCA). The two scales had more similarities than dissimilarities regarding variable variation and functional structures. The relation-ships between variables were, however, more blurred in the large than in the small scales as the influences of soil structure, climate and cropping practice were larger. The possibilities to reduce the number of variables without loss of vital information about the soil system are discussed.
4315681|The silica deficiency hypothesis holds that increases of still waters caused by hydraulic alterations and high nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) discharges enhance the growth of freshwater diatoms, which take up the dissolved silicate (DSi) supplied by natural weathering. The consequent decrease in the DSi supply to the sea is advantageous to flagellates (nonsiliceous and potentially harmful) but not to diatoms (siliceous and mostly benign) in coastal marine ecosystems. Verification of this hypothesis has been hampered by lack of relevant data, particularly in Asia. We investigated the aquatic continuum composed of Lake Biwa, the Yodo River, and the Seto Inland Sea, Japan, where the natural conditions make the silica deficiency less likely to emerge due to the inherently rich supply of DSi. The results showed that the silica was retained both in the lake and nearby the estuary. The relative dominance of diatom and flagellates could not be explained solely by the stoichiometric arguments but by the supportive discussion on the difference of their behavioral characteristics and the process nearby the estuary, where direct inputs of N and P and effluent Si enhanced diatom bloom, even though the Si/N ratio was lowered in the upstream reservoir. Thus the retention of DSi occurred in two places: in the lake and nearby the estuary, where the other N and P are loaded directly. The rate of DSi retention correlated with socio-economic changes, such as rapid economic growth in the 1960s and mitigations implemented after the 1980s. Sensitivity of this continuum to the Si processes suggests the global significance of this hypothesis.
4315016|The increasing interest, and the actual necessity, for adequate means to evaluate how sustainable human activities are, has led to efforts to define indicators of sustainability. We propose the use of ecological indicators of sustainability that take into account the hierarchical structure of biodiversity, distinguishing composition, structure and function at the different levels of biological organization: ecosystem and landscape, community, and population, and genetic levels. We evaluated the advantages of selecting and combining indicators of different hierarchical levels by examining several use and management projects. Examples of transformed land like large-scale plantations, perform well when evaluated by ecosystem-level indicators, but lead to neglect of some composition and structure components if evaluated at different levels. Limitations in using a small number of indicators become evident in cases of intensive exploitation of resources, such as the extractive reserves, which yield good results under the ecosystem and community levels, but fail under the population and genetic indicators. Wild species management, a common example of the use of population-level indicators, do not perform well under other indicators at broader scales. We also reviewed projects that are sustainable at different hierarchical levels, like some multispecific exploitation forestry management, in which harvesting of resources is at or below sustainable levels, selective extraction is performed, and where natural regeneration and recruitment of species is allowed. It is evident that the adequacy of indicators is not universal and must take into account the complexity of processes and variables involved in the different biological levels and human components, highlighting possible conflicts and contradictions, while increasing knowledge about maintenance of quality in the use and exploitation of resources that the relevant stakeholders regard as important.
25094571|Creating a global perspective on past treeline changes is problematic due to the varying methods and definitions used. A general lack of a detailed description of the modern treeline position and vegetation complicates any comparative analysis of the magnitude of the most important changes. However, one seemingly common factor in most regions was an extremely rapid dispersal of trees when climate warmed drastically from full glacial conditions. Most Arctic treelines reached their northernmost positions in the early Holocene and receded to present positions starting at about 5.8 ka. The early occupation of the northernmost sites in ice-free and early deglaciated areas was possible because of the close proximity of invading trees in nearby glacial refugia, particularly in Fennoscandia and northern Russia. In Canada, the Northwest Territories and Quebec-Labrador were out of phase with this general trend due to their late deglaciation. However, even here colonization was rapid, indicating that the tree species were present adjacent to the glaciers. Following this trend and based on the present evidence, we propose a scenario of a continuous but modest occupation of eastern Beringia by spruce during the late-Pleistocene instead of an exceptionally rapid spread of conifers from the glacial refugium south of the Laurentide ice sheet (2000 to 3000 km in about 200 years), which typically has been assumed. Macrofossil evidence of scattered occurrences of "exotic species" (for instance Siberian larch in central Sweden) far from their natural range limits in the early Holocene highlight the disparity between pollen and macrofossil analyses. It questions the validity of assigned pollen percentages to indicate the presence of a species within a region as these species were not observed in the pollen record. Thus, it is likely that trees were present at any given site well before the rise in pollen abundance. There is still a large potential to improve our knowledge about the environmental history of the circumboreal treeline areas. In particular, future research should concentrate not only on patterns of species displacement, but on finding the factors, apart from climate, which cause treeline shifts.
4315224|Reactive-nitrogen (Nr) has a wide variety of beneficial and detrimental effects on human health. The most important of the beneficial effects are increasing global and regional food supplies and increased nutritional quality of available foods. However, lack of adequate dietary intake of amino acids and proteins is a serious cause of malnutrition when food supplies are inadequate because of poverty, drought, floods, wars, and displacements of people as refugees. There is sufficient, though limited, quantitative data indicating that increased circulation of Nr in the environment is responsible for significant human health effects via other exposure pathways. Nr can lead to harmful health effects from airborne occupational exposures and population-wide indoor and outdoor air pollution exposures to nitrogen dioxide and ozone. Nr can also affect health via water pollution problems, including methemoglobinemia from contaminated ground water, eutrophication causing fish kills and algal blooms that can be toxic to humans, and via global warming. The environmental pollutants stemming from reactive nitrogen are ubiquitous, making it difficult to identify the extent to which Nr exerts a specific health effect. As all populations are susceptible, continued interdisciplinary investigations are needed to determine the extent and nature of the beneficial and harmful effects on human health of nitrogen-related pollutants and their derivatives.
25094545|To improve the spatio-temporal information of ecological variables, a multidisciplinary joint study between Finnish and Swedish marine scientists was conducted in the Gulf of Bothnia, 1991. The study corroborated previous reports, suggesting a markedly lower phytoplankton production and biomass of benthic fauna in the Bothnian Bay than in the Bothnian Sea. However, contrary to the general view, the offshore carbon fixation in the Bothnian Sea exceeded that at the corresponding coastal station. The results further indicated a greater importance of bacterioplankton production to the food web in the Bothnian Bay than previously assumed. The total carbon requirement of bacteria and zooplankton was estimated to exceed carbon fixation by a factor of 1.7 in the northern basin, possibly a result of the discharge of riverine organic carbon. Diversity and biomass of both fish and benthic fauna were lower in the Bothnian Bay, with benthic meiofauna being of relatively greater importance than macrofauna in this basin.
4315050|The occurrences of drifting algal masses were mapped in the Archipelago Sea, Northern Baltic Sea, during the summers of 1996-1997 using an UW-video and SCUBA-diving. The study covers depths from the shore down to 50 meters. The algal masses were described and classified according to the thickness of the mass and possible occurrence of anoxia (smell of hydrogen sulfide, black colored sediment), i.e. indicators of the masses potential different ecological impacts. Three different types of drifting algal masses were distinguished: cover, mat, and mattress. The succession of the masses was studied during one growing season. First, the algae aggregate on the sea floor as a thin cover. Later they start to drift downwards along the sloping bottom, developing into partly anaerobic mats and further into totally anaerobic mattresses. The phenomenon was most severe in the outer archipelago of the SE corner of the study area. Factors contributing to the growth of ephemeral algae, which result in drifting algal mats, include high nutrient loading, good water transparency, and appropriate bottom substrate. During the study we became convinced that the UW-video system is a practical tool for studying underwater loose-lying algal masses.
4313898|Sustainable development can only be achieved through a broad participatory process involving all layers of societies, both in the public and private sectors. International institutions, including the United Nations system, can contribute to the process through setting standards and providing a framework for collaborative endeavors. This paper makes a critical review of UN sponsored special conferences on global issues relating to sustainable development over the past 20 years. It discusses some negative tendencies that detract from the effectiveness of multilateral efforts, as well as good progress that has already begun, towards sustainable development. This paper also discusses the need for conceptual tools for the assessment of options for action in rational pursuit of sustainability as global interest. The paper also suggests a conceptual equation that might help to articulate the global interest focusing on the relationships between resources, technology and population.
4315525|Species individualistic responses to warming and increased UV-B radiation are moderated by the responses of neighbors within communities, and trophic interactions within ecosystems. All of these responses lead to changes in ecosystem structure. Experimental manipulation of environmental factors expected to change at high latitudes showed that summer warming of tundra vegetation has generally led to smaller changes than fertilizer addition. Some of the factors manipulated have strong effects on the structure of Arctic ecosystems but the effects vary regionally, with the greatest response of plant and invertebrate communities being observed at the coldest locations. Arctic invertebrate communities are very likely to respond rapidly to warming whereas microbial biomass and nutrient stocks are more stable. Experimentally enhanced UV-B radiation altered the community composition of gram-negative bacteria and fungi, but not that of plants. Increased plant productivity due to warmer summers may dominate foodweb dynamics. Trophic interactions of tundra and sub-Arctic forest plant-based food webs are centered on a few dominant animal species which often have cyclic population fluctuations that lead to extremely high peak abundances in some years. Population cycles of small rodents and insect defoliators such as the autumn moth affect the structure and diversity of tundra and forest-tundra vegetation and the viability of a number of specialist predators and parasites. Ice crusting in warmer winters is likely to reduce the accessibility of plant food to lemmings, while deep snow may protect them from snow-surface predators. In Fennoscandia, there is evidence already for a pronounced shift in small rodent community structure and dynamics that have resulted in a decline of predators that specialize in feeding on small rodents. Climate is also likely to alter the role of insect pests in the birch forest system: warmer winters may increase survival of eggs and expand the range of the insects. Insects that harass reindeer in the summer are also likely to become more widespread, abundant and active during warmer summers while refuges for reindeer/caribou on glaciers and late snow patches will probably disappear.
4312257|The possibility of a significant reduction of the earth's ozone shield due to release of nitrous oxide resulting from increased inputs of fixed nitrogen in agricultural soils is described to be potentially an important environmental issue. Our current knowledge of the cycling of fixed nitrogen and nitrous oxide in the environment is fragmentary and some of the information is conflicting. Thus, reductions in global ozone of a few percent at the beginning and 10 percent by the end of the next century cannot be ruled out. In addition, emissions of N
4315812|In this article we summarize the current knowledge of Baltic Sea cyanobacteria, focusing on diversity, toxicity, and nitrogen fixation in the filamentous heterocystous taxa. We also review the recent results of our microbial diversity studies in planktonic and benthic habitats in the Baltic Sea. Based on molecular analyses, we have improved the understanding of cyanobacterial population structure by assessing genetic diversity within species that are morphologically inseparable. Moreover, we have studied microbial functions such as toxin production and nitrogen fixation in situ under different environmental conditions. Phosphorus limitation of bloom-forming, nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria was clearly verified, emphasizing the importance of continuous efforts to reduce this element in the Baltic Sea. We have designed a rapid and reliable detection method for the toxic cyanobacterium Nodularia spumigena, which can be used to study bloom formation of this important toxin producer.
4315048|Historical accounts of the Inca indicate that they greatly valued trees and practiced planting to fulfil their needs for fuel and timber. These records are evaluated in the light of palaeoecological and archaeological evidence suggesting a dramatic increase in arboreal taxa from c. AD 1100 during a period of significant global temperature increase. This natural vegetation response to improving environmental conditions may have stimulated management; it is suggested that agroforestry has a long tradition in the Andes. With the arrival of the Spanish, in the 1530s, land management practices changed and forest resources became increasingly overexploited. A multidisciplinary approach may provide important lessons from the past for modern policy makers in Peru. Widespread planting of Eucalyptus may not be an appropriate solution. Land restoration projects should take account of natural diversity and utilize a range of native species. This is relevant in view of the current period of rising temperatures, and may help to alleviate both soil erosion and rural poverty.
4315383|The European Water Framework Directive (WFD) requires the definition of reference conditions, i.e. pristine conditions, for all surface waters. As the present state of Danish coastal waters cannot be referred to as pristine, reference conditions have to be assessed by analysis of historical data or by the use of models. Using Randers Fjord as an example, the aim of this work was i) to demonstrate possibilities and restrictions of assessing reference conditions by historical data and by modelling; and ii) to demonstrate how ecological conditions have changed along with eutrophication. The ample historical data from Randers Fjord allowed us to assess reference conditions with respect to benthic macrophytes and benthic fauna. Models of varying complexity enabled us to assess reference conditions for nutrients, chlorophyll a, Secchi depth, and eelgrass. We conclude that models can be a useful supplement to assess reference conditions, though they are presently restricted by the lack of quantitative links between eutrophication and species composition.
4314688|Soil protection is an international concern. Due to the irreversible deterioration of soils by persistent contaminants and physical erosion, policymakers and scientists in many countries are beginning to realize that the soil environment is a limited resource. Therefore a number of countries and international bodies have developed policies to protect their soils generically or dependent on land use. That does not implicitly mean generic versus land-use based protection policies; on the contrary these approaches are complementary to each other. This complementarity is further illustrated in this paper. A basic approach is given to what soils, quality, and assessment mean in relation to soil protection, followed by a description of various soil functions, and the way these are applied in soil protection regulations in various countries. In order to reach an integrated soil risk assessment, a number of research activities have been started in Europe. These are briefly described together with recommendations for further activities.
4314332|Mercury (Hg) discharge from informal gold-mining activities in the Amazon region derives from a lack of concern of the miners for the environment as well as poor knowledge about efficient gold-extraction methods. People in contact with these miners, such as physicians, priests, hygienists, social assistants, nurses, mining inspectors, union personnel, etc. also lack information-e.g., data about mercury transformations in the environment. This paper describes the educational measures being implemented by some Brazilian institutions to address mercury emissions. It also stresses the importance of Expert Systems technology, which can be a powerful tool to combine technical issues with heuristic observations for diagnosis and remedial procedures. HgEX is an Expert System developed in plain language to provide a diagnosis of the extent of mercury pollution in a region or at a single mining site. The system is designed for use by either highly-skilled professionals or uneducated mining personnel.
4315210| Hunting by local communities is among the most widespread threats to Indian wildlife, yet, the understanding of its nature, extent, and impacts on wildlife has been poor. We surveyed 2 protected areas-Kudremukha and Nagarahol-in southern India to assess the impacts of local hunting on large mammals. Detailed interviews with retired and active hunters were employed to describe hunting patterns. Impacts of hunting were assessed by comparing large-mammal abundance in adjacent sites differing in their vulnerability to hunting. In Kudremukha, at least 26 species of mammals were hunted, mostly with guns, at an estimated intensity of 216 hunter-days per month per village. In Nagarahol, 6 of the 9 focal species of large mammals occurred at significantly lower densities at the heavily hunted site where enforcement capabilities were poorer. Our data underscore the importance of preservationist programs in the conservation of large mammals in a context of extensive local hunting. 
40801584|During 19-20 October 2009, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences arranged the international symposium Energy 2050 in Stockholm. The symposium was held in association with the Swedish EU presidency in autumn 2009. Internationally renowned scientists assessed the energy issue in a broad perspective, with particular emphasis on the possibilities of a fossil-free future. The symposium focused on key topics emanating from the in-depth energy studies carried through by the Academys Energy Committee since 2005. The world community is facing a challenge of historic proportions to define a new energy paradigm based on fossil-energy substitutes. This article gives an overview of the current global energy situation (2007) and of the technologies which have the major potential for supplying energy up to year 2050 without jeopardizing the CO emission targets.
4312557|The stratified Baltic Sea has a brackish surface water of about 6 per mille sulfur, a stagnant, nutrient-rich anoxic and azoic bottom water and a mixed assemblage of freshwater and marine organisms. Its archipelagos maintain large, slow-growing algal biomasses where the fauna is dominated by blue mussels. The annual, pelagic primary production in the central Baltic of around 150 g
25066566|Air photo interpretation of bark beetle (Ips typographus (L.)) infestations of Norwegian spruce (Picea abies) has been carried out at a test site at Ekshrad, Vrmland, Sweden. The investigation has shown that it is possible to detect 7-14 day-old bark beetle attacks on spruce by studying color films. An infestation was indicated in aerial photos about three weeks prior to color changes observed from the ground. The use of infrared (IR) color film or additive technique is recommended.
4315573| This paper reviews the use of stable nitrogen isotopes (
4314845| Sea-run Baltic salmon of the Swedish Dallven population were subjected to 2 different reconditioning studies in order to determine possibilities to cure the M74 syndrome; namely to produce alevins without M74 mortality. Reconditioning of female salmon was achieved both by feeding and by thiamine injection. In the first experiment, spawned female salmon were given a commercial brood-fish feed until renewed maturation, when they were stripped. The eggs were fertilized with milt from sea-run males. Eggs and alevins were followed to the fry stage. In the second experiment, ascending females were injected with thiamine 1 month before maturation and stripped. Eggs and alevins were handled in the same way as in the first experiment. Feeding sea-run salmon was troublesome and only 13 females accepted dry food. These females improved the thiamine status of their egg tenfold. Thiamine injection of females was also effective, and the thiamine content of their eggs increased by a factor of 13. No M74 mortality was observed in the offspring of female salmon that were reconditioned. Activity of the hepatic enzyme CYP4501A in salmon alevins seemed to vary with thiamine content and was induced pre-hatch in both M74 alevins and healthy alevins of females reconditioned by feeding, indicating that a good thiamine status is more essential than the burden of xenobiotics. 
4314180|This paper discusses some of the consequences of deforestation in Algeria. It focuses on the Wilaya region of Jijel, in the eastern part of the country, which has some of the last, dense, sub-humid Mediterranean forests. The issue of a possible connection between the recent widespread deforestation and the drier conditions affecting the region for is discussed. It is also shown how rapid social and economic change has induced deforestation on such a large scale that erosion and soil losses are reaching unprecedented levels. The paper also points to the loss of economic potential for Algeria's forests.
4313866|In 1979, grazing by livestock was prohibited within an area of 1256 square kilometers of the severely eroded Kondoa Irangi Hills in central Tanzania. The removal of livestock has resulted in a dramatic regeneration of vegetation. However, land degradation continues in much of the cultivated land. The removal of livestock appears to have increased the social differentiation within the area since only rich people are able to establish households in more than one area, making them less vulnerable to drought and impoverishment. The ecological collapse in Kondoa cannot be explained by the so-called "tragedy of the commons" argument. Instead it is argued that land degradation may have followed misdirected state intervention in a fragile environment which in turn led to a relatively unskilled peasantry, as far as environmental protection is concerned.
4315360|There is now overwhelming documentation of large-scale chemical recovery from surface water acidification in Europe, but to date there has been little documentation of biological recovery. Modelling studies based on current emission reduction plans in Europe indicate that there will be further chemical recovery. The uncertainties in these scenarios mainly relate to the future behavior of nitrogen in the ecosystem and the effects of climate change. Four major climate-related confounding factors that may influence the chemical and biological recovery process are: i) increased frequency and severity of seasalt episodes; ii) increased frequency and severity of drought; iii) increased turnover of organic carbon; iv) increased mineralization of nitrogen. International cooperative work to abate acidification has so far been very successful, but there is still a long way to go, and many potential setbacks. It is essential that future development of water chemistry and aquatic biota in acidified waterbodies continue to be monitored in relation to further emission reductions of S and N and future effects of climate change.
4312607|The physical conditions (winds and tides) as well as the geomorphology of the coastal sectors have strictly controlled the distribution and subsequent history of oil pollution off the coast of Brittany. The diffusion of oil into the water column and the evolution of the oil contents show that sea water played the role of a transfer agent for pollution towards the sea bottom. During this transfer, a significant quantity of oil was biologically degraded. The decontamination of the sediments was more effective in high energy zones. On the coast, besides the energy conditions, the grading of the deposits and the type of sediments involved controlled the evolution of the hydrocarbons.
4315311|Field surveys were conducted to evaluate the occurrence of the isopod borer Sphaeroma terebrans (Crustacea) in aerial roots (prop roots) of the red mangrove Rhizophora mucronata on several different spatial scales (m to 100 km) in East Africa. In 6 out of 17 sites studied in Kenya and on Zanzibar Island, Tanzania, no signs of the isopods were found. When the isopods were present the frequency of infestation was high. Trees in muddy substrates in the lower intertidal, in particular at fringing channels or the open sea, showed high prevalence and intensity of infestation, with large part of their roots damaged or dead. Trees at the upper range of Rhizophora, in sandy and muddy areas, showed no signs of isopod infestation. This pattern recurred in mangrove forests on large spatial scales and there was no indication that island forests differed from the mainland forests. This indicates that sediment characteristics, vertical height in the tidal zone, and direct exposure to incoming water are the major factors controlling the abundance of S. terebrans. The isopod may play an important role in determining the lower intertidal limits of R. mucronata. Trees with numerous dead or nongrowing roots, as result of Sphaeroma attack, are likely to tumble due to a lack of root support and this is most likely to occur along channels at the lower, muddy intertidal. Tumbled trees were frequently observed along channels in the lower, muddy intertidal, but rarely in the mid or high intertidal. Implications for management of mangrove forests are discussed.
4315615|Society increasingly requests that individuals adopt environmentally benign behavior. Information campaigns purported to change people's attitudes are often regarded as prerequisites to installing such changes. While such information may be a necessary step, it is not sufficient by itself. We argue that many everyday behaviors with environmental consequences are habitual, and that little attention is given to information directed toward changing these habitual behaviors. In other instances, behavior is guided by values in a more reflective process. However, other information besides environmental consequences may draw a person's attention and affect behavioral choice. Using surveys and experimental studies targeting consumer behavior, we studied under what conditions different kinds of information is likely to influence people with varying levels of environmental concern. Based on results from these studies, implications for behavioral change are discussed.
4313738|The steady increase in the world population as well as the necessity to improve food quality in many regions of the world requires enhancement in crop production. Since the potential to open up new cropping areas is limited and expensive, the focus has to be on increases in yields and yield stabilization. To achieve this, all disciplines in crop science have to combine their efforts: Agronomy to improve the cropping systems towards a sustainable land use system which includes mixed cropping up to agro-forestry: soil science for better soil management; plant nutrition and fertilizer use to improve nutrient efficiency with regard to mineral uptake and their role in the plant metabolism; plant physiology to clarify further the mechanism of biomass production with minimum losses due to respiration and increasing the storage capacity of plant organs; plant breeding in making use of the physiological findings to "construct" more efficient plants with high yield and adaptability to stress factors as well as climatic conditions influencing growth; implementation of integrated pest control in order to protect the plants from unfavorable hazards to stabilize the yields, to promote environmental protection and health; irrigation management to make use of additional inputs, to avoid erosion and salinization. Typical examples will be given for most of the fields in order to show the progress already made or the prospects envisioned for the future.
4312374|Recent research on the occurrence of polychlorinated biphenyls/PCB substances/ in Baltic organisms is used to estimate the total amount of these substances in the biomass of the Baltic. Airborne fallout is hypothesized to be the major present source of these pollutants, and various factors which remove these substances from the Baltic ecosystem are discussed. It is noted that PCB levels may be increasing.
4315566|Most of the Swedish coastal fisheries are not sustainable from either a social, economic or ecological point of view. We propose the introduction of local fisheries management (LFM) as a tool for restructuring the present large-scale management system in order to achieve sustainability. To implement LFM two questions need to be answered: How to distribute the resource fish among different resource user groups? How to restructure present fisheries management to meet the criteria of sustainability? Starting from these questions we describe possible forms of LFM for Swedish coastal fishery supported by recent research. The biological and social preconditions for restructuring fisheries management are derived from an analysis of the ecological and managerial situation in Swedish fishery. Three types of LFM-owner based, user based, and community based management-are analyzed with regard to the tasks to be carried out in LFM, the roles of management groups, and the definition and optimal size of management areas.
4314237|Efficient nitrate removal from wetlands depends on denitrification. Macrophytes support denitrification by supplying organic carbon. Organic carbon available to denitrifying bacteria is released from plant litter and from living macrophytes. Macrophytes offer an attachment surfaces for epiphytes, also producing organic maner, and for denitrifying bacteria. Emergent macrophytes are generally more productive than submerged macrophytes, but submerged macrophytes have more epiphytes and offer a larger attachment area in the water column for denitrifying bacteria. Emergent and submerged vegetation differ in their seasonal patterns of release of organic carbon. We conclude that a mixture of emergent and submerged macrophytes may be beneficial for nitrogen removal in wetlands with a surface-flow of nitrate-rich water. The influence of vegetation on wetland hydraulics must also be considered. A wetland design with deeper parts favoring submerged macrophytes altenating, along the waterflow, with shallower parts covered by emergent macrophytes, may promote denitrification processes and distribution of water flow.
4314807|An overview of the mangroves in the Eastern Africa Region is presented. This includes mangrove distribution, regeneration, uses, threats and management. The mangroves represent a rich and diverse living resource and are valuable to both the economy and protection of coastal environments. The most pressing conservation problems that need to be solved are the increase in tree cutting for poles, charcoal and fuelwood and reclamation for salt pans, agriculture and prawn aquaculture. There is a growing awareness of the importance and fragility of the mangrove ecosystems in Eastern Africa. There is also increased funding for mangrove research and management. Management experiences from Kenya, Tanzania, and Mozambique are discussed. Preparation of management plans, research collaboration, inventories of flora, fauna, and sediments, of the mangroves are in progress. These plans are the result of the institution of national and regional programs. Seminars and workshops are also being organized to increase the sharing of knowledge about mangroves in the region.
24708998|The three-rivers headwater region (THRHR) of Qinghai province, China plays a key role as source of fresh water and ecosystem services for central and eastern China. Global warming and human activities in the THRHR have threatened the ecosystem since the 1980s. Therefore, the Chinese government has included managing of the THRHR in the national strategy since 2003. The State Integrated Test and Demonstration Region of the THRHR highlights the connection with social engineering (focus on improving people's livelihood and wellbeing) in managing nature reserves. Based on this program, this perspective attempts a holistic analysis of the strategic role of the THRHR, requirements for change, indices of change, and approaches to change. Long-term success of managing nature reserves requires effective combination of ecological conservation, economic development, and social progress. Thus, the philosophy of social engineering should be employed as a strategy to manage the THRHR.
23253257|Novel communities will be formed as species with a variety of dispersal abilities and environmental tolerances respond individually to climate change. Thus, models projecting future species distributions must account for species interactions and differential dispersal abilities. We developed a species distribution model for Arctic char Salvelinus alpinus, a freshwater fish that is sensitive both to warm temperatures and to species interactions. A logistic regression model using lake area, mean annual air temperature (19611990), pike Esox lucius and brown trout Salmo trutta occurrence correctly classified 95 % of 467 Swedish lakes. We predicted that Arctic char will lose 73 % of its range in Sweden by 2100. Predicted extinctions could be attributed both to simulated temperature increases and to projected pike invasions. The Swedish mountains will continue to provide refugia for Arctic char in the future and should be the focus of conservation efforts for this highly valued fish.
4315344| The status of fish populations in 3821 lakes in Norway, Sweden and Finland was assessed in 1995-1997. The survey lakes were chosen by stratified random sampling from all (126 482) Fennoscandian lakes  0.04 km
40730868|For many years, the planning and management of terrestrial areas has been supported by a detailed knowledge of the distribution of habitats and their associated species. However, the detailed mapping of biological resources in extent coastal areas, such as the Norwegian coastal zone, is unrealistic due to its enormous coastline.Here, we present a useful and feasible approach and a set of simple, cost-effective methods which are suitable for providing a broad-scale overview of marine habitats and fish resources. This approach was developed in conjunction with a pioneer study conducted along the southern coast of the Skagerrak, where we combined knowledge gathered from local fishermen with scientific knowledge of important species and nature types to establish a coastal sea mapping program. GIS modeling tools were used in both the mapping program and to integrate local and scientific knowledge into digital maps made available to local area management. This multi-faceted approach, which combines local knowledge and scientific methods, provides valuable information with respect to marine biodiversity, and has been used extensively by local environmental management.
4315829|The Sea Around Us Project, initiated by the Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia, PA, and located at the Fisheries Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, started in mid 1999. Its goal was (and still is) to investigate the impact of fisheries on marine ecosystems and to propose policies to mitigate these impacts. Although conceived as a global activity, the project first emphasized the data-rich North Atlantic as a test bed for developing its approaches, which rely on mapping of catch data and indicators of ecosystem health derived from the analysis of long catch time series data. Initial achievements included mapping the decline, throughout the North Atlantic basin, of high-trophic level fishes from 1900 to the present and the presentation of compelling evidence of change in the functioning of the North Atlantic ecosystems, summarized in a 2003 book. The Central and South Atlantic were the next basins to be tackled, with emphasis on the distant-water fleet off West Africa, culminating in a major conference in Dakar, Senegal, in 2002. The project then emphasized the North Pacific, Antarctica, and marine mammals and the multiplicity of tropical Indo-Pacific fisheries before it turned completely global, with all our major analyses and reports (e.g., on the interactions between marine mammals and fisheries, on fuel consumption by fleets, on the catches of small-scale fisheries, on subsidies to fisheries) being based on global studies. Broadly, the work of the project is aimed at a reappraisal of fisheries, from the benign activity that many interested people still perceive them to be, to a realization that they have become the driver for massive loss of biodiversity in the ocean. Moreover, the emphasis on global estimates (rather than local estimates of dubious generality) has allowed the project to contribute to various global initiatives (e.g., developing the Marine Trophic Index for the Convention on Biological Diversity, quantifying marine ecosystem services for the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment), that is, activities that we expect to increase and for which we invite collaboration from academia and environmental nongovernmental organizations.
4315781|A panel of international experts was convened in Madison, Wisconsin, in 2005, as part of the 8th International Conference on Mercury as a Global Pollutant. Our charge was to address the state of science pertinent to source attribution, specifically our key question was: "For a given location, can we ascertain with confidence the relative contributions of local, regional, and global sources, and of natural versus anthropogenic emissions to mercury deposition?" The panel synthesized new research pertinent to this question published over the past decade, with emphasis on four major research topics: long-term anthropogenic change, current emission and deposition trends, chemical transformations and cycling, and modeling and uncertainty. Within each topic, the panel drew a series of conclusions, which are presented in this paper. These conclusions led us to concur that the answer to our question is a "qualified yes," with the qualification being dependent upon the level of uncertainty one is willing to accept. We agreed that the uncertainty is strongly dependent upon scale and that our question as stated is answerable with greater confidence both very near and very far from major point sources, assuming that the "global pool" is a recognizable "source." Many regions of interest from an ecosystem-exposure standpoint lie in between, where source attribution carries the greatest degree of uncertainty.
25547832|Urban dwellers depend on the generation of ecosystem services for their welfare. The city of Stockholm is growing, and a 25% increase in population is projected by 2030. The effects of urban development were estimated through the quantification of nitrogen (N) leakage to the Baltic Sea under two urban development scenarios. We found that total net N load will increase by 6% or 8%, depending on which growth scenario is applied, and population increase by itself will contribute at least 15% of the point source N leakage. Technical improvements in sewage treatment could, according to our results, decrease total N load to the Baltic Sea by 4%. Based on our results, we conclude that proactive measures such as spatial urban planning can provide a constructive tool for sustainable urban development on regional as well as national and international scales, depending on geographical context as well as the ecosystem services' scale of operation.
4313313|Analysis of samples of soil that received the runoff water for eight centuries from the lead roofs of village churches revealed a lower lead content than could be expected from the estimated loss of lead from the roofs. Leaching of lead down to a depth of more than one meter was observed in acid sandy soil. The presence of clay and especially calcium carbonate impeded the leaching of lead in most cases, but it is uncertain whether this leaching can be completely prevented by simply an excess of calcium carbonate.
4314002|A 4-year research project, Seals and Seal Protection, is presented. The background and the organization of the multidisciplinary project is summarized. The study aim was to investigate the possible effects of contaminants on seal populations in Swedish waters. Contaminants in Swedish waters are similar to those found in waters all over the world and the contaminant problems are thus of international concern. The project included population studies on three different species, namely harbor seal (Phoca vitulina), grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) and ringed seal (Phoca hispida). Studies on seal-skull collections have been carried out in order to study changes over time in the prevalence of skull-bone lesions. Tissue concentrations of 17 metals and non-metal elements and various organohalogene compounds have been determined to disclose differences in contaminant concentrations related to species, geographical areas, age, sex and health status. Experimental studies have been carried out investigating biological effects on mink (Mustela vison) exposed to commercial PCB and PCB fractions. Fractions have been selected on the basis of number of chlorine atoms in ortho-position of the biphenyl bond and contaminants in the mixture such as polychlorinated dibenzofurans and naphthalenes. Comparative studies on various species studying the toxicity of methylsulfonyl metabolites of DDT have also been carried out.
4312396|The Chemical Industry is now being regulated in several countries, and this may create a number of international problems. Such problems might occur in the generation and transfer of data about chemicals and because of diverging conclusions from risk benefit assessments, sharing the financial burden and so on. International trade of chemicals may be disrupted because of varying regulations between countries. However, significant strides in international cooperation have been achieved, producing recognition of common constraints, and the need for common solutions. Since the OECD is an important forum for this discussion between its member countries, a comprehensive overview of its activities is presented.
4315259|We consider overfishing in small-scale fisheries a threat to the sustainable use and development of fishery resources in Moree, a small-scale fishing and coastal community of 20 000 people in the Central Region of Ghana near Cape Coast. Moree suggests that relationships between population dynamics and fishery resources are more complex than the concept of Malthusian overfishing implies. Reasons include changing biophysical characteristics of the upwelling system along the coast of West Africa; qualitative as well as quantitative changes in fishing activity throughout the year; the market nature of fishing activity and nonlocal demands for fish; regular fishery migration; and institutions regulating fishery resource access at home and at migration destinations. Population and resource relationships in Moree may be the effects of fishery resource and economic changes on migration rather than population pressure on fishery resources. Fisheries management policies must take into account processes that lie beyond the influence of local fishermen.
4313746|The influence of trees on soil properties should be a determining factor in the choice of species for tree-crop combinations or for tree plantations in the humid tropics. However, information of this kind is scarce, particularly for native species. Soil fertility parameters were compared under six tree species in a 2.5-year-old experimental plantation, under grass, and in a 20-year-old secondary forest. The site is located at the La Selva Biological Station of the Organization for Tropical Studies, in the Atlantic humid lowlands of Costa Rica. Central America. Soil extractable Ca. Mg, K, P, Fe, Mn, Cu and Zn, the pH, exchangeable acidity, organic matter and total N were measured under Stryphnodendron excelsum, Dalbergia tucurensis, Dipteryx panamensis, Vochysia hondurensis, Vochysia ferruginea and Tabebuia rosea. All species are native and of economic value for the timber industry. Higher soil N and levels of organic matter were found in the tree plantation than under grass, with values close to those in the secondary forest. Within the tree plantation, the highest values for soil organic matter, total N, Ca, and P were found under V. ferruginea. There was an apparent trend of higher soil nitrate content under S. excelsum and D. tucurensis, both leguminous nitrogen-fixing species. The results will be used to make recommendations on species for plantations or for agrogorestry, emphasizing the potential positive effects on soil properties for recovery of degraded pastures in the region.
4314054|The loss of species as a result of deforestation and degradation of tropical forest lands is widely discussed. Models based on island biogeography theory are used to evaluate the relationship between extinctions of species and deforestation. The analysis shows that natural resiliency causes the models to overestimate the rates of species extinctions for given intensities of deforestation. There is an opportunity to couple natural processes with management activities to reduce species extinctions and restore species richness to degraded lands. As an example we show how tropical monoculture tree plantations can foster diverse native forests in areas previously deforested. The central point is that well-directed human actions provide us with the means to conserve biodiversity and restore it in locations previously degraded.
41417260|Environmental problems that cross national borders are attracting increasing public and political attention; regulating them involves coordinating the goals and activities of various governments, which often presupposes simplifying and standardizing complex knowledge, and finding ways to manage uncertainty. This article explores how transboundary environmental problems are dealt with to render complex issues governable. By discussing oil pollution in the Baltic Sea and the gas pipeline between Russia and Germany, we elucidate how boundaries are negotiated to make issues governable. Three processes are found to be particularly relevant to how involved actors render complex issues governable: complexity reduction, construction of a spatial identity for an issue, and ascription of capabilities to new or old actor constellations. We conclude that such regulation is always provisional, implying that existing regulation is always open for negotiation and criticism.
24708815|Assessing ecological sustainability involves monitoring of indicators and comparison of their states with performance targets that are deemed sustainable. First, a normative model was developed centered on evidence-based knowledge about (a) forest composition, structure, and function at multiple scales, and (b) performance targets derived by quantifying the habitat amount in naturally dynamic forests, and as required for presence of populations of specialized focal species. Second, we compared the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification standards' ecological indicators from 1998 and 2010 in Sweden to the normative model using a Specific, Measurable, Accurate, Realistic, and Timebound (SMART) indicator approach. Indicator variables and targets for riparian and aquatic ecosystems were clearly under-represented compared to terrestrial ones. FSC's ecological indicators expanded over time from composition and structure towards function, and from finer to coarser spatial scales. However, SMART indicators were few. Moreover, they poorly reflected quantitative evidence-based knowledge, a consequence of the fact that forest certification mirrors the outcome of a complex social negotiation process.
4314140|The Climate Change Convention requires signatory countries to calculate inventories of greenhouse-gas emissions from anthropogenic activities, and from natural sources and sinks. This paper presents estimations for the UK, an industrialized temperate country with intensive land-use and little natural vegetation cover. The UK's 1988 anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions total 183 million tons (metric). When the net sequestration from soil and biomass is included in aggregate carbon dioxide emissions, this total is reduced by only 0.72%. Net emissions increase however for methane ( CH
4315537|Agricultural intensification, greatly accelerated as a result of the EU Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), has led to drastic reductions in the populations of many wild plant and animal species that used to be characteristic of farmland. In 1992, the EU provided the member states with its Agri-environment Regulation 2078/92 to help member states reverse these developments by means of agri-environment schemes. The question is: will the implementation of these schemes be sufficient to restore the biological diversity on farmland? Most studies that have examined the effectiveness of agri-environment schemes have focussed on farmland birds in Great Britain and The Netherlands. So far, the positive effects appear to be limited. Continuous evaluation and adaptation of these schemes is needed to enable the biodiversity on farmland to recover from the EU's former policy.
40928410|Urbanization is a global multidimensional process paired with increasing uncertainty due to climate change, migration of people, and changes in the capacity to sustain ecosystem services. This article lays a foundation for discussing transitions in urban governance, which enable cities to navigate change, build capacity to withstand shocks, and use experimentation and innovation in face of uncertainty. Using the three concrete case citiesNew Orleans, Cape Town, and Phoenixthe article analyzes thresholds and cross-scale interactions, and expands the scale at which urban resilience has been discussed by integrating the idea from geography that cities form part of "system of cities" (i.e., they cannot be seen as single entities). Based on this, the article argues that urban governance need to harness social networks of urban innovation to sustain ecosystem services, while nurturing discourses that situate the city as part of regional ecosystems. The article broadens the discussion on urban resilience while challenging resilience theory when addressing human-dominated ecosystems. Practical examples of harnessing urban innovation are presented, paired with an agenda for research and policy.
4315810|Baltic salmon suffer from maternally transmitted yolk-sac fry mortality syndrome-M74. The incidence of M74 varies considerably on a year to year basis. In the 1990s the mortalities were 50-80% but in 2003-2005, below 10%. Before death, M74-affected fry have several typical symptoms. M74-eggs are characterized by low thiamine and carotenoid content, and affected fry show signs of oxidative stress. Although M74 is associated with thiamine deficiency and the symptoms of the fry can be alleviated with thiamine, the underlying causes of the syndrome have remained a mystery. We have studied the symptoms of M74 at the molecular level by investigating the global gene expression patterns using cDNA microarray and have quantified the changes in transcriptional regulation in M74-affected and healthy yolk-sac fry. Our and previous results suggest that M74 in Baltic salmon yolk-sac fry results from oxidative stresses disturbing several different developmental molecular pathways. Because the M74 syndrome is of maternal origin, factors in the Baltic Sea during salmon feeding and migration, i.e., the chemical composition of food, may be decisive in the development of M74. The possible mechanisms by which oxidative stresses may develop in adult salmon are discussed in the review.
4314682| The substrate-induced respiration (SIR) is a widely used physiological method for measurement of the soil microbial biomass. The equation
4313674|This article summarizes the eutrophication of two sea areas: 1) the Baltic Sea and in particular a coastal area which is affected primarily by effluents from a tertiary sewage plant; and 2) the Kattegat and in particular the Laholm Bay, which is affected primarily by nutrient inputs from agriculture and forest land. During this decade, inputs of N and P to these larger sea areas have increased by factors of approximately 4 to 6 and >8, respectively. Internal nutrient transport and atmospheric deposition is discussed. It is concluded that N availablility generally limits primary production, except in the Bothnian Bay, where P has this role. P is, however, the limiting factor at times in some coastal areas, and in the Baltic for N-fixing blue-green-algae, which bloom in warm summers when low N/P ratios prevail. Noted eutrophication effects are localized elevated primary production, decreased depth distribution and species richness of macroalgae. Eutrophication is most likely a stimulus to high benthic infaunal biomass and fish biomass in well ventilated sea areas. Other areas suffer today from almost permanent (the Baltic proper) or seasonal (the Kattegat) hypoxia with devastating effects on benthos and demersal fish. The N cycle and future possible consequences in relation to nutrient input are discussed. It is concluded that a reduction by at least half of external N and P inputs to the Baltic sea, and of N inputs to the Kattegat is needed to mitigate the negative effects of eutrophication.
24709000|Vertical diffusivity and oxygen consumption in the basin water, the water below the sill level at about 59 m depth, have been estimated by applying budget methods to monitoring data from hydrographical stations BY4 and BY5 for periods without water renewal. From the vertical diffusivity, the mean rate of work against the buoyancy forces below 65 m depth is estimated to about 0.10 mW m2. This is slightly higher than published values for East Gotland Sea. The horizontally averaged vertical diffusivity  can be approximated by the expression  = a0N1 where N is the buoyancy frequency and a0  1.25  107 m2 s2, which is similar to values for a0 used for depths below the halocline in Baltic proper circulation models for long-term simulations. The contemporary mean rate of oxygen consumption in the basin water is about 75 g O2 m2 year1, which corresponds to an oxidation of 28 g C m2 year1. The oxygen consumption in the Bornholm Basin doubled from the 1970s to the 2000s, which qualitatively explains the observed increasing frequency and vertical extent of anoxia and hypoxia in the basin water in records from the end of the 1950s to present time. A horizontally averaged vertical advectiondiffusion model of the basin water is used to calculate the effects on stratification and oxygen concentration by a forced pump-driven vertical convection. It is shown that the residence time of the basin water may be reduced by pumping down and mixing the so-called winter water into the deepwater. With the present rate of oxygen consumption, a pumped flux of about 25 km3 year1 would be sufficient to keep the oxygen concentration in the deepwater above 2 mL O2 L1.
25515795|Aquaculture is seen as an alternative to meeting the widening gap in global rising demand and decreasing supply for aquatic food products. Asia, the epicenter of the global aquaculture industry, accounts for over 90% of the global aquaculture production quantity and about 80% of the value. Asian aquaculture, as with global aquaculture, is dependent to a significant extent on alien species, as is the case for all the major food crops and husbanded terrestrial animals. However, voluntary and or accidental introduction of exotic aquatic species (alien species) is known to negatively impact local biodiversity. In this relatively young food production industry, mitigating the dependence on alien species, and thereby minimizing potential negative impacts on biodiversity, is an imperative for a sustainable future. In this context an attempt is made in this synthesis to understand such phenomena, especially with reference to Asian inland finfish, the mainstay of global aquaculture production. It is pointed out that there is potential for aquaculture, which is becoming an increasingly important food production process, not to follow the past path of terrestrial food crops and husbanded animals in regard to their negative influences on biodiversity.
4313820|How the Beja, largely apolitical nomadic pastoralists of northeastern Sudan, perceived their profound misfortunes during the drought of the 1980s is examined. The famine of 1984-1986 was considered neither to have resulted from their own actions nor to be amenable to alleviation by them-both being functions of God, perhaps acting through the central government. Those Beja who were forced by the famine to abandon their traditional ways appear to be ripe for politicization.
25547791|Remediation mainly based on excavation and burial of the contaminated soil is impractical with regard to the large numbers of sites identified as being in need of remediation. Therefore, alternative methods are needed for brownfield remediation. This study was conducted to assess a chemical stabilization procedure of CCA-contaminated soil using iron (Fe)-containing blaster sand (BS) or oxygen-scarfing granulate (OSG). The stabilization technique was assessed with regard to the feasibility of mixing ameliorants at an industrial scale and the efficiency of the stabilization under different redox conditions. The stability was investigated under natural conditions in 1-m lysimeters in a field experiment, and the effect of redox conditions was assessed in a laboratory experiment (10 L). The treatments with high additions of ameliorant (8% and 17%) were more successful in both the laboratory and field experiments, even though there was enough Fe on a stochiometric basis even at the lowest addition rates (0.1% and 1%). The particle size of the Fe and the mixing influenced the stabilization efficiency. The development of anaerobic conditions, simulated by water saturation, increases the fraction of arsenic <tex-math>$({\rm As}^{{\rm III}})$</tex-math> and, consequently, As mobility. The use of high concentrations of OSG under aerobic conditions increased the concentrations of nickel (Ni) and copper (Cu) in the pore water. However, under anaerobic conditions, it decreased the As leaching compared with the untreated soil, and Ni and Cu leaching was not critical. The final destination of the treated soil should govern the amendment choice, that is, an OSG concentration of approximately 10% may be suitable if the soil is to be landfilled under anaerobic conditions. Alternatively, the soil mixed with 1% BS could be kept under aerobic conditions in a landfill cover or in situ at a brownfield site. In addition, the treatment with BS appeared to produce better effects in the long term than treatment with OSG.
4314069|Concentrations of heavy metals in atmospheric dust fallout over the Yellow Sea were examined and compared to those in other regions of the world. Crustal metals originating in dust fallout (Fe, Mn, etc.) show similar values to source materials, e.g. loess, whereas metals of anthropogenic origin such as Co, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn, may have concentrations that are a factor of 5-10 those in soils. The high flux of particulate heavy-metal deposition to the Yellow Sea via the atmosphere is attributed to important wind-dust deposition and atmospheric pollution.
4315308|This study examined the distribution and abundance of corallimorpharians (Cnidaria, Anthozoa) in Tanzania in relation to different aspects of the coral reef environment. Five reefs under varying degrees of human disturbance were investigated using the line intercept transect and point technique. Corallimorpharian growth and the composition of the substratum were quantified in different habitats within reefs: the inner and middle reef flat, the reef crest, and at the 2 and 4 m depths on the reef slope. Corallimorpharians occurred on all the reefs and 5 species were identified: Rhodactis rhodostoma, R. mussoides, Ricordea yuma, Actinodiscus unguja and A. nummiforme. R. rhodostoma was the dominant corallimorpharian at all sites. Within reefs, they had the highest densities in the shallow habitats. While R. rhodostoma occurred in all habitats, the other corallimorpharian species showed uneven distributions. Corallimorpharians ranked second, after scleractinian coral, in percent living cover. Results from this study suggested that corallimorpharians benefitted from disturbance compared with other sessile organisms. They preferred inhabiting areas with dead coral, rock and rubble whilst live coral was avoided. There was a positive relationship between percent cover of corallimorpharians and water turbidity and they dominated the more disturbed reefs, i.e. reefs that were affected by higher nutrient loads and fishing.
40390254|Mercury (Hg) levels are alarmingly high in fish from lakes across Fennoscandia and northern North America. The few published studies on the ways in which silviculture practices influence this problem indicate that forest operations increase Hg in downstream aquatic ecosystems. From these studies, we estimate that between onetenth and one-quarter of the Hg in the fish of high-latitude, managed forest landscapes can be attributed to harvesting. Forestry, however, did not create the elevated Hg levels in the soils, and waterbome Hg/MeHg concentrations downstream from harvested areas are similar to those from wetlands. Given the current understanding of the way in which silviculture impacts Hg cycling, most of the recommendations for good forest practice in Sweden appear to be appropriate for high-latitude regions, e. g., leaving riparian buffer zones, as well as reducing disturbance at stream crossings and in moist areas. The recommendation to restore wetlands and reduce drainage, however, will likely increase Hg/MeHg loadings to aquatic ecosystems.
4315851|Despite many years of research about mercury pollution, data concerning high-latitude regions of Europe are limited, particularly studies of long-term temporal trends. It is not clear whether the mercury load at high latitudes follows the recent decreasing trends in European mercury emissions or whether the load is still high because of continuing global emissions. In this study we use sediments from 12 lakes, located above the Arctic Circle in the Swedish mountains, to assess the past and recent mercury pollution situation, especially for the last 200 y. The mercury load increased clearly in sediment deposited from the late 19th or early 20th century to a peak between 1960 and 1990. This peak represents an enrichment of 1.4 to 4.2 times over background concentrations. This enrichment is comparable with enrichments in sediments from lower latitudes as well as other Arctic regions. Since the 1990s mercury concentration has declined in 8 of the 12 lakes, i.e., similar to emission trends in Europe.
4313647| New results from an extensive survey on the mercury concentration in different environmental compartments (river water, suspended and bottom sediments, soil, and air), as well as in fish and human hair, from the gold mining area along the Madeira River, SW Amazon, are presented. Concentration of mercury in bottom sediments (up to 157 g Hg  g
41417307|This study projected responses of forest net primary productivity (NPP) to three climate change scenarios at a resolution of 5 km x 5 km across the state of Louisiana, USA. In addition, we assessed uncertainties associated with the NPP projection at the grid and state levels. Climate data of the scenarios were derived from Community Climate System Model outputs. Changes in annual NPP between 2000 and 2050 were projected with the forest ecosystem model PnET-II. Results showed that forest productivity would increase under climate change scenarios A1B and A2, but with scenario B1, it would peak during 2011-2020 and then decline. The projected average NPP under B1 over the years from 2000 to 2050 was significantly different from those under A1B and A2. Forest NPP appeared to be primarily a function of temperature, not precipitation. Uncertainties of the NPP projection were due to large spatial resolution of the climate variables. Overall, this study suggested that in order to project effects of climate change on forest ecosystem at regional level, modeling uncertainties could be reduced by increasing the spatial resolution of the climate projections.
4312298|Dietary exposure to nitrate and nitrite was determined chemically in food collected by the double-portion technique. The mean daily intake of nitrate and nitrite expressed in the sodium salt form for ten men was 65.9 mg (range 35-110 mg) and 4.6 mg (range 0.9-11.0 mg) respectively. The corresponding intake for ten women was 69.7 mg (range 48.9-109.1 mg) and 6.6 mg (range 4.7-9.0 mg) respectively.
4313504|The generality that early life stages are more sensitive to toxic substances than more mature stages may be of doubtful usefulness in assessing the effects of toxic substances on aquatic populations. This is because many species of aquatic organisms face naturally high levels of mortality in the early life stages. Toxicants may kill individuals which would have died from other natural causes. This compensatory population mechanism was studied by determining, in laboratory studies, the dependence of the mortality rate of the net-spinning hydropsychid caddisfly (Hydropsyche siltalai) on the pulp mill toxicant 4,5,6 trichloroguaiacol (4,5,6-TCG). Starting with day-old larvae, mortality rates could be divided into two distinct periods, referred to as primary and secondary mortality. Primary mortality consisted of a nine-day period of high mortality, ranging from 12 to 27 $\text{percent}\cdot \ \text{day}^{-1}$, which was independent of 4,5,6-TCG concentration. Secondary mortality occurred over the remaining 70 days of the experiment with mortality rates ranging from 0.6 to 3.6 $\text{percent}\cdot \ \text{day}^{-1}$ and was positively correlated with 4,5,6-TCG concentration yielding a LC50 of $49.8\ \mu {\rm g}\cdot {\rm L}^{-1}$. While immature stages of freshwater aquatic organisms may be more sensitive to toxicants this generality may be of questionable value for the interpretation of the effects of a toxicant on aquatic populations. It may be far more important to have accurate measures of toxicant effects for the more mature stages where the natural levels of mortality are low and the population compensatory mortality mechanisms are not in effect. In addition, since mortality is distributed differently over the life cycle, depending on the species of aquatic invertebrate, it is recommended that in addition to dose-response information the life-cycle strategy and survivorship be included when assessing toxic effects.
4312345|The reuse of wastewater for human consumption is a necessity in many parts of the world. Conventional biological and chemical treatment of wastewater followed by chlorination does not guarantee water that is free from pathogenic microorganisms. The technology for restoring wastewater to drinking water standards is available but its cost is high. It is discussed whether the intentional reuse of domestic wastewater after advanced treatment should be preferred over today's unintentional reuse of wastewater, ie the use of polluted surface water, after conventional treatment.
4315071|The Upper Bermejo River Basin (UBRB) is the most biodiverse region in Argentina. A rugged territory and a long history of human settlement, combined with social and political isolation, have resulted in large areas with well-preserved forests, a large number of wild plant and animal species, and indigenous crops. Several factors, including agriculture expansion, intense logging activities, and oil and gas prospecting, are posing a threat to biodiversity. Current national parks and reserves are not enough to secure the survival of functional populations, especially of the large mammals. Conservation of biodiversity in the UBRB requires a broader approach: e.g. protection of the most sensitive areas outside present reserves; maintaining the remaining forest matrix under sustainable management regimes, involving the local communities in the process; and encouraging uses synergetic with conservation. Recent purchases by private enterprises of new protected areas, the willingness of local administrations to establish a new legal conservation framework, and local communities considering sustainable management of their lands, represent encouraging opportunities for the region.
4314601|The anthropogenic impact on the global nitrogen cycle has serious impacts on a number of ecosystem processes. To address some of these problems, a large multidiciplinary project was established to focus the fate and effects of N from various sources. Two large watersheds were selected for the study; the heathland dominated Bjerkreim area
4314183| During 1988-1991, 413 high-mountain lakes in the Central Alps (Italy, Switzerland and Austria) were studied to quantify the influence of acid deposition. About two thirds of the lakes had alkalinity values of less than 200 eq L
4314103|In an attempt to limit erosion, to stabilize hillside farming practices, and to increase farm income, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) along with the Dominican Secretary of Agriculture implemented the Natural Resource Management Project (NARMA) in 1982. In 1985, over 90% of the farmers in the watershed were participating in NARMA's programs, greatly reducing hillside erosion rates. During the summer of 1990, 150 hillside farmers from 22 communities within the Ocoa watershed were surveyed and 20 officials from the Dominican government and local funding agencies were interviewed. This study documents the outcomes of NARMA's key programs and identifies major constraints to sustainable conservation projects.
4313819| This paper examines peasant response to famine during the period 1975-1985, based largely on the study of three semi-arid sub-provinces in central Ethiopia, where most of whose inhabitants are sedentary cultivators. Famine conditions prevailed throughout the period of study despite the revolutionary agricultural reforms that had been instituted by the rgime that took power in 1974, owing partly to some continued reliance on the individual household. The famine of 198-1985 was a particularly drastic event, one to which government responses were inadequate despite the continued orderly nature of the peasantry, their continued willingness to cooperate with the authorities and their readiness to break with traditional agricultural practices. A truly socialist transformation will be required if Ethiopia is to cope with what has become a pervasive condition of poverty and famine. 
4312437|The policy linkage between environment and development is traced to variations in the relevant tradeoffs between countries and over periods of time. Emphasis is placed on the evaluation of the benefits and costs of industrialization, the discounting of future benefit and cost flows back to the present, and complementarity between environmental and development objectives where pollution is the product of poverty. Abrupt change in developing countries' environmental policies can easily occur, and external assistance should be targeted where benefits and costs are most responsive without imposing conditions based on foreign value judgements.
4313708|The most dramatic increase in DDT and PCB levels in the Baltic occurred after 1955. The present study investigates whether morphological changes resulting from the disturbance in developmental stability can be found in the grey-seal populations born during the most significant period of pollution that occurred after 1960. Skull characteristics were examined in animals born before 1940 (pre-pollution group) and in animals born after 1960 (pollution group). It was shown that the pollution group had sharply increased levels of asymmetry in almost every character analyzed. The findings suggest a dramatic change in the developmental stability of the Baltic grey seal during the period of heavy pollution after 1960.
4312816|Local fishermen in Polynesia. Micronesia and eastern Melanesia have an understanding of shallow tropical fisheries which can be invaluable to planners of marine resource use. Their knowledge is often superior to that obtained from conventional resource surveys. They have also developed traditional methods of conservation that provide a variety of opportunities for those concerned with establishing and managing protected areas. Recognition of traditional fishing rights and an understanding of local traditions are important factors in protecting fisheries from over-exploitation.
25515826|The purpose of this paper is to present calculations of total costs of 13 alien invasive species (AIS) in Sweden. All species are subject to control by Swedish public authorities, and estimates for most AIS include either damage cost or actual control cost. The results indicate a total annual cost between approximately 1620 and 5080 million SEK, which correspond to SEK 175 and SEK 565 per capita in Sweden. The estimates are well within the range of similar calculations for other countries, but differ with respect to the composition of costs of different AIS. Whereas costs for the agricultural and forestry sectors dominate in most other studies, the costs of AIS in Sweden are more equally divided among different categories. The results also indicate that the highest costs are attributable to unintentionally introduced AIS and that the most reliable cost estimates are related to human and animal health.
4315822|This study examines the extent to which Finnish human dietary intake of organochlorines (PCDD/Fs and PCBs) originating from Northern Baltic herring can be influenced by fisheries management. This was investigated by estimation of human intake using versatile modeling tools (e.g., a herring population model and a bioenergetics model). We used a probabilistic approach to account for the variation in human intake of organochlorines originating from the variation among herring individuals. Our estimates were compared with present precautionary limits and recommendation for use. The results show that present consumption levels and frequencies of herring give a high probability of exceeding recommended intake limits of PCDD/Fs and PCBs. Furthermore, our results clearly demonstrate that in the risk management of dioxinlike organochlorines, regulating fishing (in this case increasing fishing pressure) is a far less effective way to decrease the risk than regulating the consumption of herring. Increased fishing would only slightly decrease organochlorine concentrations of herring in the Finnish fish market.
4312247|Wastewater reuse for agricultural, industrial and certain municipal purposes can provide an economical way of increasing available water resources in countries that face water shortages as a result of increasing population and intensification of industry. The possibility of direct reuse of highly treated wastewater for municipal purposes, including drinking water, has recently been considered by a number of water planners. The complex microbiological and chemical health problems that may be involved with such direct water reuse are evaluated together with the equally serious problems associated with indirect reuse that occur in most cities of the world being supplied by water from heavily contaminated rivers. Direct reuse for other than potable purposes should be preferred at this time until a more complete answer to many important health problems is available.
4313829|Regional surveys of lakes in southernmost Norway conducted 1974-1975 and repeated in 1986 reveal widespread and continuing acidification. The recovery of acidified lakes following reduction in emissions of SO
4314004| Annual counts were made at 4 harbor seal sites along the Swedish Baltic Sea coast from the mid-1970s. A significant positive population development was recorded from surface level counts at 3 sites in Kalmarsund; the annual growth rate ranged from 6 to 10% in these groups. Aerial counts at Mklppen in Scania included harbor and grey seals. A slight increase suggested by these data until 1987 was not statistically significant. The harbor seal group at Mklppen was strongly reduced by the phocine distemper virus (PDV) epizootic in 1988 and numbered about 60 specimens in 1989. The total number of harbor seals counted along the Swedish Baltic coast in 1990 was about 200. Reproduction, expressed as the number of born pups in relation to the maximum number of seals counted in each area during the moulting period, averaged 22% and 20% in Kalmarsund in 1989 and 1990, respectively. As an effect of the PDV epizootic the reproduction at Mklppen was 15% in 1989 and 27% in 1990. Pupping occurred from late May to early or mid-July, with a peak in mid June at all the sites. In 1989, 4 out of 9 pups born at Mklppen survived until weaning, compared to at least 15 out of 21 in Kalmarsund. 
4314034|The benthic habitat in the Inner Stockholm Archipelago was classified in September 1991 by taking sediment-surface and sediment-profile photographs at 31 sites at depths between 9 and 50 m. Most stations had an unconsolidated soft black mud smelling of H
4313240|With commercial whaling ending, at least temporarily, the International Whaling Commission faces a new role in overseeing the proper conservation of whale stocks and providing for the optimum utilization of whale resources in non-consumptive (non-destructive) ways. Non-consumptive uses include (1) benign research, already proven valuable but requiring broader funding and coordination; (2) habitat protection, in varied sanctuary forms, with Scientific Committee identification and review; (3) recreational whale watching, offering multiple benefits if controlled, but needing effective guidelines; (4) cetacean captivity, a highly controversial "low-consumptive" use, which some people would abolish, but which, while continued, demands independent regulatory standards; and (5) cultural valuation, involving aesthetic appreciation of cetaceans through the arts, and emphasizing whales as a unique educational resource broadly enhancing public awareness.
4314131|One area of immediate planetary-scale concern is the increasing carbon level of the atmosphere. Another is the decreasing carbon level of the world's soils. These two phenomena are part of a single problem. We must increase the flow of carbon from the atmosphere into the soil. One technology to contribute to this is seawater-based agriculture whereby seawater and nutrients from the sea are brought onto the land for aquatic animal and halophyte farms. Further, these farms can be constructed as integral parts of new seawater-based communities which can be developed in many locations along the coastal regions of the earth. If the world population expands at projected rates before stabilizing, and if half of that increased population continues to live within 50 km of the world's seacoasts (as half of the present population does), seawater-based communities may be one of the best alternatives for developing new forms of environmentally-enhancing communities with the associated critically-needed wealth generation.
4315401|Along the Swedish Skagerrak coast eelgrass (Zostera marina) is a dominant phanerogam on shallow soft bottoms. Eelgrass meadows are important biotopes for many crustacean and fish species being either migratory or stationary. During the 1980s, inventories of the shallow coastal areas with eelgrass have been carried out along the Swedish west coast as a basis for coastal zone management. In the present study we revisited 2000 ha of eelgrass meadows in 5 coastal regions along 200 km of the Skagerrak coast. The inventory was made with the same methods (aquascope) as during the 1980s, but increasing the mapping accuracy by using a Global Positioning System (GPS). The results from this study show that the areal extension of Zostera marina has decreased 58% in 10-15 years with great regional variations. The decline was mainly restricted to the shallow parts of the meadow. The causes and ecological consequences are discussed.
4315701|An evaluation in December 2003 of the Danish National Action Plan for the Aquatic Environment II showed that nitrogen leaching from farmland had declined to almost half the amount of that in 1989. This can be ascribed to successful implementation of several measures, the most efficient of which were related to the use of fertilizers: lowered nitrogen standards for crops, and increased nitrogen utilization in manure and catch crops. Although the objectives of the plan were almost met and measurements have shown a similar, but not percentually as high a decrease in nitrogen concentrations in both inland and coastal waters, the ecological impact in estuaries and coastal areas is not yet satisfactorily significant. As a consequence, a new National Action Plan for the Aquatic Environment III, including both nitrogen and phosphorus reduction from farming, was agreed to in April 2004. To ensure that good ecological status can be achieved in water bodies according to the requirements of the European Union Water Framework Directive, the national measures will be combined with additional measures for individual river basins.
4313355|Intentional conservation practices were relatively more important in traditional Polynesia and Micronesia than they were in Melanesia. It is suggested that this may have been due in part to the differences in the administrative conservation "machinery" found within the political structures of these regions, particularly those aspects relating to political authority and complexity. The differences in the traditional political structures of these societies have important implications for the success of conservation programs today.
4315716|The Arctic zone is full of controversies, unknowns, contrasts, and challenges. The following example is enlightening. Saudi Arabia is a country that has been considered to have almost unlimited possibilities because of its enormous oil earnings. The country has US$60 thousand million purchasing power parity oil income each year for its mere 22 million inhabitants. Astonishingly, the Arctic zone's income from oil, gas, and minerals is at least as large as that of Saudi Arabia, modestly estimated, but the Arctic has less than 4 million people. Most money, however, flows away from the tundra, yet social and environmental problems remain there. A part of the side effect of consuming these resources-largely fossil fuels-returns to the Arctic in the form of greenhouse warming and all its consequences. The Arctic zone now warms at approximately double the rate of the world average.
4314604| Pools and transformations of nitrogen were assessed in a number of forest ecosystems in south and southwester Norway. The stands differed in atmospheric input of N (10 to 25 kg ha
4313070|The use of the South Pacific as a testing ground for nuclear weapons is perhaps one of the darkest chapters in the history of the entire Region. The US tested at least 103 nuclear bombs in the Region until the Partial Test Ban Treaty went into effect in 1963. Today, only the French continue to test nuclear bombs in the Pacific, on the two French Polynesian islands of Moruroa and Fangataufa. Since 1966 they have exploded at least 105 bombs. The devastation caused by this testing is widespread, but data have not been released by the French government as to the actual extent of the radioactive contamination from the bomb tests, the disposal of radioactive wastes and accidents. We may never know the full story.
4314990|Whereas zooplankton in most eastern boundary current systems (EBCSs) studied to date has declined in terms of biomass over the past 5 decades, it has increased 100-fold in terms of numerical abundance in the southern Benguela region, thereby undergoing a displacement in species composition through time. These long-term changes in coastal zooplankton off South Africa have previously been hypothesized to be mediated by both "bottom-up" and "top-down" control mechanisms, in contrast to other EBCSs and marine ecosystems in general which have traditionally been viewed to be structured from below. From a "bottom-up" perspective, the increase in zooplankton abundance is a long-term biological response to intensified coastal upwelling, common to EBCSs, and its associated processes of nutrient enrichment and increased phytoplankton production and biomass. On the other hand, such increase in zooplankton and the accompanying shift in its community structure are thought to result from a "cascading" trophic effect of predator-prey interactions between apex predators and their small pelagic forage species, and between the latter and their zooplanktonic prey. This study provides new information in terms of decadal-scale increasing trends in nutrient concentration and phytoplankton biomass off the West Coast of South Africa, lending support to the above "bottom-up" hypothesis. In addition, published data on long-term, density-dependent increases in pelagic fish condition and maturity are interpreted within the context of the above "top-down" mechanism which is postulated to control zooplankton populations in the Benguela region concurrently with "bottom-up" mechanisms.
4313522|This paper summarizes findings on the phenomenological behavior of submicron aerosols observed in the Antarctic troposphere and discusses the significance of these findings for aerosol processes in Antarctica. It is inferred that two types of aerosols with different histories are present in the Antarctic troposphere. The intrusion of maritime air during the cyclonic storms that occur mostly during the cold months, causes sea-salt particles and ammonium sulfate particles, originally contained in the clean maritime air, to dominate the aerosol. On the other hand, during the warm months, aerosols in the chemical form of sulfuric acid are predominant. These sulfuric acid aerosols are formed by photochemical oxidation of sulfur-bearing gases in the sunlit troposphere over Antarctica. Most Antarctic submicron particles are of tropospheric origin, not stratospheric or anthropogenic.
4312781|An exchange of nuclear weapons in war will produce fallout fields around individual targets ranging up to several hundred square miles in area in which radiation exposures may exceed several thousand roentgens. Such exposures would cause widespread devastation of the natural plant and animal communities. Exposures in excess of 5 000-10 000 R would devastate forests, leaving a residual vegetation of hardy successional herbs and shrubs. Agricultural crops would be affected, but the extent of the effects would depend heavily on the stage of development. Most crops are more vulnerable in the early stages of growth. Forests would require years to decades to recover; fires and erosion would impede recovery. Human survivors could expect a landscape not only devastated by blast, seared by the heat and ionizing radiation from the fireballs themselves, but damaged further by ionizing radiation from overlapping fallout fields covering thousands of square miles. The landscape would also be burdened with long-lived, biotically-active radionuclides such as
4314096|During the last decade the role of nitrogen in deposition has become increasingly important in acidification of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. In northern temperate-forest ecosystems, nitrogen deposition in excess of biotic demands has led to increased nitrate concentrations in catchment runoff, which in turn has changed the composition and size of the nitrogen pool in freshwaters. This paper presents studies on denitrification and limitation of phytoplankton growth in oligotrophic lakes in southern and central Sweden. The results of these studies indicate that sediment denitrification rates in the investigated lakes are not decreased by acidification. Nitrous-oxide production rates in the investigated lakes are high compared to literature values, but the nitrous-oxide concentration in gas bubbles leaving the sediment was low. The form in which inorganic nitrogen occurs, i.e. ammonium or nitrate, may be important in determining phytoplankton community structure. Changes in this structure may have consequences at higher trophic levels, if the favored phytoplankton species are of little value as food for herbivorous zooplankton. In spite of the disrupted nitrogen cycling in northern temperate-forest ecosystems and the concomitant increase in nitrate in catchment runoff, nitrate removal processes in freshwater ecosystems does not seem to be affected by acidification.
4312610|Peat is formed in waterlogged ecosystems where the produced organic matter is incompletely decomposed. It obtains combustion energy only after drying. Its physical and chemical properties are remarkable. More peatland is being drained for agriculture, pasture and forestry than used for excavation of peat. The world area of potentially peatforming mire is some 500 million ha, with a maximum in northern latitudes. The ecology of peatland and its role as a carbon sink are discussed, and the need for selective conservation is stressed.
4315837|Coptis teeta (Ranunculaceae), is a nontimber forest product (NTFP) that only grows in northwest Yunnan and northeast India. Its tenuous rhizome, known as "Yunnan goldthread" in the traditional Chinese medicine system, has been used as an antibacterial and as an anti-inflammatory medicine for a long time. The increasing demand has resulted in commercial harvesting pressure on wild populations that were already dwindling as a result of deforestation, and wild populations are at risk of extinction. Fortunately, there exists at least 2000 hectares of a C. teeta-based agroforestry system initiated by the Lisu people in Nujiang, northwest Yunnan. This cultivation supplies us with a valuable study case for the balance between conservation and sustainable use. This case study investigated the traditional management system and history of C. teeta in Nujiang through ethnobotanical methods and field investigation. We also contrasted initial costs, economic returns, and labor demands for C. teeta cultivation with other major land uses in the region. Compared with swidden agriculture, the major land-use type in the region, C. teeta cultivation offers high economic returns and low labor and initial costs; moreover, C. teeta cultivation does not interfere with subsistence agricultural duties. This agroforestry system reflected that the cultivation of NTFPs is a conservation strategy for maintaining forest diversity, while providing a stable economic return to local forest communities, and indicates how local people manage biodiversity effectively.
4312311|An inventory of pollution sources was established and an assessment of total pollution loads was made under a UNEP project implemented jointly by six UN agencies. Municipalities, industry, agricultural runoff, river inputs and nuclear installations were considered in the source evaluation study. Results and findings of this project are presented in a summarized form and conclusions drawn as regards the proportionate contribution of each pollution source.
4312267|Although yielding considerable agriculture benefits, the intensive use of inorganic nitrogen fertilizer may also increase environmental and health hazards, chiefly eutrophication, infant methemoglobinemia, and stomach cancer. In Illinois, an area of the US Corn Belt where nitrogen fertilizer is intensively applied to corn, the resultant nitrate concentrations in drinking water are sufficiently high (often exceeding the widely accepted standard of 10 ppm) to require remedial action. An evaluation of the relevant benefits and costs suggests possible alternatives.
4311934|In this article, which is a contribution to the world-wide debate on the environment, the author examines the potential environmental catastrophes that face the world, and concludes that the existing international system is inadequate to meet the demands that are being put upon it. He suggests that new priorities should be adopted and that international agencies should be given additional authority and support.
4314247|Surface waters of large areas in the Nordic countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway and northwestern Russia are subject to acidification caused by acid precipitation. Precipitation in northern Kola is heavily polluted by the acids and heavy metals that are emitted from local smelters. Due to the geological and climatological conditions, large areas in the affected region are particularly sensitive to acid precipitation. Based on analyses of lake and river-water samples collected throughout the region in 1990-1992, it is shown that extensive surface-water acidification has taken place, particularly, in the mountain and remote tundra regions. Within a 30-km zone directly influenced by industrial activities, surface-water buffer capacity increases due to emissions of alkaline dust. The sulfur critical load for surface waters in northern Kola is exceeded in 48% of the territory and is at a maximum in the center of the region, on the hilly zone around the metal smelters, as well as in the remote tundra region.
4314245|This study calculates the value of three ha of primary forest in the Upper Napo region of Amazonian Ecuador based on the potential extraction of nontimber forest products (NTFPs). Through ethnobotanical and market surveys, the annual harvest levels, market prices and extraction costs of seven fruits, three medicinal barks, and one resin are measured. The present value of net revenue from NTFP collection is USD 2830 in the upland plots and USD1257 in the alluvial plot which is significantly higher than the returns from alternative land uses in this area.
24708808|Policies at multiple levels pronounce the need to encompass both social and ecological systems in governance and management of natural capital in terms of resources and ecosystems. One approach to knowledge production and learning about landscapes as socialecological systems is to compare multiple case studies consisting of large spaces and places. We first review the landscape concepts' biophysical, anthropogenic, and intangible dimensions. Second, we exemplify how the different landscape concepts can be used to derive measurable variables for different sustainability indicators. Third, we review gradients in the three dimensions of the term landscape on the European continent, and propose to use them for the stratification of multiple case studies of socialecological systems. We stress the benefits of the landscape concepts to measure sustainability, and how this can improve collaborative learning about development toward sustainability in socialecological systems. Finally, analyses of multiple landscapes improve the understanding of context for governance and management.
4314614|Despite considerable focus on mangroves in the scientific literature, an apparent universal appreciation for their biological and economic values, and the enactment of protective legislation, these tropical coastal forests continue to disappear globally, as a direct result of human activity. We report and rank current, primary conservation issues threatening mangrove forests at 38 sites in 16 nations and island states, based on discussions with local professional land managers, university scientists, villagers and village leaders, and regional government officials. While adequate relevant data to inform conservation efforts already exist in the scientific literature, this information must be disseminated more widely in a form that local nonscientists can use. Stand-structure data, analyses of rates and causes of deforestation, techniques for reforestation, and socioeconomic evaluations of benefits and costs to local communities of mangrove conservation must be developed and shared. Communication among biologists and lay people within and among regions should be enhanced, collaborations among social scientists and biologists must be fostered, and government support for conservation and restoration must be strengthened if mangrove ecosystems are to be sustained.
4314822|A morphological study conducted on the Zanzibar Channel shows that the channel consist of a "central deep" of about 30 to 40 m in depth, which is flanked to the east by irregular and steep coral platforms. On the other hand, the western flank is rather smooth and gentle. The morphological exceptions are the patch reefs that disturb the otherwise smooth morphology. The morphological differences between the eastern and western flanks are interpreted to be partly caused by differences in the tectonic development of the two areas. To a large extent, terrigenous input of sediments from the mainland through River Ruvu and Waml controls the sediment distribution patterns on the sea bottom in the western part of the channel. This is demonstrated by the distribution of carbonates as well as the grain-size parameters. The absence of any major rivers on Zanzibar means that no major transport mechanism is available for terrigenous material in the east. The high carbonate content on the eastern side of the Channel (> 70%), consists of biogenic as well as erosional material from coral systems and Pleistocene reefs.
4315838| Cholera epidemics have a recorded history in the eastern Africa region dating to 1836. Cholera is now endemic in the Lake Victoria basin, a region with one of the poorest and fastest growing populations in the world. Analyses of precipitation, temperatures, and hydrological characteristics of selected stations in the Lake Victoria basin show that cholera epidemics are closely associated with El Nio years. Similarly, sustained temperatures high above normal (Tmax) in two consecutive seasons, followed by a slight cooling in the second season, trigger an outbreak of a cholera epidemic. The health and socioeconomic systems that the lake basin communities rely upon are not robust enough to cope with cholera outbreaks, thus rendering them vulnerable to the impact of climate variability and change. Collectively, this report argues that communities living around the Lake Victoria basin are vulnerable to climate-induced cholera that is aggravated by the low socioeconomic status and lack of an adequate health care system. In assessing the communities' adaptive capacity, the report concludes that persistent levels of poverty have made these communities vulnerable to cholera epidemics. 
4314097| There is a lack of consensus about the effects of acidification on the microbial component of aquatic food webs. From a review of the literature it is apparent that negative effects of acidification are most often observed in disturbed systems, e.g. laboratory systems, sediment-water slurries, but less frequently in relatively undisturbed, e.g. intact sediment cores, large in situ enclosures, whole lake manipulations and follow-up. We measured several microbial rates in experimentally acidified and limed enclosures in a mesohumic lake and found no consistent differences between the treatments in any parameter that would affect the balance of production and degradation. A field survey of 10 similar acidified mesohumic lakes, 5 of which were limed, also indicated no effects of acidity on microbial metabolism. Water chemistry and pelagic community structure were studied in a clearwater, acidified lake before and after liming. Bacterial biomass was greater than algal biomass in the limed lake. After liming, the dominant phytoplankter ( 60% of late summer phytoplankton biomass), the cyanobacterium, Merismopedia tenuissima, disappeared and planktonic bacterial biomass doubled. Although bacterial production was similar under acid and limed conditions, the potential of the bacterial response to fluctuations in nutrients and food-web structure was greater after liming. Many effects on microbes were mediated indirectly via the presence or absence of Merismopedia. Bacteria were co-limited by DOC and inorganic N/P during acid conditions. Bacterial production at that time was only enhanced by simultaneous additions of C, N, P, which in turn stimulated the entire microbial food web (flagellates, ciliates). 
4314787|The Earth's drylands are largely situated within Third World countries. Their essential property is dryness and the characteristic feature of the plant cover is low productivity. Differences in the ecological basis for grassland vegetation and woody vegetation and composition of the plant cover in dry climates with summer rain and winter rain, respectively, are emphasized. Future work to restore the plant cover of dry areas must be based on both sustainability and higher productivity for human needs. This work must include the restoration, as far as possible, of the natural plant cover as well as the rebuilding of the man-made plant cover, in a form better adapted to the hydrological resources, both surface- and groundwater. Extensive grazing of low-productive rangelands should be abandoned, in favor of more stationary feeding systems. The changes require simultaneous rural and urban development in the long term.
4313062|Islands are isolated by the surrounding sea, especially where distances are great as in the South Pacific Ocean. The extent of isolation, the origin of the different island types, and climatic and oceanographic factors are important determinants of biogeographic patterns. The processes of colonization and extinction, combined with evolutionary pressures within the island communities, have determined the present composition of island fauna and flora. Coastal marine ecosystems are characterized by decreasing diversity from west to east. Terrestrial communities may include both widely distributed elements and significant levels of endemism. Biogeographic patterns are now being disrupted by human influences.
4312032|Disposing of radioactive wastes from nuclear reactors poses combined technical and social problems. Useful new technical options seem available (eg perhaps eliminating very long-lived wastes from the stored burden by recycling them in the reactors). Social issues need more attention; we suggest that as a minimum each nation opting for nuclear power be prepared to accept its processed wastes for storage, because individual states and their successors have greater continuity than do international institutions. With that base, international agreement will more easily follow.
4314277|Sustainable utilization has become widely accepted in southern Africa as the most pragmatic approach to conserving the region's biodiversity. The rich wildlife resources of southern Africa hold considerable economic potential, but the options for maximizing and sustaining this potential are constrained by the ecological and human determinants of the wildlife communities in each particular ecosystem. This paper aims to provide a general overview of these determinants in an attempt to stimulate the transfer of information from ecologists to managers, investors and development agencies. The primary ecological determinants of large mammal communities in African savannas are rainfall and soil nutrients, since these determine the quantity and quality of food available to large herbivores. These ecological determinants are, however, becoming increasingly masked by the effects of land transformation, veterinary controls and wildlife economics.
4315122|Three deep basins were chosen for this study and the most recent changes that are reflected in the uppermost 15 to 35 cm are reported. The Gotland Basin, the largest continuous sedimentation basin in the southern Baltic Sea, was chosen for the present study. Simultaneously, a quite large basin, the North Central Baltic Basin was investigated and chemical data are reported for the first time. In the southern Baltic Sea the Bornholm Basin was investigated. All 3 basins are different as regards the physicochemical conditions in the area. The investigated elements were divided into different groups according to their origin and geochemical behavior: elements of natural terrestrial origin; nutrients; elements that are confined to early diagenetic minerals; and in the near-surface zone the anthropogenic elements including several harmful metals. Although there seems to be a decreasing trend in the surface zone the metal concentrations are still clearly elevated.
25547884|Development in the Mekong Delta of Vietnam has been very dynamic in the recent past, and currently it stands at an interesting crossroads. On one hand, agricultural production has developed successfully, and economic growth has been very rapid, but on the other hand, intensifying agriculture and large-scale water-control structures have challenged the environmental sustainability and social equity. The development plans have included a strong belief in the human mastery over the nature and waters of the Mekong Delta. In many cases, water resources planners have underestimated the complexity and integrated nature of the ecology and livelihoods of the Mekong Delta. This article examines cases where development efforts, while successful in some dimensions, have also contributed to create new risks for, especially, the poorest groups. The current situation calls for a more sustainable future route that would require examination of more adaptive measures in relation to the changing water flows of the Mekong River.
4315255|This article is based on a larger case study that investigated the role of tourist induced and other population movements in causing coastal ecosystem change in Goa, India. It focuses especially upon agro-ecosystems locally known as khazan lands, and sand dunes, and how they are transformed to accommodate the needs of tourists and tourism. The effects of different forms of tourism upon land cover and land-use change is assessed. The research findings suggest that it is not population movements alone that cause ecosystem changes, but the changes in relations between people and ecosystems. This means that in some cases land cover has not changed as much as land use, and in other cases land cover has changed dramatically. Intermediary influences upon land use and land-cover change are also legal, political, and economic factors, particularly changes in property rights.
4312397|The European Community's approach to the question of the control over toxic chemicals in the environment is presented in this article, and in particular the problem of new chemical substances. It discusses the legal and administrative situation with special reference to the so-called 6th amendment of the 1967 Directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances.
4315382|Plans to increase the amount of irrigated land in Mediterranean countries should consider how changes in climate and land-use affect water resources. In this study, both precipitation and temperature were used to analyze regional trends in discharge in the basins of the Central Spanish Pyrenees since the mid-20th century. Annual variations in the relationship between precipitation and discharge suggested that discharge was relatively lower in the second half of the study period, coinciding with major changes in land use. On a monthly scale, precipitation increased significantly in October, April, and July, and decreased in March, and temperature increased in January and February and decreased in April. Nevertheless, discharge has decreased significantly in most months in the past 50 years. Land-use and plant-cover changes are the only nonclimatic factor that can explain the loss of around 30% of the average annual discharge.
4312245|Infectious water-related diseases that pose important health problems in developing countries are described in this article. The risk of transmission of many of these diseases is greatly increased by unhygienic disposal practices.
4315726|Using interdisciplinary field research in the Usa Basin, northeast European Russia, we compared local inhabitants' perception of environmental problems with chemical and remote-sensing signatures of environmental pollution and their local impacts. Extensive coal mining since the 1930s around Inta and Vorkuta has left a legacy of pollution, detected by measuring snowpack, topsoil, and lichen chemistry, together with remote-sensing techniques and analysis of lake water and sediments. Vorkuta and its environs suffered the worst impacts, with significant metal loading and alkalization in lakes and topsoils, elevated metals and cations in terricolous (reindeer) lichens, and changes in vegetation communities. Although the coal industry has declined recently, the area boasts a booming oil and gas industry, based around Usinsk. Local perceptions and concerns of environmental pollution and protection were higher in Usinsk, as a result of increased awareness after a major oil spill in 1994, compared with Vorkuta's inhabitants, who perceived air pollution as the primary environmental threat. Our studies indicate that the principal sources of atmospheric emissions and local deposition within 25 to 40 km of Vorkuta were coal combustion from power and heating plants, coal mines, and a cement factory. Local people evaluated air pollution from direct observations and personal experiences, such as discoloration of snow and respiratory problems, whereas scientific knowledge played a minor role in shaping these perceptions.
41417412|When a concentrated solar beam is irradiated to the ceramics such as Ni-ferrite, the high-energy flux in the range of 15002500 kW/m is absorbed by an excess Frenkel defect formation. This non-equilibrium state defect is generated not by heating at a low heating-rate (30 K/min), but by irradiating high flux energy of concentrated solar beam rapidly at a high heating rate (200 K/min). The defect can be spontaneously converted to chemical energy of a cation-excess spinel structure (reduced-oxide form) at the temperature around 1773 K. Thus, the O releasing reaction (-O releasing reaction) proceeds in two-steps; (1) high flux energy of concentrated solar beam absorption by formation of the non-equilibrium Frenkel defect and (2) the O gas formation from the O in the Frenkel defect even in air atmosphere. The 2nd step proceeds without the solar radiation. We may say that the 1st step is light reaction, and 2nd step, dark reaction, just like in photosynthesis process.
4312027|The main aspects of world oil supply and demand are described. The story of oil, from the reservoir until it reaches the consumer as refined products, is briefly given and diagramatically illustrated in what is called the "oil cycle". The paper concludes with an exposition of some of the economical and political problems associated with oil, mainly based on pertinent published material on Middle East oil.
4312185|The pattern of human settlement has developed, during the last hundred years, towards "megalopolis" on the one hand and "vast emptiness" on the other. This has been made possible by the availability of cheap and plentiful fossil fuel. As fossil fuel ceases to be cheap and plentiful, the present pattern may have to change. This will require a change in technology. The article gives a short account of the ideas behind the work of the Intermediate Technology Development Group, London.
25547818|In order for local community views to be incorporated into new development initiatives, their perceptions need to be clearly understood and documented in a format that is readily accessible to planners and developers. The current study sought to develop a predictive understanding of how the Punan Pelancau community, living in a forested landscape in East Kalimantan, assigns importance to its surrounding landscapes and to present these perceptions in the form of maps. The approach entailed the iterative use of a combination of participatory community evaluation methods and more formal modeling and geographic information system techniques. Results suggest that landscape importance is largely dictated by potential benefits, such as inputs to production, health, and houses. Neither land types nor distance were good predictors of landscape importance. The grid-cell method, developed as part of the study, appears to offer a simple technique to capture and present the knowledge of local communities, even where their relationship to the land is highly complex, as was the case for this particular community.
4314503|Tanzania's Eyasi-Yaeda basin is unique in its cultural and biophysical heritage. However, the challenges and issues confronting the land and people of the Eyasi-Yaeda basin are common throughout much of dryland Africa. Land scarcity, in-migration, changing land and resource use, and unclear land tenure and ownership arrangements create a complex array of issues. Considering the Eyasi-Yaeda basin as a microcosm of these challenges and issues, key environmental management and policy concerns are outlined and examples provided. Specific areas addressed include the implications of tenure and ownership systems, resource control and participation in planning, and their relation to sustainable dryland resource management.
4313884|This paper shows that demographic processes influence land degradation through the intervening variables of land use. A proper understanding of the effects of population growth and redistribution on deforestation, soil erosion, etc., requires examining changes in land-use patterns over time. A conceptual framework is proposed, wherein these changes are seen to be manifest in various forms, depending on natural resources and institutional factors, including changes in land-tenure arrangements, land intensification, and land extensification. Cross-country data on demographic trends, changes in land use and environmental degradation are presented, to provide an overview for Latin American and sub-Saharan Africa. Specific linkages are examined and case studies for Guatemala and Kenya are also presented.
4313702|Rising carbon dioxide and global temperatures are causing increasing worldwide concern, and pressure towards an international law of the atmosphere is rapidly escalating, yet widespread misconceptions about the greenhouse effect's inevitability, time scale, and causes have inhibited effective consensus and action. Observations from Antarctic ice cores, Amazonian rain forests, and Caribbean coral reefs suggest that the biological effects of climate change may be more severe than climate models predict. Efforts to limit emissions from fossil-fuel combustion alone are incapable of stabilizing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Stabilizing atmospheric carbon dioxide requires coupled measures to balance sources and sinks of the gas, and will only be viable with large-scale investments in increased sustainable productivity on degraded tropical soils, and in long-term research on renewable energy and biomass product development in the developing countries. A mechanism is outlined which directly links fossil-fuel combustion sources of carbon dioxide to removal via increasing biotic productivity and storage. A preliminary cost-benefit analysis suggests that such measures are very affordable, costing far less than inaction.
4312497|Combustion of fossil fuels, forest clearing and other human activities add vast amounts of carbon to the atmosphere as CO
4314588|Since the 1950s some European otter populations have declined dramatically. There are however significant differences in the otter population density between different areas. Many suggestions have been presented to explain the population decline and the effects of PCB is one of these. The aim of this study was to compare the concentrations of PCB and sDDT in otter, fish and amphibians from Latvia with Swedish data and available information from the literature. Samples from two areas in Latvia and one area in Sweden were analyzed. It was shown that the concentrations of PCB in otter, fish and amphibians from Latvia were lower than reported concentrations in otter and fish from other areas in Europe. In the light of the high density otter population in Latvia and low concentrations of PCB in Latvian biota, this study supports the hypothesis that the effects of PCB constitutes one of the most important agents in explaining the decline of otter populations in Europe.
25547836|Borullus, the most centrally situated of the Nile Delta lakes, probably evolved around the eighth century AD from a preexisting salt marsh by fluviatile deposition of sand dunes north of the lake and subsidence of the preexisting tidal swamp behind this barrier. It was flooded yearly (September-December) by the Sebennytic branch of the Nile, and evacuated water through an exit, Bughaz. At low river levels, this process reversed and Bughaz functioned as a marine inlet. Because of this switch, its fauna and flora contained a mix of marine, freshwater, and brackish-water species. Around the mid-nineteenth century, damming of the Nile began, culminating with the high Aswan Dam (1964) that brought the yearly flood fully under control. As a result, a steady flow of Nile water, used for irrigated delta agriculture, began to drain to the lake and became a constant evacuator to the Mediterranean. It turned almost fresh, and its fishery, formerly marine and mullet-based, became cichlid-catfish based. However, rice and other new delta crops caused huge amounts of nutrients to wash down the drains, and currently the lake is eutrophied and only resists hypertrophication because of the low residence time of its water. Finally, the damming of the Nile terminated the influx to the delta of a yearly sediment layer, but subsidence and coastal erosion continue and are now consuming the sand bar that separates the lake from the sea.
25547915|Conservation of the marine environment mainly focuses on threatened elements and more precisely on vulnerable and endangered species like birds and mammals. When dealing with the conservation of marine habitats, the scientific community is mainly interested in hot spots of diversity, like seagrass beds in Europe, or hot spots of endemism, like coral reefs in tropical areas. Nevertheless, using the example of a common and widespread marine invertebrate, the sandmason worm (Lanice conchilega, Polychaeta, Terebellidae), we show that vulnerability and rarity are not only criteria to take into account in order to select the best natural element for conservation. This species can form dense beds that increase biodiversity, are attractive feeding grounds for birds and fishes, and have a high socioeconomic value. In consequence, they have a high functional value that should be considered as an important conservation stake. Through the example of the Chausey archipelago and the Bay of the Mont Saint-Michel (France), we propose a synthetic interdisciplinary approach to evaluate the conservation needs of these beds. The issue is even more pressing when one considers that these natural elements and many similar ones still do not benefit from any legal protection in Europe despite their high heritage value.
4313395|China is a country with a vast and diverse territory, widely contrasting environmental conditions and an abundant number of species. The diversity of the country makes development of natural conservation regions very important for the continued prosperity of the Chinese nation. The Chinese conservation regions will also be of inestimable benefit for conservation of worldwide natural heritage. There are about 267 natural conservation regions in China. These were ratified and established by the central government and local governments by the end of 1983. About half of them (134) are managed by special agencies, the remainder are not. This paper discusses only the 134 managed regions.
4313332|Realization that forest decline (Waldsterben) has become an ecological crisis throughout the developed world has resulted in massive research efforts to determine the causes of declines. It is now recognized that no single causal factor is responsible, although there are a variety of anthropogenic causal factor complexes interacting with natural events and processes that, together, induce stresses in forests that culminate in declines of individual plants and of ecosystems. It is the thesis of this article that forest declines involve all biotic and abiotic facets and parameters of forested ecosystems and that the declines are themselves new causal factor complexes that continue to affect the stability of forested ecosystems independently of the initial causal factor complexes. Lacking direct field or laboratory studies on these cascades of causes and effects, this article attempts to utilize the growing body of information on plant physiological ecology to provide a heuristic framework for evaluating longterm forest decline.
4314622|In the last several years, as attempts have been made to reconcile conservation and development agendas, many conservation organizations have embraced the notion that careful use of timber resources from natural forests could be part of a viable conservation strategy. Unfortunately, investments in "natural forest management" are financially unattractive and governments are generally unwilling or unable to force loggers to make such investments. Even where these problems can be overcome, advocates of conservation need to carefully consider whether natural forest management will result in less damage than would have occurred otherwise. The answer to this question depends on what kind of human intervention would have taken place in the absence of the forestry project: little or none; uncontrolled logging or deforestation for agriculture. Only in the latter case does natural forest management unquestionably represent an environmental improvement. Finally, an assessment must be made as to whether forestry is a cost-effective way of achieving conservation goals. After analyzing these factors, we conclude that in some limited circumstances natural forest management represents a promising conservation strategy.
4315662|Intensification of agriculture has been proposed as one way of minimizing emissions per unit of product, apparently legitimizing the ongoing structural changes in agriculture. We have investigated the relationship between the farming intensity and the nitrogen (N) dissipation by calculating the overall N emission factor (E) (E: total N surplus per unit of N in the produce) from several studies of dairy farms, covering a wide range of environments and production intensities. Fundamental steps were 1) the distinction between trophic levels: mineral, plant and animal N, and 2) the inclusion of N losses related to bought feed. The results show that E increases significantly with the production intensity of the dairy farm. The tradition for separate optimization of the animal and crop sectors may be a reason. We suggest that the N pollution can be mitigated by more extensive farming, both by re-coupling crop and animal production side by side, and by keeping land under cultivation when production is reduced.
4313949|Applied biological and ecological studies on the extensive culture of pearl-oysters Pinctada mazatlanica and Pteria sterna, are being developed in La Paz Bay, South Baja California, Mexico. Exploration in several sites and a preliminary evaluation of the natural stock was carried out in order to establish the localization and actual state of pearl-oyster populations. The 4 most dense populations of P. mazatlanica were compared in terms of their densities and their size structure. It is evident that the actual pearl-oyster banks are scattered along the coast of the bay, they have low densities, and natural recruitment also seems to be low. Illegal and uncontrolled extraction of large and medium-sized individuals affect the natural recuperation of the resource negatively as well as the size structure of local populations. The areas commonly visited by tourists and fishermen show discontinuities in size distribution and an absence of large individuals. The results of the present study will be directly applied to choice of sites for seed captation and extensive culture.
4314323| Aquatic systems supply humans with vast amounts of food, primarily in the form of finfish, shellfish and seaweed. More than 30% of the world's animal protein for human consumption comes from the sea, and in many countries, particularly the developing countries, this percentage is significantly higher. As a result, it is important to know how increased levels of exposure to solar UV-B radiation (280-315 nm) might affect the productivity of aquatic systems. In addition, the oceans play a key role with respect to global warming. Marine phytoplankton are a major sink for atmospheric carbon-dioxide, and they have a decisive role in the development of future trends of carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere. The relative importance of the net uptake of carbon dioxide by the biological pump in the ocean and by the terrestrial biosphere is a topic of much current research. Phytoplankton form the foundation on which the very survival of aquatic food webs depends. Marine phytoplankton are not uniformly distributed throughout the oceans of the world. The highest concentrations are found at high latitudes while, with the exception of upwelling areas on the continental shelves, the tropics and subtropics have 10 to 100 times lower concentrations. In addition to nutrients, temperature, salinity and light availability, the high levels of exposure to solar UV-B radiation that normally occur within the tropics and subtropics may play a role in phytoplankton distributions. A major loss in primary biomass productivity may have significant consequences for the intricate food web in aquatic ecosystems and affect food productivity. It has been estimated that a 16% ozone depletion could result in a 5% loss in phytoplankton, which equals a loss of about 7 million tons of fish per year. Biological effects of small changes in UV-B exposure may be difficult to determine because the biological uncertainties and variations are large, and the baseline productivity for pre-ozone-loss eras is not well established. Phytoplankton productivity is limited to the euphotic zone, the upper layer of the water column in which there is sufficient sunlight to support net productivity. The position of the organisms in the euphotic zone is influenced by the action of wind and waves. In addition, many phytoplankton are capable of active movements that enhance their productivity and, therefore, their survival. Like humans, phytoplankton cannot perceive, and thereby avoid, UV-B radiation. Exposure to solar UV-B radiation has been shown to affect both orientation mechanisms and motility in phytoplankton, resulting in reduced survival rates for these organisms. Researchers have directly measured the increase in, and penetration of, UV-B radiation in Antarctic waters, and have provided conclusive evidence of direct ozone-related effects within natural phytoplankton communities. Making use of the space and time variability of the UV-B front associated with the Antarctic ozone hole, researchers assessed phytoplankton productivity within the hole compared to that outside the hole. The results show a direct reduction in phytoplankton production due to ozone-related increases in UV-B. One study has indicated a 6-12% reduction in the marginal ice zone. In recent years, there has been an increased interest in UV-B effects on macroalgae and seagrasses. In contrast to the phytoplankton, most macrophytes are attached to their growing site, thereby restricting them to specific growth areas and the resultant exposure to UV-B radiation. Recent studies have demonstrated that photosynthesis is inhibited in many red, brown, and green benthic algae. Solar UV-B radiation has been found to cause damage to early developmental stages of fish, shrimp, crab, amphibians and other animals. The most severe effects are decreased reproductive capacity and impaired larval development. Even at current levels, solar UV-B radiation is a limiting factor, and small increases in UV-B exposure could result in significant reduction in the size of the population of consumer organisms. At high latitudes (over 40N) the late-spring increases in UV-B exposure may affect some species because the UV-B enhancement occurs at critical phases of their development. Even small increases or temporary fluctuations in UV-B may affect relatively sensitive species. Recent studies have addressed the potential impact of chlorofluorocarbon substitutes and their degradation products. Some hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), notably HFC134a, HCFC123, and HCFC124, are degraded generating trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) as their main product. TFA is mildly toxic to most marine and freshwater phytoplankton. It is still speculative if TFA is concentrated in the food web. Even if produced well into the next century, TFA is unlikely to reach toxic levels for oceanic phytoplankton; however, it could reach toxic levels in restricted aquatic systems. Although there is overwhelming evidence that increased UV-B exposure is harmful to aquatic ecosystems, the potential damage can only be roughly estimated at the present time. 
4313946|The paper attempts to juxtapose the theoretical debate on sustainability and the practical issues pertaining to two well-known environmental movements in the Indian Himalayan region of Tehri-Garhwal. A brief review of the current debate on sustainable development is followed by a search for the reasons behind the growth of consciousness about sustainability in the forest protection movement called Chipko and a movement against a high dam at Tehri. While the presence of indigenous consciousness of sustainability at micro-levels is undeniable, the success of these movements in generating it at the macro level is linked with the leadership's capability to extract supporting arguments in their favor, from modern ecological sciences.
4312031|The high and rising fossil fuel requirements of the modern world are held to be the direct result of certain "styles of technology" and "styles of living". Neither a significant reduction in requirements nor a substantial mobilization of "income energies" (such as solar energy and wind power) is possible without far-reaching changes in these "styles". Agriculture is given as an example, and the development of the Third World is also discussed from this point of view.
4314642|For centuries Poland served as a major granary in Europe. It was only during the last five decades that Poland+s non-agricultural production started to dominate over its farming output. And it was only three decades ago that the share of urban population exceeded 50%. The most dramatic changes in the agricultural sector, however, were triggered in 1990 as a result of the departure from the central planning system.
4313003|Lead levels in blood (B-Pb) were determined in samples obtained 1978-82 from 1068 Swedish children aged 8 to 16, from two small towns and their surrounding rural areas in southern Sweden. The average level was low (mean 58 g/l, range 15-20. It was higher in boys (64 g/l) than in girls (53 g/l). In girls the level decreased with increasing age (average change 2g/l/year). The sex and age differences were not primarily associated with blood hemoglobin levels. Children who reported lead-exposing hobbies had B-Pb levels somewhat higher than the others (average difference 6 g/l), there were slight but statistically significant geographical variations. Thus rural children had lower B-Pb than urban ones (average difference 7-10 g/l), and children living near a secondary lead smelter had higher B-Pb than other urban ones (average difference 7 g/l). There was possibly a slight general decrease of B-Pb with time (average 3 g/l/year), but this needs confirmation by further follow-up.
4314068|Coastal zones have been shown to be extremely important for the development of society. Settlements have been established in these areas and international communications originated in the coastal fringes. Coastal zones are particularly vulnerable to the impacts of nature and man and are physically very unstable. Erosion and associated loss of land is the most evident sign of this instability. Negative shoreline trends cause secondary effects that affect society through threats to human settlements, harbors, coastal recreation areas, wetlands, marshes, etc. These impacts are expected to increase as a consequence of climate change, leading to a sea-level rise. Thus, in the short- as well as in the long-term perspective coastal erosion must be regarded as an environmental problem that deserves much attention. Planners and decision makers need a greater awareness of the instability of sandy beaches and the possible impact of human activities. Efforts are needed to improve our knowledge about nearshore processes and to develop methods to quantitatively determine the behavior of beaches.
4312277|Environmental education at university level can be broadly divided into four categories: integration of environmental aspects into other education, provision of short, multi-disciplinary overview courses, the training of specialists in relevant disciplines, and the complementing of other professional education. The paper examines the development of environmental education in these four categories in selected university systems. The examples are drawn mainly from Europe and North America. Thus far most progress has been made in the area of multi-disciplinary overview courses. Complementary and integrated training have received much less attention. Some observations on differences in university systems are tentatively offered to explain the differences in progress.
4312270|Biological N
25094572|The tundra-taiga interface is characterized by a change in tree cover or density, tree size and shape, tree growth, and reproduction. Generally, trees get denser, taller, and less damaged as one moves from the tundra into the taiga proper. The environmental covariates and possible mechanisms resulting in these patterns are addressed in the paper. Low seed rain density, lack of safe sites caused by microclimatic variation, low surface substrate moisture, and low soil nutrient availability may limit the density of the tree species. Tree growth may be limited by a short growing season and further diminished, by shoot and root damage reducing carbon and nutrient stores as well as by reducing carbon and nutrient uptake capacities. Positive and negative feedbacks of tree density on tree growth exist at treeline. Increased tree density leads to increased air temperature and decreased wind damage, but also to lower soil temperature, reduced nutrient availability, and greater nutrient competition.
4312654| A research project has been set up in the Ivory Coast to provide an improved scientific basis for management of a large hitherto relatively untouched tropical forest. The project is structured around eight research programs coordinated through the University Institute of Tropical Ecology in Abidjan. The article reports how a particular kind of tree vegetation invades previously cultivated areas in the rain forest. Primary succession is emphasized. The authors also review the problems which arise in the colonization of an area inhabited for centuries by the Bakw ethnic group. Results from investigations of sulphur dioxide circulation in a rain forest ecosystem are given, and the value of the site for training scientists and for long-term research is also discussed. 
4314281|The recent history of trace-metal input to Chesapeake Bay was examined using
4314221|Concentrations of persistent organochlorines such as PCB, DDT, HCH, HCB, chlordanes (CHL), heptachlor epoxide and dieldrin were determined in cod-liver oil originating from the Icelandic North Atlantic and the eastern North Atlantic basin in the 1980s, to understand spatial variation and to trace possible sources and pathways of the transport of organochlorines to the Norwegian Arctic. Cod-liver oil from these marine regions contained considerable concentrations of organochlorines with those from the Baltic Sea showing the highest values. PCBs and DDTs were the dominant organochlorines, while the concentrations of HCB, CHLs, HCHs and dieldrin were relatively low and varied according to location. Maximum spatial variation was observed for DDTs, followed by PCBs, HCB, dieldrin and CHLs. The variation in concentrations between marine regions was statistically significant (at the 5% level) for all the organochlorines except HCHs. Despite decreasing concentrations towards more northern and remote oceans, the composition of DDT, CHL and HCH isomer/metabolite ratios was characteristic for different sampling locations. The more transportable isomer/metabolites of DDT, HCH and CHL constituted a higher proportion in cod-liver oils originating from remote marine areas of the North Atlantic, suggesting that the Norwegian Arctic and temperate waters of the North Atlantic are influenced by the same sources/pathways of organochlorine pollution originating possibly from eastern and southern Atlantic.
4315190| Lake Mlaren is the water supply and recreation area for more than 1 million people in central Sweden and subject to considerable environmental concern. To establish background data for assessments of contemporary levels of trophy and heavy metal pollution, sediment cores from the lake were analyzed. Diatom-inferred lake-water phosphorus concentrations suggest that pre-20th century nutrient levels in Sdra Bjrkfjrden, a basin in the eastern part of Mlaren, were higher (c. 10-20 g TP L
40390421|Continuous ozone concentration measurements at rural sites in Lithuania have been performed since 1982. Longterm ozone data show an increasing trend 0.4 ppb y in annual mean concentrations during the period 1982-2008, although ozone peak values show an insignificant tendency to decrease. Several studies were performed to evaluate the ozone effect on the main plant species of Lithuanian forests. A strong positive correlation was found between values for the accumulated doses over a threshold of 40 ppb index and the defoliation of Fraxinus excelsior trees in Lithuanian forests during 1991-2008. A strong correlation was found between ozone exposure and the proportion of healthy F. excelsior, Betula sp., and Alnus incana, trees indicating that in Lithuania the deciduous species are more sensitive to ozone than conifers and that healthier trees may be better indicators of the changing environment. The results of the studies suggest that the observed levels of ozone are sufficiently high to have negative effects on the vegetation in Lithuania.
4315312| This study focuses on sediment exchange dynamics in Mwache Creek, a shallow tidal mangrove wetland in Kenya. The surface area of the creek is 17 km
25547945|In March and April 2005, severe fires burned over 1000 km of tropical montane forests in the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. The fire burned through our network of permanent vegetation plots, which were established in 1999 to examine interactions among environment, vegetation, and disturbance. We used QuickBird satellite imagery combined with field surveys to map the extent and severity of the fire across the landscape. The fire burned through 96% of the pine forest but quickly extinguished at the pine-could forest boundary along most of the ecotone. Topographic factors and fire severity had no influence on fire behavior at the ecotone. These observations support our original hypothesis that fire maintains the abrupt boundary between the pine and cloud forest vegetation in these mountains. Vegetation structure and composition played a direct role in regulating fire spread and behavior in this landscape.
4313376|Tropical forests are famous for the huge diversity of their wildlife. However, the vast majority of animal species are insects, which are generally neglected by conservationists. Their ecology and importance in tropical forests are reviewed. Habitat destruction is causing the extinction of enormous numbers of insect species. Many tropical insects are extremely sensitive to environmental change, so climatic change due to human activity could also result in mass extinction of insects in both intact and protected forests. There is very little knowledge about the ecology or conservation of this vast class of animals and only a tiny fraction of them have as yet been discovered. However, it is known that insects play a central and dominant role in all aspects of the complex tropical forest food web. Loss of insect species will cause a cascade of other extinctions in the flora and fauna of the forests.
24708865|Protected areas are powerful instruments to tackle the biodiversity crises. However, local communities believe that protected areas generate downsides for which they should be compensated. We reviewed (1) problem evolution, (2) the idea of compensation schemes, and (3) practical considerations. We found that compensations for conservation-related losses are insufficiently considered when protected areas are established. Schemes include controversial resettlements of human populations, traditional reimbursements, and recently favored incentive payments to encourage local communities to conserve biodiversity on their lands. The compensation process is typically composed of the verification of losses/facts, estimation of costs, and delivery of payments. Compensation schemes promote tolerance and awareness, and responsibility of the broader society while minimizing confrontations. They have the power to mainstream concern about human welfare in protected area management, and are therefore a key to successful conservation. Verifying the impact of compensations on achievement of conservation goals remains, however, difficult to prove.
4313816|A study of the relationship between drought and famine in Ethiopia and Sudan in the mid-1980s has shown that the afflicted peasants and pastoralists did not become passive victims, but in fact resorted to a number of strategies to raise funds for the purchase of food. Although these local efforts were found to be initially quite successful, several consecutive seasons of drought became overwhelming. Neither the Ethiopian nor the Sudanese government did much to combat the famine, both regimes directing major attention to their ongoing civil wars; and the former regime even devoting its limited available resources to elaborate celebrations of its tenth anniversary. By late 1984, the suffering of the rural peasants and pastoralists became sufficiently dramatic to attract sustained attention by western mass media, thereby forcing reluctant donor governments to provide food aid. Ethiopia had greater need than Sudan, but received less aid because it was considered to be ruled by an unfriendly regime. After the change of regime in Sudan in 1985 to one considered friendly, more food aid than necessary was sent there, which had the effect of undermining the domestic food economy. United Nations agencies limited their relief efforts, thereby avoiding confrontations with the western donor governments.
4313805|Sources of methane in Sweden emit about $3.0\ {\rm Tg}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$ to the atmosphere, corresponding to about 0.6% of the estimated global flux. Net flux, estimated by deducting amounts taken up by boreal forest soils could be about 10% lower. Wetlands are by far the largest source ($2.2\ {\rm Tg}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$, 73% of total) followed in decreasing order by landfills ($0.34\ {\rm Tg}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$, 11%), coastal areas and freshwater bodies ($0.31\ {\rm Tg}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$, 10%) animal and manure ($0.14\ {\rm Tg}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$, 5%) and combustion processes and leakage of natural gas ($0.03\ {\rm Tg}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$, 1%). Man-made wetland disturbances associated with drainage have reduced methane emissions by about $0.29\ {\rm Tg}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$. Human activities have led to moderate increases in methane emissions from freshwater bodies and coastal waters. Other sources of methane emissions are almost exclusively of anthropogenic origin. The influence of global warming on the methane fluxes is briefly discussed.
4312295|In Europe large amounts of air pollutants are transferred to areas more than 1000 km from major source regions. The main cause of the acidification of the precipitation is the sulfur content of fossil fuel. Several countries in northwestern Europe receive as much air pollution from outside as from indigenous sources. An international agreement to reduce the emissions is required in order to reduce substantially the sulfur pollution.
4315333| Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (ICDPs) aim to stimulate conservation without the previous negative experiences for local people, but pay little attention to their long-term impact such as immigration. The rehabilitation of the Logone floodplain in North Cameroon, the core activity of the Waza-Logone ICDP, has led to a 34% increase of sedentary fishermen and a multiple number of temporary fishermen. Whereas livestock pressure tripled, kob antelopes, a key floodplain species, have not increased, reducing their competitiveness. The virtual disappearance of wildlife in nearby Kalamalou National Park (NP), due to advanced human encroachment forms, is therefore a bleak perspective for Waza NP. Examples from the Central African Republic (CAR), Galapagos, Nigeria and Zimbabwe also showed that in open-access systems, improvement in living standards (development) may stimulate immigration, jeopardizing the stability necessary in protected areas (conservation). Most ICDPs lack demographic monitoring, masking its possible immigration risk. To counter the immigration risk in Waza, a policy was formulated based on local stakeholder categorization and subsequent privileges, resulting in the voluntarily displacement of a village out of Waza NP. It is further recommended that ICDPs should be involved in regional land-use planning and discourage development activities that stimulate immigration. 
4313238|Subsistence hunting of marine mammals was originally practiced world-wide, but is presently only conducted by a few peoples. Using the Inuit hunters of Greenland as an example, the characteristics of current subsistence harvesting and its relation to environmental variations, commercial exploitation, industrial development and international conservation attitudes are discussed. The main purpose of subsistence hunting is satisfaction of local nutritional, subsistence and socio-economic requirements. The importance of involving subsistence harvesting communities in management decisions is stressed.
4315848|Soil biological activity was calculated on a daily basis, using standard meteorological data from African weather stations, a simple soil water model, and commonly used assumptions regarding the relations between temperature, soil water content, and biological activity. The activity factor <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> is calculated from daily soil moisture and temperature, thereby taking the daily interaction between temperature and moisture into account. Annual mean <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> was normalized to 1 in Central Sweden (clay loam soil, no crop), where the original calibration took place. Since soils vary in water storage capacity and plant cover will affect transpiration, we used this soil under no crop for all sites, thereby only including climate differences. The Swedish <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> value, 1, corresponds to ca. 50% annual mass loss of, e.g., cereal straw incorporated into the topsoil. African mean annual <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> values varied between 1.1 at a hot and dry site (Faya, Chad) and 4.7 at a warm and moist site (Brazzaville, Congo). Sites in Kenya ranged between <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> = 2.1 at high altitude (Matanya) and 4.1 in western Kenya (Ahero). This means that 4.1 times the Swedish C input to soil is necessary to maintain Swedish soil carbon levels in Ahero, if soil type and management are equal. Diagrams showing daily <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> dynamics are presented for all sites, and differences in within-year dynamics are discussed. A model experiment indicated that a Swedish soil in balance with respect to soil carbon would lose 41% of its soil carbon during 30 y, if moved to Ahero, Kenya. If the soil was in balance in Ahero with respect to soil carbon, and then moved to Sweden, soil carbon mass would increase by 64% in 30 y. The validity of the methodology and results is discussed, and <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> is compared with other climate indices. A simple method to produce a rough estimate of <tex-math>$r_{e\_{\rm clim}}$</tex-math> is suggested.
4314413|In 1988-1992, the Italian Ministry of the Environment sponsored a coordination of studies on wet deposition, involving 44 institutions, 47 laboratories and 172 sampling stations. Analytical quality controls included annual intercalibration and validation of the results on the basis of the ionic balance and calculated conductivity. The stations were mainly located in urban and industrial sites in northern Italy, while in the south and islands they were mostly rural. Cluster analysis highlighted eight chemical categories, corresponding to different geographic situations. Wet deposition chemistry is characterized by high base-cation deposition, because of the episodic transport of Saharan dust. High acidity and high concentrations of sulfate, nitrate and ammonium appear in the northwest, while at other northern sites ammonium and calcium buffer acidity. Sulfate and ammonium, but not nitrate, concentrations are lower in the south and particularly in the Alpine stations, but are in any case higher than those measured in remoter areas.
4314138|Many protected areas worldwide will be too small to maintain long-term viable populations of many of their resident species. It may be possible in many cases to reduce the adverse "island" effects by linking adjacent protected areas with wildlife corridors. Wildlife corridors are defined in this paper as habitat that permits the movement of organisms between ecological isolates. Corridors should be designed for those species within a protected area that are considered to be most vulnerable to extinction. For these species knowledge about the habitat requirements, dispersal, seasonal movements, avoidance behavior, and learning behavior are important for the design of wildlife corridors. The ability of a species to successfully use a corridor is dependent in part upon the width and length of the corridor. In most cases, the determination of the minimum corridor width will be an empirical calculation. Many of the practical challenges of designing wildlife corridors are examined by presenting examples of proposed wildlife corridors in the Eastern Usambara Mountains and on Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania.
4314758| Caging juvenile rainbow trout in the PCB-polluted Lake Jrnsjn in 1991 prior to remediation resulted in induction of liver ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity, liver lesions, skin lesions and fin erosions, all of which can be caused by subchronic exposure to PCB. During the remediation in 1993 and 1994, pronounced induction of the liver EROD, bile-duct proliferation and a relatively high incidence of necrotic hepatocytes were seen in the rainbow trout caged in Lake Jrnsjn. The histopathological damage noted in the liver was reflected in changes in plasma ASAT activities. In 1996, two years after the remedial activities, the EROD activity was still slightly induced in caged rainbow trout in Jrnsjn, but the fish showed no sign of histopathological changes. In addition, the liver EROD activity was induced in some sites downstream of Jrnsjn. These results indicate a downstream transport of contaminants following the remedial action. 
4313634|The "bottom up" versus "basic needs" debate of development planners is typified by the contrasting approaches to the integration of conservation and development at the Annapurna Conservation Area in Nepal and the Michiru Mountain Conservation Area in Malawi, Central Africa. Both projects aimed to reverse past environmental degradation, to move towards ecologically sustainable utilization, and to conserve species and ecosystems by empowering local people and coordinating, rather than administering, local conservation and development activities. However, while the Annapurna project focused on the means or process by which this was to be achieved, the Michiru project focused on the end results. Local people participated in a decentralized decision-making process at Annapurna while at Michiru they were represented in a centralized process. At Annapurna local people have been empowered while at Michiru they have been coopted and regulated. While the bottom-up approach may produce more desirable social outcomes in the long term its consequences for conservation are less certain. The basic needs approach appears to assure conservation in the short term but with less predictable long-term effects. The luxury of a choice between these two approaches may be precluded by ecological, sociopolitical and economic factors.
4312251|It is increasingly necessary to include non-economic objectives in the long-term planning and management of water resources. Besides national economic objectives, environmental quality and regional development should also be taken into account. The public-decision-makers, politicians and tax-payers-must be enabled to make decisions based on an objective understanding of the probable consequences of realistic alternatives. Two important evaluation schemes for environmental quality objectives are presented. Such multiple-objective planning schemes may be a first step in the desired direction.
40730871|Existing at the interface of land and sea, in regions of low topographic relief, mangroves are likely to be some of the first ecosystems that undergo spatial modification due to sea-level rise. The mangrove ecosystems of the Gulf of Papua New Guinea are some of the largest and most pristine in the Asia-Pacific region; they have not been subject to clearance for crustacean farming nor suffered from land reclamation projects. This article establishes through analysis of a time series of aerial photography and satellite imagery from the period 1973-2007, that there have been substantial changes in the distribution of mangroves in this region. These changes include the seaward progradation of the Purari Delta and the regression of the Kikori Delta by an average of 43 m year at its most seaward point. While these findings are likely to be continuations of long-term trends, it is probable that they can be explained by a variety of interacting factors including climate change, sea-level rise, subsistence in the northern Gulf of Papua and changes in sediment dynamics.
4312006|The North Sea is one of the most heavily polluted sea areas in the world. The most important sources of pollution are rivers, direct introduction from land, dumping by ships, atmospheric fallout, shipping and, recently, the exploitation of raw materials from the marine environment. A particularly high grade of pollution is exhibited in the southern North Sea, because there the burden from adjacent countries and from international maritime activity is the greatest.
4315729|The marine-conservation and reef fisheries-management program that exists today in the Philippines had humble beginnings in the 1970s at Sumilon and Apo islands. These islands have produced some of the best evidence available that no-take reserves, protected and managed by local communities, can play a key role in biodiversity conservation and fisheries management. Perhaps more importantly, they served as models for an extraordinary expansion of no-take reserves nationally in the Philippines in the past 2 decades. This expansion contributed substantially to a major shift in national policy of management of marine resources. This policy shift partially devolved responsibility from a centralized government bureaucracy to local governments and local communities. Local governments now comanage, along with the national government, marine resources out to 15 km from the coast. Giving some responsibility for management of marine resources to coastal people dependent upon those resources represents, in a very real sense, another "people power revolution" in the Philippines.
4312104|Because of the progress in synthesis and production of new substances and various materials derived therefrom, the number of chemical compounds contaminating the industrial environment increases year by year. Being unable to fully protect the environment against chemical pollutants, we must exercise control over them and limit their concentration in the atmosphere to levels that would not be harmful to the workers and their progeny. This goal can be achieved by establishing maximum permissible concentrations of noxious substances in the air of the industrial environment. The broadening of scientific cooperation among various countries in the field of setting up hygienic standards will make it possible to come closer to drawing up pertinent international standards, this being of extreme importance for the practical solution of issues concerned with the protection of workers against the harmful effects of chemical contaminants.
4313131|Interest in and research into the origin and development of agriculture has increased sharply in the last twenty years, yet all of these studies have missed the common link between the areas where agriculture may have begun-the acorn. All three areas considered of significance to date-the Middle East, middle China, and Mexico-are, or were once, characterized by oak woodlands. The experience in California, where ethnographers and anthropologists have been able to study a fully developed balanoculture (from the Greek balanos-acorn) reveals the primacy of acorn use and the complex interaction between people and oak woodlands. The California balanoculture was in fact a very successful agroforestry system that prospered for thousands of years. Balanoculture provided the stable communities necessary for agriculture to develop. The lower time and work cost associated with acorn use suggests agriculture may have evolved as acorns became more scarce from the decline in the oak woodlands brought about by the adverse human impacts resulting from overgrazing, fuel cutting and cutting for timber, and field burning, exacerbated by climatic fluctuation. A reevaluation of the record is in order: agriculture may perhaps be better considered a regressive rather than a progressive evolutionary event.
4314473|Substantial areas of available forest lands in Asia could be managed for conservation and sequestration of carbon (C). These include 133 Mha for establishment of plantations and agroforests, 33.5 Mha for slowed tropical deforestation, and 48 Mha for natural and assisted regeneration of tropical forests. The potential quantity of C conserved and sequestered on these lands was conservatively estimated to be 24 Pg C (1 Pg = 10
4314507|This paper aims to develop a set of suitable principles and methodologies for urban ecological planning of land use, to analyze the ecological suitability of different kinds of land-use patterns in Tianjin city; to help local decision makers to work out concrete ecological strategies for promoting a sound development of the city and for improving the life quality of the citizens; and to provide the decision makers with a new approach for solving the environmental problems brought about by an improper mix of industry and residence.
25547792|Sediments contaminated by various sources of mercury (Hg) were studied at 8 sites in Sweden covering wide ranges of climate, salinity, and sediment types. At all sites, biota (plankton, sediment living organisms, and fish) showed enhanced concentrations of Hg relative to corresponding organisms at nearby reference sites. The key process determining the risk at these sites is the net transformation of inorganic Hg to the highly toxic and bioavailable methylmercury (MeHg). Accordingly, Hg concentrations in Perca fluviatilis were more strongly correlated to MeHg (p < 0.05) than to inorganic Hg concentrations in the sediments. At all sites, except one, concentrations of inorganic Hg (2-55 g g) in sediments were significantly, positively correlated to the concentration of MeHg (4-90 ng g). The MeHg/Hg ratio (which is assumed to reflect the net production of MeHg normalized to the Hg concentration) varied widely among sites. The highest MeHg/Hg ratios were encountered in loose-fiber sediments situated in southern freshwaters, and the lowest ratios were found in brackish-water sediments and firm, minerogenic sediments at the northernmost freshwater site. This pattern may be explained by an increased MeHg production by methylating bacteria with increasing temperature, availability of energy-rich organic matter (which is correlated with primary production), and availability of neutral Hg sulfides in the sediment pore waters. These factors therefore need to be considered when the risk associated with Hg-contaminated sediments is assessed.
4313178|A survey of 234 Scottish communities showed an alarmingly high mortality from all causes, and particularly from lung cancer, in the town of Armadale between 1968 and 1973. The shape of the graph for annual mortality from lung cancer from 1961 to 1973 suggested that only a short latency had separated carcinogenic stimulus from response. The lung cancer was not associated primarily with occupation or tobacco habit, but was significantly high in areas of the town at risk from air pollution from the local steel foundry. Sex ratios of births were abnormal during the late 1960s, particularly in areas with excessive mortality from lung cancer and air pollution. Epidemiological and environmental investigations of Armadale, undertaken by government agencies, were complicated by methodological problems.
4314224|The Vostok record of carbon dioxide ( CO
4313204|The Mtera reservoir in Tanzania reached full capacity in April 1984 following the impoundment of the Great Ruaha river in December 1980. Pre-impoundment studies predicted many environmental problems and recommended measures to mitigate or minimize negative impacts and enhance positive ones. None have been effected to date. Many environmental and socio-economic problems have surfaced and are threatening the fishery and endangering the fragile ecology of the Mtera basin. The future prospects of the reservoir and the fishery are bleak unless immediate measures are taken to salvage the resource base.
4312048|An essentially retrospective inquirity into the frequency of lung cancer has been undertaken in an iron ore mine in northern Sweden (Malmberget). Expected number of lung cancer cases during 1961-1972: ca 1.03, observed number: 14. The excess mortality in lung cancer is statistically associated with underground mining. Other studies have shown a strong association between 222-radon (and its decay products) and lung cancer. Relatively high levels of radon were found in the Malmberget mine, and may be the major causative factor. Smoking and other air pollution may also be contributing factors.
25515827|Neoliberal agricultural frontiers, defined as export-oriented farming areas motivated more by global demand and land privatization than by government subsidies, present at least two major challenges for environmental researchers: estimating land change and understanding governance types and outcomes. Environmental governance, the "filter" between human and biophysical systems, is considered in terms of two models in light of empirical evidence from a neoliberal frontier in the Brazilian Cerrado (savanna) ecoregion. Land-change analysis indicates that agricultural land uses increased from 12% of the study region in 1986 to 44% in 2000 and 55% in 2005, with a corresponding loss of native Cerrado. A prominent farming organization formed in 1990 has participated in or led several environmental policy initiatives. Evidence of both governance models is found, and dilemmas facing environmental activists and managers, as well as the farming sector, are presented. For organizations representing large commercial farmers, compliance with environmental regulations may be seen as both a cost to be borne by the farming sector and as a means to establish environmental credentials. Suggestions are made for future longitudinal work on compliance, information, agenda-setting, and discursive strategies of nonstate actors in neoliberal frontiers.
4313420|The mountain pine beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins (Coleoptera: Scolytidae), kills 70 to 90 percent of lodgepole pine, Pinus contorta Douglas var. latifolia Engelmann, in many stands of the western United States and western Canada. Large beetle populations are dependent upon large-diameter lodgepole pine, in which conditions consisting of thick phloem, the food of developing larvae, and optimum moisture during beetle development occur. Killing of many lodgepole pines by the beetle just before maturation of the stand creates large amounts of fuel that, when ignited, result in intense fires that eliminate competing trees and their seed. The serotinous cones of lodgepole pine open and reseed the burned area to lodgepole, thus perpetuating lodgepole pine and providing a future food supply for mountain pine beetles. Control strategies that consider the dynamics of the mountain pine beetle-lodgepole pine system should emphasize creation of mosaics of lodgepole pine stands of different age and size classes and the harvesting of lodgepole pine prior to tree maturation or when beetle outbreaks occur.
4314516| PnET-IIS, a well validated, physiologically based, forest ecosystem model combined soil and vegetation data with six climate change scenarios. The model predicted annual net primary productivity and drainage on loblolly pine sites in the southern US states of Texas, Mississippi, Florida and Virginia. Climate scenario air temperature changes were +2C to +7C > historic (1951 to 1984) values and climate scenario precipitation changes were -10% to +20% > historic values. Across the sites, increasing air temperature would have much greater impact on pine forest hydrology and productivity than would changes in precipitation. These changes could seriously impact the structure and function of southern United States forests by decreasing net primary productivity and total leaf area. Water use per unit area would increase, but total plant water demand would decrease because of reduced total leaf area, thus increasing regional pine forest drainage. An average annual air temperature increase of 7C, caused a considerable reduction in the loblolly pine range. 
4314384|Expansion in the prawn-culture industry in Sri Lanka is being increasingly constrained by problems related to environmental degradation. The present study was undertaken during 1993 and 1994, and examined the water quality of the main water source for the prawn-farming industry in northwestern Sri Lanka, as well the effluents in selected farm sites located in the same area, i.e. Dutch Canal. Prawn farms in the intertidal and supratidal areas of Dutch Canal operate at two levels on a semi-intensive scale. Among the water-quality parameters monitored in farm effluents, significant differences were only observed for sulfides, nitrites and ammonia. The effluents discharged to the Dutch Canal from prawn farms contained relatively high concentrations of sulfides, nitrites and ammonia with mean concentrations of 0.50 mg L<sup>-1</sup>, 0.12 mg L<sup>-1</sup>, and 0.45 mg L<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Examination of the water body receiving these effluents (Dutch Canal) showed that nitrates, ammonia, sulfides and total suspended solids were at suboptimal levels for prawn cultivation purposes. It is proposed that complimentary treatment systems be established to improve the quality of the receiving water and the farm effluents so as to minimize the environmental impact of the prawn culture industry, and to provide for the sustainability of future prawn cultivation.
25515842|This report presents the current dynamics of the natural environment and landscape in a part of the mountainous southeastern Spitsbergen coast on the Barents Sea in 1900-2005. Its current state substantially varies from what is shown on recently published topographic maps actual for 1936. The physico-geographical mapping and GPS survey were the basic field methods of recognizing the area, supplemented by remote sensing. Each landscape component, except for the Pre-Quaternary bed-rock, has been changed primarily as a direct or indirect result of the current warming. The most dramatic landscape transformation has been connected with the formation of a fjord, the abandoning of the lower parts of valleys by tidewater glaciers, and the alteration of the coastline. This transformation's pace has been increasing visibly over the last few decades. The landscape became more diversified. There is a positive feedback in the process of life expansion in the study area: the processes of animal colonization and plant succession stimulate each other.
25547811|We conducted a study to assess to what extent current ecolabels contain standards that simulate conservation and sustainable use of on-farm biodiversity of agricultural landscapes (agrobiodiversity). First, we developed an agrobiodiversity management yardstick to assess and compare the labeling schemes of ecolabels for arable farming. Key characteristics of the yardstick are the five levels linking the abstract notion of agrobiodiversity management to concrete measures on a farm and its foundation upon expert judgment regarding the effect of farming practices on agrobiodiversity. Several environmental themes, among them agrobiodiversity management, are regulated through the standards of labeling schemes of ecolabels. With the aid of this yardstick, the labeling schemes were scrutinized and the number, average efficacy, and compulsory nature of relevant standards was determined for 10 categories of farm management. The results show that all examined ecolabels contain at least some standards that stimulate conservation and sustainable use of agrobiodiversity, but there are large differences between the labels. We consider the results of the five ecolabels to be insufficient to warrant their usefulness as a governance strategy that the Dutch government could refer to and depend on as part of a national agrobiodiversity policy to stimulate agrobiodiversity.
4314395|A preliminary study on flora and fauna in a disturbed mangrove ecosystem is presented. The zonation of mangrove flora in the forest is clearly displayed by two dominant species, Avicennia marina and Sonneratia alba. A. marina forms an almost pure stand at the terrestrial edge of the forest, however, the species is ubiquitous in the area. S. alba almost exclusively occupies the marine fringe of the forest. The grapsid crabs occupy the terrestrial edge of the mangrove area, which has a relatively well-consolidated substrate. The ocypodid crabs, on the other hand, occur in mixed associations in sandy/ muddy locations, mainly free of dense cover of mangrove trees and also in swampy open areas. The ocypodids are occasionally seen in areas with sandy bottoms at the edge of the terrestrial fringe mangroves. The mollusk Cerithidea decollata is ubiquitous in the A. marina zone, whereas in the marine-fringe and the shoreline-zone mangroves several other species of mollusks are represented. A conceptualized model for organic-carbon flux in the ecosystem is proposed based on distribution of mangrove flora and litter as well as the grapsid crabs.
4313676|The southern Kattegat is susceptible to eutrophication due to shallow mean depth (23 m) and a strong halocline which reduces intrusion of oxygen to bottom waters. The effects of eutrophication were first observed in the area in the autumn of 1980. Since then investigations on primary producers, fish, lobsters, and benthic infauna have been conducted to document the effects of eutrophication. Above the halocline in the Laholm Bay a change in the macrophyte species from Fucus spp. to filamentous green algae has been observed. Mortality of benthic macrofauna, mainly bivalves, has been observed in most years and seasons. The recruitment of flatfish has not been negatively affected. Around the halocline the benthic infauna were seriously affected by oxygen deficiency. Below the halocline, fish disappeared and lobsters emerged from burrows when oxygen saturation declined below 40%. When oxygen saturation decreased below 15% Norway lobsters were immobilized and their blood-pigment concentration decreased. Benthic infaunal species emerged from the sediment. Lobsters died when saturation dropped to 10%, while many infauna species tolerated levels of 7-5% for some weeks. Analysis of stomach content indicated that neither fish nor lobsters died from lack of food, but from hypoxia. Subsequent to the reoxygenation of the bottom water during winter, flatfish and benthic infauna recovered whereas cod and lobster populations did not.
4314969|Comparisons of processed and coregistered digital mosaics of LANDSAT MSS and TM scenes, acquired over the Nile Delta in 1972, 1984, and 1990, indicate that urban growth is endangering Egypt's agricultural productivity. Urban areas occupied a minimum of 3.6%, 4.7%, and 5.7% of the Nile Delta in 1972, 1984, and 1990, respectively, an increase of 58% in 18 years. Approximately half of this increase occurred between 1984 and 1990. If this trend continues, Egypt could lose 12% of its total agricultural area to urbanization by 2010. Despite the fact that growth is pronounced around the cities, it is the growth around the thousands of small villages that poses the largest threat to the agricultural productivity of the Nile Delta. The cumulative growth rate for the cities and large villages between 1972 and 1990 is 37%, and that for the small villages is 77% for the same time period.
4312028|The present energy problems and needs in developing countries may differ considerably and specifically from one country to another, or from one region or continent to another. However, there are general characteristics for various continents or climatic and geographic zones. Further, the energy needs and problems in developing countries are very different in form and content from those of developed countries. The specific case of developing countries of the Sahelian and Sudanese zones in Africa is examined and the prospects of solar energy utilization are analyzed from a general point of view in this paper.
4312723|Generalized pollution of the Wider Caribbean Region has not reached the disturbing levels found in the more industrialized regions of the world. Nevertheless coastal development activities and pollution of coastal waters around urban and industrial centers are causing increasing stress to the coastal and marine resources of the Caribbean.
4315179|Despite the fact that lifestyles, in particular goods and services consumption, play a key role for global inequity and unsustainability of greenhouse gas emissions, these issues are often inadequately addressed in information and education materials such as household greenhouse gas calculators. Often, only limited individual responsibility for climate change can be concluded, and this is restricted to the reader's immediate surroundings such as the household and the private car, while goods and services consumption are almost always ignored. As a consequence, recommendations for reducing personal emissions concentrate on the relatively minor aspect of electricity and fuel use, while missing the more important issue of reducing goods and services consumption as an efficient way to abate climate change. These shortcomings are illustrated using the example of a recently published household greenhouse gas emissions questionnaire. An example for a comprehensive greenhouse gas calculator is also presented.
25547819|Land-cover change in eastern lowland Bolivia was documented using Landsat images from five epochs for all landscapes situated below the montane tree line at approximately 3000 m, including humid forest, inundated forest, seasonally dry forest, and cloud forest, as well as scrublands and grasslands. Deforestation in eastern Bolivia in 2004 covered 45 411 km, representing 9% of the original forest cover, with an additional conversion of 9042 km of scrub and savanna habitats representing 17% of total historical land-cover change. Annual rates of land-cover change increased from 400 km y in the 1960s to 2900 km y in the last epoch spanning 2001 to 2004. This study provides Bolivia with a spatially explicit information resource to monitor future land-cover change, a prerequisite for proposed mechanisms to compensate countries for reducing carbon emissions as a result of deforestation. A comparison of the most recent epoch with previous periods shows that policies enacted in the late 1990s to promote forest conservation had no observable impact on reducing deforestation and that deforestation actually increased in some protected areas. The rate of land-cover change continues to increase linearly nationwide, but is growing faster in the Santa Cruz department because of the expansion of mechanized agriculture and cattle farms.
4315162|The development of the spatial N export and retention model N_EXRET for large river basins is presented, utilizing remote-sensing-based land use and forest classification. Export coefficients describing the contribution from agriculture, forestry and peat harvesting were estimated based on empirical studies. Representativeness of forest treatment coefficients have been evaluated by use of data from a small, well-documented test catchment. Simulation results from the application of the model to the Oulujoki river basin (
40730864|Improved understanding of temporal and spatial Phosphorus (P) discharge variations is needed for improved modelling and prioritisation of abatement strategies that take into account local conditions This study is aimed at developing modelling of agricultural Phosphorus losses with improved spatial and temporal resolution, and to compare the accuracy of a detailed process-based model with a rainfall-runoff coefficient-based model. The process-based SWAT model (Soil and Water Assessment Tool) was implemented for five river basins in central Sweden, and results compared with the rainfall-runoff coefficient-based model WATSHMAN (Watershed Management System) for one of these river basins. Parameter settings and attribute values were adapted to Scandinavian soil conditions, crops and management practices. Model performance regarding flow dynamics was overall satisfactory.Comparable results were achieved at several scales. The modelled P load was of high accuracy for the days when monitoring data were available for validation, generally once a month. Modelled monthly P load did not fit as well with averaged monthly monitoring load values, mainly since monthly monitoring often partly or entirely misses the peak flows. The comparison of SWAT and WATSHMAN gave slightly better results for the processbased model (SWAT). Better spatial resolution for input data such as Soil-P content and agricultural management practices will be required to reach modelling results that enable identification of measures adapted to local conditions.
4315397|This study examines domestic and international travel to the Great Barrier Reef in order to estimate the benefits the reef provides to the 2 million visitors each year. The study explores the problems of functional form and of measuring travel cost for international visits: comparing actual costs, distance, and lowest price fares. The best estimates of the annual recreational benefits of the Great Barrier Reef range between USD 700 million to 1.6 billion. The domestic value to Australia is about USD 400 million, but the estimated value to more distant countries depends on the definition of travel cost and the functional form. The study conclusively demonstrates that there are very high benefits associated with protecting high quality coral reefs.
4312435|This scenario is characterized by two overriding considerations: acquisition of advanced technologies and of the associated know-how about their impacts and controls, and second, clearly defined national policies aimed at conserving energy, reducing pollution rates, recycling materials and utilizing natural resources in an integrated manner and on a grand scale. For these reasons, the People's Republic of China has been selected as a country whose current modernization policy comes very close to resembling the key elements of this scenario and as such can be used to illustrate the benefits of the strategy.
4314719|The impact of tourism growth on the environment has become an increasingly important public issue in travel destinations. We review Honolulu's recent experience in designing management strategies to protect one of its most popular, unique and endangered natural recreational resources, Hanauma Bay Nature Park. We explain why Honolulu City Council members first adopted nonprice rationing techniques to reduce visits in the park and later added an admission fee only to replace it with a lower and less efficiency-enhancing fee structure. Lawmakers desire (i) a quality environment, (ii) to collect economic rents (i.e., achieve economic efficiency) for the benefit of the general public, and yet must (iii) achieve a political equilibrium. As Honolulu's experience demonstrates, goals (i) and (ii) often conflict with (iii), yielding typically a second-best outcome. Efficiency can be attained only if it is also consistent with attaining political equilibrium.
25515800|China is the world's most populous country and has one of the largest territories. As such, Chinese attitudes and behavior with regard to environmental issues are key factors in protecting the world's natural resources and environment. In this study, we surveyed a random sample of 5000 citizens from six Chinese provinces (Beijing, Shanghai, Hubei, Hunan, Henan, and Shaanxi) to understand their environmental attitudes, contrasts between the attitudes of citizens in different demographic groups, and their willingness to invest in environmental conservation. The results indicated that policymakers and the public increasingly recognize the key role that environmental restoration plays in protecting the overall health of the environment. In total, 91% of the interviewees believed that the environment had deteriorated severely during the past decade, compared with 44% in a 1999 survey. In addition, 78% of the interviewees supported their government's investment of more than 300 billion RMB (10% of total government revenues in 2004) in the "Grain for Green Project," which discouraged unsustainable land use by compensating farmers and herders for abandoning farming and grazing on marginal land. There was a strong correlation between environmental attitudes and net income and education levels, and other differences were based on the respondents' age, gender, job, and location. Net income and education level were the key factors that affected environmental attitudes. Based on these results, we propose that successful environmental restoration projects must include both an education component and an economic development component.
4312912|Sagarmatha's success may also be its demise as more and more tourists, trekkers and mountaineers converge on the roof of the world. Deforestation is already a serious problem in many areas, aggravated by trekkers who cut wood for their cooking fires. Now a UNESCO-sponsored technical assistance project is under way to reduce the consumption of fuelwood in the main village of Namche Bazaar by using a variety of renewable energy sources coupled to reforestation programs.
4314129|The degradation of coral reefs in Sri Lanka has increased substantially over the last decades. Human activities causing this degradation include: mining for lime production, sewage discharges, discharges of oil and other pollutants in connection with shipping and port activities, destructive fishing practices, land and mangrove destruction, tourism and the collecting of fauna such as fish, shells and corals. In this study, three adjacent coral reefs; Bar Reef, Talawila Reef, and Kandakuliya Reef, which are widely scattered patch reefs off Kalpitiya Peninsula, northwestern Sri Lanka, were surveyed and compared in terms of their fish and coral diversity and abundance as well as human and natural disturbance. Information was gathered by snorkelling in visual overview surveys and by scuba diving in detailed transect surveys. When each reef was ranked according to the extent of live coral cover, and chaetodontid diversity, the results indicated that Bar Reef was in excellent condition, Talawila Reef was intermediate, and Kandakuliya Reef was in poor condition. The diversity of coral genera, the topographic relief and the proportion of coral rubble, did not follow the same pattern. The number of coral genera found was 49, while 283 fish species belonging to 51 families were recorded. Human disturbance factors on the reefs were found to be net fishing, boat anchoring and ornamental fish collection for the aquarium trade. Bottom-set nylon nets in particular were found to have a very destructive impact on the bottom fauna.
4314625|The environmental and public health implications of low level lead (Pb) exposure in children, whereby there is possible psychometric deficit, is of concern to everyone. Controversy exists as to the actual impact of lead exposure on the neuropsychological development of children. It is pertinent to consider monitoring, detection and intervention for children with moderately increased blood-lead levels in association with other social, cultural, ethnic, economic and development factors. A considerable number of prospective studies on the interaction of blood-lead levels in children and other factors have been conducted in developed industrialized countries, but not in developing countries, e.g. Africa. Increased research in this area is required in Africa, particularly in erstwhile and existing industrial or mining areas, and highly mineralized areas.
4313764|Chlorosis and extensive needle loss of conifers in mountain forests have been observed for more than a decade, but the causes are still unknown. The symptoms are most severe in regions with relatively low air pollution. Needle losses are correlated to elevation, suggesting altitude-dependent atmospheric-physical or atmospheric-chemical factors, possibly enhancing the photochemical degradation of primary anthropogenic xenobiotics to phytotoxic secondary air pollutants. It is a commonly accepted hypothesis that forest decline is caused by air pollutants with possible indirect atmogenic effects upon soil chemistry. Anthropogenic airborne halocarbons have received little attention in this respect. Their physicochemical properties, trends of emissions, tropospheric concentrations and their atmospheric-chemical conversion to reactive, toxic species, e. g. the herbicide trichloroacetic acid, suggest an involvement of airborne halocarbons in the induction of forest decline.
4312556|Profound chenges have occurred in the relationship between man and nature in the Baltic area since the time the inland ice melted, opening up the land for hunters and fishermen, and up to the present when the severe exploitation of natural resources confronts the human system with the threat of an ecological crisis. In the Baltic area four important processes of change can be identified: 1) the increase in population and the transition from a subsistence economy to a global economy, 2) the increasingly hierarchic partitioning of society, leading to the contemporary problems of over-consumption and environmental pollution, 3) the changes in social organization and cultural norms from those of a peasant society, via national states with feudal characteristics, to an industrial society with varying forms of popular participation, 4) the radical changes in man's use of time which have accompanied the industrialization of society and the development of a culture in the modern era. Another important factor is the continual change in the technological level in communication.
4313726|Although data collection exercises of international scope and standing are widely used by the scientific community, these broad-brush efforts fail to adequately convey the wide range of industrial responses to the Montreal Protocol. Clearly, some industries are attempting to abandon ozone-destroying chemicals altogether. But other industries and producers are adopting substitutes, many of which are also ozone-destroying chemicals, although of less potency than the most widely used CFCs. Assessing these responses is complicated by the widespread adoption of new names for some of the chemicals-HCFCs and HFAs, for example-which are used by some companies to suggest, incorrectly, that their products are ozone safe. By failing to collect industry-specific information, the world community is missing a potentially invaluable opportunity not only to improve the Montreal Protocol itself, but to design future environmental agreements which are more efficient and effective.
4312050| EDC-tar is a mixture of mainly short-chained chlorinated hydro-carbons. Its toxic effects on the gram-negative bacterium Escherichia coli K12 were studied. Addition of EDC-tar (0.5 percent v/v) sterilized a bacterial suspension within seven minutes. The tar was lethal to growing and non-growing bacteria at both 37C and oC. Killing by EDC-tar was associated with a decreased osmotic stability of the cytoplasmic membrane. The lethal effect of EDC-tar was not due to the predominating components dichloroethane and trichloroethane. It is suggested that microorganisms may be used to get more specific information about the mechanisms of the action of toxic pollutants. 
25547815|The effects of global change and globalization of trade on the biosphere spur an increase in bioinvasions and their subsequent impact on ecosystems. Continental invading bivalves are important because of their impact on artificially-constructed structures. Limnoperna fortunei was first found in the Neotropical region in 1991. Since then it has dispersed upstream in the Plata and Guaba basins at a rate of 240 km y. This species causes macrofouling in a manner similar to that caused by Dreissena polymorpha. This paper describes the biology of L. fortunei larvae from a hydroelectric power plant in South America. We suggest the importance of knowing the biology of the invading species and the need to consider the settlement patterns and densities of larvae in each of the sectors of the facility in order to achieve a sustainable prevention/control of macrofouling. This study acquires a global significance under the assumption that L. fortunei will eventually invade North America and Europe.
4314592|The coastal areas of East Africa are centers of economic activities and population growth. As a result environmental conditions are deteriorating rapidly. Pollution, destruction of natural habitats and overfishing are some of the main problems which are posing an increasing threat to the life and well-being of increasing numbers of people in the countries of Eastern Africa including the Island States. In 1993, the governments in the region met and agreed on a program of action to achieve a more sustainable development of the coastal areas (The Arusha Resolution on Integrated Coastal Zone Management in Eastern Africa including Island States). This article attempts to assess development over the last five to six years. In some countries of the region critical recommendations have not been acted on at all or to a limited extent only. In the Second Policy Conference on Integrated Coastal Zone Management in Eastern Africa, held in the Seychelles in October 1996, the countries agreed to make more concerted attempts to improve the situation, including the development and implementation of a strategy for capacity building as well as the establishment of a multisectoral coordinating mechanism for ICZM in each country.
4315326|Nutrient pollution and associated eutrophication of freshwaters threaten the ecological integrity and the services provided to humans by lakes. We examined how human residential development influenced the level of lake eutrophication in the Seattle, WA, USA, region. We surveyed 30 lakes and measured 3 indicators of eutrophication: concentrations of chlorophyll-a and phosphorus, and the proportion of algae that are inedible to zooplankton. We classified lakes based on the waste-treatment method for shoreline homes: septic, sewer, and undeveloped lakes. Septic lakes occurred along the urban-rural fringe while sewer lakes occurred near urban centers. Septic lakes were more eutrophic than sewer lakes and undeveloped lakes, as indicated by higher levels of phosphorus and chlorophyll-a. These results suggest that septic systems contribute to the high levels of eutrophication in lakes at the urban-rural fringe. Lakes at the urban-rural fringe represent an opportunity for proactive management of urban expansion to minimize lake eutrophication.
4315632|A new methodology for measuring human security is presented. The three stages of the methodology are: i) threat assessment, ii) data collection and organization, and iii) data visualization and analysis, using Geographic Information Systems. Results from a Cambodia case study are highlighted. The United Nations Development Program's notion of human security, which gives equal weight to economic, health, food, political, personal, and environmental factors, is used. Country-specific threats in each category are determined, and local, spatially referenced data are collected. In this paper, poverty, dengue fever, and tuberculosis are used as examples of the analytic process. Regions of Cambodia exposed to all three of these threats ("hot spots") are located, and spatial correlation between poverty, dengue fever, and tuberculosis is calculated. The methodology i) advances a broad concept of human security, ii) will potentially assist policy and decision makers, and iii) identifies research questions that cannot be resolved using single-sector analysis.
4314615|Coastal areas in the tropics are increasingly being developed for tourism. The combined natural features of beaches, coral reefs, warm marine waters and often a friendly culture of people, offer desirable destinations for many travelers. Although coastal tourism generates substantial economic benefits to local and national economies, the trade-off of such development is usually degradation of coastal environment. Poor environmental planning and lack of consideration of social-cultural issues are usual causes. This article examines the case of Hikkaduwa town and marine sanctuary, Sri Lanka, where tourism development has nearly ruined the coastal environment. Integrated coastal management in Sri Lanka through a community-based "Special Area Management" (SAM) plan for Hikkaduwa is examined. The ongoing and proposed management actions required to solve the environmental and social problems are analyzed in a cost-benefit framework. Financial, socialeconomic and environmental economic analyses for a 20-year project life all strongly support investment in SAM plan implementation. Untapped consumer surplus of visitors to Hikkaduwa has a large potential to contribute to costs. To ensure sustainability of tourism and resources, policies on how to finance plan implementation through profit sharing and locally collected fees are suggested.
4315309| The structure and regeneration patterns of Mida Creek mangrove vegetation were studied along belt transects at 2 forest sites of Mida Creek (320'S, 4000'E): Uyombo and Kirepwe. Based on the species importance values, the dominant mangrove tree species in Mida were Ceriops tagal (Perr.) C. B. Robinson and Rhizophora mucronata Lamk. Tree density varied from 1197 trees ha
4313501|The increasing public concern about chemicals that threaten human or environmental health has induced national and international authorities to take steps towards formal assessment of the potential hazard of new and existing chemicals. In close cooperation with environmental chemists and ecotoxicologists, regulatory bodies have promoted the development of simplified procedures for a first, preliminary assessment of the environmental hazard of chemicals. It is now timely to evaluate the relevance and predictive power of these simplified assessment schemes, and to take some further steps towards a more in-depth assessment. In a recently terminated five-year Swedish research program using selected model compounds (arsenic, trichloroguaiacol and hexachlorobenzene), attempts were made to develop a more comprehensive data base for an ecologically relevant assessment of high priority chemicals. This data base included description of the metabolites formed in the environment (their properties and behavior) and results from long-term exposure and effect studies in various types of aquatic model ecosystems.
4315571|Eutrophication of coastal waters is a serious environmental problem with high costs for society globally. In eastern Skagerrak, reductions in eutrophication are planned through reduction of nitrogen inputs, but it is unclear how this can be achieved. One possible method is the cultivation of filter-feeding organisms, such as blue mussels, which remove nitrogen while generating seafood, fodder and agricultural fertilizer, thus recycling nutrients from sea to land. The expected effect of mussel farming on nitrogen cycling was modeled for the Gullmar Fjord on the Swedish west coast and it is shown that the net transport of nitrogen (sum of dissolved and particulate) at the fjord mouth was reduced by 20%. Existing commercial mussel farms already perform this service for free, but the benefits to society could be far greater. We suggest that rather than paying mussel farmers for their work that nutrient trading systems are introduced to improve coastal waters. In this context an alternative to nitrogen reduction in the sewage treatment plant in Lysekil community through mussel farming is presented. Accumulation of bio-toxins has been identified as the largest impediment to further expansion of commercial mussel farming in Sweden, but the problem seems to be manageable through new techniques and management strategies. On the basis of existing and potential regulations and payments, possible win-win solutions are suggested.
4312111|Work environments in industries in developing countries are not radically different from those in highly industrialized nations. The main difference between developing and developed countries that may have an impact on occupational exposure problems is in the exposed populations. In developing countries, the low status of health and nutrition of industrial workers may amplify occupational health problems. Adequate preventive measures to protect the jeopardized workers and to promote their total health are imperative. For this purpose, the past experience of industrialized countries must be taken note of by nascent nations. In developing countries, community health problems need to be overcome, adequate environmental sanitation ensured, and a task force of occupational physicians and hygienists trained to tackle the future health problems posed by switching over to an industrial economy.
24708794|This paper fills an important gap towards adaptive management of small-scale fisheries by analyzing the gender dimension of fish trade in Zanzibar, Tanzania. We hypothesize that gender-based differences are present in the fish value chain and to test the hypothesis interviews were performed to analyze: (i) markets, customers, and mobility, (ii) material and economic resources, (iii) traded fish species, (iv) contacts and organizations, and (v) perceptions and experiences. Additionally, management documents were analyzed to examine the degree to which gender is considered. Results show that women traders had less access to social and economic resources, profitable markets, and high-value fish, which resulted in lower income. These gender inequalities are linked, among others, to women's reproductive roles such as childcare and household responsibilities. Formal fisheries management was found to be gender insensitive, showing how a crucial feedback element of adaptive management is missing in Zanzibar's management system, i.e., knowledge about key actors, their needs and challenges.
4314128|Tropical coastal zones are productive ecosystems that currently face severe environmental threats, particularly from organic pollution. The role of the coastal ecosystems is analyzed and the relationship between coastal ecosystem health and fisheries productivity is explained. Ecological disturbances from organic sources like sewage and sitation is highlighted. The issues of integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) are discussed, particularly in the context of conserving natural ecosystems or transforming them to managed systems. Issues of population density, management capacity, and socioeconomic conditions are discussed. The possibilities for closing carbon cycles currently leaking organic materials to the coastal waters are pursued. Finally, examples of ICZM initiatives in the ASEAN countries and East Africa are presented.
4314023|The gross morphology of the post-parturient uteri and the histology of the ovarian cyclic corpora were studied in two experiments in groups of ten female mink (Mustela vison). Groups were exposed, during the reproductive season, to the technical polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) Clophen A50 or Aroclor 1254, to 4 fractions prepared from the technical PCBs, to combinations of these fractions, and, to a synthetic chlorobiphenyl (CB) mixture. Three fractions contained CB congeners with a different number of chlorines in ortho-position to the biphenyl bond, viz. two to four (2-4), one (1), and no (0)-ortho CB congeners, respectively, while the fourth contained bi-and tricyclic contaminants, mainly representing polychlorinated dibenzofuranes and poly-chlorinated naphtalenes. Fractions of congeners and contaminants were given in doses equivalent to those present in the PCB doses. Groups exposed to the commercial PCBs and to combinations of the fractions thereof showed a severe decrease in reproductive outcome with high incidences of fetal deaths. Groups exposed to single PCB fractions and to the synthetic CB mixture showed no such effect. Females in the Clophen A50 group showed a predominance of late fetal death and had ovaries containing corpora lutea, while females in the Aroclor 1254 group showed a high frequency of early fetal death and had ovaries mostly containing corpora albicantia. Effects of fetal conditions upon sex hormone interactions are discussed.
4314470|The Republic of Korea (ROK) has been experiencing rapid economic growth, which has been facilitated by the increase in energy consumption at a rate unsurpassed by most countries in the world. This paper presents scenarios of the ROK's future energy demand and its associated CO
4315193| The four largest Swedish lakes, Vnern, Vttern, Mlaren, Hjlmaren, host important commercial fisheries for char, salmon, trout, whitefish, vendace (cisco), perch, pike perch, pike and eel, i.e. highly diverse biological resources. Case studies illustrate physical, chemical and biological impacts on some of these commercial species caused by constructions of dams and ship canals, eutrophication, and overexploitation. Although some original species have been lost and a few new species have been added, the recent human interference has basically caused major shifts in dominance of the fish community structures because of eutrophication, alterations in the abundance of eel or crayfish, and due to overfishing. The latter is in some cases caused by the Great Lake Fishery Paradox-in an environment with several predators and competitors, but with ample food resources, especially salmonid fish but also species like pike-perch may adapt a life history favoring growth over sexual maturation. If harvested at a conventional size these populations will decline rapidly due to too small spawning stocks. 
4314851|The aim of this project was to determine whether there is an association between a pathogenic microorganism associated with a maternal pathologic lesion, or a maternal metabolic impairment arising from disturbed homeostasis caused by changes in the symbiotic microflora, and the M74 fry mortality syndrome in Baltic salmon. A broad screening approach was taken, using conventional methods for isolating and identifying fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Bacteria were identified using specific sequences of 16S rRNA, and microbe identification based on the analysis of differences between 2 complex genomes using a DNA subtractive methodology; representation difference analysis (RDA). The selection of tissue sites to be isolated was based on histopathological findings. Bartonella spp., which are known to be associated with inflammatory cardiac diseases in other animals, were not found to be associated with coronary arterial lesions in sea-run Baltic salmon. During the long starvation period during spawning migration, essential substances such as vitamins may be provided by the salmon's symbiotic intestinal micro flora. From the gastrointestinal (GI) tract of adult sea-run Baltic salmon, we were able to isolate Aeromonas sobria, Pseudomonas putrefaciens, Pseudomonas spp., A. hydrophila and Hafnia alvei, all of which can produce vitamin B
4312979|Abundance and species diversity of ground-living invertebrates, spiders, harvestmen, slugs, beetles and ants, were examined by pitfall trapping in mature conifer forests at various distances from a brass mill at Gusum, in southeast Sweden. The number of species and the number of specimens per species were significantly reduced within 650 meters of the mill, where there was a concentration of 2500 ppm copper and 3600 ppm zinc in the litter layer. Peak numbers and species diversity were restored where litter concentrations were 600 ppm copper and 1300 ppm zinc. The species abundance distributions of spider and beetle communities also showed an impoverished zone in the vicinity of the brass mill and a boundary zone further away, where high relative abundances occurred. Concentrations of copper in the studied animals were very high close to the mill, especially in soft-bodied representatives such as spiders. Lead levels were also high at these sites. The metal pollution is suggested as the most important of the adverse effects on community structure of ground-living invertebrates. Slugs and ants are suggested as useful aids in monitoring effects of metal pollution on forest soil biota.
4315499| The relationship between permafrost conditions and the distribution of infrastructure in the Usa Basin, Northeast European Russia, is analyzed. About 75% of the Basin is underlain by permafrost terrain with various degrees of continuity (isolated patches to continuous permafrost). The region has a high level of urban and industrial development (e.g., towns, coal mines, hydrocarbon extraction sites, railway, pipelines). GIS-analyses indicate that about 60% of all infrastructure is located in the 'high risk' permafrost area, here defined as the zones of isolated to discontinuous permafrost (3-90% coverage) with 'warm' ground temperatures (0 to -2C). Ground monitoring, aerial photo interpretation, and permafrost modeling suggest a differential response to future global warming. Most of the permafrost-affected terrain will likely start to thaw within a few decades to a century. This forecast poses serious challenges to permafrost engineering and calls for long-term investments in adequate infrastructure that will pay back over time. 
4314020|Clophen A50 (2 mg daily during the reproduction season) enhanced ethoxyresorufin O- deethylase (EROD) activities 2- to 3-fold in female mink (Mustela vison). Four fractions were prepared from the technical preparation: non-ortho-chlorinated chlorobiphenyls (0-ortho-CBs), mono-ortho-chlorinated CBs (1-ortho-CBs), CBs having 2 to 4 ortho chlorines (2-4-ortho-CBs), and bi- and tricyclic impurities. The fractions containing 0- or 1-ortho-CBs induced EROD 2- to 3-fold in adults and strongly enhanced EROD (about 30-fold) in kits of treated females. In a second study, Aroclor 1254 and each of three mixtures of the four fractions prepared from Aroclor 1254 (the fractions containing 1- or 2-4-ortho-CBs, the fractions containing 0- or 1-ortho-CBs, and all four fractions) all enhanced AHH about 2-fold in adults. The results of the two studies indicate that EROD and AHH were maximally induced in adults by the 0- as well as the 1-ortho-CBs and that mink kits are more responsive than adults to P450-inducers. In a third study, enzyme activities were measured in Aroclor 1254-treated, fed daily and starting one month before mating, and control females at 10, 17, and 26 days after mating. The PCB-treatment enhanced enzyme activities 1.6 to 2.7 times, an induction similar to that found 5 days after whelping in the two other studies.
4314031|Whole samples of sphagnum moss taken from an acidified lake were stained for aluminum using the acid solochrome azurine technique originally developed for bone samples. The stain indicated high levels of aluminum in the sphagnum moss; and light microscopic studies of the stained samples showed the aluminum to be associated with the cell walls. The presence of aluminum in the moss was confirmed by ICP analysis. In certain samples, levels of Al in excess of 1% dry weight of moss were obtained. The acid solochrome azurine stain is simple, sensitive, inexpensive and reproducible, and could be easily employed as a field technique or a histological technique in the laboratory.
4314780|This article has two main objectives: i) to provide an update of a policy-oriented climate protection strategy originally presented in the November 1991 issue of Ambio; ii) to supply information from modeling needed for negotiating tractable climate protection agreements. Political upheaval and socioeconomic restructuring since the early 1990s necessitate a reevaluation of possible future developments. This requires a revised climate protection strategy. Therefore, I discuss a number of necessary revisions including improved burden sharing and target setting schemes, a better allowance for equity, an update of the carbon data and the carbon cycle model, an allowance for the cooling effects due to aerosols and ozone depletion, and an emended policy-oriented scenario analysis. The latter has been linked to differentiated country-specific CO
4315585|Agricultural development is a leading cause of habitat destruction that increasingly threatens global biodiversity. To help understand the likelihood and implications of agricultural expansion in areas of high conservation importance, this article examines agricultural suitability in forested portions of biodiversity hotspots and tropical wilderness areas, regions with especially rich concentrations of species found nowhere else. The study employs geographic information system technology to examine suitability for six crop categories in selected conservation localities worldwide: those portions of regions containing high biodiversity, protected areas (e.g., national parks) within these regions, and 10-km bands around the protected areas that are dominated by forest. Analyses reveal low suitability for most crop categories under both commercial and subsistence scenarios, with a few exceptions. In most cases, adequate planning can enable the coexistence of agriculture and biodiversity without compromising either.
4315545|Recent experimental studies indicate that microorganisms play a passive role in silicification. The organic functional groups that comprise the outer cell surfaces simply serve as heterogeneous nucleation sites for the adsorption of polymeric and/or colloidal silica, and because different microorganisms have different cell ultrastructural chemistry, species-specific patterns of silicification arise. Despite their templating role, they do not appear to increase the kinetics of silicification, and at the very most, they contribute only marginally to the magnitude of silicification. Instead, silicification is due to the polymerization of silica-supersaturated hydrothermal fluids upon discharge at the surface of the hot spring. Microorganisms do, however, impart an influence on the fabric of the siliceous sinters that form around hot spring vents. Different microorganisms have different growth patterns, that in turn, affect the style of laminations, the primary porosity of the sinter and the distribution of later-stage diagenetic cementation.
4312124|In China, not yet an urbanized and industrialized country, much of the planning concerns the rural areas. Local ecosystems were in the past maintained through efficient cycling of nutrients in China's agriculture. Modern industrial inputs have recently increased productivity. Modernization of rural areas-through greatly improved infrastructure and widely diffused small industries-comes today simultaneously with an expansion of heavy city-based industries and may enable a considerably delayed urbanization. China's apparently abundant natural resources are likely to provide a strong basis for rapid industrialization. Multipurpose use, and utilization of waste water, gas, slag, and heat are strongly promoted-with increasing emphasis on environmental aspects. China's environmental policy is positive from the conservation/pollution point of view.
4313804|The present increase of atmospheric N2 O has caused concern since N2 O contributes to the greenhouse effect as well as to the destruction of stratospheric ozone. The purpose of this study is to provide a basis for political decisions on a national level and to identify gaps in our knowledge about the emissions of N2 O. It is estimated that the Swedish emissions of N2 O have approximately doubled due to anthropogenic activities. The natural production of N2 O is dominated by emissions from forest soils. The most significant anthropogenic sources seem to be stationary combustion, traffic and fertilizer use. In order to formulate a rational strategy for decreasing the current level of emission the uncertainty ranges of known sources have to be narrowed, and possible additional sources have to be identified.
4314593|The Sikkim Himalaya is an area of high biodiversity and cultural heterogeneity with distinctive ethnic groups, mountain peaks, sacred lakes, and monasteries, making it a place of tourist attraction. The annual influx of visitors into Sikkim has increased by about 155% over a span of 5 years (1988-1994). Trekking, nature and recreational tourism are growing very rapidly in the Sikkim Himalaya. The socioeconomic conditions for people involved in the tourism business have also improved. The State has a rich tradition of nature conservation. However, local needs and increased tourist activities are causing some environmental degradation to this unspoilt region. Based on three of the most commonly used tourist destinations, the perception of local stakeholders and their attitudes, and discussions with authorities, this paper analyzes the dynamics of tourism growth and biodiversity and its impact on resources, environment, local communities and the state economy. Tourism in Sikkim is growing and is expected to reach ca. 400 000 tourists per year by the end of this century. There is a vast scope for increased tourism in Sikkim that must be viewed with response to environment preservation, and local communities must be involved with such programs. This paper illustrates how tourism activities may be implemented and managed sustainably so that vegetation and culture are protected, and tourist benefits can reach the local community.
4315233|A nitrogen decision support system in the form of a game (NitroGenius) was developed for the Second International Nitrogen Conference. The aims were to: i) improve understanding among scientists and policy makers about the complexity of nitrogen pollution problems in an area of intensive agricultural, industrial, and transportation activity (The Netherlands); and ii) search for optimal policy solutions to prevent pollution effects at lowest economic and social costs. NitroGenius includes a model of nitrogen flows at relevant spatial and temporal scales including emissions of ammonia and nitrogen oxides and contamination of surface- and groundwaters. NitroGenius also includes an economic model describing relationships for important sectors and impacts of different nitrogen control measures on Gross Domestic Product (GDP), unemployment, energy use, and environmental costs. About 50 teams played NitroGenius during the Second International Nitrogen Conference. The results show that careful planning and selection of abatement options can solve Dutch nitrogen problems at reasonable cost.
40390256|The objective of this study was to add to a traditional forest planning model by incorporating some consideration of the effects of forestry on dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations in streams over time. In a case study, for a watershed in northern Sweden, we present the best possible solution to a forest planning problem that maximizes the net present value (NPV) while the DOC concentration levels in the watershed are maintained below a defined threshold value. Results from the case study show that the decrease in NPV, when taking DOC into account, was considerable. However, the decrease in possible harvest volume was restricted in the case study area because the model moved harvesting activity from the first 20-year period to later periods to avoid high initial DOC concentrations. The model presented could be a useful tool for predicting the effect of forestry on DOC concentrations over time.
4315218|The N budget for Europe (excluding the former Soviet Union) indicates that the 3 principal driving forces of the acceleration of the European N cycle are fertilizer production (14 Mt (mill. tonnes) N yr
4313778|Given the present threat to biodiversity worldwide, the article considers various philosophical approaches to the value of biodiversity. A clear case can be made, on instrumentalist and utilitarian grounds, that humans have good reason to place a high value on preserving biodiversity. Many conservationists and philosophers find such reasoning unsatisfactory, perhaps because it would leave biodiversity unprotected in the event that people develop technologies that substitute for naturally-occurring genetic material or find substitutes for the amenity value of natural environments. I then consider non-consequentialist philosophical approaches that define right action as that which respects moral duties or, alternatively, rights. Like the utilitarian alternative, these theories provide no assurance that biodiversity will prevail over other valid concerns unless one asserts at the outset that preservation of biodiversity is a first principle that trumps all others. Without according first-principle status or pre-eminent value to biodiversity, it is still possible to develop appealing philosophical theories in which biodiversity counts. It is reasonable to argue, starting from either moral or utilitarian principles, that in the absence of overriding constraints policy may be decided on the basis of benefits and costs. However, it is reasonable also to insist that a safe minimum standard of protection for biodiversity is an appropriate constraint to place on the policy-decision process. I conclude with some reasons for cautious optimism that benefit cost analysis can be applied successfully to biodiversity issues.
4315467|After having been emitted at maximum rates in the 1960s and 1970s, lead has become less ubiquitous in industrialized countries as a result of increasingly stringent policies to limit the use of this heavy metal as an anti-knock additive in gasoline. Using a detailed reconstruction of lead emissions in Europe (PbE), of the air concentration of lead in Europe (PbC) and repeated measurements of lead concentrations in human blood (PbB) in Germany since about 1980, we have constructed an empirical model that estimates PbB given PbE. This model is used for 2 purposes: i) To estimate PbB levels for the 1960s and 1970s in Germany, when emissions were maximum and monitoring blood levels had not yet begun. It turns out that PbB peak emissions were reaching a mean level, which health officials considered potentially harmful for fetuses and small children. ii) To estimate how PbB levels may have developed if regulations of the use of lead in gasoline had been implemented differently. In case of no or delayed regulations, the model estimates that PbB levels well beyond the critical level would have emerged. Thus, the regulation instituted in Germany since the 1970s has reduced significant health hazards.
41417293|The raw water quality and associations between the factors considered as threats to water safety were studied in 20 groundwater supplies in central Finland in 20022004. Faecal contaminations indicated by the appearance of Escherichia coli or intestinal enterococci were present in five small community water supplies, all these managed by local water cooperatives. Elevated concentrations of nutrients in raw water were linked with the presence of faecal bacteria. The presence of on-site technical hazards to water safety, such as inadequate well construction and maintenance enabling surface water to enter into the well and the insufficient depth of protective soil layers above the groundwater table, showed the vulnerability of the quality of groundwater used for drinking purposes. To minimize the risk of waterborne illnesses, the vulnerable water supplies need to be identified and appropriate prevention measures such as disinfection should be applied.
4312117|Alkyl mercury compounds were used as seed-dressing agents in Sweden from the early 1940s up to February 1, 1966. Analysis of feathers of birds belonging to species which feed on sown fields and birds that predate on these species has shown that high levels of mercury were accumulated during that period. After the ban of alkyl mercury in 1966, alkoxy-alkyl mercury was introduced as a seed-dressing agent. Simultaneously, the mercury levels in feathers of birds were found to decrease, and the use of seed-dressing decreased considerably. This use has, however, gradually increased and was in 1972-1973 of the same magnitude as before 1966. Alkyl mercury accumulates in living matter, while alkoxy-alkyl mercury, being much more biodegradable, is more readily excreted. An estimation of the accumulation power of alkyl mercury has been made by means of a simple model.
4315547|As organic matter produced in the euphotic zone of the ocean sinks through the mesopelagic zone, its composition changes from one that is easily characterized by standard chromatographic techniques to one that is not. The material not identified at the molecular level is called "uncharacterized". Several processes account for this transformation of organic matter: aggregation/disaggregation of particles resulting in incorporation of older and more degraded material; recombination of organic compounds into geomacromolecules; and selective preservation of specific biomacromolecules. Furthermore, microbial activities may introduce new cell wall or other biomass material that is not easily characterized, or they may produce such material as a metabolic product. In addition, black carbon produced by combustion processes may compose a fraction of the uncharacterized organic matter, as it is not analyzed in standard biochemical techniques. Despite these poorly-defined compositional changes that hinder chemical identification, the vast majority of organic matter in sinking particles remains accessible to and is ultimately remineralized by marine microbes.
4314873|The UNEP Handbook on Methods for Climate Change Impact Assessment and Adaptation Strategies provides an elaboration of the IPCC Technical Guidelines for Assessing Climate Change Impacts and Adaptations. This paper presents the concepts and ideas that underpin the chapter Coastal Zones of the UNEP Handbook. Particular emphasis is given to the conceptual framework, which is centered around the concept of vulnerability. Further, the IPCC Common Methodology for Assessing Coastal Vulnerability to Sea-Level Rise is evaluated and compared with the Technical Guidelines. One notable difference between the 2 approaches concerns the use of scenarios. In the Common Methodology scenarios are prescribed, while the Technical Guidelines allow users maximum freedom in selecting and developing scenarios. Finally, the paper discusses 3 levels of increasingly complex assessment in coastal zones. As more experience is acquired, coastal databases improve and better analytical tools and techniques are developed, more comprehensive and integrated assessments will become feasible.
4315242|The "Black Triangle" area (covering northern Bohemia, southern Saxony and part of lower Silesia) has been one of the most polluted areas in Central Europe. The area was named mainly because of high emissions of sulfur and dust. After the political changes at the end of the 1980s a significant improvement in air quality has been achieved. In this study, we have investigated the future development of air pollution in the region of Saxony and northern Bohemia with special regard to the species sulfur dioxide, ozone, and aerosol particles. Relevant limit values for protection of human health defined or suggested in directives by the European Commission were checked in worst-case scenarios for the year 2005. It can be estimated, that the remaining air pollution problems in the Black Triangle area are more or less the same as in the other EU-countries and can be solved only by joint efforts.
23322891|Hyperarid, arid, and semi-arid lands represent over a third of the Earth's land surface, and are home to over 38 % of the increasing world population. Freshwater is a limiting resource on these lands, and withdrawal of groundwater substantially exceeds recharge. Withdrawals of groundwater for expanding agricultural and domestic use severely limit water availability for groundwater dependent ecosystems. We examine here, with emphasis on quantitative data, case histories of groundwater withdrawals at widely differing scales, on three continents, that range from the impact of a few wells, to the outcomes of total appropriation of flow in a major river system. The case histories provide a glimpse of the immense challenge of replacing groundwater resources once they are severely depleted, and put into sharp focus the question whether the magnitude of the current and future human, economic, and environmental consequences and costs of present practices of groundwater exploitation are adequately recognized.
4312395|Toxic substances are now viewed as potential hazards to human health and to ecosystem processes. The US Toxic Substances Control Act requires determination of the risks chemicals may pose to health and to the environment. To effect risk assessments the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is prescribing selective testing to provide rapid, reliable data on human and ecological effects and the environment fate of chemicals. Criteria for the selection of measureable parameters and of test organisms to aid the assessments have been studied in depth and are being reviewed to assure that testing standards reflect the state of the science of ecotoxicology. Ultimate determination of chemical hazard depends equally upon firm scientific information and on the relative interest of citizens in specific chemicals and in specific ecosystems which may receive chemicals.
41417424|To mitigate global warming caused by burning fossil fuels, a renewable energy source available in large quantity is urgently required. We are proposing large-scale photobiological H production by mariculture-raised cyanobacteria where the microbes capture part of the huge amount of solar energy received on earth's surface and use water as the source of electrons to reduce protons. The H production system is based on photosynthetic and nitrogenase activities of cyanobacteria, using uptake hydrogenase mutants that can accumulate H for extended periods even in the presence of evolved O. This review summarizes our efforts to improve the rate of photobiological H production through genetic engineering. The challenges yet to be overcome to further increase the conversion efficiency of solar energy to H also are discussed.
4315276|Emerging recognition of two fundamental errors underpinning past polices for natural resource issues heralds awareness of the need for a worldwide fundamental change in thinking and in practice of environmental management. The first error has been an implicit assumption that ecosystem responses to human use are linear, predictable and controllable. The second has been an assumption that human and natural systems can be treated independently. However, evidence that has been accumulating in diverse regions all over the world suggests that natural and social systems behave in nonlinear ways, exhibit marked thresholds in their dynamics, and that social-ecological systems act as strongly coupled, complex and evolving integrated systems. This article is a summary of a report prepared on behalf of the Environmental Advisory Council to the Swedish Government, as input to the process of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in Johannesburg, South Africa in 26 August 4 September 2002. We use the concept of resilience-the capacity to buffer change, learn and develop-as a framework for understanding how to sustain and enhance adaptive capacity in a complex world of rapid transformations. Two useful tools for resilience-building in social-ecological systems are structured scenarios and active adaptive management. These tools require and facilitate a social context with flexible and open institutions and multi-level governance systems that allow for learning and increase adaptive capacity without foreclosing future development options.
4314547| The current Quaternary Ice Age is characterized by multiple switches of the global climate between glacials and interglacials. The Louvain-la-Neuve two-dimensional (altitude-latitude) climate model (LLN 2-D model) has been used to simulate the long-term variations of the Northern Hemisphere climate. The model is forced by both the CO
4315099|This paper reviews the application of satellite remote sensing to management of Singapore's coastal environment. Remotely sensed data have been used for marine habitat mapping, water quality monitoring, ship and ship-wake detection, oil spill detection, red tide monitoring, and mapping of reclamation activities. While these applications clearly cover most of the range of opportunities for use of remotely sensed data in the coastal zone, there is still a need for more complete baseline studies of natural resources and habitats, and monitoring of the impacts of development on the coastal and marine environment. There is also a requirement for more management-oriented research and continued development and revision of the available datasets. Integration and exchange of information between management agencies and research groups is also an important aspect of sustainable management of Singapore's coastal environment and marine resources.
4314127|The coastal zone is a complex ecosystem under the influence of physical, chemical and biological processes. Under natural conditions these processes interact and maintain an equilibrium in the coastal ecosystem. Man makes a variety of important uses of coastal resources, ranging from harvesting of living resources, extraction of nonliving resources, and recreation, to the disposal of wastes. Man's extensive use of the ocean introduces factors which bring about an imbalance in the natural processes, and may result in harmful and hazardous effects to life hindering further use. Man's pressure on the resources of the coastal zone is already manifest and will increase manifold. This calls for an immediate solution to the protection and sustainable use of coastal resources. The current sectorized approach to the management of human activities will not solve the problem because the different resources of the coastal zone interact in such a manner that disturbances in one cause imbalance in the others. This is further complicated by the sectorized approach to research and limited communication between policy makers, managers, and scientists. This paper discusses strategies for managing coastal-resources use through an integrated approach. The coastal zone is presented as a unified ecosystem in equilibrium and shows that man's extensive use of the coastal resources destabilizes this equilibrium. Examples from the East African region are presented.
4312837|The first part of this article was published in Ambio, Vol 11, No 4. In this conclusion the types and quantities of pollutants deposited in New England are estimated. Evidence of damage to a number of ecosystems from various pollutants is examined, the possible future effects are considered, and a policy of energy conservation is put forward as a method of encouraging economic growth while reducing air pollution stress on the New England landscape.
24709004|In rural Nigeria, food processing is mostly engaged in by women and children. Most of these processes are done using outdated technologies that make use of traditional woodstoves. This article presents the health and environmental implications of the rural female entrepreneurs involved in food processing and proffer means of bettering the lot of these women to handle these hazards. A partially structured questionnaire and focus group discussion was used to capture data from respondents. The study revealed that about 73 % of women involved in direct production of garri and palm oil processing could be at risk of early death or disability-adjusted life years from the mentioned diseases. The article concludes that the rural female entrepreneur needs to be better positioned to handle these hazards, for her health, that of her children, as well as for the environment.
4312782|The economic consequences of nuclear warfare have received scant attention in the literature. This article aims at indicating what would be the impact of a nuclear war on consumption, investment and money, assuming that half (or less) of the total population in the Northern Hemisphere would be killed. The two main conclusions are rather staggering. First, in the countries directly involved, money and investment would disappear and reduced consumption would be limited to food, shelter, and health. Second, in the non-combatant countries of the Third World the consequences would be even more severe-the collapse of the international system of exchange and trade would precipitate widespread starvation, sickness and social unrest.
4315445|The village with its characteristic zones of different land use from the center to the periphery is a basic unit of Europe's cultural landscapes. However, loss of the authentic pre-industrial village structure characterized by a fine-grained structure of arable land and wooded grasslands is a threat to both cultural heritage and biodiversity in many rural landscapes. Therefore, it is important that the extent and rate of change of such authentic villages in a landscape can be monitored. We studied to what extent loss of authenticity with increasing time after abandonment can be assessed by quantitative analysis and visual interpretation of satellite images. The study was carried out in the Bieszczady Mountains, SE Poland in 1999. Using Landsat Thematic Mapper data from 1998, both the grain size of landscape elements (size of fields) and land-cover composition (encroachment of shrub and forest) were quantitatively described 6 type villages representing different stages of deterioration of the authentic village structure. Historical maps were used to delineate the border of the villages and the former extension of forest and open land was measured. The present land use and the degree of abandonment expressed as grain size and forest encroachment were mapped using satellite data. Deterioration occured along 2 transformation paths: abandonment and ultimately becoming forest, or intensified agriculture, respectively. To validate these results we classified 22 other villages in a 1000 km
4315504|Understanding the environmental burdens associated with aquafeeds is a critical component for assessing and improving the environmental performance of aquaculture. The aim of the study was to assess the environmental impacts associated with feeds for rainbow trout production in France, using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The stages assessed are: the extraction of the raw materials, the production and transformation of the primary ingredients used, the manufacturing of the feeds, the use of the feeds at the farm, transport at all stages, and the production and use of energy resources. The assessment revealed that the use of fishery resources (such as biotic resource use) and nutrient emissions at the farm (such as eutrophication potential) contribute most to the potential environmental impacts of salmonid aquafeeds. Improvements in feed composition and management practices seem to be the best ways for improving the environmental profile of aquafeeds.
4315540|Conservationists recognize that many protected areas have limited future prospects without the cooperation and support of local people, especially in developing countries. Since the 1980s Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (ICDPs) have attempted to reconcile park management with local needs and aspirations, usually with disappointing results. Achieving local cooperation and support without jeopardizing conservation goals remains a top priority for parks, however. Fortunately, the lessons from the ICDP experience provide an important opportunity to inform the next generation of biodiversity conservation programs, including those concerned with poverty alleviation as well as those working at ecosystem and landscape scales. More recent and more promising approaches have started to incorporate elements of adaptive management, new partnership models with stakeholders and the vertical integration of site-level work with policy initiatives and institutional development.
4315306|Data were collected in southern Kenya on coral reef ecosystems and fisheries to assess the influence of the 1998 coral bleaching and mortality event. We compared benthic cover, sea urchin and fish abundance in unfished marine parks and fished reefs and the reef-associated fisheries 3 years before and after 1998. Hard and soft coral decreased while coralline algae increased in both management areas. Turf increased in marine parks and sponge and fleshy algae increased in the fished reefs. Sea urchin grazer biomass was unchanged over this period and the fish community changed less than benthic cover. In general, butterflyfish, damselfish and wrasses were negatively influenced while surgeonfish and a few uncommon families were positively influenced by the substratum change. There was a 17% increase in fishing effort as measured by fishermen per day at each landing site and the total demersal catch declined by 8% and the catch per man declined by 21% after 1998. The decline in the total catch and CPUE combined with the increase in effort suggest an overexploited fishery and this makes it difficult to distinguish changes caused by coral mortality or fishing effort. The price of fish increased over this period and this caused an 18% increase in the total value of the fishery but no difference in the net income of individual fishermen.
4314805|This paper assesses the performance of 8 integrated coastal management (ICM) projects in Southeast Asia developed through the ASEAN/US Coastal Resources Management Project (1986 to 1992) and the GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Programme for the Prevention and Management of Marine Pollution in the East Asian Seas (1994-ongoing). The assessment is based on common performance indicators for measuring the level of achievements in the planning and implementation processes (process indicators); in reducing environmental stress (stress indicators); in ensuring sustainability of programs (sustainability indicators); and in arresting environmental degradation or improvement of environmental quality (environment status indicators). All 8 ICM programs have successfully completed the requirements for problem identification and program formulation. However, only the 2 programs established in Batangas Bay, Philippines, and Xiamen, China, have reached the implementation stage. The author discusses the lessons learned from 13 years of practicing ICM including the formulation and implementation of the 8 ICM programs in 7 countries in the Southeast Asian region. The discussion includes ICM concept, project timeframe; performance monitoring; project design; selection and prioritization of management issues; management boundary; research and studies; ICM program development and implementation cycle; local government commitment; institutional arrangements; public awareness, and building local capacity.
4313605|The effects of natural and accelerated subsidence, combined with a probable decreased influx of fluvial sediment, may accentuate greatly the rise of sea level in low-lying deltas over the next 100 years. By the year 2100 local sea level at the Nile and Bangladesh deltas, respectively, could be as much as 3.3 to 4.5 meters higher than at present. At the higher calculated ranges, Egypt and Bangladesh could lose 26 and 34% of their currently habitable land. The additional loss of shoreline by erosion, loss of mangrove forests, and decreased agriculture and fisheries would exacerbate environmental and economic impacts.
4312037|Evidence of environmental damage due to cars is given: electrochemical power sources offer answers. Principal research areas are in corrosion, electrocatalysis, and mechanism of crystal growth. Several electric cars with speeds up to 60 mph and ranges of 40-50 miles are available ($2,000). The development of self-drive taxis would be helpful. Principal difficulties of developing electric cars are political. Research and development will need some
4313274|New Zealand is remote, has a low population density and is one of the least populated of the OECD countries. Closer inspection reveals that New Zealand has been much more extensively modified by man than might be anticipated. Among the issues discussed: loss of native forest, habitat and indigenous flora and fauna; introduction of exotic flora and fauna; soil erosion; and degradation of estuaries.
4313064|The Marshall Islands, part of the United States Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, have negotiated a Compact of Free Association with the USA. Under the terms of this compact they are heavily dependent on US aid and domestic production is insignificant by comparison. As a result of migration two-thirds of the population is urban: the urban centers have extremely high population densities exacerbated by rapid population growth, and some of the worst health, social and environmental problems in the Region. Without greater self-reliance these problems are unlikely to diminish.
41805972|A comprehensive reconstruction of the Baltic Sea state from 1850 to 2006 is presented: driving forces are reconstructed and the evolution of the hydrography and biogeochemical cycles is simulated using the model BALTSEM. Driven by high resolution atmospheric forcing fields (HiResAFF), BALTSEM reproduces dynamics of salinity, temperature, and maximum ice extent. Nutrient loads have been increasing with a noteworthy acceleration from the 1950s until peak values around 1980 followed by a decrease continuing up to present. BALTSEM shows a delayed response to the massive load increase with most eutrophic conditions occurring only at the end of the simulation. This is accompanied by an intensification of the pelagic cycling driven by a shift from spring to summer primary production. The simulation indicates that no improvement in water quality of the Baltic Sea compared to its present state can be expected from the decrease in nutrient loads in recent decades.
4313217|Major studies on the potential climatic and biological effects of nuclear war are outlined in this article which traces the short and controversial history of the science of nuclear winter. These studies include the original Crutzen-Birks article in Ambio, the TTAPS study, the US National Research Council report, and the SCOPE report. Selected studies using global atmospheric models are described, and some findings presented at the Symposium on the Medical Implications of Nuclear War are outlined.
4313340|The use of chemicals in Canadian forestry operations has become very controversial within the last decade. Foresters claim the chemicals used are safe, both for human health and for the environment. Opposition groups deny this and point to medical studies suggesting carcinogenic properties associated with some of the chemicals being used. The recent evolution of these debates is discussed, and the opposing points of view are presented. Much more research is needed before either side can realistically defend their position.
4315028|Eutrophication and persistent pollutants are two of the main environmental problems in European marine and freshwater ecosystems. As they tend to co-occur, interactive processes between eutrophication and contaminants are suggested, that may lead to environmental effects that cannot be predicted from each process alone. In order to predict the consequences of remedial measures (changing the input of organic matter, nutrients and contaminants) it is important to understand mechanisms that alter the bioavailability and fate of contaminants. The environmental risks will depend on the speciation of contaminants and their association to media and matter and by that means affect exposure. Furthermore, the risks will depend on the mobility of the substances and their pathways in food chains. In 1995, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency initiated a 5-year research program Interactions between EUtrophication and CONtaminants (EUCON). A background document was prepared listing a number of relevant questions and hypotheses. On the basis of this document a program was launched, addressing the problems related to the interaction between eutrophication and contaminants (persistent organic compounds and trace metals) in the marine environment, with focus on the Baltic Sea, and in lakes. This paper summarizes the state-of-the-art, hypotheses and highlights from the research program with emphasis on the implications and applications of the results.
4312266|Recent model studies on food prediction indicate that the nitrogen requirement for crop production will almost double within the next 35 years. Only if the biological nitrogen fixation can be increased by 3 percent annually, can the share of nitrogen fixation in the production of consumable N be maintained at the 63 percent level where it is now. If the biological nitrogen fixation only increases by 1 percent per year, its share will be reduced to 37 percent, and the fertilizer requirement will then increase to 160-185 Tg in 2010.
4312320|The Metropolis (in Greek: "Mother City") of Athens was a village of 10 000 inhabitants at a time when modern Greece became independent in 1827. Over the period of 150 years it grew into a bustling urban conglomeration of three million people. This explosive rate of growth brought with it the inevitable environmental stresses and problems which exert a detrimental pressure on the quality of life and which threaten the monuments of the ancient civilization in the area. The Environmental Pollution Control Project in the Metropolitan Area of Athens, which is a joint venture of the Greek Government, the United Nations Development Program and the World Health Organization, was established in 1973 to develop programs for preservation and improvement of environmental quality in Athens. This paper describes briefly the objectives, the methods of operation and the achievements of this Project in the areas of water and air pollution control, community noise abatement and solid wastes management.
4313153|A rural household energy consumption survey undertaken in Kenya shows that, contrary to intuition, wood fuel appears to be more scarce in the high and medium potential areas than in the semi-arid areas. Rural household energy consumption can be linked to a number of socio-economic factors, perhaps the most important of which is the household's relationship to the monetary economy.
4312624|Birth weights normally increase after the first pregnancy. In non-polluted areas of rural northern Sweden the increase would appear to be on the order of 5-6 percent while in nearby industrialized and urbanized areas this increase was only 1-2 percent. A decrease of 5 percent was actually noted among mothers occupationally exposed to air pollution at a smelter.
4315633|Along with its economic reform, China has experienced a rapid urbanization. This study mapped urban land expansion in China using high-resolution Landsat Thematic Mapper and Enhanced Thematic Mapper data of 1989/1990, 1995/1996 and 1999/2000 and analyzed its expansion modes and the driving forces underling this process during 1990-2000. Our results show that China's urban land increased by 817 million hectares, of which 80.8% occurred during 1990-1995 and 19.2% during 1995-2000. It was also found that China's urban expansion had high spatial and temporal differences, such as four expansion modes, concentric, leapfrog, linear and multi-nuclei, and their combinations coexisted and expanded urban land area in the second 5 y was much less than that of the first 5 y. Case studies of the 13 mega cities showed that urban expansion had been largely driven by demographic change, economic growth, and changes in land use policies and regulations.
4313766|The geographic extent of lake acidification in Finland was determined by an extensive regional survey of 987 lakes conducted in the autumn of 1987. One of the major objectives of this survey was to estimate the number and location of acidified lakes. The lakes for the survey were chosen by random sampling and the selection was weighted by lake density. The water quality of the surveyed lakes can thus be considered as representative of the target lake populations. The results show high concentrations of organic matter in lakes throughout the country. In southern parts of Finland, where deposition is highest, the anthropogenic contribution to the acidity is more important than the catchment derived organic acidity. At present, about 18% of the Finnish lakes had little or no bicarbonate buffer capacity (alkalinity <
4314756|PCB concentration in river water at the outlet of a lake was monitored for two years following the completed remediation of the PCB-contaminated sediment of the lake. The remediation resulted in lowered PCB concentration in the sediment, from
24708792|In this paper we examine the effect of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) on the level of fish intake in China in comparison with the rest of the world. We also analyse the origin and destination of China's seafood products in order to understand the main patterns during the last decades. The results show that in the 19612011 period the rate of growth of the GDP in China doubled that of other developing regions, while the daily fish intake of China increased fourfold, making China the largest fish consumer in the world. Given the size and scale of China's role in production, consumption, and global transformation of seafood markets, China is shaping a new era of industrialization in the history of the fishing industry.
4315468| The tail feathers of 104 osprey nestlings (Pandion haliaetus) from Lake snen, southern Sweden, were analyzed for total mercury and selenium content. Concentrations of mercury in feathers from the western part of the lake fell during the period 1969-1998, when pollution from industrial mercury had decreased and a paper mill upstream of the lake was closed down in 1979. Nestlings from the eastern part of the lake had initially lower levels of mercury, predominantly from atmospheric fallout. The levels did not decrease during the period. The reason for the differences seems to be the limited water flow between the western and the eastern part of the lake. The selenium concentrations were constant over time and approximately the same in both parts of the lake. The total-Hg/Se ratio in the western part of the lake was 2.94, which is somewhat higher than the 1:1 molar ratio constant (2.54). This indicates that the bioaccumulated quantity of selenium which is thought to be protective for the organisms against the toxic effects of mercury, is somewhat insufficient to bind all body mercury. 
4314265|Indigenous peoples have received much attention as potential resource managers of threatened tropical forest ecosystems. Using data from Latin America, this article argues that fundamental changes need to take place in the legal recognition and demarcation of indigenous territories in order for this potential to be fulfilled. A comparison is made between different national land-tenure models for forest-dwelling indigenous peoples and a new model proposed by Latin American indigenous organizations. This comparison suggests that not only do indigenous peoples need to be provided with some degree of control over their territories and resources, but there needs to be a new type of partnership among indigenous peoples, the scientific community, national governments and international development agencies for the management of tropical forests.
24708846|We relate the historical (18502000) spatial and temporal changes in cropland cover in the conterminous United States to several socio-economic and biophysical determinants using an eco-region based spatial framework. Results show population density as a major determinant during the nineteenth century, and biophysical suitability as the major determinant during the twentieth century. We further examine the role of technological innovations, socio-economic and socio-ecological feedbacks that have either sustained or altered the cropland trajectories in different eco-regions. The cropland trajectories for each of the 84 level-III eco-regions were analyzed using a nonlinear bi-analytical model. In the Eastern United States, low biophysically suitable eco-regions, e.g., New England, have shown continual decline in the cropland after reaching peak levels. The cropland trajectories in high biophysically suitable regions, e.g., Corn Belt, have stabilized after reaching peak levels. In the Western United States, low-intensity crop cover (<10 %) is sustained with irrigation support. A slower rate of land conversion was found in the industrial period. Significant effect of Conservation Reserve Program on planted crop area is found in last two decades (19902010).
41417319|The arctic tundra ponds at the International Biological Program (IBP) site in Barrow, AK, were studied extensively in the 1970s; however, very little aquatic research has been conducted there for over three decades. Due to the rapid climate changes already occurring in northern Alaska, identifying any changes in the ponds' structure and function over the past 30-40 years can help identify any potential climate-related impacts. Current research on the IBP ponds has revealed significant changes in the physical, chemical, and biological characteristics of these ponds over time. These changes include increased water temperatures, increased water column nutrient concentrations, the presence of at least one new chironomid species, and increased macrophyte cover. However, we have also observed significant annual variation in many measured variables and caution that this variation must be taken into account when attempting to make statements about longer-term change. The Barrow IBP tundra ponds represent one of the very few locations in the Arctic where long-term data are available on freshwater ecosystem structure and function. Continued monitoring and protection of these invaluable sites is required to help understand the implications of climate change on freshwater ecosystems in the Arctic.
40390252|To understand how forest harvest influences the aquatic environment, it is essential to determine the changes in the flow regime. This paper presents changes in the hydrological regime during the first 2 y after harvest in two catchments of the Balsj Catchment Study in Sweden. The changes were judged relative to a reference catchment, calibrated during an 18-mo pretreatment period starting in September 2004. From August 2006 through March 2008, there was an average of 35% more runoff from the harvested catchments relative to the reference. The flow increased most during the growing seasons and at base flows (<1 mm d; 58-99% increase), followed by dormant season and intermediate flows (30-43%). No significant changes were observed during the highest flows (over 5 mm d), except for the spring flood a few weeks after harvest, which was delayed and attenuated. Large relative changes in low flow may influence the ecosystem by altering the aquatic habitat.
4314263|The toxicity of treated and untreated effluents from a tapioca (cassava), Manihot esculenta, starch industry in Thailand were tested on Microtox and a tropical duckweed, Lemna aequinoctialis. Untreated samples demonstrated high toxicity in both tests, but also the treated effluent was toxic to duckweed. Aging of wastewater resulted in decreased toxicity which was partly correlated to cyanide content, but other (unidentified) components of the tapioca tubers also contribute to the toxicity. Considering the present findings and the fact that the majority of the tapioca starch industries in Southeast Asia have no effluent treatment there is a great risk for severe effects on crop (e.g. young stages of rice, vegetables, etc.) when the wastewater in traditional way is used for irrigation of farmland. Negative effects on local aquaculture and/or sensitive stages of valuable feral fish and crustacea populations in receiving waterbodies can also be expected.
41510583|This article presents the impact of the ecological investment in ironworks (dust filter installation) and construction works at a highly contaminated brownfield site on the chemical composition of household dust (HD) and street sediment (SS) in Celje, Slovenia. The evaluation is based on two sampling campaigns: the first was undertaken 1 month before the ecological investment became operational and the second 3 years later. The results show that dust filter installations reduced the content of Co, Cr, Fe, Mn, Mo, W and Zn on average by 58% in HD and by 51% in SS. No reduction was observed at sampling points in the upwind direction from the ironworks. By contrast, the impact of the construction works on the highly contaminated brownfield site was detected by a significant increase (on average by 37%) of elements connected to the brownfield contamination in SS. Such increase was not detected in HD.
4313961|Large areas in Europe and eastern North America are subject to acidification of surface water due to acid precipitation. Acidification has resulted in fish mortality and other ecological changes. The Nordic countries (Finland, Sweden and Norway) are particularly affected. On the basis of national regional lake surveys in each country, we have mapped critical loads of acidifying deposition for surface waters. The critical load of acidity to rivers and lakes can be estimated from present water chemistry. For mapping critical loads and their exceedances the EMEP-grid system (150 by 150 km) and its 3 by 3 subdivision (50 by 50 km) is used. Frequency distribution curves for calculated critical loads showed a wide variation in sensitivity within and between the EMEP-grids and also between the three countries. Norway appears to have surface waters that are the most sensitive to acidic precipitation in the Nordic countries. Critical load exceedance for sulfur was estimated from available sulfur deposition data. Depending on the chemical criteria used, the exceedance varied from 20 to 70% of the area in the Nordic countries.
4315342|The Atlantic hurricanes of 1999 caused widespread environmental damage throughout the Caribbean and US mid-Atlantic coastal regions. However, these storms also proved beneficial to certain microbial habitats; specifically, cyanobacteriadominated mats. Modern mats represent the oldest known biological communities on earth, stromatolites. Contemporary mats are dominant biological communities in the hypersaline Bahamian lakes along the Atlantic hurricane track. We examined the impacts of varying levels of hypersalinity on 2 processes controlling mat growth, photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation, in Salt Pond, San Salvador Island, Bahamas. Hypersalinity (> 5 times seawater salinity) proved highly inhibitory to these processes. Freshwater input from Hurricane Floyd and other large storms alleviated this salt-inhibition. A predicted 10 to 40 year increase in Atlantic hurricane activity accompanied by more frequent "freshening" events will enhance mat pro-ductivity, CO
4313691|Photosynthetically fixed energy ultimately supports the great diversity of species that inhabit the world's ecosystems. Globally, natural terrestrial ecosystems fixed about
24708811|The Biosphere Reserve (BR) concept aims at encouraging sustainable development (SD) towards sustainability on the ground by promoting three core functions: conservation, development, and logistic support. Sweden and Ukraine exemplify the diverse governance contexts that BRs need to cope with. We assessed how the BR concept and its core functions are captured in national legislations. The results show that the core functions are in different ways reflected in legal documents in both countries. While in Ukraine the BR concept is incorporated into legislation, in Sweden the concept is used as a soft law. In Ukraine managers desired stronger legal enforcement, while in Sweden managers avoided emphasis on legislation when collaborating with local stakeholders. Hence, BR implementation have adapted to different political cultures by development of diverse approaches. We conclude that a stronger legal support might not be needed for BRs, rather SD needs to be recognized as an integrated place-based process at multiple levels.
4313224|The Baltic Sea is a cascade of subseas with a slow freshwater exchange that is influenced by regional weather events. The rate of pollution dispersal and build-up may be determined by the rate of water exchange. A group of seven Baltic Sea countries cooperated to produce a hydrological analysis of the Baltic Sea system. Incomplete water balance data of the past were thus replaced by data from a 20-year study on long-term water balance, seasonality and interannual fluctuations in water exchange.
24708849|Bamboo is a well know and versatile material, which is a common sight across Cameroon's diverse ecosystems, from dry to humid tropical and Afromontane forests. Its numerous uses range from storage jars to decorating restaurant-bars, beehives to knives, fences, fodder, and fuel. Responding to the paucity of data on species and uses, the value chain for bamboo in Cameroon was analyzed. Based on 171 interviews and field observations, two African indigenous species (alpine Yushania alpina and savannah Oxytenanthera abyssinica) and exotic (Bambusa vulgaris spp.) bamboos were identified as most utilized. They were tracked from major production zones to final consumers. The ecological, socio-economic, institutional, and governance contexts and impacts are described and analyzed. Issues for research, conservation, and development are highlighted. These include the ambiguous regulatory status, the relationship between tenure and management, threats and conservation of African species and options to increase the sustainable livelihoods for stakeholders dependent upon bamboo.
4313850|The recent success of a large-scale pilot project to collect fogwater in northern Chile, indicates that this is a resource that should be seriously examined for use in certain semi-arid and arid regions of the world. Fifty 48 m2 collectors at a site in Chile have produced an average of 7200 L of water per day during three drought years. This paper reviews the fog-water collection process and lists 47 arid locations in 22 countries on 6 continents where collection of fogwater by vegetation or artificial collectors has been documented. One of the most exciting aspects of this resource is that in many regions the supply of water will be limited only by the number of collectors one chooses to install. In addition, since the source of the fog is normally the movement of marine stratocumulus decks over coastal mountains, the water quality is good and the water can be used for drinking and for other domestic and agricultural purposes.
4312331|The modern approach of regarding water as a necessary factor in an overall societal metabolism has led to a more comprehensive study of the role of water in urban society. Such an interdisciplinary approach can be made with the aid of the notion of an urban ecosystem as well as by an analysis of characteristic properties of a community regarded as a sociological system. Quality of life dimensions may further be analysed through socioeconomic indicators. This relatively new branch of water sciences is only in its initial stage. Progress will depend very much on the collaboration between scientists from different disciplines.
4313004|Fish, water and sediment in 220 Swedish forest lakes were studied in order to discover the extent of pollution by airborne mercury. In lakes in southern and central Sweden the mean mercury concentrations in pike (Esox lucius L.) vary from 0.68 to 0.86 mg/kg. The natural background level has been estimated to be 0.05-0.2 mg/kg, but mercury concentrations in fish are close to this level only in the north of Sweden. The generally high mercury content of fish in southern and central Sweden is probably caused by an elevated load on the lakes due to an increased air-borne deposition. The advancing acidification of the waters causes an additional increase of the mercury content in fish.
23322893|We analyze 4000-year flood history of the lower Yellow River and the history of agricultural development in the middle river by investigating historical writings and quantitative time series data of environmental changes in the river basin. Flood dynamics are characterized by positive feedback loops, critical thresholds of natural processes, and abrupt transitions caused by socio-economic factors. Technological and organizational innovations were dominant driving forces of the flood history. The popularization of iron plows and embankment of the lower river in the 4th century BC initiated a positive feedback loop on levee breaches. The strength of the feedback loop was enhanced by farming of coarse-sediment producing areas, steep hillslope cultivation, and a new river management paradigm, and finally pushed the flood frequency to its climax in the seventeenth century. The co-evolution of river dynamics and Chinese society is remarkable, especially farming and soil erosion in the middle river, and central authority and river management in the lower river.
24708782|A large coppernickel smelter complex is located at the Kole Penninsula, Russia, close to the Norwegian border. Trace-element concentrations in surface sediments (00.5 cm) and pre-industrial sediments from 45 lakes in the region were used to uncover spatial deposition patterns and contamination factor of sediments. Elevated concentrations were found, especially for Ni and Cu, but also for Pb, Co, Hg, As, and Cd. Highest concentrations were found up to 20 km from the smelter, but the concentrations decreased exponentially with distance from the smelter. Increasing Ni, Cu, As, and Hg concentrations from sub-surface to surface sediments were found for lakes at intermediate distances (2060 km). This may reflect recent changes in atmospheric depositions, as shown in nearby Norwegian areas. However, we cannot rule out that this also may have been caused by diagenetic processes, especially for the most redox-sensitive elements such as As.
24708853|Marine protected areas (MPAs) are being promoted in Tanzania to mitigate the drivers of ecosystem change such as overfishing and other anthropogenic impacts on marine resources. The effectiveness of MPAs in managing those drivers was assessed in three ecological zones, seafront, mangrove, and riverine of Mnazi Bay Marine Park, using Participatory Community Analysis techniques, questionnaire survey, checklist and fishery resource assessment methods. Eleven major drivers of ecosystem change were identified. Resource dependence had a major effect in all ecological zones of the park. The results indicated that the park's legislations/regulations, management procedures, and conservation efforts are reasonably effective in managing its resources. The positive signs accrued from conservation efforts have been realized by the communities in terms of increased catch/income, awareness and compliance. However, some natural and anthropogenic drivers continued to threaten the park's sustainability. Furthermore, implementation of resource use and benefit sharing mechanisms still remained a considerable challenge to be addressed.
4315167|Diffuse pollution from agricultural land is one of the main causes for lake eutrophication. Multipond systems, an ancient invention in China, are composed of many tiny ponds and ditches, scattered in agricultural fields. After a long period of research in an experimental watershed in Liuchahe, it was found that multipond systems constitute diffuse pollution control. They have a large capacity for water storage and serve to control the export of water, suspended matter, and phosphorus. Multipond systems significantly reduce runoff velocity. Sediments and phosphorus retained in the Liuchahe watershed were
4314216|This paper presents the results of studies carried out in Romanian deciduous forests. Lepidoptera species were investigated, including distribution in Romania, trophic preference for Quercus species, attack intensity, total attacked areas, and control measures. Increasing number of affected areas, progradation structures, perturbation, secondary pest manifestation, low parasitism values, results from the use of pesticides that destroy natural enemy populations. If the decreases in the number of beneficial organisms causes attack exacerbation, the solution would lie in protection of this "living gold" to maintain ecological equilibrium. In the integrated pest-management system, the control option can be selected in order to maximized the long-term, economic and ecological benefits.
4313879|Energy and technology are essential ingredients of development; it is only through their use that it became possible to sustain a population of almost 5 billion on Earth. The challenges to eradicate poverty and underdevelopment in developing countries in the face of strong population increases can only be successfully met with the use of advanced technology, "leapfrogging" the path followed in the past by today's industrialized countries. It is shown in the paper that energy consumption can be decoupled from economic development. Such possibility will contribute significantly in achieving sustainable development.
4313948|In the Baltic Sea, local effects on plants and animals of the phytobenthic communities located outside pulp mills are readily detected. Decrease in light penetration and high nutrient and organic loads cause deterioration and diminish depth penetration of the plant communities. Filter-feeding animals and opportunistic annual filamentous algae benefit most from the effluents discharged from the pulpmills. Laboratory experiments have shown, that toxic substances in the effluents can alter both plant and animal communities. The present field studies suggest, that plants (mainly Fucus vesiculosus L., and some of its brown algal epiphytes) show decreased growth rates both at intermediate and remote distances from areas receiving pulp mill effluents. Animal diversity and/or altered biomass composition had decreased in these areas. Close to the source, a few opportunistic species thrive, mainly where biomass composition is low. Intermediate areas show uniform species distribution, and remote, "clean" areas a higher number of taxa and biomass.
4314383|Bacterial abundance and biomass, bacterial production, and primary production were measured in the water column in Puttalam Lagoon, Sri Lanka, during the 1990 and 1992 northeast monsoon and the 1991 and 1992 intermonsoon. The <sup>14</sup> C-method was used to measure primary production and the <sup>3</sup> H-thymidine method to measure bacterial production. The daily production rates indicated a dependence on the level of the tide and on the amount of rainfall. Bacterial production varied between 2  1 and 26  17 mg C <tex-math>${\rm m}^{-3}\ {\rm day}^{-1}$</tex-math>, giving the highest values during the monsoon seasons. Total primary production varied between 173  33 mg C <tex-math>${\rm m}^{-3}\ {\rm day}^{-1}$</tex-math> and 577  129 mg C <tex-math>${\rm m}^{-3}\ {\rm day}^{-1}$</tex-math>, with the highest values during and following a monsoon season. Estimates of bacterial to primary production ratios varied between 0.5 and 58.3%, assuming a bacterial consumption efficiency of 50%.
4312780|A global nuclear war will cause radioactive contamination of man's diet, disruptions in food production and distribution, and food shortages. Beyond regions that are directly affected by local fallout from specific detonations, radioactivity levels in diet and human tissues will be about 20 times higher than during the weapons' testing period of the 1960's. Food produced in areas contaminated by local fallout from surface detonations, but more than about 150 km away from targets, will also derive most of its contamination from global fallout. The presence of global fallout and the disruption in technological and food aid to the Third World will ensure that the impacts of the war will extend beyond those countries directly involved.
4315565|This paper describes the overfishing of the seas, in particular for cod in Sweden. It discusses policy instruments such as individual quotas, labelling and marine reserves. A tentative conclusion is that something needs to be done to the very structure of the policy instruments used. Information on stock depletion is available but goes unheeded and is counteracted by fishermen who want to fish more and who are routinely supported by "the political establishment" who appear to be most concerned about (short-term) employment. The whole debate is taking place before the eyes of a general public that does not care sufficiently and difficult international bureaucracy. In this situation, the most important changes may be to strengthen both the rights and the duties of the fishermen. The integrity of fish stocks must be given absolute priority, but it is also important to motivate the fishermen with a greater stake and interest in the stock by giving them quotas that have, as far as possible, the characteristics of property.
4312102|The chemical substances in use in the chemical, plastics, ceramics, glass, paper and similar industries around the world are extremely hazardous. They have been shown to cause severe disabilities and, occasionally, death amongst workers who come in contact with them in the work environment. The recent vinyl chloride case points out a number of important lessons for the development of a new and expanded role of trade unions in the enforcement of occupational health standards. These standards are inadequate, enforcement is lax, and the trade union movement appears to be the only body capable of dealing with this problem on a worldwide basis. The ICF has undertaken such an action program and it is proving successful.
4313292|The warming of the global atmosphere foreseen as a consequence of the increasing concentration of carbon dioxide and other radiatively active gases is gaining political attention. This article summarizes an assessment carried out by the Netherlands Health Council. It addresses the effects that are of special concern for The Netherlands, such as a rise of the sea level requiring a strengthened coastal defense, the need for hydrological adaptions in the lower western part of the country, the changing conditions for agricultural production, as well as problems related to energy supply, fisheries and conservation of natural ecosystems.
4313128|The recent establishment of a large pulp and paper mill in a rural area in southwestern Tanzania will profoundly affect the natural environment and human life in the neighborhood. Air emissions could have an impact on the savanna ecosystems in the vicinity of the mill and also on montane rain forests and tea plantations in nearby more elevated areas. In case of accidentally reduced efficiency in the effluent treatment plant, the effects on the biological life in the recipient stream could be far-reaching. In addition to the direct impact of the industry on the environment there have already been indirect effects. Some are triggered by the increased pressure on land resources, in turn caused by heavy immigration into the area. The problems elaborated on in the article have been studied within the scope of an integrated research project. The results are expected to serve as instruments for future community planning and environmental management in the area.
4313894|Numerous constraints make the attainment of sustainable development a foreboding challenge for the world's poorest countries. Among these obstacles are demographic pressure, natural-resource degradation, and the disadvantaged position of the rural poor, particularly women. While programs and projects continue to be designed to address each, it is argued that these constraints can be overcome only by viewing them in an integrated manner, that is, by understanding and addressing the interrelationships among them. This paper is organized around the theme of land management and argues that one of the effects of the vicious circle of population pressure, resource depletion, and rural poverty is to prevent people in the least developed countries from engaging in rational, forward-looking land-management practices. Specific problem areas in which the dynamic manifests itself acutely are reviewed, namely health and nutrition, legal and regulatory matters, access to information, and rural people's economic status. It is suggested that program planners and policy makers must adapt their modes of thinking and acting in order to focus on the notion of maximizing rural people's potential for taking rational decisions concerning land management.
4314720|This paper describes and evaluates the environmental impacts of the Kayraktepe Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant in Turkey. The contingent valuation method is used to estimate the project's local environmental costs. The average, local rural annual willingness to pay for the restoration of the environmental impacts of the project is found to be USD 300
4315060|Twentieth century temperature trends in the Western Cordilleras of the Americas broadly reflect the global signal of warming and decreasing diunal temperature range. Precipitation changes are more modest and vary strongly with region. Mountain glaciers have retreated considerably since the Little Ice Age in response particularly to the temperature rise and an upward shift in tropical freezing level over the last three decades. The changes are already affecting hydrologic regimes. Potential negative ecological consequences for the cloud forest ecosystem have also been suggested. Andean agriculture might benefit, however, from an upward shift in the zone of frequent frosts.
4314106|Fisheries on coral reefs are highly complex, can be very productive, but typically have little or no management. Widespread overfishing and declining yields reveal an acute need for proper management. However, conventional management methods are inappropriate for two main reasons: they require much information on the biology of stocks and are expensive and difficult to enforce. Use of marine reserves has been suggested as an alternative. Protective management potentially has several important benefits including (i) protection of spawning stocks; (ii) provision of recruits to replenish fishing grounds; (iii) enhancement of catches in adjacent unprotected areas through emigration; (iv) minimal requirement for information on biology of stocks; and (v) ease of enforcement. However, the effectiveness of the reserve approach has not been properly tested. We evaluate the evidence available to test whether reserves function as predicted on theoretical grounds. In general, field studies from widespread sites around the globe support predictions of increases in abundance and average size of fishes in protected areas. However, evidence for enhanced catches in adjacent areas is more limited, and evidence to show that reserves can restock fishing grounds is lacking. Nevertheless, protective management appears to hold much promise for low-cost management of reef fisheries. Research programs in several areas of the Caribbean and Indo-Pacific have now been launched to refine the approach.
4312310|In response to the common perception by Mediterranean coastal states that their semi-enclosed sea was threatened by pollution from a wide variety of sources, UNEP drew up a comprehensive Action Plan which was approved in early 1975 and is now being carried out with the assistance of the entire UN system of Specialized Agencies and with other international organizations. The Plan embraces political, legal, scientific and economic agreements among these states in a common effort to protect the future. The development and early implementation of the Plan is described with attention to the processes and institutional relationships.
4313682|Strong indications that eutrophication is a self-accelerating process in shallow, stratified coastal waters were obtained from studies of internal nitrogen dynamics in E Kattegat, western Sweden. Rate determinations included <tex-math>${}^{15}{\rm N}\text{-}{\rm isotope}$</tex-math> methods for phytoplankton uptake, remineralization and nitrification, intact sediment-core incubations for denitrification with acetylene blockage technique and net sediment-water exchange measurements for O<sub>2</sub>, inorganic nitrogen (IN) and phosphate. Spring and autumn blooms were 50 and 30%, respectively, based on nitrate and consisted of large, rapidly sedimenting algal cells, whereas summer phytoplankton was dominated by algal cells <10 m which utilized mainly regenerated nitrogen, ammonium and urea. Nitrification did not take place in the upper mixed layers during the productive season. There was a strong inverse correlation between sediment release of IN and deep-water concentration of O<sub>2</sub> below approximately <tex-math>$200\ \mu {\rm mol}\cdot {\rm L}^{-1}$</tex-math>. An empirically obtained relation between sediment release of CO<sub>2</sub> and sediment oxygen consumption (SOC) was used for recalculating SOC, IN-flux out of the sediment and sediment C/N ratio in order to obtain sediment IN production and IN-loss in the sediment (mainly denitrification). The results strongly indicate that denitrification will not increase in proportion to eutrophication-induced increases in sedimentation and that there is no evidence of denitrification in the deep water and sediment during low oxygen conditions. Therefore, such conditions may result in accumulation of large amounts of nitrogen in the system.
4314712|Groundwater nitrate concentrations increased and sometimes exceeded public health standards during the last 50 years in Tulare County, California, where ecological health and agricultural productivity are at risk. This study explained some of the spatial variation in groundwater nitrate concentration by spatial coincidence of soil leaching potential, agricultural land uses, and the groundwater elevation. Groundwater nitrate concentration increased where excess nitrogen loads in soils were greatest, soils rated highest for leaching potential, and groundwater elevation was higher. The high-risk nitrate leaching and contamination sites were most prevalent on townships where citrus, nut orchards, and vineyard crops were grown on coarse-textured soils. The assessment made use of available data at a spatial scale appropriate for devising management solutions, and the maps communicated the information effectively. Farmers and planners can use this information to adjust farm-management practices and land-use strategies to minimize nitrate contamination risks in groundwater.
4314178|This paper attempts to estimate to what extent global food production is affected by the ongoing environmental degradation through processes, such as soil erosion, salinization, chemical contamination, ultraviolet radiation, and biotic stress. Estimates have also been made of available opportunities to improve food-production efficiency by, e.g., increased use of fertilizers, irrigation, and biotechnology, as well as improved management. Expected losses and gains of agricultural land in competition with urbanization, industrial development, and forests have been taken into account. Although estimated gains in food production deliberately have been overestimated and losses underestimated, calculations indicate that during the next 30-35 years the annual net gain in food production will be significantly lower than the rate of world population growth. An attempt has also been made to identify possible scenarios for large-scale migrations caused mainly by rapid population growth in combination with insufficient local food production and poverty.
23322897|Forest degradation in West Africa is generally thought to have negative consequences on rural livelihoods but there is little overview of its effects in the region because the importance of forests to rural livelihoods has never been adequately quantified. Based on data from 1014 rural households across Burkina Faso and Ghana this paper attempts to fill this knowledge gap. We demonstrate that agricultural lands and the non-forest environment including parklands are considerably more valuable to poor as well as more well-off rural households than forests. Furthermore, product types supplied by the non-forest environment are almost identical with those from forests. Accordingly, forest clearance/degradation is profitable for and, hence, probably performed by rural people at large. We attribute rural people's high reliance on non-forest versus forest resources to the two countries' restrictive and inequitable forest policies which must be reformed to promote effective forest conservation, e.g., to mitigate climate change.
4312393|Epidemiological data on man cannot serve as a reliable basis for the detection of carcinogens and mutagens in the environment. Tumor induction tests on laboratory animals are prohibitively time consuming and expensive. Thousands of chemicals have to be screened. In this situation it is necessary to take advantage of the close correlation between mutagenic and carcinogenic effects of chemicals and to use short-term mutagenicity tests for the screening both of mutagenic and carcinogenic properties. Many tests have to be used, but the limited resources available for testing makes it necessary to apply a sequential screening procedure when a great number of chemicals are involved. The detection of potentially harmful chemicals can be done at a first level of testing through the use of sensitive bacterial systems. Second level tests can be performed on higher organisms, such as fruit flies, cell cultures and whole mammals. Evaluation and risk assessment can be done at the third level. However, there is a great need for research and development in this area. The evaluation of test results for regulatory actions cannot be performed in a routine manner, but requires cooperation between scientists and administrative bodies.
25515853|This article reviews the historical, instrumental, and future changes in climate for the northern latitudes of Canada. Discussion of historical climate over the last 10 000 years focuses on major climatic shifts including the Medieval Warm Period and the Little Ice Age, and how these changes compare with those most recently experienced during the period of instrumental records. In reference to the latter, details are noted about observed trends in temperature and precipitation that have been recorded over the last half century, which exhibit strong west to east and north to south spatial contrasts. A comprehensive review of future changes is also provided based on outputs from seven atmosphere-ocean global climate models and six emission scenarios. Discussion focuses on annual, seasonal, and related spatial changes for three 30-year periods centered on the 2020s, 2050s, and 2080s. In summary, substantial changes to temperature and precipitation are projected for the Canadian North during the twenty-first century. Although there is considerable variability within the various projections, all scenarios show higher temperature and, for the most part, increasing precipitation over the entire region.
4315814|Cyanobacteria of the Baltic Sea have multiple effects on organisms that influence the food chain dynamics on several trophic levels. Cyanobacteria contain several bioactive compounds, such as alkaloids, peptides, and lipopolysaccharides. A group of nonribosomally produced oligopeptides, namely microcystins and nodularin, are tumor promoters and cause oxidative stress in the affected cells. Zooplankton graze on cyanobacteria, and when ingested, the hepatotoxins (nodularin) decrease the egg production of, for example, copepods. However, the observed effects are very variable, because many crustaceans are tolerant to nodularin and because cyanobacteria may complement the diet of grazers in small amounts. Cyanobacterial toxins are transferred through the food web from one trophic level to another. The transfer rate is relatively low in the pelagic food web, but reduced feeding and growth rates of fish larvae have been observed. In the benthic food web, especially in blue mussels, nodularin concentrations are high, and benthic feeding juvenile flounders have been observed to disappear from bloom areas. In the littoral ecosystem, gammarids have shown increased mortality and weakening of reproductive success under cyanobacterial exposure. In contrast, mysid shrimps seem to be tolerant to cyanobacterial exposure. In fish larvae, detoxication of nodularin poses a metabolic cost that is reflected as decreased growth and condition, which may increase their susceptibility to predation. Cyanobacterial filaments and aggregates also interfere with both hydromechanical and visual feeding of planktivores. The feeding appendages of mysid shrimps may clog, and the filaments interfere with prey detection of pike larvae. On the other hand, a cyanobacterial bloom may provide a refuge for both zooplankton and small fish. As the decaying bloom also provides an ample source of organic carbon and nutrients for the organisms of the microbial loop, the zooplankton species capable of selective feeding may thrive in bloom conditions. Cyanobacteria also compete for nutrients with other primary producers and change the nitrogen (N): phosphorus (P) balance of their environment by their N-fixation. Further, the bioactive compounds of cyanobacteria directly influence other primary producers, favoring cyanobacteria, chlorophytes, dinoflagellates, and nanoflagellates and inhibiting cryptophytes. As the selective grazers also shift the grazing pressure on other species than cyanobacteria, changes in the structure and functioning of the Baltic Sea communities and ecosystems are likely to occur during the cyanobacterial bloom season.
4313434|The ecological systems of the nearshore waters and wetlands play similar ecosystemic roles in the Baltic and Great Lakes Basins. A major difference in the more detailed features relates to the phytal dominated by Fucus spp. (bladderwrack) in the more saline parts of the Baltic; the attached algae community in the Great Lakes that is broadly comparable to the Baltic's phytal is relatively less important, or so it seems now. Nearshore waters and wetlands are the loci for key self-organization processes within large aquatic ecosystems. They provide locales and resources for critical reproductive and feeding periods of large organisms (fish, shellfish, mammals, birds) that dominate and regulate other species in the aquatic realm. They tend to modulate sharp influences such as nutrient pulses, floods, etc. The nearshore waters of the Baltic and Great Lakes have all been degraded in part, but especially those near industrialized urban centers. Efforts toward rehabilitation of such ecological slums and toward preservation of relatively pristine heritage areas are now getting underway, if only slowly. Postindustrial societies are coming to value nearshore waters and wetlands far more than previous societies.
4313372|Eutrophication caused by excess nitrogen and the resulting plankton blooms in Kattegat on the west coast of Sweden have led to oxygen deficits in the bottom waters. Regional input of nitrogen affects southeastern Kattegat. The interdisciplinary project "Land Use-Water Quality" has identified the main sources and transport routes of nitrogen in the drainage basin
4312398|Chemical information systems are currently being developed for use in environmental protection and the control of toxic chemicals. The article reviews three such systems, a national one (DESCNET), a European one (ECDIN) and a global one (IRPTC). It considers their aims and methods of work and assesses their likely usefulness to those concerned with control of toxic chemicals. Some of the problems and drawbacks of these systems are discussed.
40390239|At present, small pelagic forage fish species (includes anchovies, herring, mackerel, sardines, etc.) represent the largest landed species group in capture fisheries (27.3 million t or 29.7% of total capture fisheries landings in 2006). They also currently constitute the major species group actively fished and targeted for nonfood uses, including reduction into fishmeal and fish oil for use within compound animal feeds, or for direct animal feeding; the aquaculture sector alone consumed the equivalent of about 23.8 million t of fish (live weight equivalent) or 87% in the form of feed inputs in 2006. This article attempts to make a global analysis of the competition for small pelagic forage fish for direct human consumption and nonfood uses, particularly concerning the important and growing role played by small pelagic forage fish in the diet and food security of the poor and needy, especially within the developing countries of Africa and the Sub-Saharan region.
24708968|For a deep geological repository for spent nuclear fuel planned in Sweden, the safety assessment covers up to 1 million years. Climate scenarios range from high-end global warming for the coming 100 000 years, through deep permafrost, to large ice sheets during glacial conditions. In contrast, in an existing repository for short-lived waste the activity decays to low levels within a few tens of thousands of years. The shorter assessment period, 100 000 years, requires more focus on climate development over the coming tens of thousands of years, including the earliest possibility for permafrost growth and freezing of the engineered system. The handling of climate and climate change in safety assessments must be tailor-made for each repository concept and waste type. However, due to the uncertain future climate development on these vast time scales, all safety assessments for nuclear waste repositories require a range of possible climate scenarios.
4312513|The biological conversion of organic residue to methane fuel has become increasingly attractive in recent years, and may be an extremely important source of energy in the future. Biogas plants which are inexpensive and simple to build and operate are gradually winning acceptance in both developed and developing countries, though there are many aspects of the technology which are still undergoing improvement.
40390243|In recent years, forestry has been strongly promoted by the government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam through large-scale projects to rehabilitate and reforest millions of hectares of land. One project to reforest 5 million hectares has received hundreds of millions of US dollars for implementation. Yet based on a case study in one area of northern Vietnam, this project appears to have had a number of unforeseen consequences. Large areas of land classified as "bare hills" have been targeted for reforestation, despite the fact that these lands already harbor a number of species that were used by local communities. The bare hills were especially economically important to poor households and to women who collected a variety of nontimber forest products there. Because the reforestation project focused most efforts on establishing new plantations rather than supporting natural regeneration, diverse sources of nontimber forest products were being replaced with monocrop exotic tree plantations. A strong inequity in the allocation of private lands for reforestation has characterized the regreening projects to date, and this may have continuing unwelcome social, environmental, and economic impacts into the future, particularly for the poor.
4315432|In environmental monitoring, it is important that the monitoring system should emit early warnings when undesired events occur. These events may be sudden or of a more subtle nature. In the design of such monitoring systems, a proper balance between cost and risk must be achieved. There are 2 classic types of risk connected with early warning systems, namely the risk of not detecting significant changes and the risk of false alarms. The purpose of this paper is to describe a method for comparing the performance of different monitoring systems, considering the classic types of risk and cost. The method is applied to the monitoring of the lichen cover as a test case. The expected utility has been used as a measure of performance. When estimating the probabilities of the events, spatial microsimulation and Monte-Carlo simulation techniques have been used. The monitoring programs studied are based on satellite images, aerial photos, field samples, and land-cover maps. The major conclusions of this study are that standardized quality measures are extremely useful for evaluating the usability of environmental monitoring methods. In addition, when estimating gains and costs, spatial microsimulation techniques are useful. To improve the method, however, macroconstraints should also be used for aligning the simulation model.
25094552|Burgeoning commercial harvests of wild edible fungi (Cantharellus formosus and C. subalbidus) from the forests of the Pacific Northwest in the United States and Canada have prompted land managers and scientists to begin monitoring the nature and impacts of this activity. This pilot study explores the unique sampling challenges that wild mushroom monitoring entails, especially the large sample area (0.4 ha or greater) and repeated visits, 3 to 6, needed to obtain reasonable estimates of unit-area productivity, given the spatial and temporal clustering of mushroom fruiting. During two years of sampling in various forest types on several land ownerships around the Olympic Peninsula of Washington State, a 3- to 20-fold, and occasionally greater, difference in productivity was noted between the most productive site and all the other sites. For forests in which harvesting was prohibited, a regression equation was developed that estimated the weight of nonharvested mushrooms from average cap diameters. Moisture contents of harvested mushrooms typically ranged from 80% to 95%, depending on weather conditions, but specimens as dry as 57% were found. Difficulties encountered with sampling chanterelles by commercial grade and correlating fruiting with site conditions are discussed. The paper concludes by considering the application of these results to future forest mushroom monitoring.
4314451|Estimates for anthropogenic CH
4315175|A severe reduction in the populations of grey and ringed seals in the Baltic occurred during the 1960s and 1970s. Adult animals showed (and still show) a series of lesions inter alia in the female reproductive organs, intestines, integument, kidneys, adrenals, and skulls (the Baltic seal disease complex). The morphology and prevalence of light microscopic changes in the kidneys of 76 grey seals and 29 ringed seals collected in the Baltic proper and the Gulf of Bothnia during 1977-1996 are presented in this report. Specific changes in the glomeruli were diffuse thickening of the capillary walls and the presence of large, rounded, hyaline bodies in the capillary or capsular walls. Specific changes in the distal convoluted tubules and the collecting ducts included focal replacement of the normal epithelium by multilayered cell proliferations. The prevalence and extent of the changes were age-related and thus correlated with the time of exposure to environmental toxicants. The lesions were more conspicuous in Baltic grey seals than in Baltic ringed seals. Similar findings were recorded in 5 grey seals from Swedish zoological gardens. These animals had been fed Baltic fish for most of their lives. Electron microscopy was performed on 5 of the Baltic grey seals and on one of the grey seals from zoological gardens. Electron microscopy results mainly based on findings in one of the Baltic grey seals, included mesangial interposition in the glomerular capillary walls and the characteristics of intercalated cells in cell proliferations in the distal parts of the nephrons. Eleven grey seals from the Scottish coast and 23 ringed seals from Svalbard served as reference material. None of the reference seals showed the specific lesions described above. The authors propose that organo-chlorine pollution of the Baltic environment is a factor in the cause of these kidney changes.
23253256|Recent studies have shown that the complexities of the surface features in mountainous terrain require a re-assessment of climate impacts at the local level. We explored the importance of surface-air-temperature based on a recently published 50-m-gridded dataset, versus soil variables for explaining vegetation distribution in Swedish Lapland using generalised linear models (GLMs). The results demonstrated that the current distribution of the birch forest and snowbed community strongly relied on the surface-air-temperature. However, temperature alone is a poor predictor of many plant communities (wetland, meadow). Because of diminishing sample representation with increasing altitude, the snowbed community was under-sampled at higher altitudes. This results in underestimation of the current distribution of the snowbed community around the mountain summits. The analysis suggests that caution is warranted when applying GLMs at the local level.
4314145|Recent estimates of the number of species inhabiting tropical forests, exceed those described scientifically by one order of magnitude. This diversity is threatened by the ongoing rapid destruction of tropical habitats and has led to the necessity for quick surveys to identify biodiversity rich areas. Sound recordings can represent a valuable tool for monitoring biodiversity of singing animals, especially in tropical areas under threat. Recordings from an Amazon lowland forest are analyzed and sound patterns, mainly generated by crickets (Gryllidae), are described. Plotting of song parameters such as carrier frequency and repetition rate, reveals clusters which can be attributed to putative cricket species. This allows diversity and abundance of the individuals composing e tropical cricket community to be assessed from the acoustic record only. Amplitude spectra of recordings from the canopy show a comb-like distribution of carrier frequencies which suggests optimal repartition of acoustic transmission channels, while those from secondary vegetation reveal reduced diversity by their "gappy" appearance.
4314741|The elevational tree-limit constitutes an ideal and sensitive proxy indicator of climate change and variability, i.e. an essential part of monitoring systems focusing on global climate change. That contention is purported by multi-scale records and reconstructions of changes in altitudinal tree-limits and northern boreal forests. Climatically forced trends in their position, structure and composition have occurred at all temporal scales throughout the Holocene. A progressive elevational descent of Pinus sylvestris tree-limit since the earliest Holocene, concurs with the deterministic theory of millennial climate forcing by changes in the Earth's orbital parameters. The successively less seasonal climate with cooler, more humid summers and winters with increasing snow cover has preconditioned the emergence of a subalpine birch forest belt during the past ca. 7000 yrs BP as well as the growing geo-ecological prominence of Picea abies. Superimposed on this long-term trend, climatic anomalies of shorter duration have been inferred from the tree-limit chronology. Some exceptionally warm and stable centuries, with high tree-limits and dense montane forests occurred during the Medieval period. Thereafter, the Little Ice Age prevailed until the late 19th century. Northern and high-elevation ecosystems were profoundly stressed, disturbed and destabilized by cold, windy and highly variable climate conditions. An episode of warmer climate during the the first half of the present century imposed some recovery of structures decayed by the Little Ice Age. However, tree-limits and high-elevation forests were far from restored to their medieval levels. During the past 4-5 decades, a more martime and slightly cooler climate has been instrumentally recorded. High-elevation arboreal vegetation has responded retrogressively by defoliation, retarded growth, ceasing regeneration and locally some tree-limit retraction. Neoglacial processes have been resumed, e.g. dieback of subalpine/alpine dwarf shrub heaths, followed by deflation of humus and surface mineral soils. These processes are readily monitored in a unique regional network, with baseline data since the early 20th century.
4313150|A computerized framework, tailored to the needs of developing countries, can serve as an information bank and guide to energy-data development; as an instrument for long-term projections of supply/demand configurations under alternative development scenarios; and as a vehicle for identifying and evaluating policy and technology options with respect to near- and long-term supply/demand balance, capital requirements, costs, benefits and foreign exchange impacts. As a practical example, the microcomputerbased LDC Energy Alternatives Planning (LEAP) System is introduced. A description is presented of its core programs for tracking end-use fuel requirements, energy production and distribution, and pressures on land use and biomass resources; its modules for more detailed demographic, agricultural and macroeconomic forecasts; and its policy-evaluation component for computing differences in costs and benefits between alternative future scenarios.
4313827|Erosion of mountain slopes by landslides and mudflows is mainly connected with extreme events such as rainstorms of high intensity or earthquake shocks as the trigger mechanism. Large mudflows can be very destructive and wipe out forests and villages and kill thousands of people. Monitoring and studies of mudflows are important for disaster prevention and for the sustainable use of land and water resources particularly in mountain areas threatened by deforestation. We describe and discuss cases of large mudflows in Norway, Tanzania, Brazil, Colombia and China.
4314264|Mercury (Hg) levels in soil, sediment, fish and bird feathers from nine sites in the Alto Paraguay River Basin were determined with a hydride-generator coupled to an AAS. Large quantities of Hg, used in goldmining, are dispersed directly into the air and the rivers running into Pantanal. The Pantanal ecosystem is of importance not only to the people who live, fish, and raise cattle here, but also to citizens in faraway cities, who eat fish from the region or benefit from the economic surplus generated by foreign tourists to Pantanal. Local, commercially important, catfish (Pseudoplatystoma coruscans) had a Hg content above the limit for human consumption (0.5 ppm w.w.), and significantly above the natural background level. Mercury content in bird feathers also indicated biomagnification. No statistically significant accumulation of Hg was found in soil and sediment samples. Evidently, Hg originating in the amalgamation process has a higher bioavailability than Hg naturally present in soil minerals. Techniques for recycling the Hg used in gold mining have not succeeded in decreasing the dispersion of Hg. Restrictions on the international trade of Hg would probably reduce Hg pollution significantly.
25547799|Rapid screening methods can improve the cost effectiveness, throughput, and quality of risk assessments of contaminated sites. In the present case study, the objective was to evaluate a combination of pressurized liquid extraction and 2 in vitro bioassays for the hazard assessment of surface soil sampled from 46 points across a pyrotechnical industrial site. Pressurized liquid extraction was used to rapidly produce soil-water extracts compatible with 2 high-capacity bioassays. Hazard assessment using combined toxicological and chemical screening revealed zones with relatively high potential risks of metal pollution. Multivariate data analysis provided indications that significant inhibition in the bioassays was correlated with levels of metals in the extracts, suggesting an elevated toxic potential from certain metals. Low pH and high concentrations of dissolved organic carbon were associated with increased cytotoxicity of extracts, indicating that these factors influence metal bioavailability. The cytotoxicity observed was more strongly correlated to metal concentrations in the extracts than in the soil, suggesting that measurements of total metal concentrations in soils do not provide good indications of the soil's potential toxicity.
4313162|Three years of experience with the development of wood gasifiers for 3.7-kW engines is described. Four prototypes were built and tested for obtaining gas of good quality, free from tar and dust, at a nominal flow of
25547876|The sediment loads of many of the world's major rivers have changed significantly in recent years due to land-use change, reservoir construction, and other human impacts on their drainage basins. For many rivers, the loads have decreased, whereas for others, they have increased. Such changes can have important implications for both the natural functioning of the system as well as for human exploitation of the river system. This paper considers the evidence for recent changes in the sediment load of the Mekong River. The available data have a number of limitations in terms of both sampling frequency and the period of coverage, but they have been processed to provide a basis for considering the changes in the sediment load of the river over the period extending from the early 1960s to 2002. Although there is evidence of increasing loads at some measuring stations, the overall trends show little evidence of major changes, and the system provides evidence of buffering through storage. As of 2002, the construction of major dams on the headwaters in China appears to have had little impact on the sediment load, although as further larger dams are commissioned, the sediment load of the Mekong can be expected to decrease.
4313243|Seals have a long association with man. They provide subsistence products for primitive communities and commercial harvest for industrialized societies. Seals have generally been perceived as damaging to fisheries; fisheries also have adverse effects on seals by possible competition with them for food and through by-catch. Entanglement with "ghost-nets" and other debris is a significant but unquantifiable cause of seal mortality. Pollutants in the marine environment are also damaging to seals and habitat destruction and disturbance can be locally significant. However, in general prospects for seals are good. Research is adding to the information base needed for scientific management of seal populations.
24708802|In general, approved Total Allowable Catches (TACs) are higher than proposed TACs by the scientific assessment and reported landings approved are higher than approved TAC. We build a simple enforcement agency's behavior model that generatesas a rational behaviorthose two facts. The model has two ingredients. First, there exists illegal fishing generated by an imperfect enforcement technology; second, the enforcement agency cannot commit on announced penalties. We show that lack of commitment increases the potential benefits for national enforcement agency of deviating from proposal (scientific optimal) quotas. Although the enforcement agency wants to announce a low quota target to induce a low level of illegal harvest, it will find optimal to revise the quota announced in order to reduce penalties and improve fishermen welfare. Therefore, agencies find it optimal to approve higher quotas than that proposed by the scientific advice. Our main result is to show that when full compliance is not possible, and national agencies cannot commit, the introduction of Individual Transferable Quotas increases the potential benefits for agencies of deviating from the optimal proposed TAC by the scientific advised.
4314679|To characterize the environmental fate of chemicals in soil, results obtained in short-term laboratory tests are commonly used, together with data on degradation and physical/chemical properties. As long as the chemical is dissolved or in equilibrium with the solid and water phase of the soil, such results and data are often applicable to describe its environmental fate. However, it is becoming increasingly evident that descriptions of the fate of chemicals in natural environments have to incorporate the effects of different scales in soil structure and nonequilibrium processes for degradation, sorption/desorption, and transport. In terms of chemical leaching, outdoor lysimeter experiments conducted under nonsteady state flow conditions are good alternatives to laboratory tests, as they can simulate field situations quite well. In this paper, results from a number of leaching studies carried out using undisturbed field lysimeters and laboratory studies on degradation kinetics of chemicals are described. Attention has been focused on comparing these results with what one could expect in terms of environmental fate based on 'standard' inherent properties of the chemical, and the problems involved with using such properties as input in environmental fate models.
4312359| Lead and cadmium concentrations were investigated in annual growth rings of 10 trees growing in the Royal Park Djurgrden in Stockholm. The trees sampled included six oaks, one ash, one pine, one spruce and one larch. Increment cores from the trees were divided into 5-year segments. Analyses were made with a Perkin-Elmer 503 atomic absorption spectrophotometer. The longest sample series covers 150 years. The lead concentration in the tree rings is very low during the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th. A slight increase occurred during the years 1946-50, with a marked increase after 1951 up to a present level ranging from 10-20 ppm. This is true for all trees growing adjacent to roads. The lead content of the tree rings reflects the changes in traffic volume during the post-war period. Cadmium shows a more irregular pattern. 
4313830| A doubling of the present global atmospheric CO
4313912|The development of industry and a welfare state in Sweden has been accompanied by and, to some extent, spurred on by a rapid increase inmetal production. As in other modern societies a range of increasingly sophisticated metallic products have been developed. Emissions from both production and consumption (use) of these products have induced changes that overwhelm the natural biogeochemical cycle of trace elements in many ecosystems. It is contended that in order to understand the environmental problems of tomorrow it is necessary to study the total flows of various substances in a historical perspective. In order to plot the immission landscape at different times, emission, flow and accumulation of lead have been reconstructed. The importance of different sources is discussed and the regional anthropogenic contribution in relation to the natural background levels, orginating from bedrock, is elucidated. The calculated amounts for both production and consumption emissions were approximately 190 000 tonnes. The share of consumption emissions was 85% with about a quarter each for ammunition and petrol and one third for other sources (e.g. lead pigments, cables and batteries). Emissions from point sources (e.g. metalworks) have resulted in large amounts of accumulated lead in the soil and sediment. As the use of lead products is related to the distribution of the population, the most dominant regions are urban areas, which increasingly can be regarded as ecological "hot spots".
4314867|The tropical duckweed Lemna aequinoctialis Welwitsch (Lemnaceae) was collected in Thailand and the Philippines, so that an efficient toxicological bioassay for tropical environments could be developed. Optimal conditions required for conducting ecotoxicological growth tests were investigated and the resulting test manual was used to test the effects of heavy metals ( Cd
4313601|The Thousand Lake Survey was conducted in Norway in the autumn of 1986 to determine both the chemical and the fish status of lakes in areas sensitive to acidic deposition. The survey was also designed to detect possible changes in water quality and fish status as a follow-up to the extensive regional surveys which were conducted in 1974-1975. Lakes and watersheds in widespread areas of southern Norway are affected by acidic precipitation. The greatest loss of fish populations is to be found in southernmost Norway. The number of barren lakes in southernmost and southwestern Norway has doubled since 1971-1975. The chemical changes in these lakes are characterized by a decrease in calcium and sulfate and an increase in aluminum and nitrate concentrations. There has been little change in pH levels. The total land area affected by acidification has increased from
4313719| Man-made chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) such as
4314546| The so-called "greenhouse gases", or "hothouse" gases as Arrhenius called them, are not the only radiatively active substances being added to the atmosphere by humans. A different class of matter, aerosols, consisting of small particles of condensed matter suspended in the air, has several climatic effects besides a small amount of absorption of infrared radiation. The particles that constitute the smoke and haze of industrial regions arise both as smoke from combustion and as the products of atmospheric chemical reactions, e.g. of sulfur dioxide from burning of coal. The direct effect of aerosols on the Earth's heat balance consists of their reflection of solar radiation back to space. Their indirect effect derives from their roles as the nuclei around which cloud droplets form. Adding more of these cloud condensation nuclei increases the reflectivity of clouds, a very important determinant of climate as discussed by Arrhenius. Aerosols may also influence the longevity of clouds and thus the fraction of earth covered by them-the "nebulosity" mentioned by Arrhenius. An additional direct effect of aerosols is light absorption by black soot particles, which can influence both clear and cloudy skies. Although quantitative assessments of these effects of aerosols have been developed only in recent years, there have been extensive studies and observations of their roles in climate, particularly the ancient observation that large volcanic eruptions caused large-scale cooling to occur. Interestingly, several of the early key studies were also conducted in Sweden, notably by ngstrm and Bergeron. The present understanding is that man-made aerosols have a cooling effect, but that it is somewhat smaller in the global mean than the warming effect of the man-made greenhouse gases and is spatially and temporally very different. Thus, no simple cancellation of the two effects can occur. This paper reviews the historical development of the understanding and quantification of direct aerosol effects on climate. Particular attention will be paid to comparing the parallel approaches to quantifying the effects of greenhouse gases and anthropogenic sulfate aerosols, respectively, which were both developed in Sweden, albeit almost a century apart. 
4313970|Everywhere in the developed world there is great emphasis placed on preserving natural ecosystems. But examining nature conservation objectives in Britain and North America reveals striking differences in conservation purpose and in interpretation of what is natural. In Britain, conservation means intervention and active manipulation of the environment. In North America, conservation management is rooted in assumptions about the purity and inviolability of wilderness. Canadians have been markedly less concerned about conservation and wilderness than Americans. Brief management scenarios illustrate sharply different British and North American approaches to similar conservation questions. The internal logic supporting both these approaches is inconsistent and flawed. Nonetheless, there are key commonalities leading to the public undervaluation of the importance of nature conservation on both sides of the Atlantic.
4313776|Approximately 7.1 million hectares of tropical closed forests are cleared annually. A major reason for this high rate of exploitation is that many functions of tropical forests are currently undervalued by those responsible for their management and use. Governments often reinforce and even exacerbate these tendencies by employing misguided policies and sanctioning inappropriate resource rights to forests. The economic factors contributing to deforestation in three key tropical forest countries, Brazil, Indonesia and Zaire, are examined. The potential role of preserving tropical forests to control the greenhouse effect is also discussed. With the currect policies, and careful valuation of the 'unpriced' services of forests, excessive tropical deforestation can be substantially reduced.
41417301|Globally, urban growth will add 1.5 billion people to cities by 2030, making the difficult task of urban water provisions even more challenging. In this article, we develop a conceptual framework of urban water provision as composed of three axes: water availability, water quality, and water delivery. For each axis, we calculate quantitative proxy measures for all cities with more than 50,000 residents, and then briefly discuss the strategies cities are using in response if they are deficient on one of the axes. We show that 523 million people are in cities where water availability may be an issue, 890 million people are in cities where water quality may be an issue, and 1.3 billion people are in cities where water delivery may be an issue. Tapping into groundwater is a widespread response, regardless of the management challenge, with many cities unsustainably using this resource. The strategies used by cities deficient on the water delivery axis are different than for cities deficient on the water quantity or water quality axis, as lack of financial resources pushes cities toward a different and potentially less effective set of strategies.
4312116|The discharge of air- and water pollutants from the Swedish pulp and paper industry is rapidly decreasing. This decrease results both from pressure exerted by the regulations in the Environment Protection Act and from the process improvements and development work done by the Swedish pulp and paper industry. This article discusses the environmental effects from the manufacture of pulp and paper. Special emphasis is given to the measures for decreasing pollution developed during the SSVL Environmental Care Project.
4314454|Rural industrialization and small-town growth are prominent and distinctive features of China's phenomenal economic growth since the Open Door Policy was introduced around 1980. Such developments are most advanced in the coastal provinces, but are steadily diffusing westwards. Major concerns of these developments are their impact on China's food production capability and a general degradation of the rural environment. The trend of progressive land loss since the 1950s has been accentuated, the pollution burden in rural areas has risen, and workers have been attracted away from agriculture by the greater rewards of industrial work with a consequent lowering of land maintenance and husbandry standards. Resource constraints and the administrative system limit the likely effectiveness of environmental protection by coercion. Incentives, through the tax system, are suggested as a possible approach to limiting the environmental impacts of rural industrialization, but must be complemented by strenuous measures to enhance environmental awareness.
4314346|Uptake and deleterious effects of leachates from chromated copper arsenate (CCA) wood have been found. High levels of metals, particularly copper (Cu), and in some cases arsenic (As) accumulate in biota that live on the wood, and have reduced community diversity. The contaminants in these organisms may be transferred to their consumers, with deleterious effects. Metals leached from the wood can also be adsorbed onto fine sediment particles from which they can be accumulated by benthic organisms. Benthic organisms in sediments adjacent to the wood exhibit reduced community diversity and elevated metal concentrations. The extent and severity of effects in any particular area will depend on the amount of wood, its age, water-quality parameters, and the degree of dilution by water movement.
4314975|Changbai Mountain Biosphere Reserve located in northeastern China is one of the biggest reserves in China and is very rich in biodiversity. For many reasons, e.g. social and economic factors, serious problems relating to biodiversity conservation are now obvious in this area. The current status of biodiversity, the problems of biodiversity conservation, and the strategy for research and management in this reserve are presented in this paper.
4315472|The introduction into the Baltic Sea of hazardous substances that are persistent, bioaccumulate, and are toxic is an important environmental and human health problem. Multilateral efforts to address this problem have primarily been taken under the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM). This article examines past HELCOM efforts on hazardous substances, and discusses future challenges regarding their management. The article finds that past actions on hazardous substances have had a positive effect on improving Baltic environmental quality and reducing human health risks, although there are remaining issues and difficulties that need to be addressed. In particular, four related future challenges for HELCOM management of hazardous substances are identified and discussed: i) the need to engender further implementation and building public and private sector capacities; ii) the need to improve data availability, quality and comparability across the region and international fora; iii) the need to strengthen existing regulations and incorporate new issues; and iv) the need to effectively coordinate HELCOM activities with efforts on hazardous substances in other international fora.
25515793|Introduced reindeer, Rangifer tarandus, overexploited lichen-rich plant communities on St. Matthew Island in the Bering Sea. A die-off of the reindeer followed, exacerbated by extreme weather in 1964, resulting in extirpation of the reindeer. A similar pattern of removal of lichens as major components of plant communities has occurred following introductions of reindeer to other islands at high latitudes. By 1985, two decades following die-off of the reindeer, total lichen biomass was only 6% of that in similar plant communities on adjacent Hall Island, not reached by the reindeer. By 2005, 41 y after the reindeer die-off, lichen regrowth on St. Matthew was only 12% of lichen biomass in the Hall Island communities. A warmer, drier climate and decreased fog in recent decades contributed to deterioration of conditions favoring lichen growth on St. Matthew Island.
41418322|During the past decade, the Arctic has experienced its highest temperatures of the instrumental record, even exceeding the warmth of the 1930s and 1940s. Recent paleo-reconstructions also show that recent Arctic summer temperatures are higher than at any time in the past 2000 years. The geographical distribution of the recent warming points strongly to an influence of sea ice reduction. The spatial pattern of the near-surface warming also shows the signature of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation in the Pacific sector as well as the influence of a dipole-like circulation pattern in the Atlantic sector. Areally averaged Arctic precipitation over the land areas north of 55N shows large year-to-year variability, superimposed on an increase of about 5% since 1950. The years since 2000 have been wetter than average according to both precipitation and river discharge data. There are indications of increased cloudiness over the Arctic, especially low clouds during the warm season, consistent with a longer summer and a reduction of summer sea ice. Storm events and extreme high temperature show signs of increases. The Arctic Ocean has experienced enhanced oceanic heat inflows from both the North Atlantic and the North Pacific.The Pacific inflows evidently played a role in the retreat of sea ice in the Pacific sector of the Arctic Ocean, while the Atlantic water heat influx has been characterized by increasingly warm pulses. Recent shipboard observations show increased ocean heat storage in newly sea-ice-free ocean areas, with increased influence on autumn atmospheric temperature and wind fields.
4314109|A survey was carried out for 20 forested and five moorland catchments in northern and central Wales to determine the relative importance of vegetation type, plantation age and nitrogen deposition on nitrate losses to stream water. Plantations ranged from 10 to 55-yrs of age and inorganic-N inputs in throughfall from 9 to 25 kg N ha
4312095|The pesticide contents of 113 daily food samples collected by double portion technique from a group of 67-year-old Swedish pensioners have been investigated. The results show that the risk for exposure to high levels of pesticide residues in normal food is very low in Sweden. In no case did levels of pesticide residues in the samples analyzed exceed the safety levels set by the World Health Organization (WHO).
4314415|A case study is presented, determining the cash value of secondary products and their potential to provide a foundation for stimulation of underdeveloped rural economies. Secondary products are natural indigenous resources available from a given piece of land co-incidental to the primary management objective. The cash value of four selected secondary products are considered (marula fruits, fuelwood, thatch grass, carving timber) for the study area. The results suggest that there is considerable value locked up in secondary products. Local communities and entrepreneurs do harvest a small proportion of the secondary products for local consumption and commercial gain, respectively, but vast quantities of secondary products remain unavailable due to protectionist land-use policies. Adjustment of these policies, and development of local processing centers for the raw materials can provide the basis for significant employment opportunities and stimulation of the local rural economy. It appears that ecological impacts of harvesting on a larger scale would be limited, but this requires attention.
4312535|According to the authors of this paper the records of several thousand men who died from various causes after working in a US nuclear facility show evidence of a rising cancer risk with rising dose. The records also showed that there was no question of the dose levels lying outside the range of permissible doses, and it was finally concluded that the cancer risk from low level radiation could be ten to twenty times higher than estimates based on A-bomb survivors. This conclusion has been hotly disputed and the present paper is an attempt to show that none of the objections which have so far been raised is soundly based. The paper concludes with a suggestion that since the A-bomb radiation was a known cause of early deaths from bone marrow depression, there could easily have been some masking of later cancer deaths as a result of potentially active bone marrow being replaced by scar tissue.
4312691|Heavy metal deposition from the atmosphere has been monitored in rural areas in Denmark by analyses of bulk precipitation and bryophytes and lichens. The regional deposition in the southern and northern parts of the country is compared with the variation of heavy metal concentrations in oxen kidneys from the same two regions. The investigations all showed significantly higher concentrations of Cd, Cu and Pb in the southern region, whereas no regional difference in Zn concentrations could be detected.
4314215|Spatial patterns of defoliation of Norway spruce (Picea abies) in southern Norway were investigated by stratifying plots according to tree age, elevation and relative degree of defoliation considering the general forest condition in the study area. We found an agglomeration of 75% of the plots with relatively high defoliation. The defoliation in the area could not be explained from historic patterns of forest site productivity, tree age, topography, distribution of vegetation types, distribution of soil types or soil depth, distance to coast or altitude. The area with poor forest receives the highest acidic deposition in southern Norway, and is consistent with other investigations of fish die-back and soil and lake acidification. Forest soils are clearly acid with a lower buffering capacity and up to 50% lower status of exchangeable base cations compared to the remaining study area. Sulfate deposition has exceeded the MAGIC-calculated critical loads for this area, and the pollution excess was well correlated to amount of defoliation. To our knowledge, this is the first time that forest damage in terms of defoliation has been correlated to excess of modelled critical loads. On sites with positive excess of critical loads, defoliation exceeded an absolute value of 30%. We report a pattern of defoliation consistent with potential cumulative effects of long-range transported air pollution. If the pattern of defoliation is caused by air pollution as results indicate, then northern forest ecosystems may, in spite of their moderate pollution loads, be far more vulnerable than previously suspected.
4312021|Methyl mercury accumulation in fish is theoretically studied by means of a mathematical model for a three-step food chain. The model assumes gain of methyl mercury in proportion to intake of oxygen and food, these in turn being size-dependent. Some properties of the model are analyzed with the specific aim of getting guidance for further research activities. This analysis lends, quantitatively, support to the belief that direct uptake of methyl mercury from water is the most important subject for further study.
4312910|National Parks and Protected Areas of Canada and the United States are joined through the World Heritage Convention to form an international World Heritage Site. This site comprises the most extensive coastal mountain massif in North America and includes over 2000 glaciers. Among these, the Klutlan glacier covered in volcanic ash some 1200 years ago supports a forest of spruce and its associated fauna. Dall sheep, grizzly bears and other large mammals are found in abundance. Nowhere else in the world will one find the diversity provided by a coastal climate, mountain peaks of 5900 meters and an arid interior plateau at 760 meters. Still much remains to be learned about this vast secluded area of North America.
4312092|The growth of young mice sucking milk containing DDT and PCB has been studied. The experimental animals were found to grow faster than the controls during their first 16 days of life. Later the reverse was true, and at the age of 33 days differences in weight could no longer be demonstrated.
4312326|The northern coastal area of the Mediterranean is relatively well-watered by precipitation and by the hydrographic network, but the southern shore is arid, with a generally poor hydrographic system. Efforts to inventory water resources, with special emphasis on groundwater, have been made. Development of water resources has concentrated on reducing "losses to the sea" through the building of storage dams and the use of groundwater reservoirs. Solidarity, or the sharing of water resources within a nation or between nations, is an interesting possibility. Proposals to improve the present state of knowledge of freshwater resources are suggested.
24708801|One would hypothesize that the Common Fisheries Policy, as the umbrella framework for fisheries management in the EU would have the greatest impact on fishers' communities across Europe. There are, however, biological, economic, social, and political factors, which vary among fishing communities that can affect how these communities react to changes. This paper explores the links between institutional arrangements and ecological dynamics in two European inshore fisheries socio-ecological systems, using a resilience framework. The Mediterranean small-scale fishers do not seem to have been particularly affected by the Common Fisheries Policy regulations but appear affected by competition with the politically strong recreational fishers and the invasion of the rabbit fish population. The inshore fishers along the East coast of Scotland believe that their interests are not as sufficiently protected as the interests of their offshore counterpart. Decisions and initiatives at global, EU, and sometimes national level, tend to take into account those fisheries sectors which have a national economic importance. A socio-ecological analysis can shift the focus from biological and economic aspects to more sustainable long-term delivery of environmental benefits linked to human wellbeing.
25434346|Modern concerns with climate change often overlook the extensive history of both climate change and human adaptation over the millennia. While questions of human-climate system causation are important, especially to the extent that our current behavior is driving environmental change, human societies have experienced multiple climate changes in the past, independent of causation. The histories of cultural adaptation to those changes can help us understand the dynamic interaction between climate and society, expanding the possibilities for "proactive adaptation" that may be available to us today. The underlying principles of cultural adaptation are generally independent of the source of the climate change, and the lessons of the past can suggest social and economic paths that can lead toward sustainability and away from collapse.
4314923|Radiocarbon-dated lacustrine sedimentary evidence indicates that glaciers of variable size occupied the southwestern cirques on Mount Kenya during much of the last 6000 years. Pro-glacial lacustrine sediments obtained from Hausberg Tarn reveal distinct variations in rock-flour content whereas the sediments in Oblong Tarn, a nearby nonpro-glacial lake of similar size and appearance to Hausberg Tarn show no such variations. The lamination is therefore likely to be directly related to erosion by the glaciers draining into the upper lake in Hausberg Valley. Six major periods of glacier advances have been dated to shortly before 5700, 4500-3900, 3500-3300, 3200-2300, 1300-1200, and 600-400 cal. years BP. Radiocarbon dating of the bottom sediments from both Naro Moru and Hausberg Tarn, is consistent with a marked glacier expansion that occurred shortly before 5700 cal. years BP. This advance reached approximately 1 km farther downvalley compared with the advances of the Little Ice Age. Modelling of the climate conditions required for this mid-Holocene Mount Kenya advance shows that a lowering of the equilibrium line altitude (ELA) by 100 m for a few hundred years could cause a glacier advance of the inferred magnitude. The glacier advances are attributed primarily to changes in temperature because several independent paleoclimatic studies from East Africa and other areas affected by the Indian monsoon indicate a relatively dry climate at times of glacier advance on Mount Kenya.
4314759| Lake Jrnsjn is located in Emn tributary, southern Sweden, and has in the past received wastewater from a paper mill using recycled paper contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Health of perch (Perca fluviatilis) was studied with physiological and morphological methods before and after removal of the PCB-contaminated sediment. Before the remedial activity, perch from the PCB-polluted Jrnsjn were morphologically characterized by gill and liver damage with small biochemical/physiological effects. An unexpected nonresponsiveness of perch liver EROD-CYP1A system was discovered. The results seem to indicate that PCB contamination alone cannot explain this observation. Two years after the removal of PCB perch appeared healthy in Jrnsjn. However, some female perch from the lower region of Emn showed severe gonad anomaly. The results may indicate that these perch were affected by the activities in addition to the remedial activity in Jrnsjn. 
4315544|The possible role of minerals in prebiotic chemistry is discussed. Reactions involving the transformation of inorganic forms of the biogenic elements into simple organic molecules are emphasized. Three central issues are presented in detail: i) the types of reactions minerals could possibly have promoted; ii) the availability of minerals with catalytic potential on early Earth; and iii) the available research strategy and methods to evaluate the roles minerals may have played in prebiotic chemistry on early Earth.
4312786|Consequences of two of the lowest level militarily significant uses of nuclear weapons against targets in the Germanies are discussed: Preemptive attacks against 171 locations of nuclear weapons and their delivery vehicles, and "Battlefield" use of many hundreds of nuclear weapons against targets such as columns of armored vehicles. These nuclear exchanges are large enough so that they would probably lead to global nuclear war. Even in the absence of further exchanges, however, these purely "military" nuclear attacks would result in the unintentional deaths of one million to more than ten million civilians.
4311957|The increased consumption of energy for production and transportation generates a "waste problem" in the form of unwanted sound. The radiation of sound from a single source, an airplane for example, will disturb more and more people in consequence of urbanization. Urban man is more or less constantly exposed to sounds from our technology-created environment and because of the biological conservatism of our bodies this leads to so-called stress reactions. It is the mental process which determines whether we are exposed to disturbing noise (significance) or more noise (sound level). In the article these problems are discussed in connection with how urban and regional physical planning can eliminate the negative effects of aircraft noise for the 115,000 residents around Arlanda airport in the Greater Stockholm area.
4313781|Degradation of the range in pastoral economies is widely put down to the existence of a "common property problem" (CPP) arising out of communal ownership and leading to excess holdings of livestock. Examining first the reasons for accumulating livestock in traditional livestock systems, this article looks more closely at the physical processes of range degradation, reviewing recent literature, and argues that inadequate account has been taken of the difference between average rainfall years and drought and immediate post-drought years in which degradation under the CPP, if it occurs will be concentrated.
4313015|Given the population projections for the year 2100, what basic constraints does the water cycle present? The author argues that the main problem is how to manage water under conditions of scarcity. The crucial interaction "Man-Vegetation-Water-Soil" makes the partial water blindness in ecology a serious obstacle. A new ecological approach and a profound re-thinking has to replace the present technically biased approach to water.
4313432|Efforts to redevelop large degraded ecosystems are often long-term undertakings. As a result, they are constrained as much by social and economic processes as by natural ones. Therefore, effective redevelopment strategies for Great Lakes and Baltic ecosystems are likely to be those that best contend with the long-term change of many important cultural processes. Great Lakes America and Baltic Europe are geographically defined economic regions closely tied to the large aquatic ecosystems that lie in their midst. They can be used as a framework for exploring opportunities and constraints of regional trends of societal development for ecosystem redevelopment.
4315330|Changes in climate are occurring around the world and the effects on ecosystems will vary, depending on the extent and nature of these changes. In northern Europe, experts predict that annual rainfall will increase significantly, along with dramatic storm events and flooding in the next 50-100 years. Scotland is a stronghold of the endangered freshwater pearl mussel, Margaritifera margaritifera (L.), and a number of populations may be threatened. For example, large floods have been shown to adversely affect mussels, and although these stochastic events were historically rare, they may now be occurring more often as a result of climate change. Populations may also be affected by a number of other factors, including predicted changes in temperature, sea level, habitat availability, host fish stocks and human activity. In this paper, we explain how climate change may impact M. margaritifera and discuss the general implications for the conservation management of this species.
4312070|A doubling of world population by 2015 could have consequences for the global climate. Expected increases in atmospheric pollutants, thermal pollution and modifications to the earth's surface are human activities that have potential to influence climate inadvertently. In addition, purposeful climate modification schemes (such as creating artificial lakes or melting the Arctic Sea ice) may be proposed with increasing seriousness as world food shortages (induced by projected population growth and/or climatic fluctuation) become commonplace. Already there is droughtinduced hunger and starvation in parts of central Africa, and the prospect for a more widespread food crisis in the 1970s is ominous. Unfortunately, knowledge of climate theory is still too primitive to trace reliably climatic cause and effect links, and therefore it is argued that large-scale climate modification schemes appear irresponsible. In any case, international authorities must eventually be established to deal with potential world conflicts arising from future problems of food production and climate change-whether purposeful or inadvertent.
41417264|Policy and research issues in the framing and qualities of uncertainties in risks are analyzed, based on the assessments of dioxin-like compounds (DLCs) and other ingredients in Baltic Sea fish, a high-profile case of governance. Risks are framed broadly, to then focus on dioxins and beneficial fatty acids, fish consumption, human health, and science-management links. Hierarchies of uncertainty (data, model, decision rule, and epistemic) and ambiguity (of values) are used to identify issues of scientific and policy contestation and opportunities for resolving them. The associated complexity of risks is illustrated by riskbenefit analyses of fish consumption and by evaluations of guideline values, highlighting value contents and policy factors in presumably scientific decision criteria, and arguments used in multi-dimensional risk and benefit comparisons. These comparisons pose challenges to narrow assessments centered, for e.g., on toxicants or on food benefits, and to more many-sided and balanced risk communication and management. It is shown that structured and contextualized treatment of uncertainties and ambiguities in a reflexive approach can inform balances between wide and narrow focus, detail and generality, and evidence and precaution.
4315614|There have been many studies of what influences consumers in their decisions to purchase or consume organic foods, mainly concerned with fresh organic foods. These show a discrepancy between attitudes and behavior with people being positive about organic foods but often not purchasing them. This discrepancy seems to be explained by the fact that consumers do not consider "organically produced" to be an important purchase criterion, that organic foods are not perceived to surpass conventional foods regarding taste and shelf life (two qualities rated to be of great importance), and because of the perceived premium prices of organic foods. In two Swedish studies, health benefits were demonstrated to be more strongly related to attitudes and behavior toward organic foods than were perceived environmental benefits. A new European Union (EU) project will investigate the influences on both fresh and processed organic foods and investigate the role of moral, ethical, and affective influences on choice across eight EU countries.
4312001|Bearing in mind the increasing acidity of soil and water, the frequency of hatching of fish eggs (zebra fish, Brachydanio rerio) reared at different ambient pH's has been studied. At neutrality about 50 percent of the eggs will hatch, at pH 4 only four percent. The early stages of the fish embryos are most sensitive to acid environments. The time necessary for complete development of the embryos is prolonged in acid solutions and shortened at alkaline pH's.
4313239|Marine mammals and fisheries interact in many ways. Marine mammals become entangled in nets, causing damage but often drowning themselves. They compete with fishermen for the same species of fish, and are carriers of parasites which may reduce the value of fish catches. The extent of these interactions are increasing with the development of new fisheries, and the recovery of some stocks, especially of seals, from the effects of earlier over-exploitation.
4314283|Clouds play an important role in the climate system, and strongly modify radiation conditions in the atmosphere and at the earth's surface. Present estimations show that the net impact of clouds in the atmosphere results in a cooling several times larger than the expected warming that would result from a doubling of the CO
41805980|Increasing partial pressure of atmospheric CO is causing ocean pH to falla process known as 'ocean acidification'. Scenario modeling suggests that ocean acidification in the Baltic Sea may cause a  3 times increase in acidity (reduction of 0.2-0.4 pH units) by the year 2100. The responses of most Baltic Sea organisms to ocean acidification are poorly understood. Available data suggest that most species and ecologically important groups in the Baltic Sea food web (phytoplankton, zooplankton, macrozoobenthos, cod and sprat) will be robust to the expected changes in pH. These conclusions come from (mostly) single-species and single-factor studies. Determining the emergent effects of ocean acidification on the ecosystem from such studies is problematic, yet very few studies have used multiple Stressors and/or multiple trophic levels. There is an urgent need for more data from Baltic Sea populations, particularly from environmentally diverse regions and from controlled mesocosm experiments. In the absence of such information it is difficult to envision the likely effects of future ocean acidification on Baltic Sea species and ecosystems.
4315515|This paper discusses the role of companies in high-latitude regions, which are conceptualized as socially and economically mediated ecosystems, and identifies a number of important social actors within the business environment. We present three examples of corporate activity at high latitudes and discuss a variety of common threads. Notably, we argue that business theory and practice needs to move beyond a narrow social or economic concept of organizational resilience and embrace the ecological resilience of high-latitude regions as a business management goal. We also suggest that regional ecosystem resilience needs to become a meaningful measure of sustainable corporate governance, one that corporate boards of directors can review and commit to. The paper concludes with a call for a detailed research agenda on the role of transnational and national companies within high-latitude regions.
4313783|This study measures the value of ecotourism at a tropical rain-forest site in Costa Rica using the travel cost method. By observing travel behavior, the study reveals that Costa Rican visitors are willing to pay considerably for the experience of visiting the site. The present value of the site per hectare, based on domestic and foreign use alone, is found to be 1 - 2 magnitudes greater than the purchase price currently paid by the reserve for acquisition of new lands. This estimate does not include other potential preservation values such as harvesting of commodities (fruit, latex, etc.), protection of watersheds, or protection of wildlife habitat and rare species.
4314438|The paper provides some general information on Gaborone, Botswana's capital city. The city's growth, environmental problems and administrative structures are explored within the context of sustainable urban development. Sustainable development is viewed as comprising economic, environ-mental and political concerns. It is argued that the city's path towards sustainability is greatly shaped by the country's development strategy and administrative structures. The development strategy is defined as urban biased and administrative structures, highly centralized with minimum involvement by nongovernmental organizations and community-based organizations in the decision making processes. The main conclusion drawn is that Botswana's efforts towards the realization of sustainable development-as contained in the country's National Conservation Strategy-have not yet been adequately incorporated into the country's urban planning practice.
4311969|In a sample of locally resident East African birds belonging to many different trophic types, low levels of organochlorine residues were detected. In eight of 29 specimens examined, DDE was below detection limit. PCB was not detected in any bird. This suggests that Palaearctic migratory birds are exposed to relatively low environmental levels of these contaminants during their stay in these parts of tropical Africa. Other studies have indicated that neither do they pick up a great deal of residues in their breeding areas, for example in northern Europe. They probably accumulate a major portion of their contaminant loads during their migratory journeys between Eurasia and Africa.
4312856| Psychological assessments of children, aged 3 to 6, were correlated with blood lead concentrations. The children and their families live in areas with poor housing conditions, where the economic situation is rather hard. The psychological assessments were performed with the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence (WPPSI) and the Denver Developmental Screening Test (DDST). They showed that perceptual visual-motor ability decreased significantly with increasing blood lead levels between 0.6 and 2.9 mol Pb/I (13 and 60 g Pb/100 ml). Blood lead levels exceeding 1.4 mol Pb/I (30 g Pb/100 ml) were found to be related to deficiencies in verbal productivity and perceptual visual-motor performance. 
4315229|The notion of management has undergone many changes during the past century. Nowadays, management is perceived as "specialized activity to achieve targets." Skill in management is the single most important factor determining the economic and environmental performance of agroecosystems. Nutrient management is "management of nutrients to achieve agronomic and environmental targets;" it requires proper understanding of nutrient cycling, site- and farm-specific guidelines and technology, and often direct coaching. These activities are diverse and complicated, especially in mixed farming systems that involve both crop and animal production. To be effective, economic and environmental targets must be coherent, flexible, and controllable. They also must be defined and implemented quantitatively at strategic, tactical, and operational levels. Data from farms in Poland and The Netherlands are used to show how economic incentives, provided through governmental policies and measures in both countries, can improve nutrient-use efficiency by a factor of 2 on many intensively managed mixed farming systems.
4313959|The deposition of sulfur and inorganic nitrogen on an ecosystem level over the Nordic countries was estimated using monitoring results on wet deposition, throughfall and air concentrations and literature data on nitrogen deposition velocities. The aim of the work was to obtain deposition data relevant for comparison with critical loads for forest soils and for producing maps to show where critical loads were exceeded in forest ecosystems. Wet deposition data, from relatively dense networks over all the Nordic countries, formed the basis of the mapping procedure. Dry deposition, calculated for nitrogen from air pollution concentrations and deposition velocities and for sulfur from air concentrations and specific deposition factors derived from throughfall measurements, was added to the wet deposition data. The link between deposition at the ecosystem level and large-scale air pollution movements over Europe is not fully understood. This has to be considered when using the levels at which critical loads are exceeded as a basis for abatement strategy calculations for reducing acid deposition over Europe.
4313976|A survey of the decade of China's environmental degradation by concentration on the three principal existential concerns: supply of water, losses of arable land, and deforestation. Water, farmland and forest resources were already in relatively very low supply a generation ago, but during the 1980s their scarcity became a clear impediment to China's development.
4312951|The marine environment of the East African Region is not severely polluted and could actually be considered "clean" when compared with the seas receiving wastes from more industrialized societies, such as the Baltic, the North Sea and the Mediterranean. Rather, the marine and coastal environment of East Africa is threatened mostly by the failure of the Region's governments to incorporate sound environmental management policies in the planning process. This article presents an overview of the sources of environmental stress in the East African Region.
4314783|Increasing deposition of anthropogenic N may detrimentally impact terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Research on the impacts of N deposition has focused primarily on regions with rates > 10 kg N ha
4312123|Integrated Pest Control is not only important for safeguarding agricultural production but also for decreasing environmental pollution. The system is based on an increasingly refined technical interference based on ever-increasing biological knowledge. The article deals with these aspects, and their economic and social impact.
4314007|Earlier studies of skulls and mandibles in Baltic grey seals Halichoerus grypus indicate that bone lesions are most probably part of a disease complex. The different organ changes show similarities to those present in hyper-adreno-corticism which is thought to be caused by exposure to environmental pollutants. The lesions in grey seals mainly resemble those of parodontitis, with a more or less pronounced loss of bone tissue in the jaw bones. The present study on harbor seal Phoca vitulina along the Swedish west coast, and in Danish and Swedish waters of the southern Baltic, is based on museum collections and shows that the prevalence of pathological changes in skulls of this species has increased since the 19th century. However, these changes do not appear to be of the same magnitude as those found in grey seals from the Baltic. A lesion not earlier described in seals is found in the material of harbor seals. This lesion is characterized by a deposition of bone tissue (exostosis of the alveolar bone), predominantly occurring in the lateral part of the mandible, in particular in the area of the premolars.
4315343|Possible links between the occurrence of Vaccinium myrtillus, V. vitis-idaea and Deschampsia flexuosa and rates of nitrogen deposition were investigated in 557 coniferous forest stands. In areas with high N-deposition, V. myrtillus was less frequent, less abundant and more susceptible to the leaf pathogen Valdensia heterodoxa than in areas with lower levels of N-deposition. The occurrence of V. vitis-idaea was also strongly negatively correlated with increasing N-deposition, but no such trend was found for D. flexuosa. In regions with high N-deposition, V. myrtillus was more common in stands dominated by Scots pine than in stands dominated by Norway spruce. This was not the case in regions with lower levels of N-deposition. The patterns observed accord with results from N addition experiments that demonstrate significant effects on vegetation, caused by N-deposition. The data suggest that even low rates of N-deposition may decrease the abundance of the most dominant species in coniferous forest ground flora.
4315426|As global warming intensified toward the end of the 20th century, there was a northward shift in winter ranges of bird species in Cape Cod, Massachusetts, USA. These pole-ward shifts were correlated to local increases in minimum winter temperatures and global temperature anomalies. This evidence, plus other recent results suggests that during the last two decades global warming has led to massive and widespread biogeographic shifts with potentially major ecological and human consequences. Local habitat changes associated with urban sprawl affected mainly forest birds with more northern winter distributions. In Cape Cod, the effects of warming on bird distributions are more substantial at the start of the 21st century, than those of habitat alteration, but as urban sprawl continues its importance may rival that of global warming.
4315569|Pikeperch Sander lucioperca (L.) were tagged in an area where ten small independent management units regulate fisheries, in order to analyze the relevance of migrations for the management. A total of 465 fishes were tagged in connection with the spawning migration. The number of recaptures was 96. The distribution of recaptures between areas and that of total catches, estimated from questionnaire to housholds and, individuals in the survey area, were correlated. The comparison of tagging and recapture dates showed that the same pikeperch migrated to the spawning areas at the same time in two subsequent years, indicating the existence of individual spawning behavior. A modified yield/recruit-model demonstrated that in situations where the dispersal area of a pikeperch stock overlaps with several management areas, the risk of overfishing is very high. Management of this kind of fisheries needs cooperation between units as well as sound data on the movements of pikeperch to define the effects of fishing regulations.
4314953|Mathematics and statistics have transformed day-to-day trading in the world's financial markets. This has led to new ways to reduce (or "hedge") risks, which provide an important service to society, but also a temptation to very big gambles, with a potential for extreme losses. This paper discusses some of the ways statistics and mathematics can be used to understand and protect against very large, "catastrophic" financial risks. We argue that means don't mean anything for catastrophic risk, that separate large financial risks often are better handled by separate companies, and that the mathematical aspects of risk can't be summarized into one number. We also believe that there is a large potential for improved risk management in financial institutions, where extreme value theory, a speciality of the present authors, may be a useful tool. Improvements, however, will not come for free, but require long and hard work, where mathematics is only one part of the total effort.
4315655| The composite market desing is a proposal for a transferable discharge permit system that specifically includes agricultural non-point-source dischargers and addresses both property rights and transaction cost problems. The first step to implementation of a composite market scheme is the estimation of a supply curve for abatement measures in the catchment area. Estimation is performed by combining costs with modeled loss reductions from selected best management practices and then using this information to estimate the supply curve for abatement, which in turn can then be used to set permit prices. The Rnne catchment in southern Sweden is used as a pilot study area for making this type of estimate. Costs for existing measures that reduce nutrient losses from farmland (catch crops and spring planting) are based on existing programs financed by the Swedish Agricultural Board. A set of supply curves is calculated for these measures using retention estimates for seven subcatchments and three soil types in the area. Although existing information is sufficient to calculate partial supply curves and may be used to set permit prices, additional measures should be included as well as an increased number of variables for differentiating site specific reduction costs. 
4313763|The chemistry of 98 lakes in the Aosta Valley was studied in relation to the main geographic and lithological characteristics of their watersheds and to atmospheric deposition, which shows pH values of about 5.0, both in snow cores and in bulk samples at altitudes of between 1830 and 2500 m a.s.l. The pH values of the lakes, measured at the end of the summer, are nearly all above 6.0, but do not give any indication of the acid shock caused by snowmelt. Of the lakes examined 38% may be regarded as sensitive to acidification, assuming a threshold alkalinity value of 200
4314123|Based on a schematical model, an attempt is made to relate the magnitude of material flow into and out of Madras, a coastal city in Southeast India. The focus is on the role of the household sector. Water scarcity and seasonal variation in precipitation together with a flat topography are significant problems for proper material-flow management. The comparatively large number of people living in slums, with virtually no sanitary or other facilities, means that the activities and livelihood of about 1.5 million people are outside the control of most planning efforts. In addition, the large cattle population within the city contributes to a wide range of environmental and health hazards. The prevailing socioeconomic conditions mean that most material is reused or recycled. The average amount of garbage is less than one kilo per person and day. However, due to the size of the city and the overall amount of waste it produces, more efforts must be devoted to making proper use of renewable resources to reduce waste production. Special concern must be given to slum areas and to vulnerable communities.
4313134|Spherical carbonaceous particles (soot spheres), generated during fossil fuel combustion, are very resistant to degradation and are therefore preserved when deposited in sediments. Due to their characteristic appearance they are easily recognized. Soot spheres are found in considerable amounts in recent sediments. The soot-sphere content in sediment cores from Swedish lakes reflects the history of atmospheric deposition of particulate pollutants from fossil fuel combustion, while the soot-sphere content in surface sediment samples indicates the geographical pattern of contemporary depositions.
4313724|Developing countries use only a small percentage of the world's chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). However, CFC use in these countries could greatly increase if the large demands for products using CFCs are met in the next decade. Most developing countries have criticized the efforts by developed countries to abate global CFC use and have not signed the Montreal Protocol. This article attempts to reconcile the needs of developing countries with the goals of the Montreal Protocol. Methods of inducing developing countries to sign the Protocol are suggested. Original research is used to review India's situation in depth.
4313095|From 1978 to 1982, fish from metal-polluted waters in the Gulf of Bothnia were examined for morphological anomalies, such as vertebral and spinal deformities and asymmetrical fins and gill rakers. Fourhorn sculpin (Myoxocephalus quadricornis) taken near the source of pollution exhibited high frequencies of skeletal deformities (vertebral and spinal), while the frequencies decreased as distance between collection site and polluted areas increased. Whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus) from polluted areas exhibited elevated frequencies of deformed gill rakers and of asymmetrical gill rakers and pelvic fins.
4314854|In the present paper we review some factors considered to explain the dramatic decline in the abundance of cod in the eastern Baltic. Environmental conditions, e.g. salinity and oxygen content, are known to have a considerable impact on recruitment. We conclude that, at present, low recruitment due to deteriorated spawning conditions accompanied by high mortality due to commercial fishing and, thus, a decrease in spawning stock biomass are major determinants for distribution of cod in the Baltic. Still, a number of additional factors may be important. The impact by sprat and herring predation on eggs and larvae may be considerable under certain circumstances. The temporal shift in spawning time towards summer months has likely resulted in spawning in more deteriorated oxygen conditions. The change in spawning stock structure towards younger fish probably affects the survival of eggs and larvae negatively. Since this change is closely related to high fishing pressure, low recruitment might, to a large extent, be a management issue. The M74 syndrome, a thiamine deficiency known to affect the Baltic salmon, has also been discussed in relation to poor cod recruitment. We conclude that it is unlikely that the Baltic cod suffers from M74 since thiamine levels in gonads from Baltic cod have been found to be, on average, almost 10-fold those found in healthy salmon. Moreover, in contrast to salmon, the survival of cod larvae has been found to be unaffected by thiamine treatment.
4314369|Economic and social problems have increased informal mining operations ("garimpos") in the developing countries of Central America, South America, Asia, Africa and Oceania. South America, in particular the Amazon region, accounts for more than 100 tonnes of gold annually, produced using gravity and amalgamation processes. Although mercury (Hg) is used illegally in these activities at a price five times above the international level, gold recovery by amalgamation is typically above 90% with a cost below 0.02 g of gold per tonne of ore treated. Mercury pollution, occurring at rates of about 1 kg per kg of gold produced, derives from inadequate amalgam distillation practices (80%) and from the dumping of amalgamation tailing into watercourses (20%). More than 1 million informal miners are working in the Legal Amazon Region. Some of the miners who burn amalgam show signs of mercurialism while fish-eating people living some distance from mining activities show high Hg concentrations in blood. Remedial procedures can be viewed from two perspectives: i) clean-up methods for highly polluted sites; ii) education and training of the miners and local population centers. This paper describes the clean-up methods most often used to control mercury pollution including selenium addition, covering polluted sites with adsorbent materials, cementation with iron scrap or dredging operations followed by mercury and residual gold extraction.
4313753|This paper describes the major results of qualitative and quantitative genetic variation of wild and hatchery populations of Chinese carps (silver carp, bighead and grass carp). There is an obvious intraspecific divergence in morphometric characters among populations of these fishes from major Chinese rivers. Biochemical genetic variations among different populations of silver carp, bighead, and grass carp in the different river systems have been found. The range of average heterozygosity is 0.0484-0.0511 for silver carp, 0.1042-0.1133 for bighead, and 0.0454-0.1076 for grass carp. The range in proportion of polymorphic loci is 11.8-23.5% for silver carp, 29.4% for bighead and 20.0-33.3% for grass carp. The populations in the south have a higher proportion of polymorphic loci than those in the north. In the same cultivation environment, the growth of silver carp and bighead from the Changjiang River is 5-10% faster than those from the Zhujiang River. Similarly, the growth of the wild population of silver carp and bighead is also 5-10% higher than those from hatchery populations. The study shows that genetic factors have a great effect on growth variation. In the same cultivation environment, silver carp and bighead from Changjiang and Zhujiang Rivers reach maturity at the same time. Environmental factors have a major effect on their gonadal development and sexual maturity age. The results from this study have formed a guide to genetic conservation, selection and culture of Chinese carps.
24708969|Understanding how long-term abiotic and biotic processes are linked at a landscape level is of major interest for analyzing future impact on humans and the environment from present-day societal planning. This article uses results derived from multidisciplinary work at a coastal site in Sweden, with the aim of describing future landscape development. First, based on current and historical data, we identified climate change, shoreline displacement, and accumulation/erosion processes as the main drivers of landscape development. Second, site-specific information was combined with data from the Scandinavian region to build models that describe how the identified processes may affect the site development through time. Finally, the process models were combined to describe a whole interglacial period. With this article, we show how the landscape and ecosystem boundaries are affected by changing permafrost conditions, peat formation, sedimentation, human land use, and shoreline displacement.
4314250|During the droughts in the 1970s and 1980s Tamasheq nomads of Mali lost a large part of their mixed herds of cattle, sheep, goats and camels, and their diet switched from milk-based to cereal-based. A serious side-effect of this shift in diet was vitamin A deficiency, manifested as nightblindness. The black Tamasheqs, shepherds and servants of the light-skinned Tamasheqs, appear to be able to cope with the new situation best through diverisification of their economic activities, and by utilizing their knowledge of wild food plants. Relief aid during the last drought came too late and was interrupted too late. Rehabilitation of nomads after a drought would be more effective if traditional skills were included in the support given.
4313040|The concentrations of some organochlorine pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were determined in 57 samples of human milk collected in 1982 from individual donors in six regions in Denmark. Four pooled samples (milk from nine mothers in each) from Copenhagen were also analyzed. The content of organochlorine pesticides and PCBs showed only a slight geographic variation within Denmark. The concentrations of organochlorine pesticides and PCBs found in human milk samples from Denmark are not high compared to levels reported from other countries.
4312203|Rapeseed oil and hydrogenated marine oils are common constituents of margarine produced in several countries. Rapeseed oil has also been used in cooking oils and to a smaller extent in ice-cream. Rapeseed oil rich in erucic acid (
4315485|The Rossby Centre regional climate model (RCA2) has been integrated over the Arctic Ocean as part of the international ARCMIP project. Results have been compared to observations derived from the SHEBA data set. The standard RCA2 model overpredicts cloud cover and downwelling longwave radiation, during the Arctic winter. This error was improved by introducing a new cloud parameterization, which significantly improves the annual cycle of cloud cover. Compensating biases between clear sky downwelling longwave radiation and longwave radiation emitted from cloud base were identified. Modifications have been introduced to the model radiation scheme that more accurately treat solar radiation interaction with ice crystals. This leads to a more realistic representation of cloud-solar radiation interaction. The clear sky portion of the model radiation code transmits too much solar radiation through the atmosphere, producing a positive bias at the top of the frequent boundary layer clouds. A realistic treatment of the temporally evolving albedo, of both sea-ice and snow, appears crucial for an accurate simulation of the net surface energy budget. Likewise, inclusion of a prognostic snow-surface temperature seems necessary, to accurately simulate near-surface thermodynamic processes in the Arctic.
4314011| The concentrations of 7 chlorinated biphenyls (CBs), total PCB, as determined by PCB congener-specific analysis, and of PCB and DDE methyl sulfones in grey seal, harbor seal and ringed seal from different areas of the Swedish coastline, of different age and health status were determined. Total PCB concentrations between 8 g g
40801534|We review important advances in our understanding of the global carbon cycle since the publication of the IPCC AR4. We conclude that: the anthropogenic emissions of CO due to fossil fuel burning have increased up through 2008 at a rate near to the high end of the IPCC emission scenarios; there are contradictory analyses whether an increase in atmospheric fraction, that might indicate a declining sink strength of ocean and/or land, exists; methane emissions are increasing, possibly through enhanced natural emission from northern wetland, methane emissions from dry plants are negligible; old-growth forest take up more carbon than expected from ecological equilibrium reasoning; tropical forest also take up more carbon than previously thought, however, for the global budget to balance, this would imply a smaller uptake in the northern forest; the exchange fluxes between the atmosphere and ocean are increasingly better understood and bottom up and observation-based top down estimates are getting closer to each other; the North Atlantic and Southern ocean take up less CO, but it is unclear whether this is part of the 'natural' decadal scale variability; large-scale fires and droughts, for instance in Amazonia, but also at Northern latitudes, have lead to significant decreases in carbon uptake on annual timescales; the extra uptake of CO stimulated by increased N-deposition is, from a greenhouse gas forcing perspective, counterbalanced by the related additional NO emissions; the amount of carbon stored in permafrost areas appears much (two times) larger than previously thought; preservation of existing marine ecosystems could require a CO stabilization as low as 450 ppm; Dynamic Vegetation Models show a wide divergence for future carbon trajectories, uncertainty in the process description, lack of understanding of the CO fertilization effect and nitrogen-carbon interaction are major uncertainties.
4314979|The Loess Plateau with its deep loess and severe soil erosion constitutes a special region of the world. This paper discusses soil conservation, sustainable agriculture, and the prospectives for the Loess Plateau in relation to the Chinese economic development that is expected in the next century. The Loess Plateau region, covers 5 provinces, and stretches over an area of 0.62 million km
25547794|This paper summarizes recent studies on the environmental fate of chloroaromatic compounds in chlorophenol (CP)-contaminated soil and groundwater at Swedish sawmill sites. Relative proportions of CPs, polychlorinated phenoxy phenols (PCPPs), polychlorinated diphenyl ethers (PCDEs), polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) were determined in preservatives, particulate organic matter (POM), dissolved organic matter (DOM), groundwater, and particles filtered from groundwater. All compound classes were found in the different compartments. The fraction of PCPPs, PCDEs, PCDDs, and PCDFs had increased in the soil samples relative to the proportions in the preservatives. This increase showed correlation with the hydrophobicity, that is, PCDDs had the largest increase. Similar correlation was found between hydrophobicity and the importance of partitioning to POM over DOM. The more water soluble compound group, CP, was found equally distributed between POM and DOM. For PCPPs, PCDEs, PCDDs, and PCDFs, the relative partitioning to POM increased with increased hydrophobicity. Despite the relative partitioning towards POM, compared with DOM, cotransport with DOM and suspended colloidal fractions was found to substantially increase the transport of these compounds in the groundwater samples.
25547894|The Aguadulce aquifer unit in southeastern Spain is a complex hydrogeological system because of the varied lithology of the aquifer strata and the variability of the processes that can take place within the unit. Factorial analysis of the data allowed the number of variables to be reduced to 3 factors, which were found to be related to such physico-chemical processes as marine intrusion and leaching of saline deposits. Variographic analysis was applied to these factors, cluminating in a study of spatial distribution using ordinary kriging. Mapping of the factors allowed rapid differentiation of some of the processes that affect the waters of the Gador carbonate aquifer within the Aguadulce unit, without the need to recur to purely hydrogeochemical techniques. The results indicate the existence of several factors related to salinity: marine intrusion, paleowaters, and/or leaching of marls and evaporitic deposits. The techniques employed are effective, and the results conform to those obtained using hydrogeochemical methods (vertical records of conductivity and temperature, ion ratios, and others). The findings of this study confirm that the application of such analytical methods can provide a useful assessment of factors affecting groundwater composition.
4314032|Laboratory simulation experiments in which water with diverse calcium, magnesium and hydrogen-ion concentrations is equilibrated with peat have shown that atmospheric calcium and hydrogen-ion inputs are the predominant influences on the equilibrium pH of surface layers of dystrophic peat. From the results of these experiments and existing data on runoff and calcium deposition, the effect of any hydrogen-ion load on peat pH at a particular site may be quantified. The acid load which would cause any specified pH shift (e.g. 0.2 pH units) compared to the peat pH when subjected to the load in pH 5.0 deposition can be calculated. The use of such a pH shift parameter in the setting of a critical load for a dystrophic peat is discussed. Maps of dystrophic peat distribution, and maps of critical loads for specified pH shifts are presented.
4312799| [
4314212|The European wildcat, Felis silvestris, faces a number of threats to its population in Scotland and continental Europe. Population minimums probably occurred in Europe at the beginning of the 20th century. Several populations have recovered since, due to some restoration of preferred habitat and a reduction in persecution. Our study of European wildcats in Scotland found that direct killing because of alleged attacks on gamebirds and livestock still occurred. Accidental killing by dogs, snares or poison baits is probably still common. Viral diseases, such as feline leukaemia have recently been identified. Low levels of dieldrin were detected in two wildcats, but few other toxic agrochemicals were found. A major threat to European wildcats is the loss of speciation due to hybridization with domestic cats. Many introgressive hybrids are now reported. These can be readily detected by skull measurements and coat markings. Major reintroduction programs are probably not necessary to "save" the wildcat, but local education of hunters, reductions in feral domestic cats and instigation of wildlife management procedures would greatly enhance the outlook for the species.
4313199|Total annual energy consumption in China has risen by more than 550 million tons coal equivalent in the last thirty years; coal represents the single largest source of energy. Recent surveys have found evidence of coal-related air pollution in the form of airborne particulates and sulfur dioxide. While high levels of suspended particulates and SO
40928390|Over the past 50 years, human beings have influenced ecosystems more rapidly than at any similar time in human history, drastically altering ecosystem functioning. Along with ecosystem transformation and degradation, a number of studies have addressed the functioning, assessment and management of ecosystems. The concept of ecosystem services has been developed in the scientific literature since the end of the 1970s. However, ecosystem service research has focused on certain service categories, ecosystem types, and geographical areas, while substantial knowledge gaps remain concerning several aspects. We assess the development and current status of ecosystem service research on the basis of publications collected from the Web of Science. The material consists of (1) articles (n = 353) from all the years included in the Web of Science down to the completion of the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment and (2) more recent articles (n = 687) published between 2006 and 2008. We also assess the importance of international processes, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Kyoto Protocol and the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment, as drivers of ecosystem service research. Finally, we identify future prospects and research needs concerning the assessment and management of ecosystem services.
4315112|The Saldanha-Langebaan coastal zone forms an integral part of the South African coastal resource base. As elsewhere in the world, an acute need exists to balance development and economic growth and conservation in the coastal zone as an exploitable resource frontier area. Vegetated buffers and greenways are conservation concepts that have been used with great success in such conservation efforts. They are applied in the study area through the use of a Geographic Information System (GIS) as spatial decision-support system to legitimize the demarcation of a vegetated buffer zone. The method of multicriteria evaluation, as applied here, incorporates public decision-making in constructing an objective model for buffer zone demarcation. Representatives from interested and affected parties participated in model construction and calibration, resulting in the spatial delimitation of a multifunctional vegetated buffer. It conforms to a range of functional criteria and can serve as an environmental element in coastal conservation planning frameworks.
4314055|The paper adapts the ecological concept of sustainability that derives from the work of Holling to explain the evolution of institutions in rural sub-Saharan Africa, and to see why policies designed to alleviate the degradation of rangelands in Botswana and Kenya through institutional reform have not been as successful as hoped. We argue that the reason why these and other institutional initiatives have had limited success is that they took little account of the role of the institutions they were intended to replace in guaranteeing the social security of individual resource users, and failed to address that role. Using the term social sustainability to describe the ability of social institutions to continue functioning in the face of stress and shock, we show that the new policies were compromised precisely because they were not socially sustainable. The main policy implication of the paper is that institutional initiatives should address the needs satisfied by the structures they replace, if they are not to provoke conflicting evolutionary response on the part of those institutions.
4313887|Since 1960, The Republic of Korea has experienced one of the most spectacular levels of economic development in the world. At the same time, it experienced one of the most rapid demographic transitions from high to extremely low levels of fertility and mortality. These changes had profound impact on all spheres of the lives of Koreans. The social norms of extended family relations gave way to nuclear families. The reduction in family size combined with a rise in income led to changes in the lifestyle and consumption patterns of Koreans. These changes, together with rapid industrialization resulted in greater demands on the use of natural resources. As a result, the environmental degradation and, therefore, levels of all kinds of pollution (air, water, and solid) have emerged. The gains from the slower population growth rates have thus been partially offset by these trends. Efforts should be directed to inform and educate people about the sustainable use of resources, especially when a range of opportunities becomes available due to a rise in income and reduction in family size.
4314368|Over the past few years there has been a great deal of discussion concerning the problems relating to bilateral aid to Eastern Europe. This paper examines some of these issues in detail and offers possible solutions, using examples from three of the Nordic countries. Among the problems raised are how to choose between consultants from donor and local expertise in the preparation of aid projects, how to assess cost effectiveness of environmental aid when there are no clear goals or policies, and how much funding is needed for pre-feasibility studies in order to cope with project risks. The paper concludes with a discussion of proper criteria for assessments of effectiveness of environmental aid. A key question in this regard is whether aid projects should be donor or recipient driven.
4315347|An integrated socioeconomic and erosion study on the sustainability of traditional shifting cultivation (Jhum) carried out in 1998 and 1999 in the Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT) of Bangladesh showed the system to be nonsustainable under the current conditions with fallow periods of only 3-5 years and lack of land rights. An estimated input (mainly labor) of USD 380 ha
4313025|The distribution of DDT and PCB residues in water, sediment and fish was monitored in Lake Trummen, Sweden, before, during and after a dredging operation. The dredging removed a major part of the residues from the lake. However, during the operation no changes in the residue load were observed in either the suspended matter or the water column. A mixing of the sediment occurred which resulted in a deeper penetration of the remaining residues into the sediment. No significant differences were noted in the residue level in fish after the dredging, except for female pike. Ten years after the operation, PCB content in the surface sediment had increased, probably as a result of the internal circulation of residues from areas not dredged and/or contributions from sources outside the lake ecosystem.
25547862|Islands harbor a disproportionate amount of the earth's biodiversity, but a significant portion has been lost due in large part to the impacts of invasive mammals. Fortunately, invasive mammals can be routinely removed from islands, providing a powerful tool to prevent extinctions and restore ecosystems. Given that invasive mammals are still present on more than 80% of the world's major islands groups and remain a premier threat to the earth's biodiversity, it is important to disseminate replicable, scaleable models to eradicate invasive mammals from islands. We report on a successful model from western Mxico during the past decade. A collaborative effort between nongovernmental organizations, academic biologists, Mexican government agencies, and local individuals has resulted in major restoration efforts in three island archipelagos. Forty-two populations of invasive mammals have been eradicated from 26 islands. For a cost of USD 21 615 per colony and USD 49 370 per taxon, 201 seabird colonies and 88 endemic terrestrial taxa have been protected, respectively. These conservation successes are a result of an operational model with three main components: i) a tri-national collaboration that integrates research, prioritization, financing, public education, policy work, capacity building, conservation action, monitoring, and evaluation; ii) proactive and dedicated natural resource management agencies; and iii) effective partnerships with academic researchers in Mxico and the United States. What is now needed is a detailed plan to eradicate invasive mammals from the remaining islands in the region that integrates the needed additional financing, capacity, technical advances, and policy issues. Island conservation in western Mxico provides an effective approach that can be readily applied to other archipelagos where conservation efforts have been limited.
4314871|The storage of organic carbon in soil is predicted to decrease with global warming because the decomposition of soil organic matter is expected to accelerate relative to the net primary production (NPP) of vegetation. This decrease would substantially increase the atmospheric CO
25547903|Farmers' innovation and selection of barley varieties were studied in the Tigray Region in northern Ethiopia. Two districts each in the central and southern zones and three districts in the eastern zone of Tigray were randomly selected for this study, which sought to understand the current status of local barley varieties and to measure their relative preference by farmers. Household surveys were conducted covering 240 households to elicit farmers' views on the values, constraints, and opportunities of growing local varieties of barley. This was supported by focus-group and informal discussions with elders, key informants, and women's groups. Case studies were made of local farmers whom the community recognized as barley breeders. Twenty-four barley varieties and their major descriptors were recorded. Seed and varietal-selection criteria depended on the environmental and varietal characteristics. Investigation of intrahousehold decision making indicated that, while men tended to decide on the type of variety to grow, seed storage and processing were exclusively the responsibility of women. Farmers undertook preharvest and postharvest selection, giving emphasis mainly to earliness and spike characteristics. The distinct varietal-selection and seed-renewal procedures revealed their potential for use in further plant breeding. The case-study analysis of farmer-developed varieties provided knowledge that, if combined with scientists' knowledge, could lead to identification and development of valuable cultivars with a wide potential for use in semiarid areas of Tigray and other parts of Ethiopia.
4312561|The fish resources of the Baltic exhibit an uneven regional distribution, with biomass, production and landings decreasing from south to north. Almost 90 percent of the yield and 85 percent of the biomass is made up of herring, sprat and cod. Pelagic stocks in the Baltic have recently declined as a result of over-fishing, and future catches must be reduced. The cod stock shows a short-term increase. International management of this valuable resource has been made more difficult by the establishment of national fishing zones.
4314366|Sewage solids from southeastern Australia are not only characterised by elevated organic and inorganic pollutant loads, but also by high gold concentrations (up to 2.35 ppm in dry matter), and elevated palladium/platinum ratios. These concentrations are significant as some of them are similar to those of geological ore deposits currently mined for gold. Worldwide annual accumulation of metals in sewage amounts to several hundred thousand tonnes, including approximately 360 tonnes of gold. Sewage is commonly dumped on land or at sea and, thus, metals in sewage continue to be wasted and/or released to the environment. Such waste is particularly highlighted by sewage shoreline and ocean-outlet systems. The discharge of excessive quantities of human sewage into coastal areas poses not only a threat to human health and coastal fisheries, it diminishes the recreational use of the littoral zone and also results in the formation of man-made noble-metal deposits.
4313782|The Thai economy is booming, but much of the rapid economic growth is being fueled by unsustainable use of natural resources (often subsidized by government policies), resulting in a loss of biodiversity. Based on the premise that conservation would be most successful if it were to be promoted by economic incentives, studies were carried out in the fields of forestry, protected areas, marine fisheries, mangroves, and nature tourism. New incentives were defined for each sector, along with changes in government policies to be included in Thailand's Seventh Five-Year Plan.
4315554| Dynamic models complement existing time series of observations and static critical load calculations by simulating past and future development of chemistry in forest and lake ecosystems. They are used for dynamic assessment of the acidification and to produce target load functions, that describe what combinations of nitrogen and sulfur emission reductions are needed to achieve a chemical or biological criterion in a given target year. The Swedish approach has been to apply the dynamic acidification models MAGIC, to 133 lakes unaffected by agriculture and SAFE, to 645 productive forest sites. While the long-term goal is to protect 95% of the area, implementation of the Gothenburg protocol will protect approximately 75% of forest soils in the long term. After 2030, recovery will be very slow and involve only a limited geographical area. If there had been no emission reductions after 1980, 87% of the forest area would have unwanted soil status in the long term. In 1990, approximately 17% of all Swedish lakes unaffected by agriculture received an acidifying deposition above critical load. This fraction will decrease to 10% in 2010 after implementation of the Gothenburg protocol. The acidified lakes of Sweden will recover faster than the soils. According to the MAGIC model the median pre-industrial ANC of 107 eq L
4313739|Production of cowpea, (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.), the main food legume in Niger, is greatly depressed by pests and diseases. The major problems result from the parasitic weed Striga gesnerioides (Willd) Vatke; Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi) Goidanitch, a fungal disease; and the bacterial disease caused by Xanthomonas campestris vignicola (Pammel) Dowson; together with various viral diseases. This paper reports on M. phaseolina, its biology and some control methods. Our data suggest that the attacks by M. phaseolina are more important when the cowpea plant is already weakened by high temperature and severe drought conditions. The fungi will remain present for long periods in the soil and on the seeds, which is of importance for the epidemiology of the disease. Different control methods (use of pesticides, breeding for resistance) are compared.
4313987|In this paper, the environmental crisis in rural Guatemala is examined. Current agricultural land use is shown to outstrip soil capabilities in many parts of the country. Land redistribution, pure and simple, would not be an adequate response to social and environmental problems. Instead, market forces must be given freer play, resource users' property rights must be strengthened, and formation of human capital and the rural economy's scientific base must accelerate. The factors responsible for environmental degradation in the Guatemalan countryside are representative of those found elsewhere in Latin America.
24708812|Forest landscapes provide benefits from a wide range of goods, function and intangible values. But what are different forest owner categories' profiles of economic use and non-use values? This study focuses on the complex forest ownership pattern of the River Helge  catchment including the Kristianstad Vattenrike Biosphere Reserve in southern Sweden. We made 89 telephone interviews with informants representing the four main forest owner categories. Our mapping included consumptive and non-consumptive direct use values, indirect use values, and non-use values such as natural and cultural heritage. While the value profiles of non-industrial forest land owners and municipalities included all value categories, the forest companies focused on wood production, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on nature protection. We discuss the challenges of communicating different forest owners' economic value profiles among stakeholders, the need for a broader suite of forest management systems, and fora for collaborative planning.
4314477|This paper presents a detailed estimation of methane emissions from ruminant animals, livestock manure, and rice cultivation in China as of 1990. To estimate methane emissions from ruminants in China, emission factors were developed based on China-specific feed energy systems and production characteristics for representative animal types; emissions were estimated to be about 5.796 teragrams (Tg), approximately 7.2% of global methane from animals in 1990. Emission factors for livestock manure were developed based on the method recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the types of manure management systems used, and regional climate characteristics in China. Livestock and poultry manure in China were estimated to account for about 1.249 Tg of methane emissions or about 5% of global emissions from livestock manure in 1990; of this amount, swine manure accounted for approximately 82%. Based on the rice cultivation regions, planting patterns, area of land cultivated, field-flooding patterns, and emission rates, methane emissions from rice fields in China were estimated to be 9.189 Tg.
40928411|A multi-scaled model for biodiversity conservation in forests was introduced in Sweden 30 years ago, which makes it a pioneer example of an integrated ecosystem approach. Trees are set aside for biodiversity purposes at multiple scale levels varying from individual trees to areas of thousands of hectares, with landowner responsibility at the lowest level and with increasing state involvement at higher levels. Ecological theory supports the multi-scaled approach, and retention efforts at every harvest occasion stimulate landowners' interest in conservation. We argue that the model has large advantages but that in a future with intensified forestry and global warming, development based on more progressive thinking is necessary to maintain and increase biodiversity. Suggestions for the future include joint planning for several forest owners, consideration of cost-effectiveness, accepting opportunistic work models, adjusting retention levels to stand and landscape composition, introduction of temporary reserves, creation of "receiver habitats" for species escaping climate change, and protection of young forests.
4313490|Just after midnight on December 3, 1984, forty tons of highly toxic methyl isocyanate (MIC), which had been manufactured and stored in Union Carbide's chemical plant in Bhopal, escaped into the atmosphere and killed over 2800 people. As many as 20 000 others were injured-many seriously and some permanently. This article discusses only three of the many facets of the Bhopal case, namely, Bhopal and the applications of international law; Indian institutional and governmental responses to the Bhopal disaster; and the progress of the Bhopal victims' lawsuits. The developing norms and principles of international law are not sufficient in themselves to protect the victims of the Bhopal chemical plant. The Bhopal disaster has demonstrated that enforceable ("hard") international standards are clearly and urgently needed for hazardous technologies, especially those operating in developing countries. Such standards would eliminate, or at least narrow, the gap between standards prevailing in the developed countries and those in the Third World. Even without enforcement, international standards could provide norms against which to measure the performance of individual companies in extremely hazardous industries. The Bhopal disaster has heightened Indian and world consciousness of the danger to human health and the environment posed by the manufacture of toxic chemicals. Had there been a "culture of safety" at Bhopal, different and higher safety measures and different technologies would have been chosen.
4315831|Adaptive management has been widely recommended as a way to deal with extreme uncertainty in natural resource and environmental decision making. The core concept in adaptive management is that policy choices should be treated as deliberate, large-scale experiments; hence, policy choice should be treated at least partly as a problem of scientific experimental design. There have now been upwards of 100 case studies where attempts were made to apply adaptive management to issues ranging from restoration of endangered desert fish species to protection of the Great Barrier Reef. Most of these cases have been failures in the sense that no experimental management program was ever implemented, and there have been serious problems with monitoring programs in the handful of cases where an experimental plan was implemented. Most of the failures can be traced to three main institutional problems: i) lack of management resources for the expanded monitoring needed to carry out large-scale experiments; ii) unwillingness by decision makers to admit and embrace uncertainty in making policy choices; and iii) lack of leadership in the form of individuals willing to do all the hard work needed to plan and implement new and complex management programs.
25547885|Land-use change processes are commonly understood as simplified cause-effect relationships, which, in turn, support many environment-development policies. This paper uses wide-ranging evidence from a number of global case studies to challenge some of the prevailing "myths" around land-use change in the Mekong Basin and supports the conclusion that the simple explanations found in population growth, poverty, and infrastructure studies rarely provide an adequate understanding of land-use change.
4313621|An estimate is given for the integrated radioactive fallout hazard following a massive nuclear war. Contributions are summed for early- and late-time fallout, local and global deposition of radionuclides, and external and internal exposure, for radioactivity from nuclear weapons detonations and from targeted nuclear reactors and industrial facilities, both civilian and military. It is shown that, over time, the total casualties (fatalities plus severe exposure requiring medical attention) could reach several hundred million worldwide. This number is comparable to or greater than the estimated number of direct casualties caused by the blast and thermal effects of nuclear explosions, but is less than the number of potential victims-up to several billion-associated with the effects of "nuclear winter".
4315505| Successful management of damaged coastal ecosystems requires reliable scientific evidence of their past state. Here we demonstrate that the sediment record of biotic indicators can be used to quantitatively reconstruct nutrient concentrations preceding the short time span covered by monitoring records. We generated a diatom-based weighted-averaging partial least squares transfer function model for total dissolved nitrogen with a prediction accuracy of 0.09 g L
4312961|This article describes the Seychelles energy situation in general and outlines efforts taken in implementing a reduction in the country's almost total dependence on imported oil. Energy problems are now aggravated by the present decline in tourism and exports. The main alternatives to oil are briefly discussed and a number of ongoing research and development programs are presented. The overall framework for energy development on the Seychelles is given by the Seychelles Integrated Energy Project, which was started three years ago.
4315669|The complexity of development activities, in which the interactions between various forces often mean that outcomes are unpredictable and unanticipated, highlights the importance of objective and comprehensive evaluations. In the specific case of the evaluation of towns east and south of Colombo water supply projects, the findings have major implications for the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, if the water-related objectives are to be fulfilled. The study found that 30% of the households of these towns that are receiving clean, piped water are not using it for drinking. Instead, they are continuing to drink contaminated well water. Whereas it is considered that the main beneficiaries of water supply projects have been women and people who are sick, elderly, or disabled, the general perception is that the health conditions of the families have not improved with the provision of clean water (in fact, many claim that their health conditions have deteriorated). In spite of the higher cost of the supplied water, people are willing to pay for it as long as the supply is reliable.
4314991|The globalization of the agro-industrial food chain in Kenya can be traced back to the restructuring of the international division of labor. The current global agro-food industrial system entails aspects of a complex international division of labor, whereby the South specializes in high-value "non-traditional" exports, while the North concentrates on low-value cereal exports. In their contribution towards global change the relationships between agriculture and industry, and urban and rural areas are inextricably linked. The dynamics of these linkages form a crucial part of this process of globalization. This article examines the impact of the globalization of the vegetable commodity chain on the rural economy in Kenya. This has led to the establishment of multinationally-owned vegetable canning firms in Kenya which are geared towards the international markets, which in turn link up the rural economy in Kenya, with other global players through contract farming, and the manufacturing production chains. The implications of these processes on the rural economy, include environmental degradation, food insecurity, and aggravation of income inequalities among the Kenyan producers.
4313582|Since April 1988, an epizootic disease raged among harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) in Europe. The disease began on Anholt in central Kattegat, but quickly spread to almost all seal herds in Europe. So far, almost 18 000 seals have died from the disease. The cause is most likely a virus belonging to the morbilli group; but the dispersal and triggering mechanisms behind the infection remain obscure. Compared to past incidents of seal epizootic this outbreak was far more dramatic in terms of mortality and is by far the best documented. The highest mortality was found in areas where the disease was introduced during the summer when seals congregate on land for reproduction and molt. Seal herds infected during the autumn were less affected by the disease. The role of environmental factors in the course and development of the disease, such as weather conditions or pollution, remains unclear.
4312981| The moss and lichen vegetation is markedly impoverished in the coniferous forest surrounding the brass mills at Gusum, in southeastern Sweden. The area is heavily polluted by copper and zinc. Mosses and lichens which normally cover 25-90 percent of the forest floor cover less than 1 percent close to the mills. Hylocomium splendens is one of the most sensitive common mosses. The number of moss species in 25  25 m plots is reduced from 15-20 at remote sites to 1-2 at the most polluted sites; Cladonia lichens from 10-12 to 0. 
4312659|Polynesian and European cultures have had dramatic influence on the mountain and lowland landscapes of New Zealand. Current developments and opportunities in the Waitaki manifest conflicts between different interests at both the local and national level, demanding a regional planning approach to resource management. From an assembly of physical, biological and social studies, the authors outline the factors affecting use of the flood plain and lower reaches of the river, pastoral development in the upland grasslands of the interior, and nature conservation and recreation. Both community consultation and identification of linkages between use systems are essential for regional planning of resource use.
4313801|Surveys of benthic invertebrates in subarctic Southern Indian Lake, Manitoba, before and after manipulation of the lake for hydroelectric development, revealed that Hexagenia (Insecta: Ephemeroptera) populations collapsed following the diversion phase. Initial conclusions attributed the collapse to lake manipulation, but intensive life-history studies indicated that the cause was a series of cold years immediately following diversion. A simple model relating air temperature during the open-water season to Hexagenia abundance was successful in predicting burrowing mayfly abundance in the lake. This indicated the significance of temperature in regulating these populations, which are near their northern limits of distribution in Manitoba. The difficulty in discriminating between natural ecosystem variability and anthropogenic effects during the course of an environmental monitoring program is illustrated by this study.
4314170| Sixteen countries in South, Central and North America have agreed to establish an Inter-American Institute for Global Change Research (IAI). Its main goals are to conduct and promote research within the region on global change processes and their interactions with human activities, and to serve as an effective interface between science and the governmental policy process. The IAI will be an unbounded structure, consisting of a network of research centers committed to its scientific agenda. In addition, affiliated research institutes will carry out complementary projects, and countries outside the region, intergovernmental bodies and other organizations may become associate members. Efforts will be coordinated with the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP), the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) and the Human Dimensions of Global Environmental Change Programme (HDP), primarily through liaison with the System for Analysis, Research and Training (START) of those programs. Seven research foci for the IAI have been identified: tropical ecosystems and biogeochemical cycles; impacts of climate change on biodiversity; El Nio-Southern Oscillation and interannual climate variability; ocean-land-atmosphere interactions in the intertropical Americas; comparative studies of oceanic, coastal and estuarine processes in temperate zones; comparative studies of temperate terrestrial ecosystems; and high latitude processes. These themes are currently being developed by an implementation Committee and workshop meetings. 
24708807|There are multiple challenges regarding use and governance of landscapes' goods, functions and intangible values for ecosystem health and human well-being. One group of challenges is to measure and assess principal sustainability dimensions through performance targets, so stakeholders have transparent information about states and trends. Another group is to develop adaptive governance at multiple levels, and management of larger geographical areas across scales. Addressing these challenges, we present a framework for transdisciplinary research using multiple landscapes as place-based case studies that integrates multiple research disciplines and non-academic actors: (1) identify a suite of landscapes, and for each (2) review landscape history, (3) map stakeholders, use and non-use values, products and land use, (4) analyze institutions, policies and the system of governance, (5) measure ecological, economic, social and cultural sustainability, (6) assess sustainability dimensions and governance, and finally (7) make comparisons and synthesize. Collaboration, communication and dissemination are additional core features. We discuss barriers bridges and bridges for applying this approach.
4312857| Pooled samples of human milk from five regions in Sweden were analyzed for organochlorine contaminants. In each region milk from 300 mothers was collected 3 to 5 days after parturition. Each pooled sample consisted of milk from 20 mothers. The concentrations of the contaminants were determined by electron capture gas chromatography. Somewhat higher levels of DDT+DDE, -HCH and PCBs were found in the milk from mothers living in the southern parts of Sweden than in the milk from those living in the northern parts. 
4313633|In India, pollution and environmental degradation have reached alarming dimensions due to poverty, deforestation, industrial development without adequate environmental safeguards, and sheer greed. Fortunately, public concern, rooted in the country's past, has revived. Major pollutants and critically affected areas have been identified. Pollution control of water, air, and land has been established by both official and private organizations and the work on environmental protection is steadily growing. The Ganga purification plan is a representative case study. Poverty alleviation is a longterm process. It is India's major problem and is being tackled with help from private enterprise and by international assistance. Simultaneously, environmental protection through pollution control, is also receiving administrative and legislative support and fiscal assistance through direct and indirect tax incentives. The country's courts are rendering valuable help to environmentalists by pronouncing far-reaching decisions in public-interest litigation. To boost the existing environment-protection movement, greater emphasis is urgently needed for environmental education, peoples' participation, population control, and cost-effective pollution control measures.
25547849|Projected increases in winter temperature due to future climate change may cause decreased snow accumulation at lower and intermediate altitudes in northern temperate regions. The resulting changes in soil temperature and water regime may affect the leaching of total organic carbon (TOC) and total organic nitrogen (TON). We manipulated the snow cover of small headwater catchments in a montane heathland area of southern Norway to quantify its effect on concentrations and fluxes of TOC and TON in runoff. Manipulations included snow removal, to promote soil frost, and insulation, to prevent soil frost. Snow removal resulted in increased TOC and TON concentrations, but decreased fluxes. Insulation caused a slight decrease in concentrations and fluxes of TOC. Our experiments show that a change in snow depth, and thus soil temperature, is not likely to have serious effects on TOC and TON leaching in the montane heathland area studied.
24708861|Rapid environmental degradation in China makes understanding how perceived exposure to environmental harm influences environmental attitudes and participation in pro-environmental behaviors among the Chinese people crucial. We used a nation-wide survey dataset in urban China to test two hypotheses: experiencing environmental harm directly affects environmental behavior; environmental attitudes mediate the relationship between experiencing environmental harm and environmental behavior. We found respondents who experienced environmental harm had more pro-environmental attitudes. Experiencing environmental harm positively influenced pro-environmental behavior both directly and indirectly through the mediation of pro-environmental attitudes. Among the pro-environmental behaviors, environmental litigation was most strongly related with exposure to environmental harm. Our results suggest that more participation in pro-environmental behaviors may be expected as rapid economic development increases public exposure to environmental harm in urban China.
4313459|With the growing demand for different development objectives, it is inevitable that there will be increasing conflicts in the use of coastal and marine resources in Thailand. So far, 88 000 hectares of mangroves have been converted for other uses, particularly shrimp farming. Offshore tin mining has degraded seawater quality and damaged coral reefs. Beyond Thai territorial waters, the proclamation of Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZs) by neighboring countries has resulted in Thailand's loss of about 768 000 square kilometers of fishing grounds. In the last five years 654 Thai fishing vessels have been seized by neighboring countries entailing a cost to the government of USD 119.5 million.
4315111|In this paper, we present the methodology and some results from the application of an integrating conceptual framework, MIRABEL, to analyze the consequences of environmental change for biodiversity. For 28 European countries, MIRABEL tabulates changes in the status of threatened habitats predicted to result from 10 environmental pressures. Regional variations in the severity of the pressures and impacts are taken into account by compiling separate impact tables for each of 13 Ecological Regions. Results suggest that agricultural intensification is one of the main threats, however, differences recorded by MIRABEL in the intensity of the pressures, their rate of change and their past and expected impacts on biodiversity in the various Ecological Regions is telling evidence of Europe's biogeographical variety, and of the need to take this into consideration when assessing environmental change.
4314558|With its distinctive landscape and culture, and competing development pressures, Bali, Indonesia, offers a microcosm to test the concept of sustainable development. Bali is encountering significant challenges in the promotion of policies to encourage vigorous economic development, while simultaneously enhancing traditional culture and protecting the integrity of the natural environment. These dimensions of sustainable development became the source of seven criteria, developed during the Bali Sustainable Development Project (BSDP), to assess opportunities and stresses. In this paper, attention is focused on one aspect: tourism development in coastal settings. Tourism and other development pressures have led to fragmentation and degradation of coastal ecosystems, modifications to coastal erosion, deposition and regeneration processes, and inequity regarding access to coastal resources, especially for local people relative to their traditional activities. An integrated approach is recommended to protect and rehabilitate linked coastal ecosystems within the context of cultural tourism policies.
4312261|The oxidation of hydrocarbons in the natural troposphere is well known to be catalyzed by the presence of NO
4314755| The remediation of Lake Jrnsjn in Emn was carried out during the period 1993-1994. PCB-contaminated sediments were dredged, dewa-tered and disposed of in a landfill. In order to reduce the spreading of suspended solids and PCB to the watercourse, a suction dredger constructed specially for dredging with minimal spread of suspended solids was used. In addition, dredging of the most contaminated part of the lake was carried out within a protective geotextile screen. An extensive environmental monitoring program, running throughout the operation, showed that the spread of suspended solids and PCB during dredging was limited. Monitoring of PCB also showed that the use of geotextile screens considerably reduced the exposure of the river water to PCB. Dewatering was carried out with filter presses and the surplus water was returned to Jrnsjn after cleaning by flocculation, flotation and sedimentation. The landfill was covered with 1.2 m sand and gravel from the site. No external hydraulic barriers were constructed. Instead, the relatively low permeability of the fine-grained and low-contaminated sediments in the topmost meter of the disposed sediments was considered sufficient, also taking into account the low mobility of PCB from the deposited sediments, as measured in the pilot study. Thus, the calculated leakage from the landfill is small compared to the remaining transport of PCB in the river. During the first years of monitoring after construction, only minor leakage has been detected from the landfill. 
4312346| The changes in the levels of organochlorine contaminants in human milk in Stockholm were studied from 1967 to 1977. Pooled samples were extracted with organic solvents. The extracts were cleaned up and analyzed by gas chromatography and often by thin-layer chromatography also. In 1976 the average p,p-DDT level had decreased to about one quarter of that in 1967. The mean p,p-DDE and dieldrin levels had also declined, in contrast to the average PCB level. 
4314680| The acute toxicity effects of 54 pesticides on denitrification and nitrification in soil were studied in the laboratory. Potential denitrification activity (PDA) was assayed with an acetylene inhibition method, during which the specific growth rate constant of denitrifiers (
41417414|We demonstrate position-controlled IIIV semiconductor nanowires (NW s ) by using selective-area metalorganic vapor phase epitaxy and their application to solar cells. Efficiency of 4.23% is achieved for InP coreshell NW solar cells. We form a 'flexible NW array' without a substrate, which has the advantage of saving natural resources over conventional thin film photovoltaic devices. Four junction NW solar cells with over 50% efficiency are proposed and discussed.
4314552|The present dilemmas brought about by anthropogenic climate change are in many ways unprecedented. Knowledge about the physical nature of global climate changes is not sufficient to move from comprehension to a solution of the problem. The historical record shows that past generations too, have been fascinated and concerned about the impact of climate as well as anthropogenic climate change on society. But these efforts have, for the most part, been informed by the doctrine of climate determinism. We ask therefore what a more realistic form of impact research, as a basis for climate policy, must look like. We argue that the conception of the issue as an "optimal control problem" is inadequate. Impact research has to be cognizant of the dynamic social construct of climate. As a result, climate policies as a form of managed climate change have to draw extensively on social science expertise.
4314765|Chemical nitrogen fertilizers have greatly increased crop yields in China during the last 20 years. However, in Mizhi town, Shaanxi Province, large applications of nitrogen fertilizers have resulted in unacceptably high concentrations of nitrate in drinking water. The present investigation of nitrate concentrations in soil water revealed very high concentrations in fields on the valley bottoms, but comparatively low concentrations on hilltops and slopes. The 200-400 cm soil layer, had 272 kg
4312215|The atmosphere is not a stagnant air mass but a dynamic medium supporting complex natural cycles of chemical interchange between air and the earth. The effect of man's activities and his discharges to the environment must be viewed in the light of the already existing natural processes. The emission of sulfur compounds by man in Europe is increasing but the maximum effect is likely to be found nearer to the source where the concentration is higher. The transport of pollutants over long distances is now well identified but in most cases the effects are insignificant. However, in some areas the deg but the maximum effect is likely to be found nearer to the soes the effects are insignificant. However, in some areas the deposistion of transported sulfur might be sufficient to upset delicate ecological balance.
4315492| A study of the water-mass circulation of the Baltic has been undertaken by making use of a three dimensional Baltic Sea model simulation. The saline water from the North Atlantic is traced through the Danish Sounds into the Baltic where it upwells and mixes with the fresh water inflow from the rivers forming a Baltic haline conveyor belt. The mixing of the saline water from the Great Belt and resund with the fresh water is investigated making use of overturning stream functions and Lagrangian trajectories. The overturning stream function was calculated as a function of four different vertical coordinates (depth, salinity, temperature and density) in order to understand the path of the water and where it upwells and mixes. Evidence of a fictive depth overturning cell similar to the Deacon Cell in the Southern Ocean was found in the Baltic proper corresponding to the gyre circulation around Gotland, which vanishes when the overturning stream function is projected on density layers. A Lagrangian trajectory study was performed to obtain a better view of the circulation and mixing of the saline and fresh waters. The residence time of the water masses in the Baltic is calculated to be 26-29 years and the Lagrangian dispersion reaches basin saturation after 5 years. 
4313020|Medical knowledge already exists to cope with the dominant patterns of global disease. In reviewing the current patterns of disease the authors argue that it is not the limitations of medical science but the lack of economic resources that prevent adequate health delivery. Without such resources the world picture of health will remain divided between the diseases of the rich and the diseases of the poor.
4312642|The eastern islands of Fiji are a relatively sparsely populated archipelago where the relationships between man and the environment have varied greatly over time. The islands have become trading economies, heavily dependent on external sources of supply, but a measure of variation is re-emerging through the entrepreneurship of farmers seeking to supply the national urban market. It is suggested that greater emphasis should be placed on the minority of islands which have large resources of good land; resource management must also be adapted to the variety of often fragile ecosystems encountered in the region. There are also serious problems arising from natural hazards, particularly drought and hurricanes.
4315459|The Sulu-Sulawesi Sea, with neighboring Indonesian Seas and South China Sea, lies at the center of the world's tropical marine biodiversity. Encircled by 3 populous, developing nations, the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia, the Sea and its adjacent coastal and terrestrial ecosystems, supports ca. 33 million people, most with subsistence livelihoods heavily reliant on its renewable natural resources. These resources are being impacted severely by rapid population growth (> 2% yr
4314920|The degradation of the mountain ecosystems in southwestern China has been unprecedented in speed and scale over the past decades. Deforestation, overgrazing, water and soil erosion, loss of soil fertility and declining or poor crop yields are alarming indicators of unsustainability due to rapid population pressure. Under the conditions of shortage of arable land, more marginal and forest lands are being reclaimed for agricultural use, and this accelerates the degradation of the fragile mountain ecosystems. Moreover, inaccessibility and a low level of education are preventing development in mountain communities. Agroforestry provides a promising resource-centered technology to meet the twin goals of productivity and conservation. This paper discusses the indigenous agroforestry system practiced in southwestern China, and the promising economic and ecological benefits. People in southwestern China have accumulated abundant knowledge on the utilization of agroforestry technologies to rehabilitate degraded land and the multiple benefits that follow some indigenous practices. Integrating the agroforestry system and modern agricultural technologies can be an effective approach for the sustainable development of mountain ecosystems.
25515808|Seagrasses have declined in many places around the world, and the Swedish Skagerrak coast is no exception. Between the 1980s and 2000, the cover of eelgrass (Zostera marina L.) on the Swedish Skagerrak coast decreased about 60%. In the present study, the sites that were investigated in the 1980s and 2000 were revisited (1655 ha) in 2003 and 2004 to investigate long and short term temporal and spatial differences in eelgrass coverage. The distribution of eelgrass was mapped from a small boat using an aquascope and a GPS receiver. No variation in total (about 150 km) or regional (about 20 km) eelgrass cover was found between 2000 and 2004, but there were substantial changes (both losses and gains) in meadow size on a local (less than about 2 km) scale. The results have implications for management of shallow soft bottoms, particularly because it was shown that even though no eelgrass is found in a single survey in a specific area, there could be eelgrass growing there in the following years.
4315387|There is a critical need to locate innovative forest management institutions that significantly impact forest cover change. This research presents an initial "proof of concept" methodology which combines deforestation theory with satellite image change analysis to identify forested areas that, theoretically, should probably not be there. Ten such "forest anomalies" are identified using temporal analysis of Landsat TM imagery of the Chitwan district in Nepal, linked with a GIS database on roads and a visual estimation of topography. A rapid field reconnaissance is undertaken to determine which of these anomalies exhibit interesting forest management innovations. Based on this information, one case is selected for detailed field study: this turns out to be a major case of community forestry and a premier ecotourism initiative that we were not aware of until we undertook this analysis. The utility and limitations of the method are described for monitoring trends in forest cover change.
4315742|We address issues connected with international river basin management and the EU Water Framework Directive (WFD). By creating a register of River Basin Districts established under the WFD, we show that the number and area of international River Basin Districts are significant. Further, we present an assessment of international cooperation and water quality in 14 international river basins in the Baltic Sea Drainage Basin. Our results indicate that the WFD is a push forward for international river basin management in the region. However the WFD in general, and the principle of river basin management in particular, may be hard to implement in river basins shared between EU Member States and countries outside the EU. According to the study, Vistula, Pregola, and Nemunas appear to be the international basins within the Baltic Sea Drainage Basin in greatest need of intensified cooperation with regard to the state of the water quality.
4314108| If the human influence on the atmosphere proceeds unchanged it may result in climate changes for Denmark, with an annual average temperature rise of about 3C by the end of the next century precipitation may increase by 10-15%, and the relative sea-level rise between 30 and 50 cm. The immediate consequences for Denmark within the next century may be so modest, that they can be managed through planned adjustment, supported by technological development. A possible exception is the natural ecosystems, where climate change may be too rapid for the adjustment of some animal and plant species; this may cause temporary instability and changes in the composition of species. Denmark is ecologically, politically, and economically a small open system. Development in the rest of the world may therefore be decisive. Greenland and the Faroe Islands, where completely different conditions prevail, are not included in the evaluations in this paper. 
25547947|I propose several broad fire regimes and provide an analysis of fire ecology for the principal vegetation types in Mexico. Forty percent of Mexican ecosystems are fire-dependent (pine forests, several oak forests, grasslands, several shrublands, savannas, palm lands, wet prairies, "popal" and "tular" swamps), 50% are fire-sensitive (tropical rain forests and tropical seasonal forests, tropical cloud forests, mangrove, fir forests, several oak forests, and several shrublands), and the remaining 10% fall into fire-influenced (such as several gallery forests) and fire-independent categories (shrublands in most xeric environments, very high-altitude prairies). I also present an analysis of current fire-management trends, highlighting the trend toward integral fire management, which merges prevention and control, community-based fire management, and ecological fire management.
4315523| The individual of a species is the basic unit which responds to climate and UV-B changes, and it responds over a wide range of time scales. The diversity of animal, plant and microbial species appears to be low in the Arctic, and decreases from the boreal forests to the polar deserts of the extreme North but primitive species are particularly abundant. This latitudinal decline is associated with an increase in super-dominant species that occupy a wide range of habitats. Climate warming is expected to reduce the abundance and restrict the ranges of such species and to affect species at their northern range boundaries more than in the South: some Arctic animal and plant specialists could face extinction. Species most likely to expand into tundra are boreal species that currently exist as outlier populations in the Arctic. Many plant species have characteristics that allow them to survive short snow-free growing seasons, low solar angles, permafrost and low soil temperatures, low nutrient availability and physical disturbance. Many of these characteristics are likely to limit species' responses to climate warming, but mainly because of poor competitive ability compared with potential immigrant species. Terrestrial Arctic animals possess many adaptations that enable them to persist under a wide range of temperatures in the Arctic. Many escape unfavorable weather and resource shortage by winter dormancy or by migration. The biotic environment of Arctic animal species is relatively simple with few enemies, competitors, diseases, parasites and available food resources. Terrestrial Arctic animals are likely to be most vulnerable to warmer and drier summers, climatic changes that interfere with migration routes and staging areas, altered snow conditions and freeze-thaw cycles in winter, climate-induced disruption of the seasonal timing of reproduction and development, and influx of new competitors, predators, parasites and diseases. Arctic microorganisms are also well adapted to the Arctic's climate: some can metabolize at temperatures down to -39C. Cyanobacteria and algae have a wide range of adaptive strategies that allow them to avoid, or at least minimize UV injury. Microorganisms can tolerate most environmental conditions and they have short generation times which can facilitate rapid adaptation to new environments. In contrast, Arctic plant and animal species are very likely to change their distributions rather than evolve significantly in response to warming. 
4313354|Seven international water experts were asked to discuss certain fundamental water-management problems. It was agreed that water shortage is a medium-term constraint requiring attention when deciding on policies for economic development within the resource base. Wise policies include best use of local rain, a top level national water authority and transport of food rather than water. Point disposal of toxic wastes should be considered a deliberate illegal act. Since treatment technology is generally available, the main problem is unwillingness to bear the cost. Water pollution originating from land use is best met by merging land-use and water-management policies. The present tendency to meet growing domestic or international water disputes is by negotiation rather than by confrontation. It is critical to the problems discussed to ensure that decision makers and the general public have an adequate understanding of mankind's long-term dependence on life-supporting systems, and of the fundamental role of the water cycle in these systems.
4314870|We developed a simple model that related NO
4313690|The paper includes quantifications of the sea salt supplied to the Swedish west coast during two westerly storms. The dry deposition of salt was measured from the west coast to the east coast of southern Sweden, using needles of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris, L.) as deposition surfaces. The four major cations of seawater, sodium, potassium, magnesium, and calcium, and the two major anions, chloride and sulfate were measured. The results showed that the relationship between the different ions of the pine needles was similar to that for seawater in most of the sites investigated. The total salt quantity deposited on a specific pine-needle area was determined. The quantities of sea salt decreased significantly from the west to the east coast. From the maximum content of
40390245|We investigate environmental impacts of off-budget or indirect subsidies, which, unlike on-budget subsidies, are not visible in government budgets. Such subsidies have received little attention in economic and environmental research, even though they may be at least as important from an environmental perspective as on-budget subsidies. We offer a typology of indirect subsidies. Next, we estimate the magnitude of these subsidies and their impact on greenhouse gas (GHG) and acidifying emissions for the agriculture, energy, and transport sectors in The Netherlands. The calculations are based on a model approach that translates a particular subsidy into price and quantity changes using empirical elasticities, followed by environmental effect estimates using pollutionintensity parameters. The various environmental pollution effects are aggregated into environmental indicators. The results show, among others, that GHG emissions caused by off-budget subsidies contribute to more than 30% of the policy targets specified by the Kyoto Protocol for CO emissions reduction by The Netherlands. Reforming or removing off-budget subsidies may thus be an important strategy of effective climate policy.
4314177|With a current world population of 5.3 billion, fossil fuel and biomass burning have already greatly increased the emission of fixed nitrogen to the global atmosphere. In 2020, with a projected population of 8.5 billion and an assumed 100% increase in per capita energy consumption relative to 1980 by the lesser developed countries, we predict an approximate 25% increase in total nitrogen deposition in the more-developed-country source regions such as North America. In addition, reactive nitrogen deposition will at least double in less-developed regions, such as SE Asia and Latin America, and will increase by more than 50% over the oceans of the Northern Hemisphere. Although we also predict significant increases in the deposition of nitrogen from fossil-fuel sources over most of the Southern Hemisphere, particularly Africa, the tropical eastern Pacific, and the southern Atlantic and Indian Oceans, biomass burning and the natural sources of nitrogen oxides (lightning and biogenic soil emissions) are also important in these regions. This increased deposition has the potential to fertilize both terrestrial and marine ecosystems, resulting in the sequestering of carbon. Increases in nitrogen deposition have also been shown not only to acidity ecosystems but also to increase emissions of nitric oxide (NO), nitrous oxide ( N
4314850| Muscle, egg and blood samples from female sea-run Baltic salmon from Dallven were analyzed for neutral and phenol-type organohalogen substances (OHS) to determine their potential associations to the M74 syndrome of wild Baltic salmon. No differences in the concentrations of DDT and related compounds, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), hexachlorobenzene (HCB), or methoxylated brominated diphenyl ethers (MeO-PBDEs) in healthy salmon compared to salmon that produced offspring with M74 were observed. A large number of phenol-type compounds (> 100), such as polyhalogenated (brominated and/or chlorinated) phenols, polychlorobiphenylols (OH-PCBs) and OH-PBDEs were identified or indicated. High blood concentrations of PCP were found in both healthy salmon and in salmon that produced offspring with M74. Both hydroxylated and methoxylated PBDEs, in concentrations similar to the PBDE congeners, were found. 2-(2,4-dibromophenoxy)-4,6-dibromoanisol and the corresponding phenol were identified in the salmon samples. During the spawning period different concentration ratios of the OHS were indicated between muscle, egg, and blood plasma lipids depending on the individual OHS. No differences in OHS concentrations were observed between healthy salmon and salmon that produced offspring with M74. Consequently, the data do not support the theory that the M74 disease is induced by OHS. However, the relation between the disease and phenol type OHS must be further considered since the data available on levels of these compounds are still limited. 
4312625|Mortality of reindeer calves during the first six months of life was high (35 to 70 percent) in a study area in west central Sweden. Due to the difficulty of finding prey, the underlying causes were largely unknown until in 1979 the recovery rate was drastically increased by the use of mortality transmitters. That season eight out of 12 lost calves were found to have been killed by lynxes. The study also revealed several of the factors which made traditional ground searching so ineffective.
4313845|The origin and past development of coastal wetlands in Jamaica has been closely associated with the Holocene sea-level rise. Wetlands have recently become more and more influenced by man, have already degraded or are seriously threatened. When wetland peat came into focus as a possible domestic source of energy, the Jamaican government and energy authority decided to investigate and solve environmental problems before allowing peat mining. The results of a holistic environmental feasibility study clearly demonstrated that removal of peat is the only realistic method to revive and permanently protect the areas as wetlands. In addition, for a scenario including an accelerated sea-level rise, mining of available peat appears advisable, both environmentally and socio-economically.
41417280|Global trends of increasing rural-urban migration and population urbanization could provide opportunities for nature conservation, particularly in regions where deforestation is driven by subsistence agriculture. We analyzed the role of rural population as a driver of deforestation and its contribution to urban population growth from 1970 to the present in the Atlantic Forest of Argentina, a global conservation priority. We created future land-use-cover scenarios based on human demographic parameters and the relationship between rural population and land-cover change between 1970 and 2006. In 2006, native forest covered 50% of the province, but by 2030 all scenarios predicted a decrease that ranged from 18 to 39% forest cover. Between 1970 and 2001, rural migrants represented 20% of urban population growth and are expected to represent less than 10% by 2030. This modeling approach shows how rural-urban migration and land-use planning can favor nature conservation with little impact on urban areas.
4315654|Dealing with uncertainty and complexity in social-ecological systems is profoundly dependent on the ability of natural resource users to learn and adapt from ecological surprises and crises. This paper analyzes why and how learning processes are affected by strategic behavior among natural resource users and how social conflict is affected by social and ecological uncertainty. The claim is that social conflict among natural resource users seriously inhibits the possibilities of learning and adaptation in social-ecological systems. This is done combining insights from political science, experimental economics, and social-psychology and an analytical case study elaborating social conflict and institutional change in Swedish water management institutions. This paper also discusses the crucial role the institutional context plays in defining the outcome of learning processes in Swedish water management institutions and hence highlights previously poorly elaborated political aspects of learning processes and institutional change in social-ecological systems.
4314548| In his 1896 paper, Svante Arrhenius laid the foundation for the modern theory of the greenhouse effect and climate change. The paper is required reading for anyone attempting to model the greenhouse effect of the atmosphere and estimate the resulting temperature change. Arrhenius demonstrates how to build a radiation and an energy balance model directly from observations. Arrhenius was fortunate to have access to Langley's data, which are some of the best radiometric observations ever undertaken from the surface. The successes of Arrhenius' model are many, even when judged by modern-day data and computer simulations: the suggestion of the diffusivity factor including its correct numerical value; the remarkably accurate simulation of the total emissivity of the atmosphere which seem to agree within 5% of modern-day values; the logarithmic dependence of the CO
4315816|The study examines the history of strategic decision-making concerning water protection in Helsinki, 1850-2000. We identified five major strategic decisions that occurred during the study period. The results indicate that strategic decision-making evolves in long-term policy cycles that last on average 20-30 years. New policy cycles are caused by paradigm shifts. Paradigms are shared and predominant ways of understanding reality that help when groups must act to solve common and complex environmental problems. However the internal structure and external dynamics of paradigms are contradictory. Although paradigms serve initially as means to redefine problems and find creative solutions, as time goes by each paradigm seems to become also a barrier that restricts the introduction of new ways of thinking and acting. The power of paradigms lies in the fact that they can be defined as scientific but also social, political, or cultural agreements depending on the context.
4315759|Fisheries for arctic freshwater and diadromous fish species contribute significantly to northern economies. Climate change, and to a lesser extent increased ultraviolet radiation, effects in freshwaters will have profound effects on fisheries from three perspectives: quantity of fish available, quality of fish available, and success of the fishers. Accordingly, substantive adaptation will very likely be required to conduct fisheries sustainably in the future as these effects take hold. Shift to flexible and rapidly responsive 'adaptive management' of commercial fisheries will be necessary; local land- and resource-use patterns for subsistence fisheries will change; and, the nature, management and place for many recreational fisheries will shift. Overall, given the complexity and uncertainty associated with climate change and related effects on arctic freshwaters and their biota, a much more conservative approach to all aspects of fishery management will be required to ensure ecosystems and key fished species retain sufficient resiliency and capacity to meet future changes.
41417399|Primary production in the eutrophic Baltic Sea is limited by nitrogen availability; hence denitrification (natural transformation of nitrate to gaseous N ) in the sediments is crucial in mitigating the effects of eutrophication. This study shows that dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA) process, where nitrogen is not removed but instead recycled in the system, dominates nitrate reduction in low oxygen conditions (O <110 M), which have been persistent in the central Gulf of Finland during the past decade. The nitrogen removal rates measured in this study show that nitrogen removal has decreased in the Gulf of Finland compared to rates measured in mid-1990s and the decrease is most likely caused by the increased bottom water hypoxia.
4313521|The polar regions are compared for geography, glacial history and political status and their biota related to the essential differences of isolation and climate. Terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems of both regions are strongly dependent on marine-generated nutrients for their productivity. The Arctic has a much more diverse fauna and flora with more complex trophic webs that include both mammals and birds. Antarctica lacks terrestrial mammals and its birds are seabirds. The major impacts on their environments are analyzed and both global and local factors identified. Both regions are becoming increasingly subject to conservation regulations and controls even though the pressure to exploit resources has never been greater. The history of these regulations is described for Antarctica.
4315135|During the 1990s nitrogen reserves have shown rising trends in the northern Baltic Sea. Changes in denitrification explain some of the fluctuations observed in nitrogen reserves. Although denitrification is an anaerobic process, the most efficient removal of nitrogen by denitrification occurs where the sediment is moderately well oxidized. A dramatic decrease in the ratio of
41417342|China leads the world in afforestation, and is one of the few countries whose forested area is increasing. However, this massive "greening" effort has been less effective than expected; afforestation has sometimes produced unintended environmental, ecological, and socioeconomic consequences, and has failed to achieve the desired ecological benefits. Where afforestation has succeeded, the approach was tailored to local environmental conditions. Using the right plant species or species composition for the site and considering alternatives such as grassland restoration have been important success factors. To expand this success, government policy should shift from a forest-based approach to a results-based approach. In addition, long-term monitoring must be implemented to provide the data needed to develop a cost-effective, scientifically informed restoration policy.
4313293|The Chernobyl reactor accident resulted in elevated levels of radionuclides in the air space above Sweden, which were then washed into Swedish lakes and streams. Before suspended particles stripped the water column, the concentration of
4313529|This article considers the challenges faced by those responsible for managing Antarctica as they have been addressed during the last decade and may evolve in the decades to come. These challenges are divided into issues and criticisms raised by the worldwide environmental movement and those that have emerged from the United Nations General Assembly since 1983.
4314905|This study aimed to search for potential sources of the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) contributing to the PCB input to the Gulf of Riga, as part of the Baltic Sea. PCBs, DDT-related compounds, hexachloro-benzene (HCB), bis(4-chlorophenyl) sulfone (BCPS) and 2 hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) isomers were quantified in perch (Perca fluviatilis) from the rivers Daugava and Lielupe in Latvia. Local PCB contamination was indicated in Lielupe with the most likely origin being the Jelgava urban area. The BCPS concentrations increased from 53 to 160 ng g
4312125|An extensive set of air pollution data from Swedish communities has been analyzed. Firstly, some ten relatively complete studies performed in communities of varying size during the 1960s are considered. It is shown that the influence of point sources on the general pollution level is marginal in most Swedish communities. Then data from 34 communities are analyzed in terms of winter season mean values, the purpose being a comparison of existing pollution levels with suggested long-term goals for air quality for Sweden. It is found that much of the variation in SO
4314534|Environmental acidification is a global problem, especially in areas with a combination of high fallout of acid precipitation and a low buffering capacity of water and soil. In light of the considerable effects caused by acid precipitation in soil and water, it is important to identify and quantify the possible adverse effects on human health. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency initiated a five year research program, starting in 1991, on the effects of acid precipitation on human health. The program focused on the indirect effects of acid precipitation. Effects due mainly to changes in the mobility of trace elements, giving in most cases an increase, but sometimes a decrease in metal levels. Through the food-chain, the intake of toxic as well as essential elements may be altered in man. The objective of the program is to elucidate i) to what extent acidification will change human exposure to elements, either the total levels or the chemical form; and ii) what this means for human health. The aim is to detect effects as early as possible, in order to be able to prevent harmful effects in humans. Although there are several indications that the exposure to toxic elements, e.g. cadmium, methylmercury and lead, as well as the intake of essential elements, e.g. selenium, may be affected by acid precipitation, there is at present no firm evidence of adverse health effects in man. However, the present data clearly indicate that the safety margins are small and efforts should be made to keep all sources of exposure to toxic elements as low as possible.
25547827|This paper provides an original account of global land, water, and nitrogen use in support of industrialized livestock production and trade, with emphasis on two of the fastest-growing sectors, pork and poultry. Our analysis focuses on trade in feed and animal products, using a new model that calculates the amount of "virtual" nitrogen, water, and land used in production but not embedded in the product. We show how key meat-importing countries, such as Japan, benefit from "virtual" trade in land, water, and nitrogen, and how key meat-exporting countries, such as Brazil, provide these resources without accounting for their true environmental cost. Results show that Japan's pig and chicken meat imports embody the virtual equivalent of 50% of Japan's total arable land, and half of Japan's virtual nitrogen total is lost in the US. Trade links with China are responsible for 15% of the virtual nitrogen left behind in Brazil due to feed and meat exports, and 20% of Brazil's area is used to grow soybean exports. The complexity of trade in meat, feed, water, and nitrogen is illustrated by the dual roles of the US and The Netherlands as both importers and exporters of meat. Mitigation of environmental damage from industrialized livestock production and trade depends on a combination of direct-pricing strategies, regulatory approaches, and use of best management practices. Our analysis indicates that increased water- and nitrogen-use efficiency and land conservation resulting from these measures could significantly reduce resource costs.
4315484|The Rossby Centre Atmospheric Regional Climate Model (RCA2) is described and simulation results, for the present climate over Europe, are evaluated against available observations. Systematic biases in the models mean climate and climate variability are documented and key parameterization weaknesses identified. The quality of near-surface parameters is investigated in some detail, particularly temperature, precipitation, the surface energy budget and cloud cover. The model simulates the recent, observed climate and variability with a high degree of realism. Compensating errors in the components of the surface radiation budget are highlighted and the fundamental causes of these biases are traced to the relevant aspects of the cloud, precipitation and radiation parameterizations. The model has a tendency to precipitate too frequently at small rates, this has a direct impact on the simulation of cloud-radiation interaction and surface temperatures. Great care must be taken in the use of observations to evaluate high resolution RCMs, when they are forced by analyzed boundary conditions. This is particularly true with respect to precipitation and cloudiness, where observational uncertainty is often larger than the RCM bias.
4315398|Wastewaters of private household septic tanks and cesspools have been treated with peracetic acid (1-2 g L
4313486|In order to study the effects of forest management on hydrology in central Sweden a hydrological model (PULSE model) was used both as a reference and as a forecasting tool. Three small basins were monitored before and after clearcutting. Increased total runoff and more pronounced peak flows were observed. The model was recalibrated to post-harvest conditions, and the two sets of model parameters were used to simulate the hydrological effects of hypothetical partial cutting in a large basin. During spring, the location of the cuttings affected peak flows because of nonsynchronous snowmelt and time delays in the basin. In autumn, the location of cuttings had very little effect on the peak flow. The total effect on peak flow of a 10 percent clearcut in a large basin was considered small compared to the effects of extreme weather conditions.
4315686|Most European assessments of climate change impacts have been carried out on sectors and ecosystems, providing a narrow understanding of what climate change really means for society. Furthermore, the main focus has been on technological adaptations, with less attention paid to the process of climate change adaptation. In this article, we present and analyze findings from recent studies on climate change impacts, vulnerability, and adaptation in Norway, with the aim of identifying the wider social impacts of climate change. Three main lessons can be drawn. First, the potential thresholds and indirect effects may be more important than the direct, sectoral effects. Second, highly sensitive sectors, regions, and communities combine with differential social vulnerability to create both winners and losers. Third, high national levels of adaptive capacity mask the barriers and constraints to adaptation, particularly among those who are most vulnerable to climate change. Based on these results, we question complacency in Norway and other European countries regarding climate change impacts and adaptation. We argue that greater attention needs to be placed on the social context of climate change impacts and on the processes shaping vulnerability and adaptation.
41510581|Biomass fuels are used by the majority of resource poor households in low-income countries. Though biomass fuels, such as dung-briquette and firewood are apparently cheaper than the modern fuels indoor pollution from burning biomass fuels incurs high health costs. But, the health costs of these conventional fuels, mostly being indirect, are poorly understood. To address this gap, this study develops probit regression models using survey data generated through interviews from households using either dung-briquette or biogas as the primary source of fuel for cooking. The study investigates factors affecting the use of dung-briquette, assesses its impact on human health, and estimates the associated household health costs. Analysis suggests significant effects of dung-briquette on asthma and eye diseases. Despite of the perception of it being a cheap fuel, the annual health cost per household due to burning dung-briquette (US$ 16.94) is 61.3% higher than the annual cost of biogas (US$ 10.38), an alternative cleaner fuel for rural households. For reducing the use of dung-briquette and its indirect health costs, the study recommends three interventions: (1) educate women and aboriginal people, in particular, and make them aware of the benefits of switching to biogas; (2) facilitate tree planting in communal as well as private lands; and (3) create rural employment and income generation opportunities.
4315589|Costs of reforestation projects determine their competitiveness with alternative measures to mitigate rising atmospheric CO2 concentrations. We quantify carbon sequestration in above-ground biomass and soils of plantation forests and secondary forests in two countries in South America-Ecuador and Argentina-and calculate costs of temporary carbon sequestration. Costs per temporary certified emission reduction unit vary between 0.1 and 2.7 USD Mg-1 CO 2 and mainly depend on opportunity costs, site suitability, discount rates, and certification costs. In Ecuador, secondary forests are a feasible and cost-efficient alternative, whereas in Argentina reforestation on highly suitable land is relatively cheap. Our results can be used to design cost-effective sink projects and to negotiate fair carbon prices for landowners.
4314071|Lake sediment profiles of Hg, Pb, Cd and Ni were studied in 210 Norwegian lakes without local sources of pollution. The relative increase in the Hg, Pb and Cd concentrations of surface sediments as compared to preindustrial reference samples were highest in southern Norway, especially in coastal areas where a 3 to 6 fold increase was common. In eastern regions of northern Norway the relative increase of Pb concentrations was also considerable. The increase in coastal areas from the central to the northern part of Norway, as well as in inland regions of southern Norway, was moderate (1.5 to 3 fold). The surface concentrations of Hg and Cd were only slightly elevated in the central mountain regions of southern Norway and in the inland regions of central and northern Norway. Slightly elevated concentrations of Pb were barely recorded. The increase of Ni concentrations was generally low; considerable elevations were only found in areas close to smelting industry.
4312264|Nitrogen as a life factor is not limiting in supply but in the "available" form to animals and man, its global, regional and local distribution is alarmingly uneven. To make efficient and maximum use of this resource in the production, distribution and consumption of nutritious food, and altogether new and unconventional approach needs to be followed. Remedial measures should involve production, distribution, conservation, utilization, sanitation, pertinent processing of hitherto ill-utilized, under-utilized sources of nitrogen that can well be used as food and feed, and local solutions to local problems.
4313745|Tropical rain forest, dominated by the family Dipterocarpaceae, is one of the most important natural resources in Malaysia and Southeast Asia. Besides being the main source of the very valuable tropical hardwood timber much in demand throughout the world, members of the Dipterocarpaceae also yield various other minor products such as resins and gums. However, continued future production from this family of trees is in doubt due to its unexpectedly slow growth rate, poor stocking, and changes in the residual stand after logging operations. Artificial regeneration efforts have met with little success and scientists have attributed this failure to the death of or lack of mycorrhizas. Ectomycorrhizas have been reported from 13 of the 16 genera of dipterocarps found in the tropical rainforests of the world. However, few studies have been conducted on the role of the mycorrhizas in dipterocarp survival and establishment. Some of the hypotheses and current research concerning dipterocarps and their mycorrhizas are discussed.
4315270| The reproduction of white-tailed sea eagles was monitored in 1964-1999 in 3 differently contaminated sub-populations: Baltic Sea coast (Bp), inland central Sweden (lp) and Lapland (Lp). 249 dead eggs from 205 clutches were obtained for analyses of DDE and PCBs and for eggshell measurements. A desiccation index (
4312534|Radiation at low levels is expected to initiate cancers. Attempts to demonstrate this are discussed. The unexpectedly large correlation observed by Stewart et al at Hanford is examined, together with the much larger Argonne study showing a negative correlation. A discussion of intracellular events supports the validity of linear extrapolation from Hiroshima and medical data. Further observations are needed, and studies of leukaemia statistics and of the lung cancers induced by radon are recommended.
40730883|A method to combine observations and an ensemble of ecological models is suggested to produce a eutrophication assessment. Using threshold values and methodology from the Oslo and Paris Commissions (OSPAR) and the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM), four models are combined to assess eutrophication for the Baltic and North Seas for the year 2006. The assessment indicates that the entire southeastern part of the North Sea, the Kattegat, the Danish Straits, the Gulf of Finland, and the Gulf of Riga as well as parts of the Arkona Basin, the Bornholm Basin, and the Baltic proper may be classified as problem areas. The Bothnian Bay and parts of the Baltic proper, the Bornholm Basin, and the Arkona Basin are classified as potential problem areas. This method is a useful tool for the classification of eutrophication; however, the results depend on the threshold values, and further work is needed within both OSPAR and HELCOM to harmonize these values.
4314716|The Russian Federation contains an enormous diversity of ecosystems and an impressive network of parks. But real financial resources available to the protected areas have declined by more than 90% since 1989, law enforcement in protected areas has weakened, and there has been a sharp increase in illegal activities within park boundaries. The power vacuum at sub-national levels caused by the central government's virtual collapse has been filled by political authorities which lack experience and often competence. Combined with the legacy of rigid, centralized mismanagement of both the economy and the environment under the Soviet system, this has now exposed the Russian environment, and especially its biodiversity, to an uncertain and highly dangerous future. Within this grim scenario, some ground for optimism is provided by the rapid emergence of conservation NGOs, some promising attempts by managers to seek new roles for their protected areas, and some potentially effective programs funded by international donors.
4313120|Nestling herring gulls (Larus argentatus) given either Prudhoe Bay Crude Oil (PBCO) or PBCO + Corexit 9572 by intubation lost weight significantly faster than controls when faced with a food stress. Plasma sodium levels were also significantly elevated in experimental birds for the first four days. External exposure to oil emulsion caused significant weight loss in gulls not exposed to food stress, whereas external oil alone did not.
4315727|A study was conducted to evaluate long-term trends in nitrate concentrations and to try to identify the origin of nitrate using stable isotopes (
4315610|This paper deals with how the natural behavior of animals kept for production can be integrated when planning new housing systems or making changes to existing housing systems. Natural behavior can be defined as the repertoire of different behaviors animals show when kept in environments where they can carry out behaviors created in the evolutionary process. Motivation and innate behaviors are important aspects of natural behavior, and hindering them may lead to abnormal behavior and stress. One should first get a basic knowledge about the species-specific behavior in the wild or a seminatural environment. Thereafter, key stimuli and key features for normal behavior should be worked out, where after a reduction in space, development of a pen, scientific testing, modification, and finally testing the function in a larger scale should be carried out. Examples of housing of calves during the milk period and housing of sows around farrowing are given.
4315335|India has a very extensive coastline of about 7515 km, rich in diverse living resources. These resources continue to deteriorate with rampant harvesting or are altered for other uses such as aquaculture and fisheries. The present paper deals with degrading coastal habitats in northeastern India, and projects the intensity of the stress arising from the collection of tiger prawn seeds (Penaeus monodon) for aquacultural farms and molluskan shells for poultry feed and edible lime. Indiscriminate exploitation of these resources leads to a heavy reduction of the species concerned and other associated marine communities. The magnitude of such destruction has been quantified. The impacts of biodiversity loss and their after-effects on the ecobalance of this coastal system have become a matter of great concern to ecologists to maintain security and sustainability. The authors propose a public awareness program on themes relating to the importance of biodiversity for human livelihoods.
4312960|These four countries, despite divergent political systems and cultures, have a number of things in common: soaring populations, undeveloped or under-developed industrial infrastructures, national programs which drive for self-sufficiency in food production and a dual-pronged energy crisis in the form of too much dependency on imported oil and a growing shortage of fuelwood, the poor man's energy source. The authors profile the energy situation in each country vis-a-vis development and make recommendations for changes. In order to push development goals, the energy dilemma must be dealt with first.
4314144|LANDSAT data for 1978, 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1991 indicate that by 1991 the area of forest cleared had reached 426 000 km
4315612|Technological, nutritional, and sensory meat quality may be influenced by multiple interacting factors before and after slaughter. Reviewing the literature, it can be seen that alterations aimed at creating more sustainable production systems for pig meat generally have either no effect or a lowering effect on the ultimate pH value of the meat. Some studies indicate reduced water-holding capacity in sustainably produced pork. Outdoor production may be expected to increase further the shear force of the meat compared to conventional systems. The color may be affected in different ways, leading to either darker, more pigmented meat or paler, structurally effected meat. The more unsaturated profile of the lipids in meat produced in a system that includes feeds containing polyunsaturated fatty acids is favorable with respect to the nutritional quality of the meat. To conclude, the combinatory effects of, for example, feeding, production systems, genotype, sex, and preslaughter treatments, have to be addressed.
41417389|This article examines key issues in operationalizing a registry of nationally appropriate mitigation actions (NAMAs) undertaken by developing countries party to the United Nations framework convention on climate change. It analyzes goals, outcomes, and institutional prerequisites underlying various proposals to determine how a NAMA mechanism could work in international climate cooperation. The different proposals for how NAMA shall be designed relate to three basic effort-sharing arrangements in a future climate regime: binding commitments for all Parties, purely voluntary commitments for all, and legally binding commitments for Annex I countries but voluntary ones for others. We conclude that a NAMA registry could be designed so as initially to suit all three types of effort-sharing regimes. The article identifies three areas of potential common ground in a registry irrespective of effort-sharing type: the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, the sustainable development objectives of the Convention, and the need for a systemic transition toward low-carbon energy technologies.
41417411|Solar energy has potential to provide a major part of our energy for our future, as heat, electricity, and fuels. Most solar technologies are still at the research and development stage, however. There is therefore a need for bold and enduring efforts in research, development and commercialization, including strategic legislative measures and infrastructure investments. This overview article serves as an introduction to the present Special Report, briefly outlining the potential, principles and possibilities as well as some of the challenges of solar energy conversion.
4314235|The role of nitrogen as an environmental hazard has become increasingly important since World War II. Emissions, and increased use of nitrogen compounds, e.g. fertilizers, have an impact on eutrophication, acidification, production of greenhouse gases and on the stratospheric ozone layer. Decreasing the supply of nitrogen to coastal waters by half by 1995 has been adopted as a national goal in Sweden. However, this decrease appears to be unrealistic to attain for many years. In 1989, an interdisciplinary project in the Laholm Bay drainage basin pointed out that the goal can be attained if decreased emissions and leaching is combined with increased removal during runoff. This paper presents studies on nitrogen removal/retention in created ponds. Annual removal per area unit varied about two orders of magnitude between the different ponds studied. Highest removal was obtained in ponds with high nitrogen loads.
4314105|The potential effects of bleached pulp-mill effluents on long-term population size and dynamics were investigated for the isopod Saduria entomon and the common amphipod Monoporeia affinis. Short-term experiments focused on fundamental mechanisms important to the equilibrium population densities and dynamics of the species were performed. The bleachery effluents caused behavioral changes in the species. The predator attack rate decreased with increasing exposure. If the results of the short-term experiments presented here are valid also for a chronic-exposure situation, then the simple population model suggests increased equilibrium densities of both the predator and the prey populations as the concentration of the effluents increases, until the lethal concentration is reached. Here, the lethal concentration means that mortality before maturation increases due to toxicity. The field densities of M. affinis were consistent with the predictions from the model both in time and space. Eutrophication may produce similar changes in the population levels, but the reduced individual mass of M. affinis over the last few decades implies that changes other than increased food are involved. The mere fact that also toxic substances may cause increasing populations of both predator and prey, makes it necessary to be observant when interpreting trends in monitoring results.
41417325|Repeat measurements from long-term plots provide precise data for studying plant community change. In 2010, we visited a remote location in Yukon, Canada, where a detailed survey of alpine tundra communities was conducted in 1968. Plant community composition was resurveyed on the same four slopes using the same methods as the original study. Species richness and diversity increased significantly over the 42 years and non-metric multidimensional scaling indicated that community composition had also changed significantly. However, the direction and magnitude of change varied with aspect. Dominant species were not replaced or eliminated but, instead, declined in relative importance. Fine-scale changes in vegetation were evident from repeat photography and dendro-ecological analysis of erect shrubs, supporting the community-level analysis. The period of study corresponds to a mean annual temperature increase of 2C, suggesting that climate warming has influenced these changes.
4313506|This article is an overview paper discussing the topic of exposure as it relates to the hazard assessment of chemicals in the aquatic environment. Multi-compartment approaches to developing an integrated expression for the concentration levels of environmental chemicals are noted as alternatives to meso-microcosm methods of describing their fates. The roles of modeling and monitoring are discussed as exposure methodologies in arriving at such expressions. A system being used to evaluate environmental chemical hazard in the North American Great Lakes ecosystem is also discussed.
4315136|Despite a decrease of about 30% in the external nutrient inputs, no corresponding improvement has been observed in the state of the open Gulf of Finland. At the end of the 1990s the external nutrient load to the Gulf totalled 120 000 tonnes (t) yr
4315584|Lake Apopka is a shallow, hypereutrophic lake in north-central Florida that experienced an abrupt shift in primary producer community structure (PPCS) in 1947. The PPCS shift was so abrupt anecdotal accounts report that dominant, submersed aquatic vegetation was uprooted by a hurricane in 1947 and replaced by phytoplankton within weeks. Here we propose two hypotheses to explain the sudden shift to phytoplankton. First, hydrologic modification of the drainage basin in the late 1800s lowered the lake level ca. 1.0 m, allowing the ecosystem to accommodate moderate, anthropogenic nutrient enrichment through enhanced production in the macrophyte community. Second, additional hydrologic changes and large-scale agricultural development of floodplain wetlands began in 1942 and altered the pattern and scale of phosphorus loading to the lake that triggered the rapid shift to phytoplankton dominance in 1947. Historic land-use changes and paleolimnological data on biological responses to nutrient loading support these hypotheses.
4315051|To adequately manage the fragile and changing environments of semiarid regions it is essential to disentangle human from climate or other environmental impacts over longer timescales than human memory. We investigated sediment cores from Salada Chiprana, a saline lake in the central Ebro basin in Spain, using pollen, charcoal, sedimentological, geochemical and radiometric dating techniques. The sequence indicates a rapid evolution from an ephemeral playa lake during the Late Holocene to a permanent saline lake a few centuries ago. The limnological evolution correlates with changes in agricultural practices and provides evidence of the strong impact of irrigation on the lake's hydrological balance from the XVth century. The work demonstrates that the Salada Chiprana, the only permanent, relatively deep, hypersaline lake in Spain has been created by a long history of human interaction with the landscape.
4313828|There is a growing worldwide concern over the toxicological hazards caused by agricultural pesticides to humans, animals and desirable plants in developing countries. This is not only because of the undesirable side effects caused but, more importantly, is due to the potential long-term exposure of such chemicals to non-target living forms. The problems that have been identified include current pesticide use patterns. Hence, it is necessary for developing countries to put in place sustainable programs to reduce such pesticide effects to the barest minimum. This paper examines the efforts one developing country has made to achieve this and practicable options opened to other countries. Such options include strategies to regulate the use of pesticides and prevent undue exposure of farmers to pesticides; restricting the use of persistent chemicals; alternatives to pesticide use, such as biological and natural control measures within the concept of integrated pest management practices, should be vigoroulsy pursued.
4312996|The formation of photochemical oxidants over north-western Europe in connection with high pressure situations in summers can lead to concentrations of oxidants above the air quality standards in the different countries. There are also indications that oxidants can damage vegetation, materials and even health. In the article, the occurrence and conditions for the formation of oxidants in Scandinavia are discussed, with emphasis on the seasonal variations of ozone concentrations. Furthermore, ozone and PAN concentrations during some episodes are described, and the source areas of the oxidant precursors are discussed. The article also contains a brief description of how oxidants are formed, a summary of the most important negative effects and a very short sketch of the historical development of the problem.
4315511|Ecosystems at high latitudes are highly dynamic, influenced by a multitude of largescale disturbances. Due to global change processes these systems may be expected to be particularly vulnerable, affecting the sustained production of renewable wood resources and abundance of plants and animals on which local cultures depend. In this paper, we assess the implications of new understandings of high northern latitude ecosystems and what must be done to manage systems for resilience. We suggest that the focus of land management should shift from recovery from local disturbance to sustaining ecosystem functions in the face of change and disruption. The role of biodiversity as insurance for allowing a system to reorganize and develop during the disturbance and reorganization phases needs to be addressed in management and policy. We emphasize that the current concepts of ecological reserves and protected areas need to be reconsidered to developp dynamic tools for sustainable management of ecosystems in face of change. Characteristics of what may be considered as customary reserves at high latitudes are often consistent with a more dynamic view of reserves. We suggest new directions for addressing biodiversity management in dynamic landscapes at high latitudes, and provide empirical examples of insights from unconventional perspectives that may help improve the potential for sustainable management of biodiversity and the generation of ecosystem services.
4314543| Arrhenius's 1896 model of the influence of carbonic acid ( CO
4312794|As we commemorate the 1972 Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment, we can consider that the nature of environmental issues has changed a good deal during the past ten years. Problems which have tended hitherto to be perceived as intrinsically national problems are starting to be regarded as international problems; and international problems are increasingly recognized as supranational, if not global, problems. This expanding challenge presents a generically different set of problems-and opportunities-for the community of nations. The environmental wellbeing of the planetary ecosystem can no longer be achieved through the individual well-being of nation-states, since the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. This new scene may well postulate new institutional mechanisms for the global community, insofar as present international systems, such as the United Nations, often appear constitutionally unfitted to tackle supranational issues.
24708852|A field experiment was conducted in Bangladesh Agricultural University Farm to investigate the mitigating effects of soil amendments such as calcium carbide, calcium silicate, phosphogypsum, and biochar with urea fertilizer on global warming potentials (GWPs) of methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) gases during rice cultivation under continuous and intermittent irrigations. Among the amendments phosphogypsum and silicate fertilizer, being potential source of electron acceptors, decreased maximum level of seasonal CH4 flux by 2527 % and 3238 % in continuous and intermittent irrigations, respectively. Biochar and calcium carbide amendments, acting as nitrification inhibitors, decreased N2O emissions by 3640 % and 2630 % under continuous and intermittent irrigations, respectively. The total GWP of CH4 and N2O gases were decreased by 727 % and 634 % with calcium carbide, phosphogypsum, and silicate fertilizer amendments under continuous and intermittent irrigations, respectively. However, biochar amendments increased overall GWP of CH4 and N2O gases.
4314197|Recent trends of organochlorine concentrations in the global environment are discussed based on results of temporal trend studies. Organochlorine residue levels in human tissues from both developed and developing countries indicate continuing human exposure to PCBs, while DDT burdens in humans from developed nations are declining. The reduction rates of oragnochlorines in the terrestrial environment is slow. Organochlorine concentrations in riverine fish suggest rapid clearance rates following restriction of the use of these compounds. Semiclosed and coastal seas exhibit slow clearance rates. Results from oceanic samples indicate a continuous input of organochlorines from terrestrial regions, and the open ocean continues to serve as a sink for these compounds. Dispersal of organochlorines from tropical point source countries represents the major input affecting recent global contamination. Despite this, no comprehensive contaminant monitoring program has been carried out in the Southern Hemisphere countries due to the economic and political implications involved. Periodical monitoring surveys on organochlorine trends are needed in tropical areas, semiclosed seas and in the open-ocean environment.
40801532|Eutrophication is now a ubiquitous water quality impairment in China. The first step toward restoration of eutrophicated water bodies is a marked reduction of nutrient loadings in their drainage basins. However, the combination of a number of physical and socio-economic factors is now producing compounded increases in nutrient loads while the nutrient assimilation capacities of natural systems are decreasing. Meanwhile, most of the lakes in densely populated part of China are shallow and very susceptible to anthropogenic alteration. Therefore, in spite of ascending efforts in eutrophication control upward trends of algal blooms in both fresh and coastal waters have been observed for the past two decades. Huge knowledge gap exists in our understanding of the sources and pathways of nutrient losses to aquatic ecosystems. Successful water quality restoration of China's eutrophic waters relies not only on more resource input but also more emphasis on basic, integrated, and management-oriented research.
4313587|In India, as in many other tropical countries, acute scarcity of water resources has become a major problem. The scarcity is generally being blamed on drought or meteorological deviations in rainfall. While the last 3-4 years have seen reduced rainfall in India, the paper argues, the level of water scarcity cannot be related to this reduction in precipitation alone. By the turn of the century, India will reach a saturation point in terms of the use of all freshwater sources. To ensure continuity of development and the well being of the people the new water plan will have to address ecological issues and equality of access.
4314814|The amount of pesticides used in Tanzania increased from 330 g
41417354|Short-term variability in stream water dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations is controlled by hydrology, climate and atmospheric deposition. Using the Riparian flow-concentration Integration Model (RIM), we evaluated factors controlling stream water DOC in the Swedish Integrated Monitoring (IM) catchments by separating out hydrological effects on stream DOC dynamics. Model residuals were correlated with climate and deposition-related drivers. DOC was most strongly correlated to water flow in the northern catchment (Gammtratten). The southern Aneboda and Kindla catchments had pronounced seasonal DOC signals, which correlated weakly to flow. DOC concentrations at Grdsjn increased, potentially in response to declining acid deposition. Soil temperature correlated strongly with model residuals at all sites. Incorporating soil temperature in RIM improved model performance substantially (20-62% lower median absolute error). According to the simulations, the RIM conceptualization of riparian processes explains between 36% (Kindla) and 61% (Aneboda) of the DOC dynamics at the IM sites.
4314012|Blubber samples from different seal species collected both from the Baltic and the west coast of Sweden have been analyzed for the presence of polychlorinated camphenes (toxaphene, PCC), chlordane-related compounds (sCHL) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE). Spatial and species variations as well as the influence of age and health status on the contamination levels have been studied. The results show that the levels of PCC and sCHL in Baltic seals are higher than those found in animals from the west coast of Sweden. Comparison of the data for adult and juvenile seals shows one major species and age-related variation in contamination, i.e. the levels of PCC and sCHL in adult Baltic ringed seal were significantly higher compared to adult grey seal from the Baltic, and 5-10 times higher than in juvenile ringed seal from the same water region. It is noteworthy that the data for PBDE do not reflect this variation in contaminant levels in Baltic seal species. The contaminant levels in seals suffering from pathological changes in the uterus were significantly higher than those found in "healthy" animals. In a pooled sample of diseased seals with poor nutritional status the levels of PCC, sCHL and PBDE were 2-3 times, 10 times, and 3-5 times higher, respectively, than in the "healthy" seal samples.
4312248|In well-watered Sweden, urban water demand has stagnated and industrial water demand decreased substantially in response to an action-oriented program of environmental protection started in the 60s and based on an efficient triformity of legislation-administration-technology/economy. The basic water protection philosophy is application of the best available pollutant-reducing technique which is economically feasible. The avoidance of rapidly outdated immission and emission standards has made possible a quick application of technological development and research results. In Sweden the chain of events in the loop of mutual interconnections between water policy, water demand, and output of pollutants started with the demand for environmental protection. On the other hand, in water-short areas an analogous chain of events might start from the need to keep down water demand and yield reduced water pollution as a by-product.
4315078|Ten-day intervals of satellite data between 1982 and 1993 are used to investigate the status of biological productivity on a rangeland in semiarid China exposed to high grazing pressure. Linear trends for 64 km
4312175|Mercury levels in a pike population in a lake previously polluted by a papermill decreased after the mercury discharge from the mill ceased. Of five tested parameters of size, length correlated best with mercury levels. For this correlation a significant difference was found between the sexes: males (which grow more slowly) had higher levels than females. Male pike of different ages but the same length showed similar mercury levels. Results indicated that mercury levels in pike increase during starvation.
4312000| The wet fallout pattern of sulfate and strong acid around a locally restricted source area has been studied on five different occasions, during well-defined rainfalls and snowfalls, in order to get an estimate of the residence time of sulfurous air pollution released during rainfall or snowfall. In each case samples were obtained from ca 100 points situated on concentric 180 arcs with a maximum radius of 60 km. The five tests indicate that 2/3 of the sulfur that is released during rainfall or snowfall is deposited within a distance of 50-100 km from the source. 
4314669|Soils, freshwater sediments and marine sediments offer a new frontier of vast, poorly known ecosystems that are critical to life on earth. They are connected by similarities in biota, ecosystem processes, biogeochemistry, and, the types of processes carried out by the diversity of biota. We know a lot about the ecosystem processes in these domains through studies of functional groups of organisms, but we know much less about keystone species, or biodiversity across habitats and thus we cannot, with certainty, answer questions such as, "will a change in diversity in an agricultural soil affect the flow of energy, water and chemicals across the interconnected domains?" Linkages of knowledge across the three domains would increase our understanding of how human-driven changes affect subsurface biodiversity and functioning, and, in turn, how these impacts influence aboveground ecosystem functioning. Approaches utilizing this knowledge will identify the long term strategies needed to attain sustainable soils, freshwaters and marine systems. Syntheses of available data for comparisons of biodiversity and processes across soils and sediments are priorities.
4315409|The first comprehensive seaweed flora of a Brazilian region was published by Joly in 1957, describing and illustrating 105 taxa. Twenty years later Oliveira and Berchez resurveyed the area and found only 69 taxa, with a strong reduction in the number of brown algae. In another survey, performed in 1991 at the 3 studied stations with the largest species richness, the same reduction trend was found and no brown algae were observed. This reduction in biodiversity was attributed to increased pollution. Here we present the results of a new survey made in 1998-1999. This shows the return of some species recorded in the 1950s, including 7 species of brown algae. This increase in species number is thought to be a consequence of the efforts made by the local government to reduce pollution and the building of a submarine sewage terminal.
4312684|This article examines the current energy situation in Kenya, placing particular emphasis on the non-commercial, traditional sector. While there is an energy crisis in the commercial sector (precipitated by the rapid escalation of oil prices) there is another, more sinister energy crisis; the "other" energy crisis that confronts millions of people in developing countries-scarcity of fuelwood and charcoal.
4312160|The microbial degradation of a "biodegradable" nonionic surfactant was studied using a gas chromatographic technique; the alkyl portion of the surfactant degraded rapidly while the polyglycol moiety persisted throughout the experiment. A recommended method for nonionic surfactant biodegradation testing does not detect breakdown products and consequently yielded high biodegradation values early in the experiment. These results demonstrate that biodegradation testing must include product studies since degradation products may be as environmentally damaging as the substrate.
4312114|Although it is recognized that growth in energy consumption is a central element in the improvement of living standards for most of the world's peoples, continued growth in energy consumption has the potential to create global-scale climatic changes as large or larger in magnitude than natural climatic variability sometime after the year 2000. Local mesoscale and even regional climatic disruptions can be expected even sooner than global effects; although it is impossible to make more than rough order-of-magnitude studies given the uncertainties in present knowledge of climatic theory.
4314946|Dramatic environmental changes are occurring in the Zhujiang (Pearl River) Delta where dike-pond agriculture-aquaculture has been practiced for centuries. After Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms, serious environmental degradation has triggered far-reaching alterations in the agro-aquaculture structure, spatial pattern, and species variety especially in the municipalities of Shunde and Nanhai. Following the decline in the raising of traditional Chinese carps in ponds in the late 1980s, the development of a more sophisticated and intensive monoculture has emerged. The market-oriented, high-valued monocultural systems, focusing primarily on expanding pond surface to raise production value per (pond) unit, tend to boost economic growth at the expense of ecological benefits. This study (1984-1994) was conducted to detect changes in the dike-pond areal ratio, and to raise questions about the sustainability of the new monocultural systems.
4311949|The fungicide pentachlorophenol (PCP) has been shown to be contaminated with high amounts of octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins. In this paper the identification of previously undetected contaminants in PCP is described. They belong to the chlorinated hydroxy-diphenyl ethers and are formed in the first step of the dioxin formation. The compounds are therefore given the name predioxins. When analyzing dioxins by means of gas chromatography any predioxins present will also be detected as dioxins due to conversion in the instrument.
4313461|The marine environment of the ASEAN subregion is threatened by both the forces of nature and human activities. Marine-related legislation in the ASEAN countries differs widely in form and substance. In only a few instances can the legislative response to the challenge of marine degradation be considered to be really comprehensive and effective. Lack of detailed regulations and standards, adequate manpower, laboratory equipment, and other facilities required for the implementation of policies, all contribute to the difficulties encountered.
4312177|Treatment of a grinding fluid containing triethanolamine and sodium nitrite at gastric pH (pH 2) resulted in the formation of N-nitrosodiethanolamine, as confirmed by UV spectroscopy and gas chromatography. Yields were as high as 13 mg/ml grinding fluid at pH 2, indicating that the handling of these products might be a potential health hazard if the components of the grinding fluid are present in the air around the machines where they are used. N-nitrosodiethanolamine has been shown to be carcinogenic to rats even though its carcinogenic potency is moderate.
4313720| The consequences for ozone and climate of the Montreal Protocol, which set limits for CFC-production and consumption, are studied by means of a state-of-the-art one-dimensional photochemical climate model. Seven scenarios are selected to study different problems of the protocol as well as the effects of further restrictions, especially on the production of not-fully halogenated chlorofluorocarbons. In the (unlikely, but possible) worst-case scenario it is assumed, that only two thirds of the 1986 CFC-production fall under the Protocol (minimum compliance for ratification), while the rest may grow by 3% per year, other chlorine-containing substances not regulated by the Protocol may grow by 5% per year until 2030: in the most optimistic scenario it is assumed, that after 2004 the halocarbon production, including all relevant species, will be about 5% of the 1986 value. In the worst-case scenario, very large, globally average depletions in total ozone by about 16% are predicted for 2050, accompanied by an increase in biologically active UV-B near the surface by more than 40%. In the standard Montreal scenario, computed total ozone changes are less than 2% if the production of
4314687|The enchytraeid Cognettia sphagnetorum reproduces asexually by fragmentation. Mortality and growth of P- and F-generations, size at fragmentation, number of fragments produced, and fragmentation rates were evaluated in two series of copper-treated soils. Specimens were individually maintained and fed either the fungus Mortierella isabellina or green algae (Pleurococcus spp.). Mortality was low when C. sphagnetorum was fed M. isabellina. Growth rate and size of the individual at fragmentation decreased significantly with increasing metal concentration. Worms in control soil split into five fragments, whereas those maintained at high copper concentrations produced only two. When the worms were fed Pleurococcus the growth rate was doubled. At low copper concentrations 11-12 fragments were produced at fragmentation. Retarded growth and reduced fragmentation rates occurred at higher copper concentrations than when fed M. isabellina. Overall, C. sphagnetorum sustained copper better in the Pleurococcus situation. The differences in the outcome of the series show the importance of food quality in long-term tests and the need to standardize food items; optimum respective sub-optimum conditions can be created when food is to be added. The advantages and disadvantages of using C. sphagnetorum in risk assessment are discussed.
4315473|Due to the wide range of their physical-chemical properties, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) have played an important role in the derivation of the global fractionation hypothesis, which predicts changes in the composition of persistent organic pollutant mixtures with latitude. Recent historical emission estimates, the derivation of an internally consistent property data set, in combination with a zonally averaged global fate and transport model, allow a quantitative investigation of the compositional shifts PCBs experience as a function of environmental compartment, latitude and time. Model simulations reproduce the higher relative abundance of lighter PCB congeners with increasing latitude, observed in air and soil, and quantify the relative importance of partitioning, persistence and emissions in establishing PCB patterns. Compositional variations consistent with global fractionation, as well as inverted concentration profiles with higher levels in the Arctic than at lower latitudes, are consistent with only minor fractions of the global PCB inventory being transferred northward.
41417392|The need for transparency is taking more prominence in international climate negotiations as developed countries pledge large sums of money to foster adaptation efforts in developing countries. Tools that provide accurate and up-to-date spatial information that can be easily used and vetted by local practitioners may provide effective and affordable ways to improve transparency. The Global Adaptation Atlas is such a tool, combining vetted, publicly available climate impact data with timely maps of on the ground adaptation projects to highlight confluences of effects of climate change with actions taken to address those effects. Here, we describe the structure and general functions of the Global Adaptation Atlas and explain how it may be utilized to track short-term investments in adaptation. Over longer time scales, it may also help gauge the effectiveness of specific adaptation investments as well as reveal how different climate impacts affect long-term investment in differing regions.
4314349|Failure to account for the numerous functions and economic uses of forests have led to patterns of global forest use with many detrimental environmental consequences. This study demonstrates the economic techniques for estimating the Total Economic Value (TEV) of forests. For the Mexican forest estate, the results show an annual lower bound value of the services of the total forest area to be in the order of USD 4 billion. This aggregate value stems from the nonmarketed services provided by nonconsumptive use; from future potential uses of the genetic resources and from pure existence values; and the largest proportion of economic value coming from the functional values of hydrological and carbon cycling. However, only a proportion of this value can feasibly be 'captured' within Mexico: much of the benefit of Mexico's forests falls outside the country's borders, and is therefore not considered by forest users or national policy makers.
4313396|It has been contended that the British reservation of forests in India was motivated by commercial interests and not by a concern for conservation. It has also been claimed that the exclusion of the rural population in the management of forests coupled with mismanagement by the forester has led to forest destruction. Furthermore, it is alleged that following the destruction of reserve-forests the system of social forestry was conceived for the benefit of industry. This article examines the historical development of forestry in India. The causes of destruction of 50 percent of the reserve-forest areas are discussed from the point of view of the forester. The situation in regard to the forests that were excluded from reservation, the mismanagement of which resulted in total devastation, is also discussed.
4314816| The coastal dwellers that inhabit the islands situated off the coast of Tanzania are semiautonomous and artisanal users of the adjacent marine and terrestrial environment. They are currently facing an economic transition that has prompted several changes in their production strategies. Data from 1993, 1997, and 1998 are used to assess how individuals in the coastal zone have responded to environmental and economic changes. Three main areas are assessed; the underlying incentives that affect the choice of production strategy, production constraints, and risk diversifying behavior and transitions in the subsistence economy. The result indicates that the dwellers respond by increased integration with the market economy and to specialization in production; in addition to which they begin to diversify production sources between increasingly separate ecosystems. Subsistence has increased in terms of market value and the composition of products used for home consumption has changed. The main consequence for the coastal dwellers is that the transition has resulted in increased income inequality where the most exposed group seems to be individuals who have many agricultural activities in their production strategy. The reason for this seems to be a lack of the necessary financial means to invest in new technologies and to transfer capital between production sources. 
4314162| During 1992, the Joint Global Ocean Flux Study (JGOFS) investigated biogeochemical fluxes in the central equatorial Pacific Ocean. The equatorial Pacific is the largest natural source of atmospheric carbon dioxide, but the magnitude of the flux varies interannually with the El Nio-Southern Oscillation cycle. Sediments beneath the equatorial upwelling are enriched in organic carbon indicating a strong export flux, but contemporary new primary production is lower than expected given the relative concentrations of new nutrients. The multidisciplinary JGOFS research plan was designed to address apparent contradictions in this system, and to assess the roles of equatorial physical and biological processes in regulating the ocean-atmosphere exchange of carbon. 
4313797|Population, economic development, natural resources and the environment are closely linked to one another. Rapid population growth and lack of supply of indigenous energy resources in Nepal has caused the extensive use of traditional energy resources which is resulting in the environmental degradation. Traditional energy sources like fuelwood and agricultural residues supply about 95% of total energy demand in Nepal. Fuelwood is currently being consumed at rates higher than the sustainable yield of the forests causing forest encroachment and local environment degrada-tion. Although imported fossil fuels are only about 4.6% of the total energy demand, traces of air pollution are obvious in urban areas. Nepal has a large economic potential for hydropower generation (42 000 MW), but only about 0.5% of this potential has been harnessed. In the absence of economically feasible fossil-fuel reserves Nepal will, in the long term, require proper forest management and a vast development plan for hydroelectric generation if the Nepalese energy demand is to be met. Hydropower, however, should be exploited in ways that will maintain the environmental balance on a sustainable basis and result in economic progress.
41417259|The term governance describes the multitude of actors and processes that lead to collectively binding decisions. The term risk governance translates the core principles of governance to the context of risk-related policy making. We aim to delineate some basic lessons from the insights of the other articles in this special issue for our understanding of risk governance. Risk governance provides a conceptual as well as normative basis for how to cope with uncertain, complex and/or ambiguous risks. We propose to synthesize the breadth of the articles in this special issue by suggesting some changes to the risk governance framework proposed by the International Risk Governance Council (IRGC) and adding some insights to its analytical and normative implications.
41417338|Supply of international environmental public goods must meet certain conditions to be socially efficient, and several reasons explain why they are currently undersupplied. Diagnosis of the public goods failure associated with particular ecosystem services is critical to the development of the appropriate international response. There are two categories of international environmental public goods that are most likely to be undersupplied. One has an additive supply technology and the other has a weakest link supply technology. The degree to which the collective response should be targeted depends on the importance of supply from any one country. In principle, the solution for the undersupply lies in payments designed to compensate local providers for the additional costs they incur in meeting global demand. Targeted support may take the form of direct investment in supply (the Global Environment Facility model) or of payments for the benefits of supply (the Payments for Ecosystem Services model).
4315165|Pyrodinium bahamense (var. compressum) has been the only dinoflagellate species that has caused major public health and economic problems in the Southeast Asian region for more than 2 decades now. It produces saxitoxin, a suite of toxins that cause Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP). A serious toxicological problem affecting many countries of the world, mild cases of this poisoning can occur within 30 minutes while in extreme cases, death through respiratory paralysis may occur within 2-24 hrs of ingestion of intoxicated shellfish. Blooms of the organism have been reported in Malaysia, Brunei Darussalam, the Philippines and Indonesia. The ASEAN-Canada Red Tide Network has recorded 31 blooms of the organism in 26 areas since 1976 when it first occurred in Sabah, Malaysia. As of 1999, the most hard hit country has been the Philippines which has the greatest number of areas affected (18) and highest number of Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP) cases (about 1995). Malaysia has reported a total of 609 PSP cases and 44 deaths while Brunei has recorded 14 PSP cases and no fatalities. Indonesia, on the other hand has a record of 427 PSP cases and 17 deaths. Studies on ecological/environmental impacts of these blooms have not been done in the region. Estimates of economic impacts have shown that the loss could be up to USD
4313357|The mycorrhiza-forming mushroom Cantharellus cibarius has shown a marked decline in The Netherlands over the past three decades. Detailed information on the decline has been gathered by means of (a) a questionnaire among mycologists and mushroom pickers, and (b) a permanent-plot study. Results show that changes in the soil, rather than over-collecting, are responsible for the decline. These changes may be partly due to natural succession and partly due to air pollution. The data lend support to the hypothesis that relates recent forest dieback to decline of mycorrhiza-forming fungi.
41417261|Scientific complexity and uncertainty is a key challenge for environmental risk governance and to understand how risks are framed and communicated is of utmost importance. The Baltic Sea ecosystem is stressed and exposed to different risks like eutrophication, overfishing, and hazardous chemicals. Based on an analysis of the Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter, this study discusses media representations of these risks. The results show that the reporting on the Baltic Sea has been fairly stable since the beginning of the 1990s. Many articles acknowledge several risks, but eutrophication receives the most attention and is also considered the biggest threat. Authorities, experts, organizations, and politicians are the dominating actors, while citizens and industry representatives are more or less invisible. Eutrophication is not framed in terms of uncertainty concerning the risk and consequences, but rather in terms of main causes.
41417402|Noise produces multiple effects on ecosystems and it influences habitat use by vertebrates near roads. Thus, it may reduce the effectiveness of mitigation measures installed on roads to alleviate population fragmentation. This study analyses the effects of noise on the use by vertebrates of 19 underpasses at a motorway. It employs generalised linear models to test the effect of three noise indicators at the underpasses and in their vicinity on the crossing frequency of eight animal species. The results show that the road crossings are subjected to high and variable noise levels. Nevertheless, there is no consistent response to noise by vertebrates. This suggests that wildlife use of underpasses is determined more by habitat characteristics than by the levels of noise tolerated. The conclusion is that noise abatement measures on roads in areas of faunal sensitivity should focus on general noise reduction rather than on making individual crossing places quieter.
25094570|The tundra-taiga interface is a dominant vegetation boundary that is related to climate and has an importance at a global level for its contribution to land atmosphere interactions, biodiversity and land use. However, our understanding of the precise location, dynamics and characteristics of the boundary, and its environmental and biotic drivers at a circumpolar level is poor. Our understanding has been constrained for various reasons, perhaps including a quest by researchers to denote 2- or even 3-dimensional tree distribution limits to a single line on a map. Current rapid sociological and environmental changes in the north necessitate better definitions to be made of characteristics associated with the tundra-taiga interface so that changes can be monitored and identified, and implications of these changes can be assessed. This concept paper introduces some of the complexities of adequately defining the boundary and suggests characteristics and processes that could focus future research at a collaborative, circumpolar level to create baseline data and to monitor and predict changes in the boundary zone.
4315454|Ecosystems in the Caspian Sea region have been heavily modified by anthropogenic activities, mainly as a result of changes in the water flow and degradation of the water quality in the ecosystems. Changes in the regional environment have influenced regional economies, particularly obvious in the impacts on fish stocks. Using the methodology developed in the GIWA project, experts in the region carried out an assessment of the most important transboundary issues in shared waters in the region. This report focuses on the root causes for the most important drivers of environmental change in the region: habitat and community modification.
4312815|Malaysia's 650 000 hectares of mangroves are under the jurisdiction of the various State Forest Departments. Some 20 percent of the total has been lost through cutting for the wood-chip industry in the last 20 years. Another 20 percent has been earmarked for possible aquaculture development in Peninsular Malaysia. A comparison between sustained yield management for forestry and conversion to aquaculture shows that aquaculture development is economically precarious. A conservation plan involving sustained yield management and the establishment of mangrove national parks is suggested. Seed materials from the national parks will ensure genetic vigor for sustained yield management.
41417270|Between 1985 and 1995, fertility in Eastern Europe declined from 2.2 children per woman to merely 1.5 on region-average. Previous research has emphasized mainly the economic turmoil during transition or the influx of new ideas regarding fertility and family relations. This article suggests that applying a risk management perspective on fertility patterns may put additional light on the reasons behind the fertility decline in post-communist Europe. The complexity of modern social systems has made people increasingly dependent on the state for risk evaluation and risk management. The article formulates the hypothesis that transition itself disrupted the mental models that helped people to navigate among the risks associated to having and raising children. Left to their own devices, women in Eastern Europe became more inclined to postpone childbirth or discard this option altogether.
24708857|Interdisciplinary scientific knowledge is necessary but not sufficient when it comes to addressing sustainable transformations, as science increasingly has to deal with normative and value-related issues. A systems perspective on coupled humanenvironmental systems (HES) helps to address the inherent complexities. Additionally, a thorough interaction between science and society (i.e., transdisciplinarity = TD) is necessary, as sustainable transitions are sometimes contested and can cause conflicts. In order to navigate complexities regarding the delicate interaction of scientific research with societal decisions these processes must proceed in a structured and functional way. We thus propose HES-based TD processes to provide a basis for reorganizing science in coming decades.
4312312|Sources of oil pollution in the Mediterranean Sea are discussed and an attempt is made to evaluate the input, taking into account the general characteristics of oil transportation in this area. The oil pollution situation and its consequences for the marine environment are examined. Finally, remedial solutions and planned measures are considered, with particular reference to the UNEP Action Plan.
4315352|This study focuses on assessing the state of population distribution, land cover distribution, biodiversity hotspots, and protected areas in global coastal zones. The coastal zone is defined as land within 100 km of the coastline. This study attempts to answer such questions as: how crowded are the coastal zones, what is the pattern of land cover distribution in these areas, how much of these areas are designated as protected areas, what is the state of the biodiversity hotspots, and what are the interconnections between people and coastal environment. This study uses globally consistent and comprehensive geospatial datasets based on remote sensing and other sources. The application of Geographic Information System (GIS) layering methods and consistent datasets has made it possible to identify and quantify selected coastal zones environmental issues and their interconnections. It is expected that such information provide a scientific basis for global coastal zones management and assist in policy formulations at the national and international levels.
4315556|The relationship between emissions and deposition of air pollutants, both spatially and in time forms an important focus for science and for policy makers. In practice, this relationship may become nonlinear if the underlying processes change with time, or in space. Nonlinearities may also appear due to errors in emission or deposition data, and careful scrutiny of both data sources and their relationship provides a means of picking up such deficiencies. Nonlinearities in source receptor relationships for sulfur and nitrogen compounds in Europe have been identified in measurement data for the UK. In the case of sulfur, the dry deposition process has been shown to be strongly influenced by ambient concentrations of NH
4312386|Environmental mercury poses a human health hazard to native communities in Canada. In some instances their traditional diet of fish, waterfowl and mammals are contaminated and blood mercury levels in excess of 200 ppb have been reported. Mild symptoms of methyl mercury intoxication have been identified. Canadian authorities have taken steps to identify the population at risk, limit consumption of contaminated fish and reduce environmental release. Indians seek compensation for health impairment and loss of livelihood.
4315456|This article presents a description of the background material, and analyses used by UNEP-GIWA for the assessment of the Russian seas. It gives an overview of the development of fisheries over the last 100 years in the 2 Russian seas, the Barents and the Azov Sea. The major stages of fisheries development in the Barents and in the Azov Seas and the main reasons for their decreasing productivity are discussed. These 2 seas, with very different physical and geographical characteristics, both show similar trends in fish-catch dynamics. The natural fluctuations of marine ecosystems and anthropogenic interference with natural ecosystems functions have led to significant negative impact on ecosystem health and have resulted in a negative change in both the structure and the amounts of catches. The decreasing fish catch in the Russian seas has become a concern for the Russian Federation, and revised policies for the management of the Russian fisheries have been introduced. This policy document Concept of the Fishery Development in the Russian Federation for the Period up to the Year 2020 is presented and discussed.
4314074|Attempts to reverse deforestation in the tropics have failed because they addressed symptoms rather than causes. Many pressures come from outside the forest, so a multisectoral approach is needed. The real causes and some possible solutions are examined. Whilst there is scope for further research, many problems can be overcome through increased community participation, better communication, more effective management and the implementation of a few simple guidelines.
4314387|Sea-level measurements at different locations in Puttalam Lagoon and volume flux data at the entrance have been used to describe the tidal response of this large shallow lagoon on the west coast of Sri Lanka. The forcing oceanic tide is mixed, semidiurnal dominated by the principal lunar tide M<sub>2</sub>. The tidal-wave progression within the lagoon and the volume flux at the lagoon mouth, has been successfully predicted by a one dimensional numerical model. The model takes into account the variable width and cross-sectional area along the lagoon axis, as well as the effects of frictional damping and wave reflection at the head. Bottom friction causes a gradual decrease in amplitude as the wave propagates through the lagoon with a reduction of about 70% as it reaches the head. The remaining 30% of the wave is reflected at the head and causes a local increase in amplitude and a decrease of the phase lag due to superposition of the incident and reflected waves. The reflected wave is further dissipated on its way back through the lagoon and has practically vanished by the time it reaches the mouth.
41417289|Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) is still used in Africa for the indoor control of malaria and it may represent a potential hazard for wildlife. The littoral sediments of two alkaline-saline lakes, Natron (Tanzania) and Bogoria (Kenya), in the Eastern Rift Valley, supporting large populations of lesser flamingos (Phoeniconaias minor), were analysed for DDT residues. Physical-chemical analyses (temperature, conductivity, pH and dissolved oxygen) were also performed on the water of the two lakes and in the tributaries of Lake Natron, to evaluate the influence of the environmental variables on pollutant occurrence. At Lake Natron, around 1 km from the sediment collection sites, tree leaves of Acacia tortilis were also collected. The main metabolite found in all sediment samples was pp'DDE, whilst equal concentrations of pp'DDT and pp'DDE were measured in acacia leaves. The levels of DDTs measured in the sediments were within 5.930.9 ng g d.w., reaching the maximum value in a tributary of Lake Natron. On the whole, the contamination of Lake Natron and Lake Bogoria basins seems to be quite moderate. Nevertheless, the pp'DDE/pp'DDT ratio equals 1 in the Acacia tortilis leaves, which makes one suppose that the input of the parent compound was rather recent and could have been from aerial transport or dust from relatively close-by old pesticides storage sites.
4312836|India's successful Project Tiger is especially welcome because of its sound ecological approach. Ten years of experience have supported the original principle that the well-being of the forest people and their ecosystems depends on a strategy of conservation.
4314607|During the period 1993-1995 an extensive study on N inputs and losses to streamwater was carried out in 19 subcatchments of the Bjerkreim river
4314844|Antioxidative systems, detoxifying enzymes and thiamine levels were studied in Atlantic salmon from the Baltic Sea that developed M74. Low concentrations of both thiamine and carotenoids were found in roe from family groups that developed M74. Additionally, thiamine was found to influence whether yolk-sac fry exhibited early, intermediate, or late development of M74. The study revealed new data concerning interactions between oxidative stress and M74. Newly hatched yolk-sac fry that later developed M74, showed an induction of hepatic catalase activity. However, during development the situation became the reverse, whereby yolk-sac fry developing M74 failed to show increasing hepatic catalase activity with increasing age, otherwise shown by healthy yolk-sac fry. Hepatic glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities showed marked increases during development of the disease, indicating that peroxidation mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis. Hepatic EROD-activities were low at hatching and showed an age dependent increase in healthy yolk-sac fry. In yolk-sac fry developing M74, a decrease in activity was noted between the clinical and terminal stages of disease.
23322913|Climate change is occurring largely as a result of increasing CO 2 emissions whose reduction requires greater efficiency in energy production and use and diversification of energy sources away from fossil fuels. These issues were central to the United Nation climate change discussions in Durban in December 2011 where it was agreed that a legally binding agreement to decrease greenhouse gas emissions should be reached by 2015. In the interim, nations were left with the agreement reached at the analogous 2009 Copenhagen and 2010 Cancun meetings that atmospheric CO 2 levels should be constrained to limit the global temperature rise to 2 C. However, the route to this objective was largely left to individual nations to decide. It is within this context that options for reduction in the 95 % fossil fuel dependency and high CO 2 emissivity of the Australian energy profile using current technologies are considered. It is shown that electricity generation in particular presents significant options for changing to a less fossil fuel dependent and CO 2 emissive energy profile.
40801587|The session on energy efficiency had no formal presentations and was organized as a panel discussion with four panelists. It was concluded that energy efficiency and saving measures on the short term is the most effective way to contribute to a sustainable energy system. Measures to improve and encourage energy efficiency should be implemented at all levels; municipal/local, national and super-national. Prices can be an effective instrument but need to be combined with systemic level measures. The transport sector was identified as the one with largest near future potential for increased energy efficiency. Agriculture and food is also an area with very large energy consumption and large potential for increased energy efficiency. The global population issue is yet another relevant, challenging and complex issue. It was noted that energy audits for end users in business and society increase awareness and insights into what they pay for, and they are likely to promote actions to save energy. Many measures are believed to suffer from Jevin's paradox, i.e., that more efficient use of energy just leads to more energy consumption somewhere else. Many examples were given, however, where this does not happen. Another point put forward was that measures to make the energy system more efficient do not only mean constraints and regulations but also create great opportunities for market actors and societies.
4314062|At the urging of environmental groups, bilateral and multilateral development agencies are trying to save biological diversity in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. There are few results to show so far, in part because most projects are barely under way. Unfortunately, there is little reason to expect major pay offs in the future. This paper contains a critical examination of donor agencies' efforts on behalf of biodiversity conservation in South America. We argue that the campaign is faltering for five reasons. First, it is concentrated too much on the Amazon Basin. Second, projects often reflect wishful thinking about local communities' regard for natural ecosystems. Third, many biodiversity projects involve an attempt to transplant national parks, a rich-country institution, to an alien setting. Fourth, the strong link between renewable resource mining and economic activity in frontier areas is ignored. Fifth, complementarities between economic development and ecosystem conservation are not being exploited. A major thrust of the campaign should be to improve production, income, and employment in other areas, including cities, towns, and places where agriculture is already well established. Unless this is done, the campaign to save biodiversity will fail.
4315444|The dramatic bleaching events on the coral reefs recently have enhanced the need for environmental monitoring. Remote sensing is an important constituent for monitoring of reefs, and an invaluable complement to field observations. This paper discusses the possibilities and limitations of present high resolution satellites for mapping and monitoring coral reefs. The sensors with the best spatial and radiometric resolution available today, e.g. IKONOS, can be useful for mapping and monitoring of reefs, but they are too costly for global surveys. However, our coral bleaching studies indicate that massive bleaching could be detected even from satellites with lower resolution, like Landsat, SPOT, and IRS. They could also be useful for coarser, from a spatial and thematic point of view, global mapping and updating purposes. A more detailed monitoring requires both better spatial resolution and spectral resolution than today's sensors. In the future, it is necessary to construct a more reef specific sensor with a few specially selected narrow bands and a good spatial, radiometric and temporal resolution.
41417294|The study on medium size river Sutla in Croatia indicated considerable water contamination at specific sites during the baseflow period, probably associated to low flowrate (0.7368.8 m s), and consequently low dilution capacity of this river. Various aspects of contamination were observed: increased conductivity to 1,000 S cm, decreased dissolved oxygen level to 50%, 45C increased water temperature, increased concentrations of several dissolved trace elements (e. g., maximal values of Li: 45.4 g 1; Rb: 10.4 g 1; Mo: 20.1 g 1; Cd: 0.31 g 1; Sn: 30.2 g 1; Sb: 11.8 g 1; Pb: 1.18 g 1; Ti: 1.03 g 1; Mn: 261.1 g 1; and Fe: 80.5 g 1) and macro elements (e.g., maximal values of Na: 107.5 mg 1; and K: 17.3 mg 1), as well as moderate or even critical fecal (E. coli: 4,888 MPN/100 ml; total coliforms: 45,307 MPN/100ml; enterococci: 1,303 MPN/100 ml) and organic pollution (heterotrophic bacteria: 94,000 cfu/ml). Although metal concentrations still have not exceeded the limits considered as hazardous for aquatic life or eventually for human health, the observed prominent increases of both metal concentrations and bacterial counts in the river water should be considered as a warning and incentive to protect the small and medium size rivers from the future deterioration, as recommended by EU Water Framework Directive.
4313080|Reduction of adipose tissue concentrations of polybrominated and polychlorinated biphenyls and chlorinated insecticides in seven humans was examined in a pilot study, using the Hubbard technique. A mean post-treatment reduction of 21.3 percent was found for the sixteen chemicals examined. Follow-up sampling four months later demonstrated a mean reduction of 42.4 percent, indicating actual reduction rather than redistribution to other body storage compartments. Future research stemming from this study should include examination of the mobilization and excretion of xenobiotics in humans.
41418327|Climatic changes to freshwater ice in the Arctic are projected to produce a variety of effects on hydrologie, ecological, and socio-economic systems. Key hydrologie impacts include changes to low flows, lake evaporation regimes and water levels, and river-ice break-up severity and timing. The latter are of particular concern because of their effect on river geomorphology, vegetation, sediment and nutrient fluxes, and sustainment of riparian aquatic habitats. Changes in ice phenology will affect a wide range of related biological aspects of seasonality. Some changes are likely to be gradual, but others could be more abrupt as systems cross critical ecological thresholds. Transportation and hydroelectric production are two of the socio-economic sectors most vulnerable to change in freshwater-ice regimes. Ice roads will require expensive on-land replacements while hydroelectric operations will both benefit and be challenged. The ability to undertake some traditional harvesting methods will also be affected.
4313024|This article presents a summary of this issue in an attempt to postulate some future trends for the period from the present through the next century. The contributors were provided with population and climate projections, which form the framework for the issue. The picture of the 21st century that emerges from this issue is one with a human population that has more than doubled, higher global temperatures than the Earth has known for millions of years, acute water problems, food supplies at variance with population distribution, a mega-spasm of species extinctions, a drastic increase in the proportion of older people, armies of the unemployed and unemployable, and expanses of ruined land no longer capable of supporting agriculture. The authors call for preparations to begin now to channel the future in positive rather than negative directions.
4313539|Ecosystems dominated by aquatic macrophytes are among the most productive in the world. Aquatic plants possess an outstanding ability for assimilating nutrients and creating favorable conditions for microbial decomposition of organic matter. This ability can be exploited in the restoration process of natural streams, lakes and wetlands, and in wastewater-treatment systems. This paper describes different types of macrophyte-based wastewater-treatment facilities, their treatment capacities and their potential applicability under different climatic conditions. Working experiences from Danish facilities are evaluated. The potential for resource recovery by harvesting and utilization of the plant material produced can be regarded as a step in the direction of a holistic solution, where waste products will be regarded and utilized as a resource.
4313334|Forest and tree cover is declining at alarming rates throughout the developing world. As a result, essential sources of food, fuel, shelter, fodder, medicines, and many other products are disappearing, and the soil and water base for food production is being degraded. Solutions are urgently needed as populations and human needs continue to grow. "Agroforestry," or the deliberate association of trees and shrubs with crops, livestock or other factors of agricultural production, holds great promise for contributing to sustainable landuse systems. Agroforestry approaches are appropriate to the needs of low-resource farmers and the physical and socioeconomic constraints they face. However, the potential contribution of agroforestry can be realized only if farmers and local communities are fully involved in its development and application.
25547896|Forest decline in Ethiopia is highlighted by several authors but there is no consensus on its causes and consequences. The objective of this study is to investigate, from sociopolitical and geographical perspectives, the linkage between the trend of forest decline and changes in the social, economic, and political pattern in the Awassa watershed over a 100-year perspective. Field observations, satellite image and map analyses, interviews, and literature studies were employed, and natural indicators were analyzed. The findings indicate that the forest area declined from about 40% at the turn of the 19th century to less than 3% in the year 2000. Forest decline in the study area during the elected time period is the result of the combination of biophysical and social conditions. Important causes are geographic properties, sociopolitical changes, population growth, unstable land tenure principles, agricultural development, and the improvement of transport capacity. The main conclusions are as follows: Already in the early 20th century forest decline was in progress and forests were attributed an insignificant economic classification. Large areas of forest were cut down during periods of political transition when as a result of the political vacuum, interest in the protection of resources including forests was lacking. Long-term planning efforts to manage forests were obstructed by uncertainty resulting from land tenure principle change during each political period. The sparse area of forest land that remains is becoming increasingly attractive as potential land for arable agriculture because of improved road access between the study area and distant markets.
4313617|The recognition of the potentially disastrous global environmental consequences of nuclear war has introduced several new elements into politico-strategic thinking. These should lead to a decreasing reliance on nuclear weapons and a more urgent global search for safer strategies. The role of the non-nuclear countries, particularly the allies of the superpowers, may be crucial to achieving substantial progress towards nuclear disarmament. Such countries now have a strong incentive to disassociate themselves and their allies from reliance on nuclear weapons. This may already be happening, for example in New Zealand and some European countries, although the superpowers will be slow to admit it.
4312156|Over the last five years Scotland has been experiencing the implications of the exploration and discovery of large finds of oil and gas in the North Sea. This article presents a composite account of the main ecological and planning responses to the evolving pattern of oil-related development and its impact on the mainland and islands of Scotland. It is reasonable to conclude that as the pressure on the environment have increased so there has been an equally vigorous response from environmental and planning interests to secure the maximum benefits and minimum disbenefits for Scotland as a whole.
4314640|This paper analyzes the transition period for Latvia's economic system from 1990 to date. The character of the factors that affect the situation in rural areas and those that influence employment are: the decline of agricultural production; unemployment; loss of the market in the East; and decline in the standard of material well-being of the population. Analyses of the influence of agriculture on environment need to include: the dynamics of areas treated with pesticides and mineral fertilizers; eutrophication of water basins in Latvia; soil quality; pollution of artesian waters. The paper also presents an indication of the first steps being taken toward sustainable agriculture in Latvia.
4312137|Acidified rain may cause increased leaching of nutrient cations from the leaves of plants. In this study, pinto bean and sugar maple seedlings were exposed to artificial mists adjusted to a variety of acidities. Foliar leachate was collected and analyzed for Na
4314492|Ecological risk analysis is a method for assessing the risk of extinction of a population under given conditions. This estimate is of paramount importance in conservation biology. As the conditions may refer to the current situation as well as hypothetical ones, it is possible to estimate the effects of possible management actions beforehand. However, a problem with using simulation models for management purposes is the dependence of the outcome on the accuracy of the information available. Therefore, unless the effects of uncertainties on the results are carefully analyzed, it is dangerous to rely on the results of a simulation model only. We report a case study of ecological risk analysis using the highly endangered Ringed Seal population in Lake Saimaa, southeastern Finland, as an example. The main factors reducing the performance of the population are pup kills due to water level changes, which result in lair collapses, and drowning in fishing gear. We show that although neither factor alone increases the risk of extinction to an intolerable level, in combination they may be fatal.
4311968|DDT and PCB may be suspected of increasing, indirectly, the metabolism of steroid hormones such as oestrogens and progesterone. For this reason the length of the oestrous cycle of the mouse, estimated from studying vaginal smears, was determined before and after a single injection of DDT or PCB. Both these substances induced a prolonged interval between the heat periods of the mice in the experiment.
4314320| The quality and quantity of UV measurements have increased greatly in the last few years. Variations among measurements from different instruments are diminishing toward the 5% level. Long-term trend detection is still a problem, with little historical data available for baseline estimations. Enhanced UV levels are clearly associated with the Antarctic springtime ozone reductions. Measurements show that maximum UV levels at the South Pole are reached well before the summer solstice, and DNA-damaging radiation at Palmer Station, Antarctica (64S) during the springtime ozone depletion can exceed maximum summer values at San Diego, USA (32N). UV increases at mid-latitudes are smaller. However, increases associated with the record low ozone column of 1992/93 in the Northern Hemisphere are evident when examined on a wavelength-specific basis. Measurements in Argentina, Chile, New Zealand, and Australia show relatively high UV levels compared to corresponding Northern Hemispheric latitudes, with differences in both stratospheric ozone and tropospheric pollutants likely to be playing a role. Tropospheric ozone and aerosols can reduce global UV-B irradiances appreciably. At some locations, tropospheric pollution has increased since pre-industrial times, leading to decreases in surface UV radiation. However, recent trends in tropospheric pollution probably had only minor effects on UV trends relative to the effect of stratospheric ozone reductions. Global ozone measurements from satellites over the period 1979-1993 imply significant UV-B increases at high and mid-latitudes of both hemispheres, but only small changes in the tropics. Such estimates however assume that cloud cover and tropospheric pollution have remained constant over this time period. Under the current CFC phase-out schedules, global UV levels are predicted to peak around the turn of the century in association with peak loading of chlorine in the stratosphere and the concomitant ozone reductions. The recovery to pre-ozone depletion levels is expected to take place gradually over the next 50 years. 
4314278|For some 50 years, conservation programs in Kenya have produced only patchy and unsustainable conservation of soil and water resources. In 1988, the Ministry of Agriculture adopted the Catchment Approach. At first seen as a way of concentrating technical effort, this approach has evolved to be interdisciplinary and community mobilizing. Conservation coverage must be complete if it is to be sustainable, and this will only happen if there is the full participation of all actors at a local level. Catchment committees articulate local priorities and provide a link with external agencies. A self-evaluation conducted in six districts found the most significant impact where there has been interactive participation. In these communities, crop yields are increasing, farmers are growing a greater diversity of crops, there are more trees and ground cover, groundwater resources are being recharged, land prices and labor rates are increasing, and communities are actively replicating successes to neighboring communities.
4312454|The present article primarily describes research regarding levels of mercury in Swedish fauna and flora, with a concentration on higher animals. Particular emphasis is laid on the increase of levels from the 19th century to the present (the last 150 years) caused by increased industrial activity. The decrease since 1966, which is due to Fenno-Scandian (Finnish-Swedish) regulations and prohibitions in the use of mercury and its compounds, is also discussed.
4315506|Mercury (Hg) concentrations above levels that could pose health risks have been measured recently in predatory fish from many aquatic systems in the southeastern region of the United States. Based on hypotheses derived from published experimental data on the aqueous geochemistry of Hg, we investigated the effect of certain natural and human-imposed conditions on in situ levels of methylmercury (MeHg) in the Mobile-Alabama River System (MARS). Water samples were collected from different types of environments, hypothesized to have contrasting levels of MeHg in the aqueous phase, and were analyzed for total-Hg (THg) and MeHg concentrations, as well as some key geochemical parameters. The results showed the following. i) Overall, total Hg concentrations in waters of the MARS are quite uniformly distributed and vary from 0.2 to 6 ng L
4313914|The sexual maturation stages of the burbot were examined on the northern coast of the Bothnian Bay, in Finland and Sweden, in 1987-1990. While 29-55% of the adult burbot failed to mature on the coast off Simo and Kalix, nearly all of them (87-98%) in the sea off Tornio and Kemi were sterile. Non-maturing burbot were also found in the Tornio River, approx. 10 km from the mouth (87% of the catch). No diseases resulting from micro-organisms or parasites were found in the burbot, nor did histological examination reveal any specific pathological changes in the liver or gonad samples, but an accumulation of fat could be seen in the hepatocytes. Otoliths taken from burbots caught off Simo showed irregular growth and bone resorption; the prevalence of this disorder was significantly greater in sterile burbot than in mature ones. Sterility was also found in other fish species caught off Simo, but prevalences were usually lower than in the burbot and the causes may be different, e.g. infection or a resting year phenomenon. Several toxic chemicals (e.g. PCB, PCDD, PCDF, Al, Cr, Pb and Hg) were measured in burbot liver and muscle samples.
25547866|The purpose of this article is to review interdisciplinary systemic frameworks of environmental protection and evaluate their use as tools, educational policymaking and education. We analyze the pressures-state-responses (PSR) framework of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the drivers-pressures-state-impact-response (DPSIR) framework developed in the European Environment Agency and a later environmental political dynamics framework developed by Schroll and Strdahl. We then continue the discussion by introducing a comprehensive model, labeled as the environmental protection process (EPP) framework that can be used to analyze and teach why there are environmental problems, what are their characteristics, and in which ways they can be mitigated. The EPP model is used for classifying measures of coping with environmental problems. Finally, a submodel of individual and societal factors affecting human action is formed. Environmental issues of transport are used as an illustrative example. We hope to contribute a relevant way to outline a wide interdisciplinary picture of environmental problems and solutions.
25094586|Mountainous regions offer not only essential habitat and resources, including water, to the earth's more than 6 billion inhabitants, but also insights into how the global human habitat works, how it is being changed at the moment as global climates are disrupted, and how the disruption may lead to global biotic and economic impoverishment. At least 600 million of the earth's more than 6 billion humans dwell in mountainous regions. Such regions feed water into all the major rivers of the world whose valleys support most of the rest of us. At least half of the valley dwellers receive part or all of their water from montane sources, many from the melt water of glaciers, others from the annual snow melt. Glaciers are retreating globally as the earth warms as a result of human-caused changes in the composition of the atmosphere. Many are disappearing, a change that threatens municipal water supplies virtually globally. The warming is greatest in the higher latitudes where the largest glaciers such as those of Greenland and the Antarctic Continent have become vulnerable. The melting of ice in the northern hemisphere raises serious concerns about the continued flow of the Gulf Stream and the possibility of massive climatic changes in Scandinavia and northern Europe. Mountains are also biotic islands in the sea life, rich in endemism at the ecotype level. The systematic warming of the earth changes the environment out from under these genetically specialized strains (ecotypes) which are then maladapted and vulnerable to diseases of all types. The process is systematic impoverishment in the pattern conspicuous on mountain slopes with increasing exposure to climatic extremes. It is seen now in the increased mortality and morbidity of plants as climatic changes accumulate. The seriousness of the global climatic disruption is especially clear in any consideration of mountains. It can and must be addressed constructively despite the adamancy of the current US administration.
4315563|Within the Swedish research program SUCOZOMA (Sustainable Coastal Zone Management) several conflict studies have been carried out. Whereas the detailed results of these studies are published separately, this paper reviews important results from conflict research in combination with a summarizing and generalizing discussion of approaches and main results of SUCOZOMA's resource and conflicts studies. After an analysis of interdisciplinary and theoretical research about environmental and resource use conflicts, the methodology used in SUCOZOMA is presented, a combined stakeholder and conflict analysis. It can be summarized in four main points: i) to map the stakeholders and their interests; ii) to analyse the conflicts; iii) to develop methods for conflict mitigation and cooperation with stakeholders; iv) to integrate these components in a system for the management of natural resources. Exemplary case studies of resource use conflicts have been carried out at the Swedish west and east coast including coastal fishery, mussel culture, coastal planning and specific conflicts such as between species protection (seals) and coastal fishery. Researchers are involved as experts and as conflicting parties, and the role of scientists as stakeholders deserves special attention in conflict research. Conflict management is not only for the solution of present conflicts, but part of integrated resource management systems where knowledge transfer, institutional development, collective learning of scientific, political and administrative actors, and cooperation between scientists and resource users can occur.
25066563|Health hazards to humans and animals are not restricted to man-made chemicals; many plants and animals can synthesize toxic substances. Of special interest are those toxic substances produced by molds which infest food and feed material. These often extremely toxic compounds constitute a special risk for humans and animals as it is often difficult for the consumer to be aware of their presence in food or feed. This problem has been known for a very long time; today increased agricultural activity without concomitant development of adequate agricultural technique has developed the problem to the point where it is a global threat. In this article the various actions which can be taken to reduce or eliminate this threat are discussed against a background of today's knowledge of mold taxonomy and distribution, chemistry of toxins and their biological action.
4312076|Space measurements of atmospheric parameters, such as cloud pattern and dynamics, wind velocity, temperature and humidity profiles, and water liquid content by use of optical-electrical remote sensing methods working in the visible, infrared and microwave regions, have been developed since the 1960s. The US experimental weather satellite series NIMBUS has played an important role in this development. The coming NIMBUS G, planned for the late 1970s, will broaden the scope of the missions to include the detecting and monitoring of pollutants in the atmosphere and the oceans.
41417391|Deforestation is the second largest anthropogenic source of carbon dioxide emissions and options for its reduction are integral to climate policy. In addition to providing potentially low cost and near-term options for reducing global carbon emissions, reducing deforestation also could support biodiversity conservation. However, current understanding of the potential benefits to biodiversity from forest carbon offset programs is limited. We compile spatial data on global forest carbon, biodiversity, deforestation rates, and the opportunity cost of land to examine biodiversity conservation benefits from an international program to reduce carbon emissions from deforestation. Our results indicate limited geographic overlap between the least-cost areas for retaining forest carbon and protecting biodiversity. Therefore, carbon-focused policies will likely generate substantially lower benefits to biodiversity than a more biodiversity-focused policy could achieve. These results highlight the need to systematically consider co-benefits, such as biodiversity in the design and implementation of forest conservation programs to support international climate policy.
4314489|The microbiological, physicochemical, and radiochemical water quality from samples of 150 rural wells in Finland was analyzed. Organic matter exceeded 12 mg
25547897|This paper provides information about the distribution, structure, and ecology of the world's largest alpine ecosystem, the Kobresia pygmaea pastures in the southeastern Tibetan plateau. The environmental importance of these Cyperaceae mats derives from the extremely firm turf, which protects large surfaces against erosion, including the headwaters of the Huang He, Yangtze, Mekong, Salween, and Brahmaputra. The emphasis of the present article is on the climate-driven evolution and recent dynamics of these mats under the grazing impact of small mammals and livestock. Considering pedological analyses, radiocarbon datings, and results from exclosure experiments, we hypothesize that the majority of K. pygmaea mats are human-induced and replace forests, scrub, and taller grasslands. At present, the carrying capacity is increasingly exceeded, and reinforced settlement of nomads threatens this ecosystem especially in its drier part, where small mammals become strong competitors with livestock and the removal of the turf is irreversible. Examples of rehabilitation measures are given.
4313241|Since the early 1970's, environmental groups have been actively promoting the cause of marine mammals through grass roots efforts and mass media campaigns. These efforts have resulted in a high level of awareness concerning the plight of marine mammals and in some cases can be seen to be behind public pressure on governments to cease exploitation. While most whaling has ceased, several governments still harvest both whales and other types of marine mammals-a circumstance which may require further education of both the decision-makers and the public.
24708777|Eco-certification is widely considered a tool for reducing environmental impacts of aquaculture, but what are the likely environmental outcomes for the world's fastest growing animal-food production sector? This article analyzes a number of eco-certification schemes based on species choice, anticipated share of the global seafood market, size of eligible producers, and targeted environmental impacts. The potential of eco-certification to reduce the negative environmental impacts of aquaculture at scale presently appears uncertain as: (a) certification schemes currently focus on species predominantly consumed in the EU and US, with limited coverage of Asian markets; (b) the share of certified products in the market as currently projected is too low; (c) there is an inequitable and non-uniform applicability of certification across the sector; (d) mechanisms or incentives for improvement among the worst performers are lacking; and (e) there is incomplete coverage of environmental impacts, with biophysical sustainability and ecosystem perspectives generally lacking.
4312913|When plans were drawn up to construct a huge dam across the Nile River at Aswan, it became apparent that a large number of Egypt's priceless archaeological monuments-built in what the ancient Egyptians called Nubia-would be drowned in the flood waters created by the dam. Many sites were threatened, particularly unexcavated and little known cemeteries and small settlements. But the impending disappearance of the two temples of Abu Simbel and those on the island of Philae would have constituted a loss of incalculable value to the world's cultural heritage. An international salvage effort was mounted and the monuments were saved for posterity. They were declared a World Heritage Property in 1979.
4314748| The Giant Mountains (Krkonoe in Czech), the highest and best known mountains in the Czech Republic, belong to the Sudetes, a chain of middle-mountains shared by the Czech Republic, Poland and Germany. Although the altitude of the highest peak (Snzka) at 1602 m a.s.l. belongs to the middle mountains' size, the uppermost areas of the Giant Mts represent a particular landscape system, which displays balanced affinities to both subarctic and high mountain regions. The Giant Mts played an extremely important role as a biogeographical "crossroads" during the Late Glacial and Postglacial changes in Northern and Central Europe. Therefore, there are many alpine and arctic phenomena, such as an alpine timberline, subarctic peat-bogs, snow patches, landslides, snow avalanches, periglacial screes, solifluction, cryoplanation terraces, tors, patterned grounds, and outstanding biotic features (relic species and relic ecosystems). As a result of long-term pluridisciplinary research the landscape of the highest elevation of the Giant Mts has been described as the arctic-alpine tundra. Three zones of the arctic-alpine tundra (cryoeolian, vegetated-cryogenic and niveo-glacigenic zone) have been distinguished according to the characteristics of the relief, types of patterned ground, climatic factors, and composition of vegetation. However, in spite National Park status the increasing pressure of human activities seriously threatens this unique island of arctic-alpine tundra in Central Europe. The main threats to the Giant Mts' tundra are related to (i) high numbers of visitors with consequent environment impact; (ii) large plantations of dwarf pine stands, which disturb recent cryopedologic processes; and (iii) air pollution, together with symptoms of climate change. Therefore, the National Park Administration is implementing monitoring and research of both abiotic and biotic processes, to ensure effective management and conservation of the Giant Mts' arctic-alpine tundra. 
4312406|Investigations were carried out on air pollution problems in Nigeria. It was found that air pollution is mainly attributable to automobile exhausts. The levels of both carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide are very high in urban centers but low in rural areas.
4312645|MAB's Rome Project is an integrated, multidisciplinary attempt to study all aspects of the city's urban environment. It is unique in that the entire city services bureaucracy is also cooperating. The eventual aim of the project will be to provide planners and decision-makers with detailed information on a whole spectrum of urban problems so that potential adverse human impacts on Rome's environment can be dealt with at a stage when less costly solutions are still available.
4313526|Polar marine ecosystems are, as are other marine systems, mainly based on pelagic unicellular algae (phytoplankton) as the primary producers in the food web. Algae affiliated with the ice represent an additional supply of food. The pronounced seasonal variation in light in polar regions brings about a marked periodicity in the growth and biomass of algae. The growth season starts as early as April in the Northern Hemisphere with a phytoplankton bloom when insolation in spring becomes adequate and vertical mixing becomes restricted enough not to carry algal populations too deep. Phytoplankton blooms are particularly vigorous along the ice edge. After termination of the ice-edge bloom, algal stocks are usually sparse, because of limited nutrient supply in the Arctic or insufficient light due to deep vertical mixing in the Antarctic. Transfer of algal production to the higher trophic levels of the food web is mediated mainly by zooplankton such as copepods and krill. Production of zooplankton in the main reflects the production of phytoplankton, but large production of the latter does not necessarily ensure large production of zooplankton. Success requires that patches of the two are well-timed and similarly distributed geographically, which depends on several factors. Some species of animals are key species in being the main food source for several higher animals. Antarctic krill is harvested by seabirds, seals, whales, fish, and man. Capelin plays a corresponding role in the Barents Sea. The interaction of environmental factors and harvesting by consumers (including man) can cause large fluctuations in the stock of key species.
25547912|This paper evaluates the impact of protected areas on land-cover clearing, using a metadata analysis of information on 49 locations from 22 countries. Protected areas had significantly lower rates of clearing in comparison to their surroundings. In addition, protected areas had also significantly lowered rates of clearing within their boundary following initiation of protection. Thus, protected areas do appear to be effective at limiting overall land-cover clearing. There was some variation in the rates of clearing across regions, where most protected areas from North America and Europe showed positive rates of land-cover change, while protected areas from Asia had the highest rates of land-cover clearing. While most protected areas from North America and Europe involved a relatively smaller number of actors, a greater number of actors and drivers of clearing was implicated in protected areas from Asia, Africa, and Latin America, indicating the increased difficulties faced by park management in these regions. In contrast, country income levels and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources category of protection did not appear to impact the likelihood of land-cover clearing in protected areas.
24708787|Flagships are one conservation education tool. We present a proposed flagship species fleet for environmental education in central Chile. Our methods followed recent flagship guidelines. We present our selection process and a detailed justification for the fleet of flagship species that we selected. Our results are a list of eight flagship species forming a flagship fleet, including two small- and medium-sized mammals, the degu (Octodon degus) and the culpeo fox (Lycalopex culpeaus), two birds, the turca (Pteroptochos megapoidius) and the burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia), the Chilean iguana (Calopistes palluma), the tarantula (Grammostola mollicoma), and two trees, the litre (Lithrea caustica) and the espino (Acacia caven). We then describe how these flagships can be deployed most effectively, describing their audience, effective narrative frames, and modes of presentation. We conclude that general selection rules paired with social science background data allow for an efficient selection process.
4314955|In its 1987 report, the World Commission on Environment and Development called for a global risk-assessment program to buttress and extend the work of the United Nations Environment Programme. This article reports on an international project centered at Clark University in the United States that has explored the causes and consequences of growing environmental risk over a 50-70 year period in nine regions distributed throughout the world. The nine regions are: Amazonia, the Eastern Sundaland region of southeast Asia, the Ukambani region of southeastern Kenya, the Nepal Middle Mountains, the Ordos Plateau of China, the Aral Sea, the southern High Plains of the United States, the Mexico City region, and the North Sea. The authors begin by considering the notion of criticality, and developing definitions and a classification of environmentally threatened regions. Research teams were assembled for all nine regions and studies conducted. In this article, the authors review the development of concepts and methods used in these studies and the major cross-cutting findings that emerged. They argue that a growing disjuncture exists in the studied regions between the rapid rates of environmental degradation and the slow pace of societal response, threatening environmental impoverishment and loss of options for future generations and escalating costs of substitution in resource use and risk mitigation efforts.
4312627| Forest area was drained in the lower, peaty part of a watershed in the Kloten region of central Sweden. Water samples were taken from the runoff brook once a month, and analyzed. Immediately after the drainage, pH increased from 4.9 to 5.8 and the alkalinity from zero to 110 ekv/I as mean values for two years. In these respects the runoff water became more similar to the local groundwater. 
25547937|The Scottish Raptor Monitoring Scheme (SRMS) comprises 7 partner organizations and was established in 2002 after i) the publication of the UK Government's Raptor Working Group Report that made recommendations for enhanced monitoring, ii) increased applied data needs (e.g., for site designation), and iii) concerns for the status of some species. The SRMS has 3 major objectives: i) to facilitate cooperation between parties; ii) to provide robust information on Scottish raptor populations by determining trends in numbers, range, survival, and productivity and understanding the causes of change; and iii) to maintain high and uniform standards for the collection, collation, auditing, and analysis of data and reporting of information. Data are collected for 19 species: 14 diurnal raptors, 4 owls, and 1 corvid, the Common Raven. Here we describe the development of the scheme, challenges, and achievements during its first 4 y, the nature and value of the data collected, and plans for the future.
4315143|We study the Baltic Sea countries' declaration to reduce nutrient loads by 50% in each country in an ecological-economic model. The model consists of country-based abatement-cost functions, and transfer coefficients describing how phosphorus and nitrogen flow from one country to another, as estimated in a hydrological model of the Baltic Sea. We show that for nitrogen in particular the overall abatement costs of the current policy are much higher and that the benefits are more uneven than under a cost-efficient policy. Consequently, one can expect that countries with high marginal abatement costs have the least incentives to follow the agreement and to invest in nitrogen abatement. This is also confirmed by our data. Therefore, we suggest and outline a joint implementation policy to promote cost efficiency and to increase incentives for investments.
4314899| Total Hg was determined in sediment, piscivorous fish and human hair from two similar lake areas in Amap State, Brazilian Amazon: Duas Bocas Lake (DBL), influenced by Hg releases from gold mining; and Pracuba Lake (PL), a pristine site 15 km to the north. In DBL, Hg profiles in sediments clearly documented the evolution of Hg pollution, and Hg was significantly higher in fish and human hair than in PL.
4315491|Not least when judging the possible effects of climate change it proves necessary to estimate the water-renewal rates of limited marine areas subject to pronounced external influences. In connection with the SWECLIM programme this has been undertaken for two ecologically sensitive sub-basins of the Baltic, viz. the Gulf of Riga and Gdansk Bay. For this purpose two methodologically different approaches have been employed, based on mass-balance budgets and analysis of Lagrangian trajectories, respectively. When compared to the results obtained using the Lagrangian technique, the box-model approach proved to be adequate for the Gulf of Riga representing a morphologically highly constrained basin, whereas it demonstrated certain shortcomings when applied to the more open topographic conditions characterizing Gdansk Bay.
4312176| Environmental conditions in two fjordic systems, one in Scotland (Loch Linnhe/Eil) and one in Sweden (the Saltkllefjord) are described and compared. Successional changes in the benthic fauna of the two systems are compared, primarily in relation to the input of organic material from the effluents of pulp and paper mills. Quantitative data are presented on the number of species present, together with abundance and diversity, changes in all of which show considerable similarities in both areas. The relationship between faunal structure and sediment structure is considered; the use of benthic fauna to assess and predict the effect of organic pollution is discussed, and different methods of data presentation are assessed. 
25547864|Why do ecologists seem to underestimate the consequences of using bad taxonomy? Is it because the consequences of doing so have not been yet scrutinized well enough? Is it because these consequences are irrelevant? In this paper I examine and discuss these questions, focusing on the fact that because ecological works provide baseline information for many other biological disciplines, they play a key role in spreading and magnifying the abundance of a variety of conceptual and methodological errors. Although overlooked and underestimated, this cascade-like process originates from trivial taxonomical problems that affect hypotheses and ideas, but it soon shifts into a profound practical problem affecting our knowledge about nature, as well as the ecosystem structure and functioning and the efficiency of human health care programs. In order to improve the intercommunication among disciplines, I propose a set of specific requirements that peer reviewed journals should request from all authors, and I also advocate for urgent institutional and financial support directed at reinvigorating the formation of scientific collections that integrate taxonomy and ecology.
4315643| The Rnne Catchment Dialogues were developed as a multipurpose methodology to enable stakeholder-oriented, interdisciplinary research. This article describes the background of the Catchment Dialogues and their multiple aims and evaluates the Dialogue design. The three parallel objectives that were expected from the Catchment Dialogues were that they would function as a method to i) collect qualitative research data, ii) promote the involvement of stakeholders in water management, and iii) offer a practical example to enable integration of disciplines. Drawing on experiences from similar research or stakeholder-involvement projects using focus groups and similar techniques, this article assesses how the research aim was fulfilled and how the balance between fulfilling different objectives was struck. It reflects on Catchment Dialogues as a fruitful research method for answering our research questions, specifically focusing on the "new" design features, i.e. heterogeneous groups, structured interviews (long hours), and external moderation. Conclusions show that Catchment Dialogues was a useful approach for achieving VASTRA's multiple purposes. 
4315310|Leaf litter removal by the abundant mangrove decapod crab Neosarmatium meinerti was studied in series of field and laboratory experiments in East Africa. In the high intertidal Avicennia marina zone crabs buried all leaves placed on the forest floor and consumed on average 67% of them within 2 hrs. High shore crabs in Kenya buried 4 g m
4315400|Compared to other continents, the economic growth performance of Sub-Saharan Africa has been poor over the last four decades. Likewise, progress in agricultural development has been limited and the Green Revolution left Africa almost untouched. The question raised in the literature is whether the poor performance is a question of poor policies or of an unfavorable biophysical environment (policy versus destiny). This paper, with a broad perspective, analyzes adaptation of current land use to environmental conditions in Africa and compares the physical resource base of Africa with Asia. In doing so, we search for unifying principles that can have operational consequences for agricultural development. We argue that some specificities of the natural resource base, namely local homogeneity and spatial diversity of the predominant Basement Complex soils, imply that simple fertilizer strategies may not produce the yield increases obtained elsewhere.
4315237|Gannet (Sula bassana) eggs collected from Ailsa Craig, Western Scotland between 1977-1998 have been analyzed retrospectively for several PCB congeners. Concentrations of a range of congeners were determined in 8-10 eggs analyzed separately for several individual years. All congeners declined in concentrations throughout the time period, but the rates of decline differed for different congeners. Declines were first order and half-lives varied between 5.4 years for PCB-101 to 10.1 years for PCB-180. Egg concentrations reflect the maternal body burden, which itself is controlled by the birds rate of intake (principally via the diet) and losses (via metabolism and other clearance mechanisms). The declining concentrations in eggs, therefore, broadly reflect reductions in prey concentrations (principally herring and mackerel) and-in turn-water column concentrations. Rates of change in PCB concentrations from this study were similar to those noted in fish-eating birds from the Baltic Sea and North American Great Lakes, and ambient air in the UK. This provides indirect evidence that gannet eggs are broadly reflecting regional/global scale clearance/removal mechanisms which are controlling ambient PCB concentrations.
40730880|While various energy-producing technologies have been analyzed to assess the amount of energy returned per unit of energy invested, this type of comprehensive and comparative approach has rarely been applied to other potentially limiting inputs such as water, land, and time. We assess the connection between water and energy production and conduct a comparative analysis for estimating the energy return on water invested (EROWI) for several renewable and non-renewable energy technologies using various Life Cycle Analyses. Our results suggest that the most water-efficient, fossil-based technologies have an EROWI one to two orders of magnitude greater than the most water-efficient biomass technologies, implying that the development of biomass energy technologies in scale sufficient to be a significant source of energy may produce or exacerbate water shortages around the globe and be limited by the availability of fresh water.
4313152|The Kenyan Fuelwood Cycle Project, undertaken by the Beijer Institute, is a comprehensive analysis of a national energy system in Africa. Discussion focuses on the difficulty of maintaining future fuelwood supplies in the face of demographic changes, particularly the expansion of urban development. Against the background of current land use in Kenya and government policy for food self-sufficiency, a range of wood-supply enhancement and conservation strategies are considered to satisfy future demand for biomass fuel. Central to these strategies is an emphasis on integrated land use using agroforestry practices to provide fuel, fodder and fiber.
4313155|The modern sector of Tanzania's economy is reliant upon oil and electricity for its energy needs. The household and commercial sectors, on the other hand, are dependent upon fuelwood and charcoal. In the long run, it will be necessary to move from fuelwood and charcoal to higher-quality energy carriers.
41417329|Understanding the responses of tundra systems to global change has global implications. Most tundra regions lack sustained environmental monitoring and one of the only ways to document multi-decadal change is to resample historic research sites. The International Polar Year (IPY) provided a unique opportunity for such research through the Back to the Future (BTF) project (IPY project #512). This article synthesizes the results from 13 papers within this Ambio Special Issue. Abiotic changes include glacial recession in the Altai Mountains, Russia; increased snow depth and hardness, permafrost warming, and increased growing season length in sub-arctic Sweden; drying of ponds in Greenland; increased nutrient availability in Alaskan tundra ponds, and warming at most locations studied. Biotic changes ranged from relatively minor plant community change at two sites in Greenland to moderate change in the Yukon, and to dramatic increases in shrub and tree density on Herschel Island, and in subarctic Sweden. The population of geese tripled at one site in northeast Greenland where biomass in non-grazed plots doubled. A model parameterized using results from a BTF study forecasts substantial declines in all snowbeds and increases in shrub tundra on Niwot Ridge, Colorado over the next century. In general, results support and provide improved capacities for validating experimental manipulation, remote sensing, and modeling studies.
4313452|Coral reefs provide a substantial part of the protein intake in Southeast Asia. Reefs and nonreef coral communities within 15 km of shore are generally overfished, while offshore subsurface atolls and pinnacle reefs are often beyond the reach of small-scale fishermen. Major destructive forces include excessive sedimentation, related to deforestation, and various forms of destructive fishing, especially blast fishing. Current attempts to manage these areas through coastal-zone plans, fishery restrictions, and the development of marine parks have been effective in only a few isolated cases. The most promising approaches involve management and evaluation at the municipal level. This concept can be extrapolated to an adaptive management scheme involving community-based development specialists, cross-trained in environmental and fishery monitoring, who assist municipalities in the development of regulations concerning local reefs and associated ecosystems. Reef management can be expedited in many areas with the establishment of alternative livelihood programs to alleviate excessive demands on the reef resources.
4314921|This paper highlights the importance of water-resources development for food security and overall socioeconomic development. It describes the management associated with Sardar Sarovar (Narmada) Water Resources Project (SSP), which is under implementation in the Indian Narmada basin of the Satpuda and Vindhyan mountains. The SSP is an interstate multipurpose joint venture of four Indian States namely; Madhya Pradesh (M.P.), Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan. The storage dam will submerge 37 533 ha of land and will result in displacement of more than 40 000 families-0.12 million people-from 245 villages in the States of M.P., Gujarat, and Maharashtra. The positive impacts expected from the project are; generation of 1450 mega watts (MW) power; irrigation of a 75 000 ha arid area in Barmer and Jalore districts of Rajasthan and a 1.8 million ha, mostly drought prone, area in Gujarat, environmental improvements etc. The ecosystem approach used in both human rehabilitation and environmental management works for environmentally sustainable development in the Narmada basin and is replicable in mountainous as well as nonmountainous areas.
41417333|Humanity has emerged as a major force in the operation of the biosphere, with a significant imprint on the Earth System, challenging social-ecological resilience. This new situation calls for a fundamental shift in perspectives, world views, and institutions. Human development and progress must be reconnected to the capacity of the biosphere and essential ecosystem services to be sustained. Governance challenges include a highly interconnected and faster world, cascading social-ecological interactions and planetary boundaries that create vulnerabilities but also opportunities for social-ecological change and transformation. Tipping points and thresholds highlight the importance of understanding and managing resilience. New modes of flexible governance are emerging. A central challenge is to reconnect these efforts to the changing preconditions for societal development as active stewards of the Earth System. We suggest that the Millennium Development Goals need to be reframed in such a planetary stewardship context combined with a call for a new social contract on global sustainability. The ongoing mind shift in human relations with Earth and its boundaries provides exciting opportunities for societal development in collaboration with the biospherea global sustainability agenda for humanity.
4313756|The main purpose of this paper is to provide an outline of the economic and pharmaceutical value of the flora of Madagascar. Six medicinal plants have been exported over the last fifteen years on a commerical basis. Since 1985, four additional plant species have been added to those exported as a result of a continuing natural products research program on the Malagasy flora. Three local institutions are actively working on natural products. As a result of the last fifteen years of joint effort, three medicinal plants namely Ilex mitis, Eugenia jambolana and Aloe vahombe have produced significant results. Three of the main project areas being developed are: antimalarial, anticancer and antiviral biological screening.
4315804| We developed for the first time a catchment model simulating simultaneously the nutrient land-sea fluxes from all 105 major watersheds within the Baltic Sea drainage area. A consistent modeling approach to all these major watersheds, i.e., a consistent handling of water fluxes (hydrological simulations) and loading functions (emission data), will facilitate a comparison of riverine nutrient transport between Baltic Sea subbasins that differ substantially. Hot spots of riverine emissions, such as from the rivers Vistula, Oder, and Daugava or from the Danish coast, can be easily demonstrated and the comparison between these hot spots, and the relatively unperturbed rivers in the northern catchments show decisionmakers where remedial actions are most effective to improve the environmental state of the Baltic Sea, and, secondly, what percentage reduction of riverine nutrient loads is possible. The relative difference between measured and simulated fluxes during the validation period was generally small. The cumulative deviation (i.e., relative bias) [(Simulated - Measured)/Measured  100 (%)] from monitored water and nutrient fluxes amounted to +8.2% for runoff, to -2.4% for dissolved inorganic nitrogen, to +5.1% for total nitrogen, to +13% for dissolved inorganic phosphorus and to +19% for total phosphorus. Moreover, the model suggests that point sources for total phosphorus compiled by existing pollution load compilations are underestimated because of inconsistencies in calculating effluent loads from municipalities. 
4315424|Chemical control of desert locust (DL) is carried out over large areas of land, covering a range of different landscapes and ecosystems. There are no real restrictions for spraying in or close to environmentally sensitive areas and awareness of sensitivity is not always obvious to the people involved in control. However, concern about environmental issues in connection with DL control is growing and clear guidelines are needed. The objectives were: to identify and delineate areas particularly sensitive to pesticide contamination in northeastern Africa, e.g. protected areas, wetlands, populated places, oases, and areas with concentrations of migratory birds. These areas were matched with actual DL control during 1986-1998. The conclusion is that chemical control occurred in environmentally sensitive areas especially wetlands, e.g. temporary waters and mangroves; close to human settlements; and, to some extent, in or near protected areas and areas with numerous migratory birds.
4313990|During May-June 1991, a mass development of the marine prymnesiomonad Chrysochromulina cf. leadbeateri in the county of Nordland, Norway, was accompanied by an extensive mortality of caged fish (Atlantic salmon, Salmo salar). The phytoflagellate produced toxin(s) with acute effects on in vivo and in vitro test systems.
4314911|Difficulties in attaining the goal of sustainable development in dry climates are discussed, with the Mediterranean region as a striking example. The exhaustion of soil fertility, and salinization of arable soil contributed substantially to the fall of the earlier cultures. Sustainability comprises the security of food supply by a biomass productivity 2-3 times greater than the present level. Old techniques cannot achieve this goal; only new techniques, involving the recycling of material on a much wider scale than in old, local societies, can do so. New techniques must concentrate primarily on the efficient use of both groundwater and surface water, which also will make possible the efficient use of plant nutrients. Unrealistic ideas of a sustainable biomass production system, based on low- productive local resources, must be replaced by a modern model involving new techniques and knowledge.
4312818|South West Tasmania occupies 25 percent of the smallest state of Australia and is one of the last three major temperate wilderness areas in the world. It has many features which warrant its conservation, but also has potential for the production of water power, minerals and timber as well as for tourism and recreational development. Developing these resources would greatly reduce its conservation value. Efforts have been made to conserve the area and to minimize the detrimental effects of development, but these efforts have not solved the basic conflict between conservation and resource development.
4315535|Global climate change is expected to severely impact Arctic ecosystems, yet predictions of impacts are complicated by region-specific patterns and nonuniform trends. Twenty-four open-water overwintering areas (or "microhabitats") were identified to be of particular importance for 8 seabird and marine mammal species in the eastern Canadian High Arctic and Baffin Bay. Localized trends in the available fraction of open-water were examined in March during 1979-2001, derived from approximate sea ice concentrations from satellite-based microwave telemetry. Declines in the fraction of open-water were identified at microhabitats in Baffin Bay, Davis Strait, coastal West Greenland, and Lancaster Sound. Increases in open-water were observed in Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, and Foxe Basin. The biological importance of each microhabitat was examined based on species distribution and abundance. Potential consequences of reduced open-water for top marine predators include impacts on foraging efficiency and oxygen and prey availability.
23322896|Since WWII, forest management in Fennoscandia has primarily been based on even-aged stand management, clear cut harvesting and thinning from below. As an alternative, uneven-aged management, based on selection cutting of individual trees or small groups of trees, has been proposed. In this review we discuss the theoretical aspects of ecology and economics of the two management approaches. We also review peer-reviewed studies from boreal Fennoscandia, which have aimed at comparing the outcomes of uneven-aged and the conventional even-aged forest management. According to a common view the main obstacle of practicing uneven-aged forestry is its low economic performance. However, the reviewed studies did not offer any straightforward support for this view and several studies have found uneven-aged management to be fully competitive with existing even-aged management. Studies on the ecological aspects indicated that selection cuttings maintain mature or late-successional forest characteristics and species assemblages better than even-aged management, at least at the stand scale and in the short term. We conclude that although the number of relevant studies has increased in recent years, the ecological and economic performance of alternative management methods still remains poorly examined, especially for those stands with multiple tree species and also at wider spatial and temporal scales. For future research we advocate a strategy that fully takes into consideration the interdisciplinary nature of forest management and is better connected to social goals and latest theoretical and methodological developments in ecology and economics.
4312724|Seagrass ecosystems are major primary producers and an important habitat for many fish species. But they are also delicate and easily disrupted by such factors as particulate or chemical pollution, changes in water temperature and composition, and the circulation of foreign substances like oil from spills. There is little active effort to protect seagrass meadows in the Caribbean, and once damaged, they are slow to recover. However, some replanting programs have been successful. An argument is made for better management of existing seagrass resources.
40730903|Carbon dioxide emissions have accelerated since the signing of the Kyoto Protocol. This discouraging development may partly be blamed on accelerating world growth and on lags in policy instruments. However,it also raises serious question concerning whether policies to reduce CO emissions are as effective as generally assumed. In recent years, a considerable number of studies have identified various feedback mechanisms of climate policies that often erode, and occasionally reinforce, their effectiveness. These studies generally focus on a few feedback mechanisms at a time, without capturing the entire effect. Partial accounting of policy feedbacks is common in many climate scenarios. The IPCC, for example, only accounts for direct leakage and rebound effects.This article attempts to map the aggregate effects of different types of climate policy feedback mechanisms in a cohesive framework. Controlling feedback effects is essential if the policy measures are to make any difference on a global level. A general conclusion is that aggregate policy feedback mechanisms tend to make current climate policies much less effective than is generally assumed. In fact, various policy measures involve a definite risk of ' backfiring' and actually increasing CO emissions. This risk is particularly pronounced once effects of climate policies on the pace of innovation in climate technology are considered. To stand any chance of controlling carbon emissions, it is imperative that feedback mechanisms are integrated into emission scenarios, targets for emission reduction and implementation of climate policy. In many cases, this will reduce the scope for subsidies to renewable energy sources, but increase the scope for other measures such as schemes to return carbon dioxide to the ground and to mitigate emissions of greenhouse gases from wetlands and oceans. A framework that incorporates policy feedback effects necessitates rethinking the design of the national and regional emission targets. This leads us to a new way of formulating emission targets that include feedback effects, the global impact target. Once the full climate policy feedback mechanisms are accounted fo4r, there are probably only three main routes in climate policy that stand a chance of mitigating global warming: (a) returning carbon to the ground, (b) technological leaps in zero-emission energy technology that make it profitable to leave much carbon in the ground even in Annex II countries and (c) international agreements that make it more profitable to leave carbon in the ground or in forests.
4314239| Created wetlands have been suggested as a method to reduce nitrogen transport to the Baltic Sea. This paper presents a dynamic conceptual model for simulation of the hypothetical effect of wetlands on nitrogen export to the coastal zone. The study was performed in the Sderkpingsn drainage basin (882 km
4314364|Large-scale dislocation of African populations due to conflict and famine will have profound impacts on future resource use, agricultural potential, and security over large areas. The disruption of resource use and access arrangements for large numbers of rural inhabitants compromises rational use of resources and the productive capacity of these. Post-conflict recovery of many subsistence producers will begin with a dependence on locations where fertile land, perennial water supplies, infrastructure, and refugee services can be utilized-especially where these exist within the more arid parts of the continent. In Somalia, reliance on such spatially limited 'critical resource' areas in the course of recovery will take place as competing claims are made on valuable resources, and participants in different modes of resource use are concentrated into these areas. Rehabilitation efforts can embrace the emerging amalgam of practices in the implementation of 'recovery tenure' arrangements for critical resource areas.
4315767|Estimates of carbon fluxes and turnover in ecosystems are key elements in the understanding of climate change and in predicting the accumulation of trace elements in the biosphere. In this paper we present estimates of carbon fluxes and turnover times for five terrestrial ecosystems using a modeling approach. Multiple criteria of acceptance were used to parameterize the model, thus incorporating large amounts of multi-faceted empirical data in the simulations in a standardized manner. Mean turnover times of carbon were found to be rather similar between systems with a few exceptions, even though the size of both the pools and the fluxes varied substantially. Depending on the route of the carbon through the ecosystem, turnover times varied from less than one year to more than one hundred, which may be of importance when considering trace element transport and retention. The parameterization method was useful both in the estimation of unknown parameters, and to identify variability in carbon turnover in the selected ecosystems.
41418329|Snow, water, ice, and permafrost are showing evidence of substantial change in the Arctic, with large variations among different geographical areas. As a result of these changes, some habitats and their associated ecosystems are expanding, while others are undergoing rapid contraction. The warming of the Arctic cryosphere is limiting the range for cold-adapted biota, and less specialized taxa including invasive species from the south are likely to become increasingly common. Extreme climate events such as winter thawing are likely to become more frequent, and may accelerate shifts in community structure and processes. Many Arctic ecosystems are interdependent, and changes in the cryosphere are altering physical, biogeochemical, and biological linkages, as well as causing positive feedback effects on atmospheric warming. All of these climate-related effects are compounded by rapid socio-economic development in the North, creating additional challenges for northern communities and indigenous lifestyles that depend on Arctic ecosystem services.
4314963|The global relation of wood production and consumption is examined, with emphasis on wood as an energy source. In many regions of the world, particularly in the developing countries, the demand for fuelwood can only be supplied by overexploitation of forest land. Our calculations are based on published data from various sources, which are combined with model applications. Results are prognoses in the form of global maps by countries. They show that the deficiency of fuelwood will become more critical in large areas of the world, particularly in developing countries with a rapid population growth. This development bears the risk of continuing deforestation and is a threat to sustainable land use. Transition to renewable energy sources (hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal as well as biofuels), produced in a sustainable manner, seems to be the only way out of this dilemma.
4315578|A primary aim of the SUCOZOMA research program has been the transfer of knowledge from the scientific community to research users. This paper describes the intentions and ambitions regarding knowledge transfer within the program, reflecting the aim of its financier, the Swedish Foundation of Strategic Environmental Research, but also a general trend within research policy. The study investigates the areas in which SUCOZOMA has actively tried to transfer knowledge, reaching out to management and different practitioners. Many examples of communication and participation of research users in the program are described. The paper also identifies the bottlenecks and limits to communication.
4312136| Vertebral damage has been recorded by X-radiography in a Baltic poulation of minnows exposed to cadmium in the laboratory. Within 70 days vertebral fractures developed, especially in the caudal region, at concentrations as low as 7.5 g cadmium/l. This concentration corresponds to 1/5200 of the 96-hr LC50 and is close to values in the water from polluted areas of the Baltic. 
4313960|The critical loads of acid deposition have been mapped for the forest soils of the Nordic countries, using the best available calculation models. The results of the model calculations indicate that 82% or 480 000 km
4315450|The Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA) was created to help develop a priority setting mechanism for actions in international waters. Apart from assessing the severity of environmental problems in ecosystems, the GIWA's task is to analyze potential policy actions that could solve or mitigate these problems. Given the complex nature of the problems, understanding their root causes is essential to develop effective solutions. The GIWA provides a framework to analyze these causes, which is based on identifying the factors that shape human behavior in relation to the use (direct or indirect) of aquatic resources. Two sets of factors are analyzed. The first one consists of social coordination mechanisms (institutions). Faults in these mechanisms lead to wasteful use of resources. The second consists of factors that do not cause wasteful use of resources per se (poverty, trade, demographic growth, technology), but expose and magnify the faults of the first group of factors. The picture that comes out is that diagnosing simple generic causes, e.g. poverty or trade, without analyzing the case specific ways in which the root causes act and interact to degrade the environment, will likely ignore important links that may put the effectiveness of the recommended policies at risk. A summary of the causal chain analysis for the Colorado River Delta is provided as an example.
4312953|Nature washes away some 9.3 billion tons of soil a year. But when man interferes the rate goes up to around 24 billion tons a year. Kenya's soil erosion problems stem from its semi-arid climate (in the interior), the fuelwood crisis and poor land management and agricultural practices. A study has been undertaken to reduce the tremendous loss of topsoil by introducing better crop management coupled to simple terracing in erosion-prone areas.
4312932|The effect of intensive fishing on the mercury level in fish was studied in a small lake. In two years a total of 1300 kg fish were caught by means of fishing nets and wire cages. The mercury level in the fish was followed in analyses of pike, Esox lucius, and roach, Rutilus rutilus, caught in the year before and during five years after the two fishing years. In the year after the fishing the mercury levels in both pike and roach had been reduced by about 50 percent and remained close to this low level throughout the rest of the period covered by the study.
4313435|From the perspective of the broad similarities in the geologic, physiographic, hydrologic, meteorologic and anthropologic features of the Baltic and Great Lakes Basins, we would expect to find similarities in fish associations and fishery regimes. Such similarities are revealed in this paper. Emphasis is given to the recent historic processes of cultural eutrophication and oligotrophication, of degradation and recovery of fish associations (assemblage of fish species) through fishery-related practices, and of interactions between these two broad processes. Even though important, the differences between these aquatic ecosystems do not outweigh the similarities. Cultural practices that have a degrading influence on the Basins are gradually being reformed and recovery processes are being fostered, especially with respect to fish associations. However, much remains to be done before rehabilitative redevelopment can be considered to be fully successful.
4313454|A brief review of marine fishery development in Southeast Asia is given, with emphasis on the phase of rapid growth of catches that prevailed in the 1960s-1970s, and on the high expectations this phase generated, especially in the six countries that make up the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). The problems of the 1980s are related to stagnating or even declining catches and serious environmental problems in coastal populations. Environmental interventions (e.g. construction of artificial reefs; replanting of seagrasses and mangroves; conducting environmentally benign forms of coastal aquaculture; etc.) are proposed as necessary complements to any fishery-management or pollution-control scheme.
41418324|Snow cover plays a major role in the climate, hydrological and ecological systems of the Arctic and other regions through its influence on the surface energy balance (e.g. reflectivity), water balance (e.g. water storage and release), thermal regimes (e.g. insulation), vegetation and trace gas fluxes. Feedbacks to the climate system have global consequences. The livelihoods and well-being of Arctic residents and many services for the wider population depend on snow conditions so changes have important consequences. Already, changing snow conditions, particularly reduced summer soil moisture, winter thaw events and rain-on-snow conditions have negatively affected commercial forestry, reindeer herding, some wild animal populations and vegetation. Reductions in snow cover are also adversely impacting indigenous peoples' access to traditional foods with negative impacts on human health and well-being. However, there are likely to be some benefits from a changing Arctic snow regime such as more even run-off from melting snow that favours hydropower operations.
41510578|We review known and hypothesized effects of nitrogen (N) deposition owing to human activities on the chemistry, organisms, and ecosystem processes of remote oligotrophic freshwaters. Acidification is the best-known effect of N deposition on water chemistry, but additional effects include increased nutrient availability and alteration of the balance between N and other nutrients. Our synthesis of the literature, framed in a comprehensive model for the effects of N deposition on natural ecosystems, shows that all these effects can reduce biological diversity and alter ecosystem processes in remote freshwaters. N deposition is projected to grow worldwide in the near future and will interact with other global changes. Present effects on these fragile ecosystems may be only early signs of more radical impacts ahead.
4314306|The substitution of sodium tripolyphosphate (STPP) in laundry detergents is a major trend in Western Europe. This trend is reviewed, and its impact on the natural environment evaluated. The trend is also considered within a framework of nonenvironmental factors, and specifically those influencing public policy and the detergent market. The overall impact of STPP substitution on the natural environment is concluded to be insignificant, and the trend is better explained by political and marketing considerations. The implications for public policy are reviewed.
24708797|Departing from a theoretical methodology, we estimate empirically an index of adaptive capacity (IAC) of a fishing community to the establishment of marine protected areas (MPAs). We carried out household surveys, designed to obtain information for indicators and sub-indicators, and calculated the IAC. Moreover, we performed a sensitivity analysis to check for robustness of the results. Our findings show that, despite being located between two MPAs, the fishing community of Bazn in the Colombian Pacific is highly vulnerable and that the socioeconomic dimension of the IAC constitutes the most binding dimension for building adaptive capacity. Bazn is characterized by extreme poverty, high dependence on resources, and lack of basic public infrastructure. Notwithstanding, social capital and local awareness about ecological conditions may act as enhancers of adaptive capacity. The establishment of MPAs should consider the development of strategies to confer adaptive capacity to local communities highly dependent on resource extraction.
4315815|In diverse littoral communities, biotic interactions play an important role in community regulation. This article reviews how eutrophication modifies biotic interactions in littoral macroalgal communities. Eutrophication causes blooms of opportunistic algae, increases epibiotism, and affects regulation by grazers. Opportunistic algae and epibionts harm colonization and growth of perennial algae. Grazing regulates the density and species composition of macroalgal communities, especially at the early stage of algal colonization. Eutrophication supports higher grazer densities by increasing the availability and quality of algae to grazers. This may, on the one hand, enhance the capability of grazers to regulate and counteract the increase of harmful, bloom-forming macroalgae; on the other hand, it may increase grazing pressure on perennial species, with a poor tolerance of grazing. In highly eutrophic conditions, bloom-forming algae may also escape grazing control and accumulate. Increasing epibiotism and grazing threaten in particular the persistence of habitat-forming perennials such as the bladderwrack. An interesting property of biotic interactions is that they do not remain fixed but are able to evolve, as the traits of the interacting species adapt to each other and to abiotic conditions. The potential of plants and grazers to adapt is crucial to their chances to survive in changing environment.
4315257|The sea cucumber fishing crisis in Galapagos is an example of the potential consequences of rapid migration, growing economic competition, and weak regulatory mechanisms. In a short period of time sea cucumber fishing has become the most inflammatory issue in the Galapagos. The key factors that allowed for the efficient exploitation of the new resource were not the fishermen themselves but rather the new fishing techniques and access to credit and markets. This suggests that the annual sea cucumber crisis is due to factors more complex than simply more fishermen generating greater sea cucumber catches. This paper examines census data and fisher registries to analyze population growth in the islands. A public opinion survey is used to determine the population's attitudes toward sea cucumber fishing and regulations. Qualitative interviews explore the history of the sea cucumber boom. Information from the sea cucumber monitoring program provides estimates for the annual sea cucumber catches.
4315769|Lakes play an important role in the cycling of organic matter in the boreal landscape, due to the frequently high extent of bacterial respiration and the efficient burial of organic carbon in sediments. Based on a mass balance approach, we calculated a carbon budget for a small humic Swedish lake in the vicinity of a potential final repository for radioactive waste in Sweden, in order to assess its potential impact on the environmental fate of radionuclides associated with organic matter. We found that the lake is a net heterotrophic ecosystem, subsidized by organic carbon inputs from the catchment and from emergent macrophyte production. The largest sink of organic carbon is respiration by aquatic bacteria and subsequent emission of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Although the annual burial of organic carbon in the sediment is a comparatively small sink, it results in the buildup of the largest carbon pool in the lake. Hence, lakes may simultaneously disperse and accumulate organic-associated radionuclides leaking from a final repository.
4312671|Exposures of a large population in the Denver area to plutonium and other radionuclides in the exhaust plumes from the Rocky Flats (nuclear weapons) plant date back to 1953. Anglo cancer incidence in 1969-1971 was evaluated in census tracts with and without contamination in the Denver area (1970 pop. 1 019 130). Cancer incidence in males was 24 percent higher, and in females, 10 percent higher in the suburban area (pop. 154 170) with most contamination nearest the plant, compared to the unexposed area (pop. 423 870), also predominantly suburban, which had virtually the same age-adjusted incidence rate for all cancer as the state. Excess cases of cancer were due to more cases than expected of leukemia, lymphoma and myeloma and cancer of the lung, thyroid, breast, esophagus, stomach and colon, a pattern similar to that observed in the survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The ratio of these cancers to all other cancer was 17.6 percent higher in males and 11.9 percent higher in females in the area near the plant. Cancer of the gonads, (especially of the testes), liver, and, in females, pancreas and brain contributed to the higher incidence of all cancer in areas near the plant.
4314874| The year 1998, was the warmest year since the start of temperature recordings some 150 years ago. Similarly, the 1990s have been the warmest decade recorded. In addition, 1998 saw the strongest El Nio ever recorded. As a consequence of this, very high water temperatures were observed in many parts of the oceans, particularly in the tropical Indian Ocean, often with temperatures of 3 to 5C above normal. Many corals in this region bleached and subsequently died, probably due to the high water temperatures in combination with meteorological and climatic factors. Massive mortality occurred on the reefs of Sri Lanka, Maldives, India, Kenya, Tanzania, and Seychelles with mortalities of up to 90% in many shallow areas. On reefs in other parts of the Indian Ocean, or in waters below 20 m, coral mortality was typically 50%. Hence, coral death during 1998 was unprecedented in severity. The secondary socioeconomic effects of coral bleaching for coastal communities of the Indian Ocean are likely to be long lasting and severe. In addition to potential decreases in fish stocks and negative effects on tourism, erosion may become an acute problem, particularly in the Maldives and Seychelles. If the observed global trends in temperature rises continue, there is an increased probability of a recurrence of the phenomenon observed in 1998 on the coral reefs of the Indian Ocean, as well as in other parts of the tropical oceans in coming years. Coral reefs of the Indian Ocean may prove to be an important signal of the potential effects of global climate change, and we should heed that warning. 
4311992|Studies concerning acidification in Sweden have led to the development of a method of determining strong acid in precipitation and a technique with which contributions to the acid deposition from local as well as from distant emission sources can be determined. The results of the studies have presented a new aspect of the effects of sulfur dioxide and particle emissions. It is suggested that the effect on human health that is today tentatively ascribed to the combined impact of SO
4311964|Thousands of cases of a mysterious disease appeared four years ago in Japan. Diagnosed as PCB poisoning, the disease was named "Kanemi Yusho". According to clinical analysis there are four types of the disease: the latent type, the visceral type, the manifest type and the tardive type. The symptoms, treatment and prognosis are described.
4312071|Resource recovery-the systematic diversion of waste-for-disposal to new use-represents a new dimension in the traditional handling of discards. While salvaging and recycling have long been practiced, an emerging' concept is that of large-scale systems which mechanically process mixed refuse and separate such components as metals and minerals to be used as raw materials in the manufacture of new products-and to recover the energy values from the sizeable combustible fraction. A variety of industrial facilities will soon be operating in many cities throughout the world to mechanically recover what previously had been lost values in the mixed solid waste stream. In this new age of scarcity of materials and fossil fuels, of environmental concerns, and of other difficulties that countries are facing with solid waste disposal, resource recovery can provide significant benefits.
4311956|This article presents the main trends in the development of Swedish environmental policy after 1960. After an account of the main sources of this policy, the implementation of the 1965 policy of integration is followed in some detail. The article ends with a discussion of two trends, now visible in Swedish environmental policy. One is extensive environmental management-recently shown in the proposal of a National Physical Plan-and the other is the increasing interest in flexible measures, such as charges.
4314686|Microbial community-based measurements to detect effects of heavy metals in soils rely on the premise that metal toxicity exerts a selection pressure, which induces a change in the composition of the community. The phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) composition gives an integrated picture of all living organisms in the soil, and changes in the PLFA pattern of the soil indicate an altered species composition due to, e.g. metal toxicity. An increased bacterial community tolerance to metals also indicates an altered community composition, with tolerant organisms becoming more abundant relative to sensitive organisms. The use of these two techniques is described, and their advantages and disadvantages as monitoring tools are discussed and exemplified by field data and laboratory experiments from different soils.
4314906|The establishment of different protective forest systems started at the beginning of the 1950s in China. Now, after 40 years of efforts, the achievement attracts and deserves worldwide attention because of the generally successful results and the peculiar multipurpose nature of these forests. Presently, the established net area of protective forests is 30 million ha, with a usable stemwood volume of 850 million m
4314452|We present a Geographic Information System (GIS) database of the large-scale drainage basin of the Baltic Sea. A set of GIS map layers were created and used to generate information on the current landscape characteristics and population distribution patterns in the drainage basin. Such data can be generated at the 92 meso-scale subdrainage basins, at the seven major subdrainage basins, and at the drainage basin as a whole, as well as by nations. Forests dominate in the drainage basin (48% coverage), followed by arable land (20%), and nonproductive open lands (17%). Sweden and Finland contain 60% of total forest land, while most of the drainage basin's agricultural land is located in Poland. Wetlands cover roughly 8% of the drainage basin. Of the 85 million people living in the Baltic Sea drainage basin, the vast majority (64%) live in the drainage areas of the Baltic Proper. Of people in the drainage basin 45% live in Poland. About 22 million people (26%) live within metropolitan areas, 45% in towns or small cities, and 29% are rural. Nearly 15 million people live within 10 km from the Baltic coast. Expanding to a 50 km distance from the coastline, we find 43% of the total populated area and 31% of the total population.
4315466|This study uses Landsat satellite data to document the rates and patterns of land-cover change along a portion of the Colombia-Ecuador border during a 23-yr period (1973-1996). Human colonization has resulted in extensive deforestation in both countries. Satellite change detection analysis showed that the annual rates of deforestation were considerably higher for the Colombian side of the border. In addition, loss of forest cover on the Colombian side for the study period was almost 43%, while only 22% on the Ecuadorian side. The study found that there is no single factor driving deforestation on either side of the border, but concluded that the higher rates on the Colombian side may be due to higher colonization pressures and intensification of illegal coca cultivation. On the Ecuador side of the border the satellite images documented patterns of deforestation that reflected road networks associated with oil exploration and development.
4314951|This is an overview of philosophical issues in risk research, including the definition of risk, the relationship between risk and uncertainty, the effects of cognitive limitations on rationality constraints, the implications of unknown possibilities, and the difficulties encountered when current decision theory and moral theory are applied to problems of risk. It is concluded that some of the models and assumptions commonly used in risk studies are deeply problematic.
24708817|Translating policies about sustainable development as a social process and sustainability outcomes into the real world of socialecological systems involves several challenges. Hence, research policies advocate improved innovative problem-solving capacity. One approach is transdisciplinary research that integrates research disciplines, as well as researchers and practitioners. Drawing upon 14 experiences of problem-solving, we used group modeling to map perceived barriers and bridges for researchers' and practitioners' joint knowledge production and learning towards transdisciplinary research. The analysis indicated that the transdisciplinary research process is influenced by (1) the amount of traditional disciplinary formal and informal control, (2) adaptation of project applications to fill the transdisciplinary research agenda, (3) stakeholder participation, and (4) functional team building/development based on self-reflection and experienced leadership. Focusing on implementation of green infrastructure policy as a common denominator for the delivery of ecosystem services and human well-being, we discuss how to diagnose socialecological systems, and use knowledge production and collaborative learning as treatments.
4313971|The forest floor, i.e. the organic horizon overlying the mineral soil in forests, is an accumulator of atmospherically deposited trace metals, including Pb. In previous work, we documented increases in Pb concentrations in montane forest soils in the northeastern USA from the 1960s to the 1980s. Because of a decrease in the use of leaded gasoline in the USA since 1974, we expected that Pb would accumulate at a slower rate after 1974; we also expected that Pb would not decrease in concentration or amount because of the 150-500 year residence time for Pb in organic soils. However, remeasurement in 1990 of forest floor at sites that were originally sampled in 1980 showed a statistically significant decrease in Pb concentration and amounts of 17% and 12%, respectively. Material from the original study was archived and reanalyzed with the newly collected samples, and we are certain that the decreases are not due to changes in analytical techniques. The decrease in forest floor Pb levels that has occurred during the last decade suggests that atmospheric inputs are currently much less than forest floor exports. Temporal changes in forest floor Pb content indicate an average net loss of 130 g Pb ha
4314469|This paper presents preliminary estimates of energy consumption and production and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in Mongolia and describes the potential for greenhouse gas abatement. A Base Case scenario assumes that the energy system will continue to be developed along the same lines as the current system, with few energy conservation measures introduced and based largely on coal-fired cogeneration systems. In a Mitigation scenario, we explore the role that more efficient and less carbon-intensive technologies could play in mitigating GHG emissions in Mongolia. Compared to the Base Case scenario, CO
40801533|Peatlands cover around 13 Mha in Sumatra and Kalimantan, Indonesia. Human activities have rapidly increased in the peatland ecosystems during the last two decades, invariably degrading them and making them vulnerable to fires. This causes high carbon emissions that contribute to global climate change. For this article, we used 94 high resolution (10-20 m) satellite images to map the status of peatland degradation and development in Sumatra and Kalimantan using visual image interpretation. The results reveal that less than 4% of the peatland areas remain covered by pristine peatswamp forests (PSFs), while 37% are covered by PSFs with varying degree of degradation. Furthermore, over 20% is considered to be unmanaged degraded landscape, occupied by ferns, shrubs and secondary growth. This alarming extent of degradation makes peatlands vulnerable to accelerated peat decomposition and catastrophic fire episodes that will have global consequences. With on-going degradation and development the existence of the entire tropical peatland ecosystem in this region is in great danger.
4312839|Samples of sediment, algae, pondweeds, mussels, fish and waterfowl taken from Lake Geneva, Switzerland, in 1979 were analyzed for polychlorinated biphenyls. PCB was detected in all samples analyzed, at levels comparable to those found in other moderately to seriously polluted aquatic environments. Comparison of wet or dry weight PCB concentrations in the studied organisms points to food chain biomagnification. The same comparison on a lipid weight basis, however, suggests that the effect of partitioning of PCB between lake water and biological lipids predominates over biomagnification.
4314381|The paper describes the fisheries and the fish resources in the Puttalam/Mundel estuarine system in the North Western Province of Sri Lanka based on a survey carried out during the period Sept. 1990-Oct. 1992. The fishery in Puttalam Lagoon and Mundel Lake is multispecies and multigear, with around 1700 fishing crafts operating drift gillnets, bottom-set nets, trammel nets, dragnets and encircling nets targeting mainly the finfish and crustacean resources. In addition, various push-, pull- and dragnets are used extensively in shallow waters. Traps are also used in Puttalam Lagoon to target mud crabs. About 50% of the boats are equipped with outboard motors while the other 50% are traditional canoes and log rafts. Fishing is also very intensive in the Dutch Canal, which connects Puttalam Lagoon and Mundel Lake. Fishing in the two water bodies is usually carried out throughout the year, but an increase in the fishing effort was observed during the south-west monsoon period (i.e. from May to September) when the open-sea was too rough for fishing. During this period the fishermen who normally operate in the open-sea shift their fishing operations to the estuarine system. The fishing effort by the motorized craft in the estuarine system has increased considerably during the past decade. Fibreglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) boats with gillnets and trammel-nets made of nylon are the major craft/gear combination. The catch rates of these fisheries were estimated at 18 kg per operation for gillnets and 12 kg per operation for trammel nets. The total annual catch from the estuarine system was estimated at 5117 tonnes in 1991 and 2967 in 1992. The main reason for this drop was decreasing stocks and to some extent also the drop and change in fishing effort. Bioeconomic assessment of Puttalam Lagoon and Mundel Lake fisheries indicated the need to reduce the fishing effort by at least 20% and 50%, respectively, or to considerably increase the mesh size of the nets. The use of dragnets in Mundel Lake and pull-nets and push-nets in Puttalam Lagoon seems to cause considerable environmental damage. Based on the results, several management recommendations are presented.
4314701|Annual surveys of defoliation and crown color have been conducted on ca. 4000 spruce trees in Norway since 1989. Defoliation and needle discoloration in Norway spruce (Picea abies) have increased significantly and steadily between 1989 and 1995. The decline in spruce appears to occur across most of central and southern Norway. Annual degree of discoloration appears to vary, problably according to variation in different climatic conditions. A significantly higher degree of discoloration for the period 1991-1995 has been observed on plots with a pH in humus < 3.75 in southern Norway. Approximately 10% of the spruce plots in southern Norway have had 3-4 times higher occurrence of spruce trees with needle discoloration in all years since 1989, compared to other spruce forests. These plots have significantly lower amounts of exchangeable magnesium (Mg), and significantly higher N/Mg-ratios in the humus compared to other forest. There is a relatively clear trend towards decreasing Mg-contents and increasing nitrogen (N) contents in forest soils with increasing pollution loadings. The effect of this on the forest ecosystem is currently uncertain. Continuing soil acidification and nitrogen deposition will however with a high degree of certainty exacerbate the current pattern in forest soils and consequently intensify potential damaging effects to the forest in the long term.
4315138|In the Baltic Sea ecosystem reproductive disorders have occurred in top consumers such as seals and some fish-eating birds, due to biomagnification of toxic substances, e.g. DDT and PCBs. Reproductive disturbances have also affected fish during the last 25 years. However, there is no strong evidence that toxic substances have caused these problems. Rather, the disorders seem to result from a combination of two or more biotic or abiotic factors. The M74 syndrome, which kills fry of salmon and sea trout, is characterized by a deficiency of thiamine (vitamin B
4312906|The spectacular Rio Platano River Biosphere Reserve, 500 000 hectares of diverse tropical habitat in eastern Honduras, has recently been designated a World Heritage Site. The area encompasses natural phenomena of global significance including several endangered species, and is abundant in archeological features. Two indigenous cultures, the Paya and the Miskito Indians, also occupy the site. The management plan being implemented by the Honduran Department of Natural Renewable Resources (RENARE) with the aid of several national and international agencies, integrates protection efforts with ecodevelopment projects. All steps in the reserve's evolution have been carried out with the close collaboration of the native inhabitants. Knowledge gleaned from research and from the management programs themselves will aid in conserving similarly threatened regions and cultures throughout the humid tropics.
4314993|Regulation of rivers by damming as well as eutrophication in river basins has substantially reduced dissolved silicon (DSi) loads to the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea. Whereas removal of N and P in lakes and reservoirs can be compensated for by anthropogenic inputs in the drainage basins, no such compensation occurs for DSi. The resulting changes in the nutrient composition (DSi:N:P ratio) of river discharges seem to be responsible for dramatic shifts in phytoplankton species composition in the Black Sea. In the Baltic Sea, DSi concentrations and the DSi:N ratio have been decreasing since the end of the 1960s, and there are indications that the proportion of diatoms in the spring bloom has decreased while flagellates have increased. The effects on coastal biogeochemical cycles and food web structure observed in the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea may be far reaching, because it appears that the reductions in DSi delivery by rivers are probably occurring worldwide with the ever increasing construction of dams for flow regulation.
4313183|Proton balances of reactions and fluxes involving transformations of hydrogen ions were carried out for one forest and three agricultural basins in Sweden over a period of three years. The calculated results showed that an "excess" production of protons, due to processes included in the mass-balance, varied from 13 to 343 H
4312227|The increased emission of sulfur compounds in Europe is closely linked with damage to the aquatic environment in sensitive regions. Technical solutions are available for reducing sulfur dioxide emissions in Europe to the level of the early 1950s. The obstacles are mainly of an economic nature. Limitation on the total emission of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides must be accepted as an element of European energy policy and may be achieved by the use of both regulations and economic measures.
4313692| The populations of many farmland birds have declined with the modernization of agriculture, particularly specialization in a few arable crops which often require the removal of the habitats associated with traditional farming and the remnants of seminatural habitats. It is difficult to identify habitats and map all birds in large areas and consequently most studies have been constrained to small areas ( 100 ha) that fail to include all the rural habitats or the rare species that are of interest to conservationists. We describe a new technique in which by considering only indicator or rare species we were able to study two much larger areas (
4314110|Many natural scientists see the degrading of the environment caused by overexploitation of the resources, as the cause of famine and poverty in Africa. On the basis of this, environmental-restoration policies are formulated. This article analyzes the main causes of famine, drought, desertification, the food market, with examples from the 1984/85 famine in the Sudan. The food security situation is scrutinized from both a natural and a societal point of view. The close connection between climatic variations and food production and the myth of desertification are demonstrated. The role of a malfunctioning market, in combination with an unjust credit system, in causing the famine is also demonstrated. While crop production gave only half the normal yield, prices increased five to sixfold. In order to find solutions to prevent a return to the 1984/85 situation in the Sudan, the idea of a degrading environment must be abandoned in favor of a more profound analysis of the interrelations between the atmosphere, the biosphere and society.
4312729|A complex mosaic of natural, man-made and cultural attractions currently draws about 100 million visitors annually to the Wider Caribbean. This article describes the economic and social impacts of tourism and the current state of the natural environment. Economic dependence on tourism in some of the smaller island nations underscores the critical necessity of protecting the fragile beauty of the region against the possibility of pollution or degradation, whether by natural disasters, shipping, industry, local populations or tourism itself. A regional action program and cooperative system of controls is urged.
4312644|Within the framework of MAB 11, the project "Lae and its hinterland" examines the ecological problems associated with the development of Papua New Guinea's main industrial city. Particular attention is paid to a comparison of life conditions for a group of highlanders from the Chimbu Province, both in their rural villages and the urban setting to which many have migrated. Sub-projects examine the human ecology of the cash cropping of coffee and the spread of the market economy; changes in social behavior during the process of urbanization; rural and urban food habits and beliefs; energy flow for Lae and Chimbu; and the form of an ecologically sound energy future, and the creation of an urban ecosystem in Lae compatible with both the social and biological requirements of human well-being. Findings in each of the sub-projects complement theoretical perspectives emphasizing the impact of change in the physical environment on social systems and, in turn, on human well-being. This project has already led to significant changes in government policy and to widespread implementation of recommendations arising from this research.
40928405|User fees can contribute to the financial sustainability of marine protected areas (MPAs), yet they must be acceptable to users. We explore changes in the fee system and management of Bonaire National Marine Park (BNMP) from the perspective of users. Responses from 393 tourists indicated that 90% were satisfied with park conditions and considered current user fees reasonable. However, only 47% of divers and 40% of non-divers were prepared to pay more. Diver willingness-to-pay (WTP) appears to have decreased since 1991, but this difference could be due in part to methodological differences between studies. Although current fees are close to diver maximum stated WTP, revenues could potentially be increased by improving the current fee system in ways that users deem acceptable. This potential surplus highlights the value of understanding user perceptions toward MPA fees and management.
4315821|A new method for classifying soft-bottom zoobenthic assemblages along the Finnish coasts (northern Baltic Sea) is presented and tested against traditional physicochemical monitoring data in the complex Archipelago Sea. Although multivariate methods for assessing the state of the marine environment have become widely used, few numerical indices can operate over a wide salinity range. We compare indices currently in use and propose a new index, BBI (brackish water benthic index), for the low-saline and species-poor Baltic coastal waters. BBI offers a salinity-corrected tool for classification of the soft-bottom zoobenthos under the demands of the European Union Water Framework Directive.
4315007| Only about a dozen species of animals are known to achieve maximum ages (Amax) i.e. exceeding 100 yr., including the freshwater pearlshell (Margaritifera margaritifera). This species has a life-span of between 100-200 years depending on latitude and environmental conditions. The difference in Amax is 3-7 times when southern populations, with Amax of 28-24 years, are compared to northern Arctic populations, with Amax of 114-190 years. Evolutionary and ecological explanations for longevity in the Arctic pearlshell include adaptations to the severe, unstable climatic and hydrological conditions in rivers. Extreme longevity seems to be related not only to the low metabolic rate in the cold climate, but the species can reduce energy expenditure for growth, and can rapidly increase metabolic rate up to 130 the normal level, to regenerate damaged shell or tissue. The physiology of this species may provide valuable clues to understanding the mechanisms that sustain longevity and retard senescence. 
4314527|Sustainable land management (SLM) ensures adequate levels of current production whilst peserving the land resource base over time in order not to compromise or reduce development opportunities for future generations. This is particularly important globally in the large areas of the semiarid and sub-humid tropics. This paper presents five case studies involving different land management systems in Africa, Latin America, and Asia. Biophysical and socioeconomic causes of land degradation are first outlined, the linkages between them discussed, and regional commonalities and differences outlined. Practical procedures and recommendations are made on how to reverse the spiral of land degradation. These include the need to assess land degradation and sustainability, land quality change indicators, linking biophysical and socioeconomic information, and the institutional and funding mechanisms which may be necessary. A multidiscilinary and partcipatory approach directly involving the land users themselves is also recommended.
4315221|Anthropogenic changes to the global N cycle are important in part because added N alters the composition, productivity, and other properties of many natural ecosystems substantially. Why does added N have such a large impact? Why is N in short supply in so many natural ecosystems? Processes that slow the cycling of N relative to other elements and processes that control ecosystem-level inputs and outputs of N could cause N supply to limit the dynamics of ecosystems. We discuss stoichiometric differences between terrestrial plants and other organisms, the abundance of protein-precipitating plant defenses, and the nature of the C-N bond in soil organic matter as factors that can slow N cycling. For inputs, the energetic costs of N fixation and their consequences, the supply of nutrients other than N, and preferential grazing on N-fixers all could constrain the abundance and/or activity of biological N-fixers. Together these processes drive and sustain N limitation in many natural terrestrial ecosystems.
4315773|Production and consumption of food and in a rural area over the last 400 years were reconstructed for a parish in south east Sweden. This was based on a number of different data sources, including historical maps and official demographic and agricultural statistics. Changes in population (and thus consumption) and the production from arable land and livestock were calculated and used to provide an estimate of the area's supply and demand over time, and of the historical sustainability of the area. Overall food productivity was remarkably constant over time, at approximately 0.04 kgC m
4314560|CO
4314770|This paper shows that the use of ethyl alcohol and sugar cane bagasse as fuel substitutions for gasoline, and natural gas, fuel oil or coal, can have an important role to avoid GHG emissions. The Brazilian Alcohol program and the use of sugar cane bagasse for generating electricity may prove to be an important alternative for the reduction of GHG emissions. Large-scale production and the use of renewable energy from biomass may qualify Brazil for recognition at an international level. It is shown that the cost of alcohol is higher than that of gasoline with the present low price of oil on the international market, but the costs could be reduced by feasible technological improvements.
4314763|Water is increasingly high on international and national agendas. Recent assessments show that the conventional focus on supply of water to users, without attention to how water is used or wastewater disposed, has led to serious degradation of water and environmental quality. "Hydrocide" is impending; the life-giving qualities of water are obstructed. Impairment to human health, destabilization of ecosystems, and repercussions on the economy are widely experienced. The challenge to avert hydrocide is significant. Investments required to deal with water-quality degradation are, on average, ten times higher, or more, compared to expenditures on structures for water supply. Financial requirements, and a tendency to see water services as free, and without reciprocal responsibility for the users, lead to heavy pressures on public budgets and policy makers. To avert hydrocide, a water ethic needs to be introduced together with incentives and sanctions for proper and responsible use of water.
4312230|The uterine horns in about 40 percent of a sample of ringed seal females from the Bothnian Bay were closed by stenosis and occlusions. In females showing these pathological changes, the levels of DDT and PCB substances were significantly higher than in normal, pregnant specimens. Stenosis and occlusions were also found among grey and harbor seal from Swedish waters. The levels of DDT och PCB substances in males, but not in females, were significantly correlated to age. The organochlorine levels were somewhat lower in fetuses than in the pregnant females.
25515852|Understanding the implications of climate change on northern Canada requires a background about the size and diversity of its human and biogeophysical systems. Occupying an area of almost 40% of Canada, with one-third of this contained in Arctic islands, Canada's northern territories consist of a diversity of physical environments unrivaled around the circumpolar north. Major ecozones composed of a range of landforms, climate, vegetation, and wildlife include: Arctic, boreal and taiga cordillera; boreal and taiga plains; taiga shield; and northern and southern Arctic. Although generally characterized by a cold climate, there is an enormous range in air temperature with mean annual values being as high as -5C in the south to as low as -20C in the high Arctic islands. A similar contrast characterizes precipitation, which can be >700 mm y in some southern alpine regions to as low as 50 mm y over islands of the high Arctic. Major freshwater resources are found within most northern ecozones, varying from large glaciers or ice caps and lakes to extensive wetlands and peat lands. Most of the North's renewable water, however, is found within its major river networks and originates in more southerly headwaters. Ice covers characterize the freshwater systems for multiple months of the year while permafrost prevails in various forms, dominating the terrestrial landscape. The marine environment, which envelops the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, is dominated by seasonal to multiyear sea ice often several meters thick that plays a key role in the regional climate. Almost two-thirds of northern Canadian communities are located along coastlines with the entire population being just over 100 000. Most recent population growth has been dominated by an expansion of nonaboriginals, primarily the result of resource development and the growth of public administration. The economies of northern communities, however, remain quite mixed with traditional land-based renewable resource-subsistence activities still being a major part of many local economies.
23253255|The Arctic land area has warmed by >1 C in the last 30 years and there is evidence that this has led to increased productivity and stature of tundra vegetation and reduced albedo, effecting a positive (amplifying) feedback to climate warming. We applied an individual-based dynamic vegetation model over the Arctic forced by observed climate and atmospheric CO 2 for 19802006. Averaged over the study area, the model simulated increases in primary production and leaf area index, and an increasing representation of shrubs and trees in vegetation. The main underlying mechanism was a warming-driven increase in growing season length, enhancing the production of shrubs and trees to the detriment of shaded ground-level vegetation. The simulated vegetation changes were estimated to correspond to a 1.75 % decline in snow-season albedo. Implications for modelling future climate impacts on Arctic ecosystems and for the incorporation of biogeophysical feedback mechanisms in Arctic system models are discussed.
4312119|George Lake is acidifying at an average rate of approximately 0.13 pH units per year. The progressive increase in hydrogen ion has coincided with the disappearance of at least four species of fish as well as reduced growth and development of spinal deformities in at least one species. The loss of fish was related, at least in part, to an inability of females to spawn. The failure to spawn was coincident with an inability to maintain normal serum calcium levels.
4314966|The ecological footprint assesses people's use of natural capital by comparing their resource consumption and waste production to the regenerative capacity of the earth. Previous studies based on United Nations statistics have shown that humanity's use of natural capital exceeds the global biocapacity. They have also shown a great spread in the size of people's ecological footprints. In this study, which focuses on Sweden, we have improved the method of footprint and biocapacity calculations and demonstrate how a national footprint can be used for regions and even catchment areas. We include for the first time, areas for absorbing plant nutrients leaching from farmland and for providing domestic water. In this paper, we describe the method, compare it to those used earlier by others and ourselves, and discuss its possibilities and limitations.
4313447|This paper reviews briefly the environmental problems of the seas adjacent to the Southeast Asian States that are involved in the UNEP East Asian Seas Action Plan. These include Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. The first set of problems discussed includes the degradation of marine resources; coral reefs, mangroves, fisheries, and endangered species. The principal stresses are related to the pressures on the exploitation of these resources stemming from the rapid population growth in the region. The second set of problems pertains to the pollutants released to the marine environment. These include heavy metals, petroleum hydrocarbons, chlorinated hydrocarbons, and sewage. The final section describes the management constraints on the protection of the marine environment.
4312276|The production capacity of the sea may be assessed in two ways: by studying the total primary production and flow of energy in the food chains, and by studies of how much each population of marine organisms can yield. Prospects for the year 2000 indicate that the harvest from the sea can be doubled or tripled if resources other than the traditional ones are utilized. The catch potential of traditional species has been assessed at about 100 million tonnes a year. To this can be added 2.5 million tonnes of whale, 10-100 million tonnes of squid, 50-100 million tonnes of krill, and more than 100 million tonnes of deep-sea fish. The total harvest from marine and freshwater may be on the order of 200 million tonnes, which will give mankind about 20 million tonnes of protein food.
25547899|A study was carried out to discover trends in the rainfall and temperature pattern of the Alaknanda catchment in the Central Himalaya. Data on the annual rainfall, monsoon rainfall for the last decade, and average annual temperatures over the last few decades were analyzed. Nonparametric methods (Mann-Kendall and Sen's method) were employed to identify trends. The Mann-Kendall test shows a decline in rainfall and rise in temperature, and these trends were found to be statistically significant at the 95% confidence level for both transects. Sen's method also confirms this trend. This aspect has to be considered seriously for the simple reason that if the same trend continues in the future, more chances of drought are expected. The impact of climate change has been well perceived by the people of the catchment, and a coping mechanism has been developed at the local level.
41805976|We quantified horizontal transport patterns and the net exchange of nutrients between shallow regions and the open sea in the Baltic proper. A coupled biogeochemical-physical circulation model was used for transient simulations 1961-2100. The model was driven by regional downscaling of the IPCC climate change scenario A1B from two global General Circulation Models in combination with two nutrient load scenarios. Modeled nutrient transports followed mainly the large-scale internal water circulation and showed only small circulation changes in the future projections. The internal nutrient cycling and exchanges between shallow and deeper waters became intensified, and the internal removal of phosphorus became weaker in the warmer future climate. These effects counteracted the impact from nutrient load reductions according to the Baltic Sea Action Plan. The net effect of climate change and nutrient reductions was an increased net import of dissolved inorganic phosphorus to shallow areas in the Baltic proper.
23322914|This article reviews interactions and health impacts of physical, chemical, and biological weather. Interactions and synergistic effects between the three types of weather call for integrated assessment, forecasting, and communication of air quality. Today's air quality legislation falls short of addressing air quality degradation by biological weather, despite increasing evidence for the feasibility of both mitigation and adaptation policy options. In comparison with the existing capabilities for physical and chemical weather, the monitoring of biological weather is lacking stable operational agreements and resources. Furthermore, integrated effects of physical, chemical, and biological weather suggest a critical review of air quality management practices. Additional research is required to improve the coupled modeling of physical, chemical, and biological weather as well as the assessment and communication of integrated air quality. Findings from several recent COST Actions underline the importance of an increased dialog between scientists from the fields of meteorology, air quality, aerobiology, health, and policy makers.
4313373|Tributyltin (TBT) constitutes one group of the active components in the antifouling coatings used for marine purposes. Environmental issues involved in this use of TBT center on effects on nontarget organisms, particularly molluscs. In many locations where recreational boats are numerous, concentrations of TBT equal or exceed levels that are toxic for sensitive species. Although highly toxic, TBT is not persistent in the environment, suggesting that cautious use may be acceptable. In several countries regulations have been introduced in an attempt to limit the use and, thus, biological effects of TBT.
4313561|Computer models play an integral part in the effort to understand the complicated processes which affect ecosystems subjected to acid precipitation. Recent work using the Birkenes Model of stream acidification is presented in detail. Through the use of extended simulation periods, two conservative tracers and a mathematical optimization routine, it is possible to better evaluate the model's ability to simulate a natural system. The in-depth analysis of the model structure indicated a few weak points in its current structure. A short comparison is made with other acidification models. It is concluded that these simulation models are very useful for testing hypotheses and give important feedback to field studies. Model predictions which remain sensitive to model details must still be treated with caution and more effort should be put into model validation. However, computer simulations have provided the chemist with a powerful tool to evaluate current thinking regarding chemical processes involved in environmental problems such as acid precipitation.
24708982|High levels of species richness and endemism make Myanmar a regional priority for conservation. However, decades of economic and political sanctions have resulted in low conservation investment to effectively tackle threats to biodiversity. Recent sweeping political reforms have placed Myanmar on the fast track to economic developmentthe expectation is increased economic investments focused on the exploitation of the country's rich, and relatively intact, natural resources. Within a context of weak regulatory capacity and inadequate environmental safeguards, rapid economic development is likely to have far-reaching negative implications for already threatened biodiversity and natural-resource-dependent human communities. Climate change will further exacerbate prevailing threats given Myanmar's high exposure and vulnerability. The aim of this review is to examine the implications of increased economic growth and a changing climate within the larger context of biodiversity conservation in Myanmar. We summarize conservation challenges, assess direct climatological impacts on biodiversity and conclude with recommendations for long-term adaptation approaches for biodiversity conservation.
4315698| Eleven white-tailed sea eagles (WSEs) (Haliaeetus albicilla) collected in Finland between 1994 and 2001 were examined for their causes of death, including analyses of ubiquitous environmental contaminants and parasites. Four WSEs died due to electrocution. Two were lead poisoned and another had fragments of a lead bullet in its gizzard. An 11-year-old female drowned entangled in fishing gear, but also had mercury levels in its liver and kidneys known for detrimental physiological effects. One WSE was killed by an intraspecies conflict, which was also assumed to be another bird. The mortality factors of two WSEs could not be clarified, but one had a lead level of 4.604 g g
4314677|The economic well-being of most of the nations on earth depends greatly on arable soils and how well their productivity is maintained. Soil quality can improve or deteriorate depending on influencing factors. There is a need of tools to interpret the different soil quality data as well as a strategy for an evaluation that gives a quality picture for a specific soil. A strategy for an integrated evaluation of soil quality is suggested. The different indicators used are such that they reflect biological, chemical, and physical components of the soil. Information about climatic conditions as well as data concerning cultivation measures, previous and present, should be included. Principal component analysis (PCA) is needed to evaluate the complex data sets compiled from all these variables.
4315435| Termination of fire along with active removal of deciduous trees in favor of conifers together with anthropogenic transformation of productive forest into agricultural land, have transformed northern European coniferous forests and reduced their deciduous component. Locally, however, in the villages, deciduous trees and stands were maintained, and have more recently regenerated on abandoned agricultural land. We hypothesize that the present distribution of the deciduous component is related to the village in-field/out-field zonation in different regions, which emerges from physical conditions and recent economic development expressed as land-use change. We analyzed the spatial distribution of deciduous stands in in-field and out-field zones of villages in 6 boreal/hemiboreal Swedish regions (Norrbotten, ngermanland, Jmtland, Dalarna, Bergslagen, Smland). In each region 6 individual quadrates 5  5 km centered on village areas were selected. We found significant regional differences in the deciduous component (DEC) in different village zones. At the scale of villages ngermanland had the highest mean proportion of DEC (17%) and Jmtland the lowest (2%). However, the amounts of the DEC varied systematically in in-field and out-field zones. DEC was highest in the in-field in the south (Smland), but generally low further north. By contrast, the amount of DEC in the out-field was highest in the north. The relative amount of DEC in the forest edge peaked in landscapes with the strongest decline in active agriculture (ngermanland, Dalarna, Bergslagen). Because former and present local villages are vital for biodiversity linked to the deciduous component, our results indicate a need for integrated management of deciduous forest within entire landscapes. This study shows that simplified satellite data are useful for estimating the spatial distribution of deciduous trees and stands at the landscape scale. However, for detailed studies better thematic resolution is needed to determine biologically relevant differences in quality of deciduous stands. 
4315784|This declaration summarizes the scientific and technical conclusions presented by four expert panels in their critical synthesis manuscripts and in plenary sessions at the Eighth International Conference on Mercury as a Global Pollutant, convened in Madison, Wisconsin, USA, on 6-11 August 2006. The 1150 registered participants in this conference constituted a diverse, multinational body of scientific and technical expertise on environmental mercury pollution. This declaration conveys the panels' principal findings and their consensus conclusions on key policy-relevant questions concerning atmospheric sources of mercury, methylmercury exposure and its effects on humans and wildlife, socioeconomic consequences of mercury pollution, and recovery of mercury-contaminated fisheries.
4313899|The rapid growth in human numbers in the developing world imposes unsustainable burdens on the environmental-resource base that underpins much economic activity. While population growth is but one of many factors, it is an exceptionally significant factor. Indeed in many countries there is emerging a pronounced imbalance between the growth of population on the one hand and the natural-resource endowment on the other hand-albeit with much differentiated impact according to countries and development sectors. In a number of cases, we can soon expect to encounter a phenomenon of environmental discontinuities. That is to say, we shall find that environmental degradation and natural-resource depletion will suddenly and sharply worsen as a result of the demands of growing numbers of people, coupled with the cumulative burden of past over-exploitation. While much can be done to relieve the situation through amended policies in the economic and technological spheres, there is a premium on slowing population growth with all due despatch.
4312451|Although on land man has obtained the major part of animal protein from domesticated animals for several hundred years, at least 90 percent of the food from lakes and the sea together is obtained by methods equivalent to hunting. The culture of aquatic organisms has been practiced for thousands of years, but it is only now that aquaculture is gaining a real significance in food production. This major change in the utilization of aquatic species by man is bound to have a significant influence on landscapes and waterways, and the quest for ever more intensive utilization of water resoures calls for developments in applied ecology and the application of several techniques common to process engineering.
4312343|The ecological consequences of dam building extend far beyond the common cost-benefit analysis. On the Zambezi River for example, a unique and stable ecological system, which took millenia to develop, was rapidly changed by dams into less productive lakes. The process was accompanied by widespread destruction and misery. The production of the electricity required for a more profitable export of mineral resources rendered the local inhabitants dependent on external sources of food, water, etc, where they had formerly been self-sufficient. The surface of the lake reflects more solar energy than the old terrestrial system. As a consequence, fish production is lower than the lost production of plants and game. Species diversity may be increased by natural invasion and artificial introduction, but the production limits of the system can not be changed.
41417388|Leadership is an essential ingredient in reaching international agreements and overcoming the collective action problems associated with responding to climate change. In this study, we aim at answering two questions that are crucial for understanding the legitimacy of leadership in international climate change negotiations. Based on the responses of three consecutive surveys distributed at COPs 1416, we seek first to chart which actors are actually recognized as leaders by climate change negotiation participants. Second, we aim to explain what motivates COP participants to support different actors as leaders. Both these questions are indeed crucial for understanding the role, importance, and legitimacy of leadership in the international climate change regime. Our results show that the leadership landscape in this issue area is fragmented, with no one clear-cut leader, and strongly suggest that it is imperative for any actor seeking recognition as climate change leader to be perceived as being devoted to promoting the common good.
4314391|Variations in sediment biochemistry and abundance of meiofauna were investigated in three tropical habitats: mangrove forest, intertidal lagoon, and subtidal reef area in eastern Africa. Both the biochemical components of the pore water and the meiofauna varied substantially over small distances in all three habitats. In the mangrove area, the color of the pore water was found to be positively correlated with the major meiofaunal taxa, especially the nematodes. In the coastal lagoon, polychaetes showed negative correlation with particulate organic matter while other groups showed no correlation with any of the chemical components analyzed. In the subtidal reef area no chemical components were found to correlate with the meiofauna. When data from the three habitats are taken together two clear associations emerge. First, grain size shows a highly significant relationship with both total fauna and nematode numbers. Second, there is clear association between the amount of particulate organic carbon and particulate organic nitrogen in the pore water.
4315712|Climate change is being experienced particularly intensely in the Arctic. Arctic average temperature has risen at almost twice the rate as that of the rest of the world in the past few decades. Widespread melting of glaciers and sea ice and rising permafrost temperatures present additional evidence of strong Arctic warming. These changes in the Arctic provide an early indication of the environmental and societal significance of global consequences. The Arctic also provides important natural resources to the rest of the world (such as oil, gas, and fish) that will be affected by climate change, and the melting of Arctic glaciers is one of the factors contributing to sea level rise around the globe. An acceleration of these climatic trends is projected to occur during this century, due to ongoing increases in concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere. These Arctic changes will, in turn, impact the planet as a whole.
4313251|The author questions the present anthropocentric approach to world development. Man and his life-support systems are examined from the hydrological perspective. The unique nature of the water cycle causes human development of land and water resources to result in ecological perturbations.
4315418| The Catrimani River basin in northern Brazil is the home of the Yanomama and has been the site of renegade gold mining since 1980. Gold-mining operations release inorganic mercury (Hg) into the environment where it is organified and biomagnified in aquatic ecosystems. Ingestion of mercury-contaminated fish poses a potential hazard to fish-eating populations such as the Yanomama. We surveyed Hg levels in Yanomama villagers living near mined and unmined rivers in 1994 and 1995, and analyzed Hg levels in piranha caught by villagers. In 1994, 90 Yanomama Indians from 5 villages and in 1995, 62 Yanomama Indians from 3 villages participated in the studies. Four villages surveyed in 1994 were located directly on the Catrimani River, approximately 140-160 km downstream from past gold-mining activities. The other village surveyed in 1994 was situated on the unmined Ajaran River. In 1995, 2 of the Catrimani River villages were revisited, and a third Yanomama village, on the unmined Pacu River, was surveyed. Blood organic mercury levels among all villagers surveyed ranged from 0 to 62.6 g L
4314014|This report concerns two relatively unstudied chlorinated aromatic substances of intermediate polarity which have been detected between ppb and ppm levels in ringed seal from the Baltic Sea. Both of them, tris(chlorophenyl)methane and tris(4-chlorophenyl)methanol, have only recently been detected in wildlife sampled throughout North America and elsewhere in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. No point sources have yet been identified to account for the global distribution of these two closely-related substances. The non-destructive extractive methods used for recovery of these compounds, as well as their chromatographic and mass spectrometric properties which will assist in their identification, are described. Initial results indicate that levels for these substances are comparable to those found in harbor seal from North America.
4314886|During the Swedish-Russian Tundra Ecology -94 expedition one of the goals was to describe the local population fluctuations of Siberian lemmings over the Eurasian tundra. In order to compensate for the lack of repeated sampling, we used 4 different estimates to determine the phase position of the lemming populations at the different sites: i) the number of lemmings trapped per unit time; ii) the age structure of the lemming population; iii) the level of chemical defences in important food plants; and iv) the age distribution of microtine scars on willow stems ("a historical archive" on past lemming fluctuations on the site). We present data from 4 of the 12 sites investigated. The 4 different approaches gave, to a large extent, coherent results. We suggest that our combined approach may be useful when sampling is possible during 1 year only, but we strongly recommend that the sampling is done at the same phenological stage at all the compared sites. Data reported here and elsewhere by us, indicate that the local populations of Siberian lemmings do not show synchronous dynamics over the vast Eurasian tundra.
4312643|Obergurgl, once a bucolic pastoral village in the Tyrolean Alps, has been transformed into a booming ski resort in the past 20 years. However, tourism has begun to erode the environmental resource base on which Obergurgl's future rests, a demonstration of the adage that "tourism kills tourism." An intensive scientific study of the problem and models of possible consequences have encouraged the villagers to take corrective measures. The setting, participants, plan of study and some of the results are described and discussed.
4312658|This paper presents some aspects of geomorphological, climatological, soil, and vegetation studies in the "pre-Sahara" regions of Tunisia. It also considers the impact of density and trends of human and livestock populations on desertification. An analysis of the effects of grazing practices on the vegetation and soil of coastal southern Tunisia is presented. This area forms the immediate hinterland of the Sahara desert, here referred to as "pre-desert" or "pre-Sahara". The research provides a study approach to natural resource survey and management guidelines for the implementation of conservation techniques and the formulation of sound land-use policy. The integrated survey and multidisciplinary planning proposed here is considered vital with respect to shifting agricultural modes, controlled grazing, better use of runoff water, and afforestation, in order to contain the onset of desert conditions.
4312668|By 1985 a storm-surge barrier across the Eastern Scheldt will reduce tidal amplitude by one-third and cause a 45 percent loss of intertidal area. This will lead to an increase in sedimentation, nutrient levels and plankton species gradient. Biological production per unit area will not change, but migrant wader birds will lose part of an important foraging station. Salt-marsh communities will be slow to regain even part of their present diversity. Use of the barrier for flood control is unlikely to have marked ecological effects, however its prolonged closure may cause unexpectedly massive ecological damage.
4313413| The acidified lakes Grdsjn and Stora Hstevatten (reference lake) have been monitored since 1980. These lakes are situated in southwestern Sweden, in an area severely affected by acid deposition. In terms of improvements in pH and alkalinity Lake Grdsjn was successfully limed (in the spring of 1982). The short-term effect was mainly an increase in dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and chlorophyll a concentrations together with a decrease in particulate-nitrogen and carbon concentrations. Further development was characterized by a mineralization of the "acid benthic flora" (algae and sphagnum), which was extensive in Lake Grdsjn before liming. This mineralization episode led to a further increase in DOC concentrations accompanied by increases in organic nitrogen and particulate phosphorus, nitrogen and carbon. This increase in particulate organic matter was mainly due to a bloom of the phytoplankton Cosmocladium perissum (Roy & Biss.). This algal bloom was followed by a period of low oxygen concentrations in the deeper areas of Lake Grdsjn, with a subsequent release of sediment phosphorus. This paper focuses on the possible mechanisms underlying the measured concentration changes of phosphorus, nitrogen and organic carbon in relation to the acid reference lake and compares these results to those from other limed lakes. The question of whether or not liming in general can fully restore the chemical bases for primary production (i.e. the availability and amounts of the limiting nutrients phosphorus and nitrogen) is addressed. 
4315370| This study describes the recovery of sensitive invertebrates after liming of the anadromous part of River Audna in 1985. The river lost its salmon population during 1960-1970. The aim of the liming was to produce a water quality with pH > 6.0 and ANC > 20 g L
4313725|The CFCs debate has been unnecessarily framed as an "environment versus economic development" dilemma. This paper suggests that rather than being a "cost", responsible CFC management can be an integral part of an economic development strategy in the developing nations. Scarce capital can be invested to take advantage of the new opportunities created by a worldwide shift to new technologies, instead of investing in soon-to-be-obsolete CFC technologies. Rapid population growth, electrification programs and "modernization" efforts in the developing nations all point to the need to focus attention on providing appropriate alternatives to CFC-based technologies immediately. Appropriate alternatives offer the industrial and commercial sectors in the developing nations new investment opportunities for both local and export markets. Financial assistance will be needed to help the private sector to implement the range of solutions required to make the change. The Multilateral Fund that has been proposed would provide financial assistance to obtain appropriate technologies, such as CFC-free equipment and products. This fund should only be used to supplement private capital and other bilateral and multilateral funds. At the same time, domestic funding programs and international development assistance should place a priority on promoting CFC-free technologies. International development assistance programs and projects should be reviewed to ensure they do not directly or indirectly embody incentives to use CFCs.
4314634|Agricultural production around the Baltic Sea is at present not sustainable in the long-term perspective. The location and structure of livestock production, in combination with poor management of agricultural waste constitute the most severe environmental problems. New technology within the fields of manure engineering and site-specific crop management with the use of GPS creates new possibilities to handle animal waste in a resource efficient and environmentally friendly way. Economic analysis also indicates that investments in new environmentally friendly techniques are profitable.
4314056|Marine parks are increasingly being established to protect endangered marine ecosystems and the biological diversity that they support. Trade-offs exist between protection and use, however, and ways must be found to produce economic benefits from marine areas while still yielding protection benefits, a question of particular importance to poorer countries that can ill afford to forego development benefits by enforcing strict protection measures. This paper examines these issues in the context of Caribbean marine parks. A number of countries that have established marine protected areas also rely on ocean-based tourism as an important, sometimes central, component of their economy. Can protection and direct use be compatible? Bonaire Marine Park is examined in some detail and monetary estimates are presented. Initial results indicate that proper management can yield both protection and development benefits but questions of ecosystem carrying capacity and national retention of revenues raise important issues for longer term sustainability.
4312444|Lead concentration in children's blood reflects their degree of exposure to this metal from environmental sources. This investigation was undertaken to evaluate the influence of various environmental factors, in particular the presence of a sulfide-ore smelter in the vicinity, on this concentration. Swedish children have a low blood lead concentration, and the presence of a smelting plant in the vicinity of the homes of the group of children studied was not found to have any effect on this level. The lead concentration in the children's blood seems to be due to constant, but low-grade exposure to this metal in their general environment.
4315396|On the basis of a Solomon Islands case study, we report that tropical rainforests hitherto perceived as untouched, pristine, virgin, etc., are actually sites of former settlement, extensive forest clearance, and irrigated/swidden agriculture. An unusually wide range of sources-rainforest ecology, forest classification and mapping, ethnobotany, land-use history, oral traditions, ethnographic and archaeological observations-supports our conclusions. These observations have bearings for contemporary perspectives on scenarios for rainforest regeneration after logging. They also force a revision of certain assumptions concerning Melanesian prehistory and historical demography, and indicate that interdisciplinary links between botany, archaeology and social anthropology are needed to achieve a better appreciation of rainforest dynamics.
4312686|Kenya has launched a major effort to produce ethanol from molasses. Two large plants have been built, but cost over-runs, bureaucratic bungling, and bad planning have dogged both projects. Furthermore, Kenya has chronic food shortages. And biomass production for energy crops instead of for food will aggravate an already serious problem. The authors conclude that the costs far outweigh the benefits. The country will still have to import massive amounts of oil as well as foodstuffs.
4313882|The demographic transition is the change from high to low birth and death rates. Rough stability exists in the initial state with high rates and in the ultimate state with low rates, but the transition from the one to the other is a period of instability, that may be as short as a generation or as long as a century; since the instability takes the form of unprecedented growth, it matters a great deal over how long a time it stretches; the purpose of family-plannning programs is to shorten it. Much of our knowledge of the transition is due to Kingsley Davis. The issues involved include the route of diffusion of innovations around the world-always from the better off to the poor in the developed countries, then to the better off and finally to the poor in the less developed. As the demographic transition has moved along that route so will changes in consumption patterns. The zero correlation between population growth and economic growth among countries has been interpreted as proving that controlling population growth is no help to development; Davis's representation of the transition gives a quite opposite interpretation of the zero correlation.
24708980|Planning and license applications concerning groundwater diversion in areas containing water-dependent or water-favored habitats must take into account both hydrological effects and associated ecological consequences. There is at present no established methodology to assess such ecohydrological responses. Thus, this paper describes a new stepwise methodology to assess ecohydrological responses to groundwater diversion from, e.g., water-drained pits, shafts, tunnels, and caverns in rock below the groundwater table. The methodology is illustrated using the planned deep-rock repository for spent nuclear fuel at Forsmark in central Sweden as a case study, offering access to a unique hydrological and ecological dataset. The case study demonstrates that results of ecohydrological assessments can provide useful inputs to planning of monitoring programs and mitigation measures in infrastructure projects. As a result of the assessment, artificial water supply to wetlands is planned in order to preserve biological diversity, nature values, and vulnerable species.
4313160|Animal dung and crop residues form a major biomass resource in many developing countries. As wood-fuel supplies are depleted, these agricultural residues are increasingly being diverted for use as domestic fuels. This article examines the implications of this shift, focusing particularly on the possible negative impact on the soil due to reduced organic recycling.
4312250|Resources scarcity calls for planning. In situations of water resources scarcity, a comprehensive planning process comprising resources, demand and pollution variables and (in some cases) social change variables will have to be employed to ensure optimal use of the resources and adaptation of water-related production processes (such as irrigation) to the prevailing scarcity situation. Israel, though laboring under serious water resources scarcity, has demonstrated that comprehensive planning can do a great deal to minimize the retardant effect of water scarcity on economic growth.
4315223|The sources and distribution of anthropogenic nitrogen (N), including N fertilization and N fixed during fossil-fuel combustion, are rapidly becoming globally distributed. Responses of terrestrial ecosystems to anthropogenic N inputs are likely to vary geographically. In the temperate zone, long-term N inputs can lead to increases in plant growth and also can result in over-enrichment with N, eventually leading to increased losses of N via solution leaching and trace-gas emissions, and in some cases, to changes in species composition and to ecosystem decline. However, not all ecosystems respond to N deposition similarly; their response depends on factors such as successional state, ecosystem type, N demand or retention capacity, land-use history, soils, topography, climate, and the rate, timing, and type of N deposition. We point to some of the conditions under which anthropogenic impacts can be significant, some of the factors that control variations in response, and some areas where uncertainty is large due to limited information.
4314146| The effects of eutrophication on the resund have been unclear, despite a general increased load of nutrients and increased production with subsequent oxygen depletion in the deep-water layers of the Baltic Sea area. With trend analysis employed on a seasonal basis, it is shown that a reduction during late summer is plausible. A budget model for the oxygen concentration in the deep water of the resund is applied in order to interpret the observations. The observed trend is supported by the model. It is further found that a negative effect of the decrease in the Kattegat deep water is partially compensated for by a considerable decrease in local oxygen consumption. An estimated decrease of the local net production of organic matter is consistent with the decrease in oxygen consumption assuming steady state. The findings are surprising, considering the general eutrophication in the Baltic Sea area. A possible explanation may be that reductions in local nutrient load are of significant importance. It is concluded that the model is successful in identifying and quantifying the main mechanisms that determine the oxygen concentration in the deep water of the resund. 
4312322|After a short historical background, and a description of the environment, vegetation dynamics, ecological value and economic aspects of the Mediterranean maquis, the author reviews the causes of its degradation from the climax, ie the evergreen sclerophyll forest. He discusses present current legislation that would protect and safeguard the maquis, and the most important management practices and protection schemes already adopted. In conclusion, a list of legal measures required for the conservation of the maquis is given.
4315069|Since pre-Columbian times, Colombia has undergone transformation of large parts of its natural ecosystems, in particular in the Andean region. To date, little is known about the patterns and processes of this transformation and their relation with socioeconomic and biophysical aspects. Traditionally, the lack of integration of multidisciplinary data has hampered the possibility to understand complex phenomena like this. An integrated approach helps to bring into a relevant contextual analysis, data that are normally analyzed separately. This paper presents an approach to understanding ecosystem transformation by linking and integrating, spatially, data on ecosystem distribution and transformation, with demographic, land use, and settlement history data on a national scale. The transformation is analyzed and documented in order to explain the present situation and to make some general predictions about future tendencies. The results show that the demographic and transformation patterns follow clear historical trends that can be spatially differentiated, and are related to natural region-plains and mountains, and altitude belts-and to general land uses. In particular, the patterns of the Andes and the lowlands show historically distinct tendencies. The Andean region has higher densities and transformation proportions than the lowlands. The older settlement areas show higher densities and more intensive land use, and tend to be strongly related to the Andean region.
4313201|At least one-third of Java's uplands are in critical condition, eroding at rates that imperil the subsistence of millions of small farmers while disrupting water resources in the lowlands. The problem is very real, very serious, and-because of the many people involved and their lack of other opportunities-very difficult to manage. Population pressure is but one of many interwoven causes of critical erosion losses in Java's watersheds, and population policies alone cannot contain or reverse these losses. Far-reaching changes in agricultural priorities and economic policies are also required.
4314302|This article explores decision and policy making for sustainability in the face of pervasive uncertainty, and questions the utility of the much-vaunted precautionary principle. It is argued that a more detailed understanding of different types, sources, and contexts of uncertainty is required. The idea of ignorance auditing' is proposed as a potential framework.
4314769|This article presents the change of habitats for red-crowned crane (Grus japonensis) due to anthropologic activities in Yancheng Coastal Zone Biosphere Reserve, Jiangsu Province, China. As a result of large-scale human exploitation in tidal lands, the habitats of red-crowned crane were significantly influenced and the original wetlands were gradually altered to form artificial wetlands. In the process of rapid economic development in China, an important question that the Reserve and local governments are faced with, is how to lead development activities in a direction that will take into account the contradiction between habitat protection and sustainable economic growth.
4313244|Sirenians (dugongs and manatees) occur in the waters of over 90 (mostly developing) countries. Sirenians are long-lived mammals with a very low reproductive rate making them extremely vulnerable to over-exploitation and habitat destruction. The distribution and movements of sirenians now need to be studied throughout their ranges in order to identify viable populations for which management plans can be developed.
41417328|Global change affects alpine ecosystems by, among many effects, by altering plant distributions and community composition. However, forecasting alpine vegetation change is challenged by a scarcity of studies observing change in fixed plots spanning decadal-time scales. We present in this article a probabilistic modeling approach that forecasts vegetation change on Niwot Ridge, CO using plant abundance data collected from marked plots established in 1971 and resampled in 1991 and 2001. Assuming future change can be inferred from past change, we extrapolate change for 100 years from 1971 and correlate trends for each plant community with time series environmental data (1971-2001). Models predict a decreased extent of Snowbed vegetation and an increased extent of Shrub Tundra by 2071. Mean annual maximum temperature and nitrogen deposition were the primary a posteriori correlates of plant community change. This modeling effort is useful for generating hypotheses of future vegetation change that can be tested with future sampling efforts.
4312222|Extensive depletion of valuable fish stocks has occurred in Norway, Sweden, and parts of eastern North America as a result of acidification in dilute lakes and streams. Recruitment failure, resultning from the toxic action of acid waters on eggs and larval fishes, is the primary cause of population extinction. Acid stress during periods of snow melt has been reported to produce mass mortality of trout populations in rivers of Southern Norway. Acid tolerance in fish is a complex function of both ecological and genetically fixed factors.
4314894|In the Eurasian Arctic, the most common lemming species are the Siberian lemming (Lemmus sibiricus) and the collared lemming (Dicrostonyx torquatus). Lemmings constitute the main food item for 5 common predators in the area: arctic fox; snowy owl; rough-legged buzzard; long-tailed skua; and pomarine skua. Hence, these predators form a foraging guild. We have studied factors influencing the structure of this guild. When comparing co-occurrence of the predators between 17 sites across Siberia, there were positive associations between the snowy owl and the two skuas, and a negative association between snowy owl and rough-legged buzzard. There was also a large variation in local population density among the predators, conceivably, due to the risk of intra-guild predation as well as the variation in food supply. There were significant relationships between lemming abundance and the abundance of each predator. An analysis of the predatory response by the arctic fox indicated a response pattern similar to that of a delayed numerical response to lemming abundance. For this and other reasons, we propose that the arctic fox is a resident specialist predator on microtine rodents. Further, the birds appeared to be nomadic specialist predators with, perhaps, one exception, the rough-legged buzzard.
40928402|Improved benthic conditions compared to the 1990s were found during benthic investigations, including sediment and benthic macrofauna in the inner Stockholm archipelago during 2008. In the 1990s, these areas were dominated by black and laminated surface sediments and very sparse fauna. A clear relationship was found when comparing sediment status with the benthic macrofauna. Reduced surface sediment and impoverished macroinvertebrate community was only found at one sampling station representing an enclosed part of the inner archipelago, whereas the other seven stations, with depths ranging from 20 to 50 m, had oxidized surface sediments and considerable biomasses of benthic macrofauna (6-65 g m) dominated by the invading polychaete Marenzelleria neglecta. An extrapolation of the results shows that, within the investigated area, the coverage of reduced surface sediments had decreased from approximately 17% in the late 1990s to 4% in 2008.
4315149|From the historical perspective, the increasing number of inhabitants in the city of Stockholm has had a negative effect on water quality in the surrounding lakes and coastal region. Government control and measures taken to improve water quality have been in progress since the mid-19th century. Water conditions in the 19th century, compared to later years is difficult to assess from the first chemical and biological investigations, due to infrequent sampling and the different parameters and methods used. However, a retrospective evaluation of water quality can be made on the basis of results from plankton investigations, which began in the early 20th century. The occurrence of the cyanobacteria Planktothrix agardhii, which indicates nutrient-rich conditions, was surveyed during summers with similar temperature conditions throughout the 20th century. The results show that eutrophied conditions probably prevailed in the Stockholm archipelago from the beginning of 20th century until the early 1990s. In the last decade of the 20th century, water quality appeared to be better than 100 years earlier. Today's better water conditions are most probably an effect of proper measures taken in wastewater treatment.
4313943|There is growing scientific evidence to suggest that the Black Sea and Azov Sea have suffered catastrophic ecological damage as a result of pollution, principally from land-based sources. This has resulted in eutrophication and contamination by pathogenic microbes and toxic chemicals. As a consequence, riparian countries are becoming deprived of valuable fisheries resources, which have suffered an almost total collapse, and of an enormous potential for recreation and tourism. Furthermore, drastic reductions in the discharge of many rivers may be altering the hydrological balance of the Black Sea. Though of similar surface area to the North Sea or the Baltic, the Black Sea is currently unprotected by any common management regime. This is a particularly serious situation since it is affected by the activities of at least 160 million inhabitants of its drainage basin (almost one half of which are from non-riparian countries in the catchment area of the Danube). The present article reviews the current state of the Black Sea environment and discusses the options for its rehabilitation.
4313624|The New Zealand nuclear impacts study, completed in August 1987, was a rapid assessment of the likely consequences of a Northern Hemisphere nuclear war for New Zealand. Incorporating "nuclear winter" findings, it provided an important new perspective on the indirect social and economic impacts of nuclear war for a non-combatant country. The study team acted primarily as facilitators and "information brokers". A consultative and participatory approach was taken for the study design and collection of information. Over 300 individuals and sector organizations responded to a scenario of the nuclear "event" from their own areas of expertise. A national public opinion survey and community-based workshops indicated the public perception of likely impacts. This iterative process brought in valuable expertise and in itself had an educative effect. The study is a useful model for assessing the impacts of complex events at a national level, particularly the resilience of key systems (energy, communications, trade) to major external perturbations.
4314861|Alternative strategies for integration of livestock and fish culture are proposed based on a perceived polarization of production systems and markets for livestock in Asia: Rural, nutrient-poor farming systems that have limited potential for conventional integrated farming; and aquaculture linked to industrialized, periurban livestock systems. These options contrast with current conventional integration in which manure from feedlot livestock fed with off-farm feed is directly used as fertilizer in fish culture. Smallholders attempting integrated farming are constrained by poor availability of nutrients, and paradoxically the superabundance of livestock wastes typical of periurban areas also deters use in aquaculture since high land values do not favor the recycling of such wastes in semi-intensive ponds. Intensification of both traditional livestock and fish production components through the strategic use of imported nutrients is identified as a promising strategy for smallholder livestock-fish production. A range of practical methods is proposed for 'industrial-level' integration, including culture of tolerant fish species, reuse of culture water, and pre-processing of livestock wastes to produce live feeds for intensive fish culture.
4315371|A novel method, redundancy analysis (RDA), has been used to examine whether chemical recovery from acidification in the western Norwegian Nausta watershed produces detectable recovery within the community structure of the macro-zoobenthos. The RDA results have been compared with measures of recovery based on the changes detected using highly specialized and regionally defined biological acidity indices. We found that the beginning of biological recovery in the Nausta watershed was recognizable during the period 1989-1998. Recovery occurred in the upper reaches and in the tributaries. The multivariate approach proved to complement the acidity indices approach, and much biological information can be gained by their combined use. The RDA method is conservative, i.e. does not overestimate biological recovery, and it is not geographically constrained as are the acidity indices. We also found that seasonal climatic factors strongly influence the benthic community, and may confound the detection of the biological recovery process.
4315700| The aim of this study was to assess persistent organochlorine pollutant (POP) levels in serum collected from children (11-15 years old) working and sometimes also living at the municipal waste-disposal site in Managua, located at the shore of Lake Managua, and in nonworking children living both nearby and also far away from the waste-disposal site. The influence of fish consumption was further evaluated by assessing POPs levels in serum from young women (15-24 years old) with markedly different patterns of fish consumption from Lake Managua. 2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloro-ethane (4,4-DDT) and 2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dichloro-ethene (4,4-DDE), -hexachlorocyclohexane (-HCH), polychlorinated biphenyls, pentachlorophenol, and polychlorobiphenylols were quantified in all samples. In general, the levels observed were higher than those reported in children from developed countries, such as Germany and United States. Toxaphene, aldrin, dieldrin, and -HCH could not be identified in any sample. The children working at the waste-disposal site had higher levels of POPs compared with the nonworking reference groups. In children not working, there were also gradients for several POPs, according to vicinity to the waste-disposal site. Moreover, in children, as well as in young women, there were gradients according to fish consumption. The most abundant component was 4,4-DDE, but at levels still lower than those reported in children from malarious areas with a history of recent or current application of 4,4-DDT for vector control. 
4315154|Long-term changes in the environmental quality of water in Latvia (chemical composition of inland waters, waste-water treatment, and drinking-water treatment practices and quality) as a response to socioeconomic changes have been studied. Water composition, the major factors influencing water chemistry, and human impacts (wastewater loading) were studied to determine changes that occurred after recent reductions in pollution emissions, particularly nutrient loading, to surface waters. After 1991, (Latvia regained independence in 1991) inland water quality has begun to improve mainly as a result of decreases in nutrient loads from point and nonpoint sources and substantial efforts in the area of environmental protection. The situation differs, however, for drinking-water treatment, where practices have also changed during the whole period from 1980 till 2000. More stringent drinking-water-quality standards and novel insights regarding changes in water quality in the distribution network, necessitate further improvements in public water supply, and place this particular water issue among Latvia's main priorities.
4314609|This article explores the effects of nitrogen loadings to freshwater and marine recipients in two large watersheds of southern Norway. Changes in nitrogen retention over larger areas would severely affect nitrogen concentrations in freshwaters, and subsequently increase the N load to marine recipients. Increased atmospheric deposition, changed hydrology, reduced nitrogen uptake by vegetation due to nitrogen "saturation" and/or root damage caused by acidification, could contribute to this leakage. Climatic fluctuations strongly affect the seasonal runoff patterns, and a more long-term climate change could mobilize the huge stores of organic N following increased mineralization. The bioavailability and seasonal patterns combined will be major determinants to responses in the recipients, as will the nutrient ratios. For the sparsely populated heathland dominated Bjerkreim watershed, the stoichiometry of nutrient elements are strongly skewed towards high N:P ratios. P concentrations are far too low to support freshwater eutrophication, and a further increase in N would only strengthen the prevailing P limitation. This would also hold for the marine recipient where excess of N relative to P or Si in riverine runoff could drive the nearshore areas towards temporal P or Si limitation. In the Auli watershed, intense agricultural activity yields high outputs of both N and P, but very scattered and unpredictable runoff peaks with variable N:P ratio. The low concentrations of mineral nutrients in the Bjerkreim river imply a diluting effect relative to seawater concentrations of N and P, while the Auli river may support eutrophication both in the freshwaters and the inner fjord recipient. Due to a pronounced seasonality in nutrient concentrations and fluxes in the coastal current, the relative contribution of riverine sources would peak during summer. Data from both watersheds with their subcatchments underline the overall importance of agricultural activity for nitrogen runoff.
4314201|Inorganic nutrients are lost from terrestrial ecosystems through the harvesting of plant products, leaching, soil erosion and volatilization of nitrogen and sulfur compounds. In this study, carried out in a tropical rainforest ecosystem in Sabah, Malaysia, losses of inorganic nutrients through log removal and runoff/leaching to stream water were compared to clear-fellings harvested and prepared for planting in two different ways: (i) tractor logging/burning; (ii) and manual logging/no burning. The major findings of the study were that nutrient losses were reduced by 50% and growth of the planted forest was twice as fast on the catchment where soil disturbance was minimized and burning not used. Weeds were more abundant after burning, and the extra weeding needed increased costs for plantation establishment. Ways of decreasing the loss of inorganic nutrients when clear-felling tropical rainforests are discussed.
4312318|The contamination of the Mediterranean, especially by raw sewage, is related to morbidity patterns in various populations coming into contact with its waters. The behavior of several pathogenic agents is explained, with examples showing that pollution is a health hazard having considerably impact on the countries involved. Some epidemiological chains are traced, illustrating the large potential for exchange of pathogenic agents that exists in the area.
4315239| The distribution and ecology of mosquitoes of the Anopheles maculipennis complex were studied in the delta of the rivers Rhine and Meuse in the southwest of The Netherlands. The study area was previously malarious, with A. atroparvus being the only vector. 125 potential aquatic habitats of A. maculipennis were sampled, of which 47 (37.6%) contained larvae of this species complex. Larval densities varied from 7.4-325.93 larvae m
41417335|This article explores the links between agency, institutions, and innovation in navigating shifts and largescale transformations toward global sustainability. Our central question is whether social and technical innovations can reverse the trends that are challenging critical thresholds and creating tipping points in the earth system, and if not, what conditions are necessary to escape the current lock-in. Large-scale transformations in information technology, nano-and biotechnology, and new energy systems have the potential to significantly improve our lives; but if, in framing them, our globalized society fails to consider the capacity of the biosphere, there is a risk that unsustainable development pathways may be reinforced. Current institutional arrangements, including the lack of incentives for the private sector to innovate for sustainability, and the lags inherent in the path dependent nature of innovation, contribute to lock-in, as does our incapacity to easily grasp the interactions implicit in complex problems, referred to here as the ingenuity gap. Nonetheless, promising social and technical innovations with potential to change unsustainable trajectories need to be nurtured and connected to broad institutional resources and responses. In parallel, institutional entrepreneurs can work to reduce the resilience of dominant institutional systems and position viable shadow alternatives and niche regimes.
4314171|The achievement of a deductive understanding of global change is now recognized to be one of the most important and difficult scientific challenges ever posed. The evolving commitments and responsibilities of the European Commission towards the Earth's environment have led to comprehensive actions and plans regarding global change research. One of the priority objectives of the environment policy of the European Union-based on the concept of sustainable development is to preserve, protect and improve the quality of the environment. The investigation of identified environmental issues is supported, on a shared-cost basis, at a wide variety of academic and research organizations within EU member states. In addition, there is a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary environmental research within the European Commissions own establishment, the Joint Research Centre, and international cooperation, both within and outside Europe, is actively encouraged. Participation in global change programs is a specific component of the current Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development; plans for the further development of work in this area have been prepared. These proposals include the development of a European Network for Research in Global Change (ENRICH), building on the capabilities and facilities of existing institutions, and working closely with international global change research initiatives, such as the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP), the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) and the Human Dimensions of Global Environmental Change Programme (HDP).
24708977|The radiation doses to humans resulting from a potential release of radionuclides from a geological repository for long-lived waste are assessed over tens or even hundreds of thousands of years. Ingestion is expected to be the major exposure pathway, and the group with the highest exposures will be those that consume the most contaminated food. In this paper, we characterize the group of individuals with the highest exposures by considering the physical and biological characteristics of the contaminated area and human requirements for energy and nutrients. We then calculate intake rates based on land-use scenarios drawn from self-sustained communities spanning prehistoric times to an industrial-age agrarian culture. The approach is illustrated by simulating groundwater release of four radionuclides to an expected discharge area. We argue that the derived intake rates may serve as credible bounding cases when projected doses are evaluated for compliance with regulatory criteria.
25515796|Development of effective indicators is indispensable for countries and societies to monitor effects of their actions on biodiversity, as is recognized in decision VI/26 of the Convention on Biological Diversity. Good indicators would ideally be scalable, at least for the different scales that characterize biodiversity patterns and process. Existing indicators are mostly global in scope, and often based on secondary information, such as classifications of endangered species, rather than on primary data. We propose a complementary approach, based on the increased availability of raw data about occurrences of species, cutting-edge modeling techniques for estimating distributional areas, and land-use information based on remotely sensed data to allow estimation of rates of range loss for species affected by land-use conversion. This method can be implemented by developing countries, given increasing availability of data and the open and well-documented nature of the techniques required.
4315372|We used rehabilitation experiments involving the stocking of 2 native sportfish, lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) and smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu), in combination with recent fish community surveys, to study the recovery dynamics of fish populations in acid-stressed lakes near Sudbury and Killarney, Ontario, Canada. Population recovery rates differed between the 2 species. Introduced lake trout did poorly in species-rich lakes and exhibited slower growth, lower survival and delayed recruitment. Smallmouth bass, in contrast, readily colonized species-rich lakes. The biomass of natural smallmouth bass recruits increased to reference lake levels within 5 years following water quality recovery and spawning by stocked fish, whereas the biomass of natural lake trout recruits remained well below reference levels 5-15 years after water quality recovery and spawning by adults occurred. We document introductions by anglers of smallmouth bass into acid-damaged lake trout lakes, including some lakes that did not contain bass prior to acidification. This range expansion of a warm-water species (bass) that can alter food-web structure and reduce the growth of a cold-water species (trout), illustrates the potential for the combination of climate warming and species introductions to greatly alter the biological recovery endpoints in acid-stressed lakes.
4312054|The concentrations of cadmium and lead in some Swedish commercial fertilizers have been analyzed by stripping voltammetry and were found to be up to 28 mg/kg for cadmium and 225 mg/kg for lead. In the long run, cadmium from phosphatic fertilizers accumulated in arable land may give rise to contents in agricultural crop products which are intolerable with regard to the WHO recommendations for maximum human intake of cadmium.
4313930|As the concept biodiversity has gained in popularity, it has become increasingly subject to misunde-rstanding not only in terms of what it means to the scientist, planner, manager and citizen, but also in terms of how it relates to human activities and interests. If misunderstandings about biodiversity are not addressed explicitly, they will lead to conflicts and controversies in environmental planning and resource management. Fundamentally, biodiversity has been viewed from a biological perspective and a relatively narrow one at that. Plant and animal species and habitats have been of principal concern to the neglect of a broader ecosystem or human ecological per-spective which would include the activities and influences of humans, particularly land-use. Assessing biodiversity in an area of interest, in relation to past and present land and resource use, offers away of reducing or avoiding altogether some of the misunderstandings and providing a basis for dealing with conflict and controversy. Rooting such assessments in the broad context of human ecology also helps to promote under-standing of the interactions between natural or biophysical systems and human activities and interests. Such understanding is likely to be helpful to those involved in management and planning and the many other groups likely to be affected by economic, technical, institutional and environ-mental changes. Land and resource assessments that strive to provide a comprehensive or holistic image of biophysical and cultural settings, such as the ABC approach developed at the University of Waterloo, can provide not only a basis for understanding human and environment inter-actions and for monitoring and assessing outcomes as a proposed undertaking proceeds, but also a basis for managing or avoiding altogether many land-use controversies and resource conflicts.
4314015|A compilation of analytical results from the project Seals and Seal Protection based on data on metal and organohalogen compound concentrations in tissue samples from harbor (Phoca vitulina), grey (Halichoerus grypus) and ringed seal (Phoca hispida) collected in Swedish waters are evaluated. With the exception of the dioxins (PCDDs, PCDFs) and polychlorinated camphenes (PCC) the concentrations of organohalogens covariate. The concentrations of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), PCC and chlordane compounds (CHLs) are all much lower than the concentrations of PCB and sDDT. The highest concentrations of organohalogen compounds were found in Baltic seals. The presence of diseases in relation to toxic contaminants is discussed.
24708859|The global urban population is increasing rapidly, but patterns of urban expansion differ greatly among countries. Urban transition theory predicts that the shift from low to high urbanization depends on a country's history and level of economic development. This study describes urban expansion in Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia between 1992 and 2009. Urban dynamics were analyzed by combining nighttime lights and census data from 4032 municipalities. High-lit areas (>5263 pixel values) were correlated with urban populations across municipalities and years (R2 > 0.90). Analyses showed that between 1992 and 2009 Bolivia and Ecuador had rapid population growth and rapidly increasing high-lit areas, while Peru and Colombia had lower rates of population growth and urbanization (i.e., expansion of high-lit areas). We demonstrate how nighttime lights can be a useful tool, providing a homogeneous platform for multi-scale analyses of urban growth.
4314518|One of the most urgent enabling measures for sustainable forest development is the valuation of the resource for the full extent of benefits that can be provided. The total economic valuation (TEV) framework was applied to the peat swamp forests of North Selangor, and the TEV was estimated for a range of management options. A variety of methods, such as market prices, damage avoided cost approach, replacement cost approach and production-function effect, were used in the study. The results demonstrate that there are suffficient economic reasons at the local and national level for the shift to be made towards improved sustainable forest management. For the shift to more sustainable options to be actually adopted, however, there is a further requirement for new international financial mechanisms. Nevertheless, it would be unwise for Malaysia, or any developing country, to await international transfers before pursuing sustainability paths, especially if this wait undermines its own resources and economy.
4315351|There are more than 200 marine protected areas (MPAs) in the Caribbean and Central America that contain coral reefs and are therefore theoretically attractive to scuba divers. One fifth of dive operators in 30 countries were surveyed for their use of MPAs: the majority are located within 20 km of at least one MPA and 46% conduct at least 80% of their diving within a MPA. An estimated 15 million dives take place outside of Florida each year, half of these occurring inside MPAs. Only 25% of MPAs containing coral reefs charge divers an entry or user fee, which is most usually USD 2-3 levied per dive or per diver. The revenue generated by these fees is estimated at USD 1-2 million annually, but the potential for generating income has not been fully realized. A significant contribution to the cost of regional conservation could be achieved if higher fees were applied more widely than at present.
4314806|A number of international donors, including Sida, are promoting an approach to coastal management that is based on learning. The assumption is that coastal management initiatives are public policy experiments and should be framed and evaluated as such. This paper explores this approach by reconstructing as hypotheses the fundamental ideas that shaped coastal management in the United States in the 1970s and early 1980s. These hypotheses were applied to three pilot projects sponsored by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) that were initiated in 1985. This led to national initiatives that featured a participatory, issue-driven approach to coastal management and a commitment to institution building at both the national and local levels. All three pilots succeeded in making the transition from activities devoted to training and planning to programs that are today a formal element of the national governance structure and are adequately funded for an ongoing period of implementation. Lessons learned on implementing a learning-based approach to coastal management are offered.
23257416|We review the available data that can be used to assess the potential impact of climate change on vegetation, and we use central Spitsbergen, Svalbard, as a model location for the High Arctic. We used two sources of information: recent and short-term historical records, which enable assessment on scales of particular plant communities and the landscape over a period of decades, and palynological and macrofossil analyses, which enable assessment on time scales of hundreds and thousands of years and on the spatial scale of the landscape. Both of these substitutes for standardized monitoring revealed stability of vegetation, which is probably attributable to the harsh conditions and the distance of the area from sources of diaspores of potential new incomers. The only evident recent vegetation changes related to climate change are associated with succession after glacial retreats. By establishing a network of permanent plots, researchers will be able to monitor immigration of new species from diversity 'hot spots' and from an abandoned settlement nearby. This will greatly enhance our ability to understand the effects of climate change on vegetation in the High Arctic.
4313295|With agriculture consuming about 80 percent of the water already used by society, improved agricultural management is necessary for more effective use of water resources to meet future needs for food, fiber and forest products. In this article, current and future constraints that water shortages may impose on food, fiber and forest production are analyzed. Many of the currently available as well as developing technologies for conserving and improving water use in agriculture and forest production are examined and evaluated.
4315619|In this paper, it is demonstrated that partnership arrangements between farmers might be a way to secure the economic viability of their farms as well as to increase profitability. The article discusses empirical analyses of three different forms of collaboration, with an emphasis on the environmental improvements associated with collaboration. Collaboration between a dairy farm and a crop farm is analyzed in the first case. The results show that potential gains from improved diversification and crop rotation are substantial, and even larger when the collaboration also involves machinery. The second analysis considers external integration between farrowing and finishing-pig operations. Gains from collaboration originate from biological and technical factors, such as improved growth rate of the pigs and better utilization of buildings. Finally, an evaluation of a group of collaborating crop farmers is performed. In this case, the benefits that arise are mainly due to reduced machinery costs and/or gains due to other factors, such as improved crop rotation and managerial/marketing strategies.
24708806|This special issue of AMBIO presents a new approach to sustainability science that goes beyond inter-disciplinary research. Using coupled natural and human systems, or landscapes, as multiple case studies in Europe's East and West knowledge production and learning toward transdisciplinary research was applied in Sweden, countries in Central and Eastern Europe, and Russia. First, the research group Forest-Landscape-Society summarizes the research program (20052012) behind this special issue of AMBIO and its development to participate in transdisciplinary research. Second, stakeholders at multiple levels provide their views on the new approach presented and reported.
4315575|The implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive and the achievement of its water quality objectives will to a large degree depend on scientific knowledge about the sources and status of water resources and the effects of mitigative measures. Coastal waters will be of central interest, since the management of whole river basins may be affected if coastal water status is not satisfactory. The Water Directive's general directions on what information the water authorities need and on suitable methods for obtaining such information leave it to the Member states to decide on more precise instructions. Improved legal mechanisms are needed to assist and guide the managers and scientists charged with implementing the directive and achieving its water quality objectives, particularly when faced with insufficient information, flawed knowledge, or changed circumstances. We assess progress in the current process of implementing the Water Directive in Sweden, focussing on coastal waters, and on general problems arising using this type of legal technique.
4315527|Biological and physical processes in the Arctic system operate at various temporal and spatial scales to impact large-scale feedbacks and interactions with the earth system. There are four main potential feedback mechanisms between the impacts of climate change on the Arctic and the global climate system: albedo, greenhouse gas emissions or uptake by ecosystems, greenhouse gas emissions from methane hydrates, and increased freshwater fluxes that could affect the thermohaline circulation. All these feedbacks are controlled to some extent by changes in ecosystem distribution and character and particularly by large-scale movement of vegetation zones. Indications from a few, full annual measurements of CO
4314887|The inclusion of the botanical projects in the Swedish-Russian Tundra Ecology -94 expedition provided new information on the ecology of tundra plants. The vegetation patterns on different scales were documented, and interpreted as the result of a complex interaction with environmental factors. The distribution of fruticose lichens was studied, and it was shown that these lichens rely on different modes of asexual reproduction for their dispersal. Extreme old genet ages were demonstrated for species of Carex and there were similar strong indications for lichens. Populations of Carex were genetically diverse in spite of old ages and often low levels of flowering. Large differences between sites in flowering and vegetative ramet production (vegetative reproduction) in Carex reflected a asynchronous between-year population fluctuation, which was related to cyclic lemming populations and climate. Important gaps in our knowledge of the ecology of tundra plants are pointed out, some of which will hopefully be resolved during the tundra expedition, Tundra Northwest 1999.
4315808| Increased nutrient and sediment loading can affect the functioning and biodiversity of coastal ecosystems. Lacking long-term monitoring data, paleolimnological techniques enable the estimation of habitat and diversity change through time. Using these methods we assessed the effects of eutrophication on diatom community structure and species richness over the past ca. 200 years in coastal waters of the Gulf of Finland. The abundance of planktonic diatoms has increased markedly because of increased eutrophication and turbidity. The loss of benthic habitats resulted in a clear decrease in diatom species richness after a threshold of 400-600 g L<sup>-1</sup> total dissolved nitrogen; no unimodal pattern between diversity and productivity was observed in our data. The urban sites displayed a marked decrease in species richness starting in the late 19th century with increased urbanization. A clear recovery was visible after the cessation of point source loading by the mid-1980s at two sites, whereas at the third site no recovery was detected because of diffuse loading from the large catchment. Changes in the rural sites were minor and did not start until the 1940s. 
4312357|During the International Field Year for the Great Lakes (IFYGL) in 1972-73, an intensive, international and interdisciplinary study of Lake Ontario was carried out. Several major scientific results have come out of this program so far. An energy budget and a water budget have been calculated for the lake during the IFYGL period. Lake-wide as well as nearshore circulation patterns have been described and show great seasonal variability. Studies of the chemistry and biology of the lake indicate that substantial ecological changes are occurring due to additions of enriching and polluting substances. The results of the program are being synthesized with the help of mathematical models in order to provide the predictive capabilities needed to aid in the working out of management decisions.
4313584|Earthworms can accumulate persistent soilborne insecticides and are an important source of contamination of terrestrial wildlife. We treated experimental plots once at
4314743|The diversity of the 1043 examined species in Rila National Park and 422 species in Central Balkan National Park, of the model groups Protozoa, Nematoda, Tardigrada, Crustacea, Arachnida, Myriapoda, Mollusca, shows that both mountain areas are territories of considerable faunistic wealth. This conclusion is supported also by the existence of 72 endemic taxa for Rila and 36 for the Central Balkan. These regions, with their forest, mountain and high mountain ecosystems, karst terrains and cave habitats, the river valley, and different coastal habitats, are of great importance for the survival of invertebrates in Bulgaria. In order to select habitats that have special significance for invertebrates, three selection criteria have been identified: presence of threatened species; presence of endemic species; presence of rare (stenobiotic) species. Data on invertebrates are relatively scarce and scattered. In the long term, this problem can be solved by stimulation of the building up and maintenance of invertebrate collections, and the strengthening of taxonomic, faunistic, and autecological research on invertebrates.
4313430|Large-scale changes of man-impacted ecosystems globally as well as locally have called for various types of eco-redevelopment with regard to the productive uses for man of these ecosystems. This holds true for a variety of types of natural environments. This paper discusses some principle ideas for eco-redevelopment activities and provides guidelines for future work. A key perspective of this article is that restoration activities should always be firmly established in a societal framework, that covers legal, administrative, and economic aspects. Redevelopment efforts have to be addressed in relation to deliberately chosen goals, which does not always mean a return to "an earlier state". Restoration schemes should never be isolated eco-engineering activities.
4314218|The conservation of natural resources, such as forests, is not possible without the active involvement of local people. Indian history is replete with the participatory management of natural resources. However, this is not the case for forests, for a number of legal, social and administrative reasons. The new National Forest Policy of 1988, clearly states that management of forest resources in India should include the active involvement of local people. The blending of forest science within the sociocultural framework of local people was stated in the June 1990 resolution of the Government of India. Various State Governments have formed village forest-protection committees; Madhya Pradesh is one such state. This paper reviews the functioning of a people's organization at the village level, in the Harda Forest Division, Madhya Pradesh State, and includes issues dealing with common property resource management.
4313273|The author identifies six major "schools of thought" or general concepts which have evolved over the past five years to explain the role of air pollution in the forest declines observed in Europe (to a certain degree these also apply to North America). These hypotheses are: 1) general stress; 2) soil acidification-aluminum toxicity; 3) ozone injury; 4) magnesium deficiency; 5) excess nutrient or excess nitrogen; and 6) growth-altering organic chemicals (1). A ranking of primary causal agents is also presented.
4315830|There are two diverging views of the status and future of the world's fisheries. One group represented largely by academic marine ecologists sees almost universal failure of fisheries management and calls for the use of marine-protected areas as the central tool of a new approach to rebuilding the marine ecosystems of the world. The scientists working in fisheries agencies and many academic scientists see a more complex picture, with many failed fisheries but also numerous successes. This group argues that we need to apply the lessons from the successful fisheries to stop the decline and rebuild those fisheries threatened by excess fishing. These lessons are stopping the competitive race to fish by appropriate incentives for fishing fleets and good governance. The major tool of resetting incentives is granting various forms of dedicated access, including community-based fishing rights, allocation to cooperatives, and individual fishing quotas. Many of the failed fisheries of the world occur in jurisdictions where central governments are not functional, and local control of fisheries is an essential part of the solution.
4313078|The people of the South Pacific have depended on the sea for their sustenance from time immemorial. Any regulation of the sea by them or by the international community will undoubtedly affect them. Much of the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, if not all of it, will significantly affect the people of the South Pacific Region in one way or another.
4312360|The accumulation of cadmium in various parts of the shell of Mytilus edulis was measured. The mussels were grown in aquariums containing seawater with known concentrations of cadmium. The shells were separated into periostracum, nacre, and calcitic and calcitic/aragonitic calcium carbonate, and the samples were analyzed with a differential pulse anodic stripping technique. The highest values of cadmium were found in the periostracum and the nacre. These results, compared with the results of a previous investigation of lead uptake in shells of Mytilus edulis, show that the shells generally accumulate more lead than cadmium under similar conditions.
41805974|Multi-model ensemble simulations using three coupled physical-biogeochemical models were performed to calculate the combined impact of projected future climate change and plausible nutrient load changes on biogeochemical cycles in the Baltic Sea. Climate projections for 1961-2099 were combined with four nutrient load scenarios ranging from a pessimistic business-as-usual to a more optimistic case following the Helsinki Commission's (HELCOM) Baltic Sea Action Plan (BSAP). The model results suggest that in a future climate, water quality, characterized by ecological quality indicators like winter nutrient, summer bottom oxygen, and annual mean phytoplankton concentrations as well as annual mean Secchi depth (water transparency), will be deteriorated compared to present conditions. In case of nutrient load reductions required by the BSAP, water quality is only slightly improved. Based on the analysis of biogeochemical fluxes, we find that in warmer and more anoxic waters, internal feedbacks could be reinforced. Increased phosphorus fluxes out of the sediments, reduced denitrification efficiency and increased nitrogen fixation may partly counteract nutrient load abatement strategies.
4313235|This overview article of the special issue on marine mammals examines the role of scientists and decision-makers in the "management" of marine mammals. The origins and characteristics of various species are discussed. Man's interaction with marine mammals is exemplified through his commercial use of them. Attempts to fix sustainable yields so that man may continue to exploit marine mammals while ensuring their continued existence may be completely unrealistic, according to this author.
25094573|The tundra-taiga zone is considered not only as a natural ecotone, but as a unique fringe zone with socioeconomic peculiarities. This holistic approach enables us to analyze several significant types of human impacts (industrial impacts and those associated with renewable resources development, including traditional reindeer herding and human settlements) and their role in the displacement of the lesotundra zone. In Russia, there is much evidence of deforestation and ecosystem degradation in different regions of the lesotundra zone and the northern taiga which borders the lesotundra zone. One indicator of this is that in the Archangelsk region and the Komi Republic, the observed current southern border of the lesotundra zone lies 40-100 km to the south of the southern boundary of the Protection Belt of Pretundra Forests, established in 1959. Human impacts also displace the northern boundary of the lesotundra zone (the boundary with the tundra zone) to the south. As a result, according to published estimations, the total area of human-made tundra and lesotundra stretching from the Kola Peninsula to Chukotka, is c. 470-500 000
40390255|To determine if forestry affects stream water dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations, we conducted high frequency water sampling at a clear-cut catchment experiment in northern Sweden 1 year after harvesting. The overall finding was that harvesting significantly increased stream water DOC in these boreal forest catchments, at least during the growing season. The results indicate a DOC concentration increase of up to 50% during early summer on the two harvested catchments relative to the two control catchments. The analysis supports the hypothesis that a raised groundwater level following harvesting caused the increased DOC concentration during both hydrological episodes and low flow conditions. Harvesting resulted in a 70% increase in DOC export due to the combined effect of runoff and DOC concentration during the JuneOctober study period. Given the extent of forestry activity in the boreal landscape, these results demonstrate that tree harvesting will affect the water quality of the region.
4315564|This article analyses four main models of participation in Swedish natural resource management and assesses strengths and weaknesses of one model (participation in physical/spatial planning) based on empirical studies of coastal resource conflicts in two Swedish west coast municipalities. In comparison to other administrative and planning procedures, physical planning offers possibilities to coordinate land and water management across sectors and resources and to broaden stakeholder participation. Local influence on coastal management increases with participation beyond the statutory minimum requirements, although management frameworks and practice of participation need to be developed further. Besides educating professionals and experimenting with combinations of existing procedures, in the long run an adaptation of legislation to the requirements of integrated and sustainable coastal management will be necessary.
4314059|Economics provides a useful perspective on issues of biodiversity, at three levels. At the international level, governments may need to consider the impact of global economic policies, such as commodities prices, on biodiversity; and because the conservation of biodiversity provides global economic benefits, economic incentives should be provided to governments at the international level (for example, through the Global Environment Facility, but also through terms of trade). At the national level, governments need to be able to assess the impact of their policies on the biological resources of the country, and consider the utility of using a combination of economic incentives (such as differential access to resources, compensation for animal damage, subsidies and grants) and economic disincentives (such as fines and withholding of benefits) to promote conservation objectives. Governments need to address, the problem of "perverse incentives"-economic instruments which promote the destruction of biodiversity. Many government subsidies and foreign assistance projects have had such effects. At the level of government agencies responsible for conserving biodiversity, incentives can often be used to enhance the performance of staff, improve relations with surrounding communities, and provide long-term financial support to the agency. Examples from throughout Africa are provided to show how economic incentives can enable governments and the private sector to support national conservation objectives more efficiently than can traditional regulatory approaches.
25094551|Pacific Northwest planners and economic developers have worked hard the past decade creating new jobs to offset steadily declining incomes from timber harvesting and processing industries. Among these new jobs are increasing harvests of nontimber or special forest products such as floral greenery, medicinal plants, and edible mushrooms. But some land managers, biologists, and conservation groups believe that increased harvest of nontimber forest products is not sustainable and threatens long-term resource productivity. The US Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Program funded a USD 51 000 competitive research project from 1993 to 1996 to determine the impacts of nontimber harvests on human and natural systems in the Pacific Northwest of North America. Integrated and interdisciplinary approaches were used to accomplish three study objectives: i) determine spatial and temporal productivity of chanterelle (Cantharellus sp.) mushrooms on the Olympic Peninsula for two harvest seasons; ii) build socioeconomic profiles of commercial, recreational, and subsistence harvesters; and iii) link biological and socioeconomic information in order to conserve, maintain, or enhance chanterelle resource stocks on public and private lands. Reasons for starting the research study are outlined and include the major resource concerns identified by regional scientists, land managers, and conservation groups in the 1990s. How to address these concerns provided the framework in which to conduct the biological, socioeconomic, and managerial modules of the MAB Mushroom Study. The five accompanying articles in this Ambio Special Report explain fieldwork, analyses, and synthesis activities completed in each module.
4314282|Renewable sources of energy should become increasingly important for Sweden, unless policies change regarding reduction of carbon dioxide ( CO
4312560|The pollution load placed on the Baltic by industrial activities in its drainage area is estimated. The study is concentrated on stable pollutants such as metals, lignin and chlorinated substances. The load of copper and fertilizers originates mostly in the Eastern bloc, whereas lignin and chlorine compounds from the pulping industry are discharged mostly from the Scandinavian countries. In the future, pollution from industries will have to be reduced by internal measures such as changed and alterantive processes and replacement of chemicals which are dangerous to the environment. External measures should function more as security for times when the internal measures fail to work.
4312402|In the last few years, wastewater treatment through the controlled growth of vascular aquatic plants, such as the water hyacinth, has demonstrated great promise. The water hyacinth can absorb and/or metabolize excess nutrients and other minerals from domestic wastewaters, as well as remove heavy metals and chemicals from certain types of industrial wastewaters. The harvested biomass from domestic sewage lagoons is rich in nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and other minerals. This biomass can be used as a new source of fertilizer, feed, or biogas.
4313793|In this report we examine anthropogenic sources of nitrogen to the Chesapeake Bay to determine the relative contribution of atmospheric deposition. Previous analyses have generally failed to account for dry deposition and have also ignored the portion of riverine nitrogen loadings attributable to atmospheric sources. Two methods, based on different assumptions about ecosystem retention of nitrogen, are used to calculate loadings to the Bay. Our base case estimate indicates that approximately 25% of the anthropogenic nitrogen loading to the Bay originates as atmospheric nitrate deposition, which arises almost entirely from anthropogenic emissions of nitrogen oxides. A sensitivity analysis was also performed indicating a range of 20% to 30% for the contribution of atmospheric nitrate. Atmospheric ammonium deposition contributes another 14% of the total. We conclude that atmospheric sources of nitrogen, particularly nitrogen oxides emissions, should be considered in management strategies aimed at reducing nitrogen loading of coastal waters.
4312118| The isolation and identification of phenolic PCB and p,p-DDE metabolites is described. In faeces from seal 26 PCB metabolites and 2 p,p-DDE metabolites were found. The same number of metabolites were identified in the droppings of guillemot. The presence of p,p-dichlorobenzophenone (DBP) and 2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)acetic acid (DDA) was also found in some samples. An analytical procedure to enable the detection of these phenolic metabolites, DBP and DDA in the presence of PCB and DDT is presented. A GC-MS technique to simplify the identification of these metabolites is demonstrated. Indications suggesting different metabolic pathways for PCB in guillemot and seal are put forward. 
4314433|Hanoi is the location of the State and governmental headquarters for political, socioeconomical, cultural, scientific affairs, and technology. Hanoi is located where the three corners of the most important economic zones, Hanoi, Haiphong, and Halong meet. Over the 40 years since liberation, Hanoi has enocuntered a myriad difficulties during a rapid development process. From a nonproductive city under the occupation of foreigners, Hanoi has become an important economic and administrative center of Vietnam. In the process of reconstruction, a time of opportunities and new challenges, Hanoi has broadened its political and socioeconomic structures, in order to strengthen its position in the national economy. In 1993, GDP was USD 556; economic growth 7.15%, and rose to about 13% in 1995.
41417309|Land use conflicts are becoming increasingly apparent from local to global scales. Surface gold mining is an extreme source of such a conflict, but mining impacts on local livelihoods often remain unclear. Our goal here was to assess land cover change due to gold surface mining in Western Ghana, one of the world's leading gold mining regions, and to study how these changes affected land use systems. We used Landsat satellite images from 1986-2002 to map land cover change and field interviews with farmers to understand the livelihood implications of mining-related land cover change. Our results showed that surface mining resulted in deforestation (58%), a substantial loss of farmland (45%) within mining concessions, and widespread spill-over effects as relocated farmers expand farmland into forests. This points to rapidly eroding livelihood foundations, suggesting that the environmental and social costs of Ghana's gold boom may be much higher than previously thought.
25547954|The threat of fire is always a consideration when establishing a forest restoration program. Two wildfires occurred in 2006 and 2007 in an established dry forest restoration project in Puerto Rico. The original goal of the project was to determine differential growth responses of native trees under the nurse tree Leucaena leucocephala versus in open sites. Tree species growth, mortality and response to the fires were evaluated according to their leaf habit, successional status, and prefire tolerance to environmental conditions. Results showed that regardless of a species' leaf habit and successional status, trees attained greater height and lower mortality under nurse trees. In open sites, sprouting was the most common fire response and mature-forest and evergreen species had greater postfire survival than pioneers and deciduous species. Although nurse trees are typically used to help manage nutrient or light environments in reforestation projects, these trees also appear to provide a secondary benefit of limiting fire damage by reducing fuel load.
4314213|Human intervention in natural ecosystems was mapped using a three-category system indicating different levels of anthropogenic disturbance: undisturbed, partially disturbed, and human dominated. Source data were transferred onto a set of 10 equal-area base maps covering the world. The maps were digitized and transferred into a geographic information system for analysis. The surface area of each region and the proportion in each of the three disturbance categories was determined, as well as a derived index of remaining natural habitat. A high habitat index value indicates that natural habitat dominates an area and that human disturbance is slight. A low habitat index value indicates that an area is largely disturbed, with little remaining natural habitat. Nearly 90 million km
4313352|Increases in the salinity of rivers and streams in many dry parts of the world pose an ecological hazard. The significance of this hazard has been largely overlooked, argues the author, in the concern to investigate more obvious economic effects and how to mitigate them. This article discusses the nature and rate of salinity change, where it is occurring, the causes for increased salinity and what can be done to mitigate the phenomenon.
4315570|We studied the effects of boating and navigation activities on the recruitment of coastal fish in the Stockholm archipelago in the NW Baltic proper. The impacts were quantified by sampling metamorphosed young-of-the-year (Y-O-Y) fish in inlets adjacent to i) routes for medium-sized passenger ferries; ii) berths (small marinas) with small boats; and iii) references. Species with high preference for vegetation were negatively influenced by boating and navigation activities and species with low preference positively influenced. Pike (Esox lucius) Y-O-Y were significantly more abundant in reference areas, while bleak (Alburnus alburnus) were more abundant in dredged marinas. No statistically significant patterns were identified for perch (Perca fluviatilis) although there was a trend of low abundance along ferry routes. Many species of nearshore fishes are dependent on submerged vegetation as spawning and larval substrate, structural refuge and feeding habitat. Our results suggest that the negative effects from boating and navigation activities on the coverage and height of vegetation, especially on species of Chara and Potamogeton spp., may contribute to changes in the Y-O-Y fish community.
24708851|The national-scale forest recovery of Vietnam started in the early 1990s and is associated with a shift from net deforestation to net reforestation. Large disparities in forest cover dynamics are, however, observed at the local scale. This study aims to unravel the mechanisms driving forest cover change for a mountainous region located in northwest Vietnam. Statistical analyses were used to explore the association between forest cover change and household characteristics. In Sa Pa district, deforestation rates are decreasing, but forest degradation continues at similar rates. Deforestation is not necessarily associated with impoverished ethnic communities or high levels of subsistence farming, and the largest forest cover dynamics are found in villages with the best socio-economic conditions. Our empirical study does not provide strong evidence of a dominant role of agriculture in forest cover dynamics. It shows that empirical studies on local-scale forest dynamics remain important to unravel the complexity of humanenvironment interactions.
24708790|In this paper, we summarize the contributions made by an interdisciplinary group of researchers from different disciplines (biology, ecology, economics, and law) that deal with key dimensions of marine socialecological systems. Particularly, the local and global seafood provision; the feasibility and management of marine protected areas; the use of marine ecosystem services; the institutional dimension in European fisheries, and the affordable models for providing scientific advice to smallscale fisheries. This Special Issue presents key findings from selected case studies around the world available to educators, policy makers, and the technical community. Together, these papers show that a range of diverse ecological, economic, social, and institutional components often mutually interact at spatial and temporal scales, which evidence that managing marine socialecological systems needs a continuous adaptability to navigate into new governance systems.
4312242|Waterpower is one of the oldest energy sources used by man, but is still only exploited to a fraction of its potential. In the industrialized world this fraction is typically some ten percent. In the developing countries, where the largest resources are situated, only a few percent is developed. The development of waterpower may therefore be of great importance for their industrial development and increase of quality of life. The problems of the development of waterpower mainly regards the social and environmental effects of the large manmade lakes that are usually necessary. Extensive use of small scale units may be one solution, especially in the developing countries where the possibilities of distribution of electricity to a large number of scattered consumers are limited.
23322915|A global trend of a warming climate may seriously affect species dependent on sea ice. We investigated the impact of climate on the Baltic ringed seals (Phoca hispida botnica), using historical and future climatological time series. Availability of suitable breeding ice is known to affect pup survival. We used detailed information on how winter temperatures affect the extent of breeding ice and a climatological model (RCA3) to project the expected effects on the Baltic ringed seal population. The population comprises of three sub-populations, and our simulations suggest that all of them will experience severely hampered growth rates during the coming 90 years. The projected 30 730 seals at the end of the twenty-first century constitutes only 16 % of the historical population size, and thus reduced ice cover alone will severely limit their growth rate. This adds burden to a species already haunted by other anthropogenic impacts.
4312851|Passage of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) in 1980 constituted a milestone in protection of US National Parks and Protected Areas. In a single piece of legislation, the US Congress gave permanent protection to 41 684 000 ha of land in Alaska containing some of the nation's most varied and abundant wildlife. The 10-year effort toward passage of the ANILCA featured remarkable cooperation between conservationists, federal government officials and members of Congress. Special consideration was given the long-term subsistence, cultural and land ownership needs of the native peoples of Alaska; the provision for wildlife protection and ecosystem integrity; and international factors such as worldwide migration of birds and migratory wildlife moving across the Canada-US border. The non-governmental conservation movement in the US coalesced as a political force to draw support from thousands of citizens and a wide variety of organizations.
4314817|A survey of the brown macroalgae Padina borgesenii was used to assess heavy metal contamination in the Zanzibar Channel. The algae were collected from 30 different stations in areas from Dar es Salaam to Bagamoyo on mainland Tanzania, and on the West Coast of Unguja Island, Zanzibar. It was found that the concentrations of Mn, Zn, Cu and Fe were higher at the mainland stations than at the Zanzibar sites. All of the 5 most contaminated sites were located on the mainland side, two just north of Dar es Salaam city, two near the Kunduchi area, and one near the center of Bagamoyo town. Other elements analyzed such as Cd, Cr, Ni, As, Mg, V, and S, fluctuated very little, and are thought to be equal to background values. Tissue contents of C, N and P were also similar at the different sites. It is concluded that the brown algae Padina can be a useful bio-indicator species for examining trends in heavy metal contamination in this region.
4315824|An experiment combining the use of two ecosystem models was conducted to search for effective protection strategies for the Gulf of Finland (Baltic Sea). Reference and scenario simulations were first run with a one-dimensional (1D) model for seven main basins of the entire Baltic Sea until steady state was achieved. The obtained basinwise distributions of inorganic nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P), as well as sediment labile P, were then used to initiate 5-y simulations with a three-dimensional (3D) ecosystem model. The results suggest that relatively small local load reductions (the "Finland" scenario) would improve only the state of adjacent coastal waters significantly. This would be the case, even for runs covering several decades, which clearly exceed the residence times of nutrients in the Gulf of Finland. A significant decrease from a substantial loading source to the Gulf (the "St. Petersburg" scenario) would decrease cyanobacterial biomasses in the entire Gulf of Finland and also immediately outside it. A reduction in the current Polish nutrient loads would improve the situation in the whole Baltic Proper and cause an extensive decline in cyanobacterial biomasses in the Gulf of Finland, as well. However, it would take several decades until the improvement caused by reducing loads in the "Poland" scenario is seen, while in the St. Petersburg scenario the corresponding time lag would only be a few years. Our results suggest that the common water protection policy in the Baltic Sea region should have the largest nutrient sources as its primary target, regardless of their location and country.
4314903|During March-August 1990, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania proclaimed independence from the Soviet Union. After independence, agriculture in the Baltic states changed from a state controlled economy with huge collective farms to a market economy with privately owned family farms. Due to the financial situation, the use of mineral fertilizers dropped to the 1950s level. During 1994, the yields of forage grass and fodder grain were only 40% and 50%, respectively, of Swedish yields. Due to the loss of export possibilities, the total production of meat, milk and eggs in the Baltic states declined by 40-50% between 1989 and 1994. The aim of this study is to demonstrate changes in nitrogen and phosphorus flows within agriculture in the Baltic states after independence and to make comparisons with the situation in Swedish agriculture during the same period of time. A special study was made of whether the changed nutrient flows have caused changes in nutrient runoff from the Baltic states to the Baltic Sea.
4312908|Aldabra ranks as one of the most spectacular raised coral atoll ecosystems in the world. Because of its remoteness and rugged terrain the island was untouched by human development for centuries. As a result it contains the largest known population of Giant Land Tortoises and vast colonies of seabirds. The island has incalculable value for science and in 1982 it became a World Heritage Property.
4312515|Pesticides occupy a central role in man's attempts to increase agricultural production, despite a growing awareness of associated environmental hazards. Few studies have been undertaken on the potential effects of pesticides on the productivity they are designed to enhance. In Nigeria, DDT was shown to affect most components of the soil fauna and to reduce the rate of decomposition and mineralization of soil organic matter. The data suggest that DDT accelerates yield decline by affecting the fauna, though the longterm significance of this remains doubtful.
25547826|We explore the development of the Anthropocene, the current epoch in which humans and our societies have become a global geophysical force. The Anthropocene began around 1800 with the onset of industrialization, the central feature of which was the enormous expansion in the use of fossil fuels. We use atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration as a single, simple indicator to track the progression of the Anthropocene. From a preindustrial value of 270-275 ppm, atmospheric carbon dioxide had risen to about 310 ppm by 1950. Since then the human enterprise has experienced a remarkable explosion, the Great Acceleration, with significant consequences for Earth System functioning. Atmospheric CO concentration has risen from 310 to 380 ppm since 1950, with about half of the total rise since the preindustrial era occurring in just the last 30 years. The Great Acceleration is reaching criticality. Whatever unfolds, the next few decades will surely be a tipping point in the evolution of the Anthropocene.
4314623|Where nitrogen deposition is high, nitrogen will accumulate in forest ecosystems and with time affect the environment negatively. By removing forest felling residues for fuel, it appears possible to strongly counteract the effects of nitrogen deposition. Felling residues contribute considerably to the soil's organic nitrogen reserve. They also influence the soil climate and processes, frequently resulting in increased mineralization, nitrification and leaching of nitrogen and other nutrients from clearcut areas. Removal of felling residues will reduce the leaching of nitrogen on the clearcut and counteract nitrogen accumulation. The value of the critical load for nitrogen also becomes much higher if felling residues are removed, in comparison with when they are left on the site. Extensive removal of felling residues, however, requires that losses of mineral nutrients are compensated. NO
4315243|Some 85% of Africa's water resources are comprised of large river basins that are shared between several countries. High rates of population growth accompanied by continued increases in the demand for water have resulted in several countries passing the point where the scarcity of water supplies effectively limits further development. Present population trends and patterns of water use suggest that more African countries will exceed the limits of their economically usable, land-based water resources before 2025. Normally, water allocation and distribution priorities within a country are aligned with national development objectives. While this may achieve national "water security" objectives, greater emphasis needs to be placed on regional efforts to ensure that the available water resources are used to derive sustainable long-term benefits for the peoples of Africa as a whole. Ideally, each country's water-resource management strategy needs to be aligned with that of its neighbors if peace and prosperity are to be maintained and conflict is to be avoided in the region.
25547816|Although sustainability and ethics are of increasing public importance, little research has been conducted to reveal its association with fish consumer behavior. Cross-sectional data were collected through a postal self-administered survey (June 2005) from a sample of 381 Flemish women aged 20-50 years. Consumers attach high perceived importance to sustainability and ethics related to fish. However, this perceived importance is neither correlated with fish consumption frequency nor with general attitude toward eating fish. Refusing to eat wild fish is grounded in sustainability and ethical concerns, whereas the decision not to eat farmed fish is associated with a lower expected intrinsic quality rather than shaped by importance attached to sustainability and ethical issues.
4312283| The flesh of fish caught downstream from factories using the mothproofing agent Eulan WA Neu contained the fat-soluble compounds 2,3,4,4,5-pentachloro-2-aminodiphenyl ether and 2,3,4,4,5,6-hexachloro-2-aminodiphenyl ether. These substances were also found as impurities in Eulan WA Neu. Larger amounts of the two ethers could be prepared by hydrolysis of the main active substances of Eulan WA Neu. 
4312015|The urban ecosystem is analyzed as affected by the increasing urban congestion. Attention is focussed on one key feature, namely the breach in the cycling of mineral nutrients via food. As no device was adequate to bridge this gap the fertilizer industry became the logical response. No corresponding countermeasure has been taken to tackle the sewage accumulation with the concomitant water poiiution, which is further aggravated by this repeat fertilizing. Compounding this effect is) the increasing outtake of water, reducing the volume of lakes, rivers and similar recipients and) the separation of plant and animal production (accumulation of manure). Attention is finally drawn to such factors that have been instrumental in making the nitrogen and phosphate loads excessive. City sewage and waste disposal systems for food and pulp factories urgently need to be transformed into food and feed raising centers, supplementary to conventional agriculture and fisheries.
4315194| Phytoplankton and environmental variables have been monitored in the large Swedish lakes Mlaren, Hjlmaren, Vttern and Vnern since the 1960s. Measures to reduce phosphorus input and industrial waste products were taken during the 1970s. The phosphorus loading was then reduced by 90-95% resulting in a halving of the phosphorus concentrations in the most affected basins. The phytoplankton community reacted rapidly with decreased biomasses of cyanobacteria in summer as well as decreased biomasses of spring diatoms and cryptophycean flagellates. Other reactions were a contracted period of waterbloom, an increased taxon richness, an increased evenness in the biomass over the growth season, and a change in the species size structure within the phytoplankton community. Furthermore, the species richness in the large lakes is compared in relation to lake characteristics. A presentation of the occurrence of toxic cyanobacteria in the lakes is also given, maximum-minimum values of 13-0.1 g microcystin L
4312296| Cadmium content in samples of cortex from 30 adult human kidneys, preserved as museum specimens, was determined using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The geometric mean of the cadmium concentrations was 15.1 g/g dry weight, which is significantly less than what has been reported for fresh kidneys obtained from autopsied non-smokers in Sweden. Provided that the old samples have not lost significant amounts of cadmium during storage, these results indicate that the cadmium burden among humans in Sweden has increased during this century. 
4314749|This paper is based on the National Report which was prepared for the European Inter-Governmental Consultations on Sustainable Development of Mountain Regions in 1996, by a team of experts led by the author. Of the subjects (states) of the Russian Federation 43 out of 89 include mountain regions. However, this was the first time these issues were discussed at the federal level. In European Russia, mountains are located on the periphery of the Russian Plain, which is the historical and economic center of the country. Seventeen subjects (states) are located in the three main mountain massifs of the Caucasus, Urals, and Khibins. The paper provides an analysis of the current social, economic, and environmental status of the mountain regions, and of their development problems. It also provides recommendations on priority research, policy, institutional activities, and international co-operation that are required for the sustainable development of the mountain regions of Russia.
24708781|Turkey is the largest producer of borate products in the world. Among four largest boron mines in Turkey two of them are located in basins of Orhaneli and Emet Streams. In this study, boron levels in abiotic (watersediment) and some biotic elements (sentinel organisms; Asellus aquaticus, Gammarus pulex, Chironomus tentans, Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri and nektonic organism; Squalius cii) of Orhaneli and Emet Streams were investigated and their ranks among the food chain were demonstrated. Since Orhaneli and Emet Streams confluence to form Mustafakemalpaa Brook which feeds Uluabat Lake which is one of the most important Ramsar fields of the world, Boron levels in those two streams have importance in terms of both continuances of aquatic systems. Present study results have shown that boron levels in water of both streams are much higher (vary between 8.64 and 16.73 mg L1) than not only Turkish Standard but also limits determined by WHO, US EPA, and NAS. Boron levels determined in sediments of two streams vary between 18.05 and 36.7 mg kg1. The highest boron level in the biotic elements was determined in liver of Squalius cii (34.64 mg kg1), it is followed by Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri (2.84 mg kg1), Chironomus tentans (2.11 mg kg1), and Gammarus pulex (1.98 mg kg1).
25547949|Methods for evaluating the impact of fires within tropical forests are needed as fires become more frequent and human populations and demands on forests increase. Short- and long-term fire effects on soils are determined by the prefire, fire, and postfire environments. We placed these components within a fire-disturbance continuum to guide our literature synthesis and develop an integrated soil burn severity index. The soil burn severity index provides a set of indicators that reflect the range of conditions present after a fire. The index consists of seven levels, an unburned level and six other levels that describe a range of postfire soil conditions. We view this index as a tool for understanding the effects of fires on the forest floor, with the realization that as new information is gained, the index may be modified as warranted.
4314222| No studies on the effects of organochlorine levels in the European mink (Mustela lutreola) in the wild have been documented. This species is the most threated small carnivore in Europe and its survival is in danger. The results obtained with four animals from the western population of its range, show that pollution could be partly responsible for the decline of this mustelid. These animals were seriously affected by PCBs and DDTs; these compounds produce reproductive failure in American mink in captivity when levels exceed 50 g g
4314562| This paper presents the results of measurements of polonium, uranium and plutonium radionuclides in selected components of the southern Baltic ecosystem, as well as the recognition of their accumulation processes in the trophic chain. Investigation of the
4315142|Global climate change is expected to have an effect on the physical and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea. Estimates of future climate on the regional scale can be obtained by using either statistical or dynamical downscaling methods of global AOGCM scenario results. In this paper, we use 2 different coupled ice-ocean models of the Baltic Sea to simulate present and future ice conditions around 100 years from present. Two 10-year time slice experiments have been performed using the results of atmospheric climate model simulations as forcing, one representing pre-industrial climate conditions (control simulation), and the other global warming with a 150% increase in CO
25547931|This paper summarizes results from the monitoring of reproduction of white-tailed sea eagle in Sweden 1965-2006. Since 1989 the eagle population on the Swedish Baltic coast has been included in the National Environment Monitoring Program as an indicator species for potentially harmful chemicals. The percentage of successfully reproducing pairs and nestling brood size decreased in synchrony with rising concentrations of contaminants in the 1950s on into the 1970s. Mean productivity was 1.3 young per pair prior to 1950 and decreased to 0.3 in 1965-1985. Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethene (DDE) in eagle eggs decreased from a range of annual means in 1965-1974 of 600-1200 g g (lipid weight) to 60-140 g g in 1996-2005. Total polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) concentrations averaged above 1000 g g into the early 1980s and remained in the range of 250-500 g g in 1996-2005. Productivity began to improve when concentrations of DDE and PCBs dropped below approximately 300 and 800 g g, respectively. Brood size remains below the pre-1950 level in one coastal region, indicating a possible impact from other contaminants. The power to detect significant trends under the program is presented and discussed: if white-tailed sea eagle reproduction had been monitored earlier during the 20th century, the negative impact of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT, source of DDE) would have been signaled as early as the 1950s in the Baltic Sea. The dramatic fall of white-tailed sea eagle reproduction under the influence of DDT and PCBs, and the subsequent rise following their ban, illustrates the usefulness of raptors like sea eagles as sentinels for environmental pollutants.
25547838|The language and tools of risk and uncertainty estimation in flood risk management (FRM) are rarely optimized for the extant communication challenge. This paper develops the rationale for a pragmatic semiotics of risk communication between scientists developing flood models and forecasts and those professional groups who are the receptors for flood risk estimates and warnings in the UK. The current barriers to effective communication and the constraints involved in the formation of a communication language are explored, focusing on the role of the professional's agenda or "mission" in creating or reducing those constraints. The tools available for the development of this discourse, for both flood warnings in real time and generalized FRM communications, are outlined. It is argued that the contested ownership of the articulation of uncertainties embedded in flood risk communications could be reduced by the development of a formally structured translational discourse between science and professionals in FRM, through which process "codes of practice" for uncertainty estimation in different application areas can be developed. Ways in which this might take place in an institutional context are considered.
24708813|Protected area (PA) is an indicator linked to policies on ecological sustainability. We analyzed area, size, and categories of PAs in the European boreal forest biome in Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia from 1900 to 2010. The PA increased from 1.5  103 ha in 1909 to 2.3  107 ha in 2010. While the total PA in the boreal biome was 10.8 %, the figures ranged from 17.2 % in the northern, 7.9 % of the middle, and 8.7 % of the southern boreal sub-regions. The median size of PAs varied from 10 to 124 ha among countries. The categories of less strictly PAs increased over time. The proportion of area occupied by PAs is an important response indicator for conservation efforts. However, the use of PA as an indicator of ecological sustainability needs to consider ecosystem representation, functional connectivity and management categories.
40730869|Alpine plant life is proliferating, biodiversity is on the rise and the mountain world appears more productive and inviting than ever. Upper range margin rise of trees and low-altitude (boreal) plant species, expansion of alpine grasslands and dwarf-shrub heaths are the modal biotic adjustments during the past few decades, after a century of substantial climate warming in the Swedish Scandes. This course of biotic landscape evolution has reached historical dimensions and broken a multi-millennial trend of plant cover retrogression, alpine tundra expansion, floristic and faunal impoverishment, all imposed by progressive and deterministic neoglacial climate cooling. Continued modest warming over the present century will likely be beneficial to alpine biodiversity, geoecological stability, resilience, sustainable reindeer husbandry and aesthetic landscape qualities. These aspects are highlighted by an integrative review of results from long-term monitoring of subalpine/alpine vegetation in the Swedish Scandes. This forms the basis for some tentative projections of landscape transformations in a potentially warmer future. Notably, these results and projections are not necessarily valid in other regions and differ in some respects from model predictions. Continued monitoring is mandatory as a basis for generation of more realistic vegetation and ecosystem models.
4312134|Livestock herding peoples in West and East Africa have been severely hit lately by drought conditions. The disaster situation has been used as a means to change the life of these peoples. The survival of such peoples depends on a precise manipulation of the ecology, rational decision making, and risk management. However, factors outside their control (water development, veterinary services, the creation of new international boundaries) have contributed heavily to the overstocking problem.
4315634|This study uses life-cycle analysis to examine the net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the Canadian peat industry for the period 1990-2000. GHG exchange is estimated for land-use change, peat extraction and processing, transport to market, and the in situ decomposition of extracted peat. The estimates, based on an additive GHG accounting model, show that the peat extraction life cycle emitted <tex-math>$0.54\times 10^{6}$</tex-math> t of GHG in 1990, increasing to <tex-math>$0.89\times 10^{6}$</tex-math> t in 2000 (expressed as CO<sub>2</sub> equivalents using a 100-y time horizon). Peat decomposition associated with end use was the largest source of GHGs, comprising 71% of total emissions during this 11-y period. Land use change resulted in a switch of the peatlands from a GHG sink to a source and contributed an additional 15%. Peat transportation was responsible for 10% of total GHG emissions, and extraction and processing contributed 4%. It would take approximately 2000 y to restore the carbon pool to its original size if peatland restoration is successful and the cutover peatland once again becomes a net carbon sink.
4315461|The environment of East China Sea (ECS) has been faced by huge stresses from anthropogenic activities and population growth in the Yangtze River drainage basin and the areas along the coasts. Improper use of natural resources and short-term economic objectives have resulted in severe environmental degradation in a fairly short time frame and the degradation has now reached a level where the health and well being of the coastal populations are threatened. The main pollutants are inorganic nitrogen, phosphate, oil hydrocarbons, organic matters and heavy metals. Nutrients cause eutrophication of the coastal waters and the estuarine area and very often stimulate the occurrence of red tides. The environmental pollution of Yangtze River basin directly impact on the state of the marine environment in the ECS. The ecosystem stability is maintained by a steady water discharge from the river, that mixes with the marine salty water in the estuary, and the sediment loads from the river that balance ocean erosion in the delta and its adjacent coastal area. The large-scale water transfer and dam constructions in the Yangtze River basin will change this basis. For the ECS the challenge is to reverse the negative processes taking place and to restore ecosystem balance. The main challenge is to integrate socioeconomic and environmental decision making in order to promote sustainable development. A better understanding of the driving forces in society that cause these environmental pressures is required in order to overcome these obstacles. International cooperation may be an important contributor to the progress and in particular provide access to financial, technological, scientific and human resource assistance.
4312065|The quality of our lives continues to be affected by the increasing tempo of industrialization which can only be sustained by abundant fuel and mineral supplies. Global wars, population explosion and development of nonindustrial countries have caused more minerals to be consumed in the past thirty years than in all previous time. Fuels: coal, gas, oil, uranium are irreversibly consumed to supply energy. Metal resources are more difficult to estimate; iron and aluminum are inexhaustible, copper and some other metals with resources which approximate the Lasky equation probably exist in large tonnages; others may be used before AD 2000. Recycling must be taken more seriously. Economic geology, geochemistry and geophysics have vital roles to play if the material quality of life is to be sustained: a great intellectual challenge is offered.
4313662|Poland's forests are continually under strong anthropogenic pressure. Deforestation together with the harmful effects of air pollution have resulted from growing industrialization and urbanization. These effects have been further exacerbated by considerable negligence in environmental protection in Poland and by the high level of toxic substances transported from neighboring states. This article presents the consequences and spatial differentiation of this forest destruction. The most extreme effects have been observed in the West Sudetes Mountains and Upper Silesia. The situation in these areas is catastrophic. Whole high mountain regions are threatened with total devastation within the near future.
4313849|This paper analyses both positive and negative environmental impacts associated with, U.P. Government Chittaurgarh irrigation project, situated in outer Indian Himalayas. The construction of a dam and canals have had a serious impact on flora and fauna. Agricultural and grazing lands have been lost by utilization of 405 ha Himalayan forest-land upstream and 212 ha of cultivated land downstream of the project. Impacts expected after canal operation include: the rise in watertable; waterlogging; increased salinity, due to clay dominated soils with low permeability, and high watertable (0.43 m) during post-monsoon period; fuelwood and fodder crises due to deforestation in the catchment area; weed infestation, crop pests; and human diseases, e.g. malaria, polio myelitis, filariasis and goitre. The siltation will increase 20 times after one decade due to the poor vegetation cover in the catchment area. Positive impacts include: flood control, increase in agricultural production (mainly rice 25 330 t yr-1) and improvement in socioeconomic conditions. Guidelines have been developed to eliminate negative impacts at an early stage to ensure sustainable development and to protect natural resources.
4312585|This article begins with a short account of efforts to monitor the world's environment in general as organized under the Global Environmental Monitoring System (GEMS) under the UN Environment Program (UNEP). It goes on to discuss the development of monitoring the atmosphere and the world's climate. It describes the establishment by the World Meteorological Organization, acting in cooperation with UNEP, of a global network of stations for monitoring atmospheric pollution at the background level (BAPMoN). Special activities for monitoring long-range transmission of air pollutants undertaken in Europe and North America are also described. The need for additional monitoring in the atmosphere, oceans and cryosphere, in order to provide information for a better understanding of the world's climate and its variability, is discussed. Special emphasis is given to the needs for increased monitoring of atmospheric carbon dioxide and of the global carbon cycle.
4315253|This paper investigates how sea tenure institutions in the Roviana Lagoon, Solomon Islands, mediate among population, consumption, and the environment. The focus is on explaining how growth in population and consumption alter sea tenure regimes, and the factors that shape either their institutional robustness or vulnerability. The paper also addresses the regional differences among sea tenure institutional arrangements, the processes that are producing them, and the social and environmental outcomes of these institutions as they engage external forces and internal changes. A major question is how existing forms of sea tenure respond comparatively when faced with parallel demographic and economic transformations? Two villages representing different sea tenure arrangements within the Roviana Lagoon are compared. Results show that inhabitants in these villages perceive their systems of sea tenure governance similarly; yet their managerial responses to changes brought about by growth in population and consumption differ, and the responses produce contrasting environmental effects.
4314179|Desertification is a severe environmental problem in North- Central China. Deserts develop because of a complex interplay of environmental and land-management factors. Deserts are currently expanding at an estimated rate of 1560
40730881|Acidification of soils and surface waters caused by acid deposition is still a major problem in southern Scandinavia, despite clear signs of recovery. Besides emission control, liming of lakes, streams, and wetlands is currently used to ameliorate acidification in Sweden. An alternative strategy is forest soil liming to restore the acidified upland soils from which much acidified runoff originates. This cost-benefit analysis compared these liming strategies with a special emphasis on the time perspective for expected benefits. Benefits transfer was used to estimate use values for sport ffishing and nonuse values in terms of existence values. The results show that large-scale forest soil liming is not socioeconomically profitable, while lake liming is, if it is done efficiently in other words, if only acidified surface waters are treated. The beguiling logic of "solving" an environmental problem at its source (soils), rather than continuing to treat the symptoms (surface waters), is thus misleading.
4313121|There are very few studies on the effects of dioxins and chlorinated phenols on the human embryo, and their conclusions are contradictory. A small number of pregnancies involved or a lack of base-line data have often complicated the analysis. The pollution scandal caused by BT Kemi in Teckomatorp, near Landskrona in the southern part of Sweden, also raised questions about possible effects on pregnancy. The possibility exists that exposures near the herbicide manufacturing company were responsible for the observed high frequency of spontaneous abortions. The analysis of the spontaneous abortion frequency would have been more informative if more detailed investigations had been made soon after the information on miscarriages in Teckomatorp became available.
4313034|Several species of blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) in saline and fresh waters produce toxins which cause illness or death to domestic animals, birds and fish. Human poisonings are infrequent, but contact with waters containing growths (blooms) of these toxic organisms is increasing. The extent of this hazard in Europe has been surveyed and the presence of toxic blooms has been found to be greater than previously estimated. This article reviews the current understanding of blue-green algal toxicity, identifies the gaps in this knowledge and recommends areas for future studies.
4315807| This paper compiles biological and chemical sea-ice data from three areas of the Baltic Sea: the Bothnian Bay (Hailuoto, Finland), the Bothnian Sea (Norrby, Sweden), and the Gulf of Finland (Tvrminne, Finland). The data consist mainly of field measurements and experiments conducted during the BIREME project from 2003 to 2006, supplemented with relevant published data. Our main focus was to analyze whether the biological activity in Baltic Sea sea ice shows clear regional variability. Sea-ice in the Bothnian Bay has low chlorophyll a concentrations, and the bacterial turnover rates are low. However, we have sampled mainly land-fast level first-year sea-ice and apparently missed the most active biological system, which may reside in deformed ice (such as ice ridges). Our limited data set shows high concentrations of algae in keel blocks and keel block interstitial water under the consolidated layer of the pressure ridges in the northernmost part of the Baltic Sea. In land-fast level sea-ice in the Bothnian Sea and the Gulf of Finland, the lowermost layer appears to be the center of biological activity, though elevated biomasses can also be found occasionally in the top and interior parts of the ice. Ice algae are light limited during periods of snow cover, and phosphate is generally the limiting nutrient for ice bottom algae. Bacterial growth is evidently controlled by the production of labile dissolved organic matter by algae because low growth rates were recorded in the Bothnian Bay with high concentrations of allochthonous dissolved organic matter. Bacterial communities in the Bothnian Sea and the Gulf of Finland show high turnover rates, and activities comparable with those of open water communities during plankton blooms, which implies that sea-ice bacterial communities have high capacity to process matter during the winter period. 
4314431|The paper deals with the demographic situation and housing in Riga. The first part provides information on age, gender and ethnic structure of Riga's population and households. The paper discusses changes within these parameters and gives a demographic forecast. The second part-Housing- examines Riga's housing stock, in terms of living space, periods of construction and standards of conveniences. A short history of the practice of prefabrication projects in construction of prefabricated buildings is presented. Changes in ownership of the housing stock and emerging problems have been analyzed. The paper reveals the creation of new designs of flats over the last few years and provides a comparison with the situation in other cities as well as housing supply and demand. The paper is based mainly on recent statistical data of the State Committee for Statistics and data obtained from separate surveys and research.
4313649|Mediterranean coastal zones have turned into popular leisure centers visited mainly by northern European tourists. The hotel industry has produced an economic boom in what were relatively undisturbed areas. Due to this fact studies dealing with the management and preservation or rehabilitation of natural zones are essential to balance social and economic development. The aim is to preserve the natural environment and landscape in order to retain its appeal for visitors. The present work on the rehabilitation of the Albufera of Majorca is an area within this context. The geomorphological evolution of the Albufera of Majorca is discussed and the principal environmental components are analyzed. On this basis major criteria for rehabilitation are proposed: 1. To preserve the present dynamics of the lagoons and eliminate factors distributing lotic environments. 2. To increase open water zones by progressively reintroducing preexisting lagoons in order to achieve an increase in food resources and in the number of habitats. 3. To change the present water circulation pattern fractalizing its route (1), i.e., allowing water to spread throughout the Albufera thereby decreasing its renewal rate. 4. To avoid environmental homogeneity and to attempt a smoothening out of the environmental gradient so that it can be occupied by a large number of species with different environmental tolerances.
4313889|The history of mankind extends over more than a million years, but its two most important innovations are of a rather recent date: the neolithic introduction of agriculture 5 to 10 000 years ago and the ongoing industrial-scientific revolution which has led to the present high-technology civilizations. Both these events caused a rise in the rate of population increase, and the latter has been intensified by the growing use of external energy, particularly fossil fuels. High energy costs make the expansion of mechanized agriculture a dubious way to solve the global food crisis. Death rates, especially infant mortality, have successfully been reduced by means of efficient health care, but an unchecked population increase will probably make the WHO goal of "health for all by the year 2000" unattainable. The dilemma can be solved only by a reduction in birth rates through family planning. How urgent the control of population growth has become is indicated by the fact that the human population-one among many millions of consumer species-already requires nearly 10% of the global net production of biomass for its own use.
4315819|Policymaking within and among states is under pressure for change. One feature of this change is empirically observed as an activation of different network structures in the Baltic Sea Region, especially since the collapse of the Iron Curtain, the initiation of the Rio process, and the enlargement of the European Union. The contemporary theoretical debates about governance highlight the changing conditions for policymaking and implementation on all societal levels. This process of change, especially evident concerning environmental policies, includes new types of networks crossing state borders both at the supranational and the subnational levels. This article illuminates this process of change with empirical data from the project "Governing a Common Sea" (GOVCOM) within the Baltic Sea Research Program (BIREME).
4313571|Current methods of quantitative pH reconstruction using diatoms from sediment cores involve the use of linear multiple regression. This approach has theoretical limitations since it assumes, inappropriately, that biological variables are monotonically related to environmental variables (e.g. pH). An alternative approach using canonical correspondence analysis and weighted averaging has greater validity, since it takes specific account of non-monotonic unimodal species responses. This method is initially applied to an existing data-set and subsequently a validation exercise is carried out on eight new surface samples. These show a close agreement between measured pH and canonical correspondence analysis reconstruction of pH using the existing surface data-set. Application of the technique to core data from southwestern Scotland shows good agreement with results using index B and multiple regression of pH groups.
4312793|A national energy policy is needed, one that not only helps to restore the health of the US economy, but one that also understands and seeks to optimize the solarpowered contributions that the landscape makes to the economy and human well-being. A policy that seeks these objectives will conserve fossil fuels and reduce the assault of air pollution on the landscape. This paper focuses attention on the value and function of the New England landscape, summarizes the air pollution problems facing the region and discusses prospects for reducing the pollution load.
4314892|The Tundra Ecology -94 expedition offered unique opportunities to study genetic diversity in lemmings along 6000 km of the Arctic coast of Eurasia. Comparisons were made within and among populations, among geographic regions, and between species. One aim of our study was to contribute with molecular data to solve taxonomic problems present in true lemmings (Lemmus). MtDNA studies made it possible to clarify the phylogenetic relationships among various populations, and thus it was logical to divide the present species L. sibiricus into two, L. sibiricus and L. bungei. Another aim was to describe the chromosome races in collared lemmings (Dicrostonyx) and explain their origin. Four chromosome races and their distribution along the coast were established in D. torquatus. The races are mainly characterized by a sequence of translocations between sex chromosomes and autosomes. Our studies confirmed that the collared lemmings on Wrangel Island belong to another species, D. groenlandicus, and it was proven that the colonization history of Wrangel Island was completely different for Lemmus and Dicrostonyx.
4313151|The oil price shocks and the dramatic decline in foreign exchange earnings have forced the SADCC countries (the nine majority-ruled independent countries of the southern African region) to reduce the consumption of oil in the generation of electricity, as well as in the transport and industrial sectors. The conservation of imported modern fuels and the search for domestic sources of modern fuels have been urgent questions for several years for SADCC policy makers. However, wood fuel, which accounts for 60-80 percent of total energy consumption, is receiving only scant attention. This paper analyzes the formulation, implementation and success of the priorities, options and policies of the SADCC governments in both the modern and traditional fuel sectors.
4313851|Sediment samples from 59 stations in the Baltic Proper were analyzed for Zn, Cu, Ni, Cd, Co, Fe, As, Mo, Mn, V, Pb, and Hg. The samples represent the ten uppermost centimeters and approximately the past 100 years at each site. The metals show high correlations with each other, except for Hg. Zn shows the strongest correlations with the other metals in several statistical tests and thus an explanation of the Zn distribution would also explain the variation of a majority of the other metals. A greater increase of metal concentrations in their downcore profile and significant correlation of metals with atmospheric deposition provide strong evidence that atmospheric pollution is a dominating factor in metal distribution. The regional variation of the metals is also correlated with the distribution of organic matter. The metal concentrations have increased, on average, by a factor of five over the last 50 years. Implications of this metal increase for future energy policy are discussed.
4315586|Coca, once grown for local consumption in the Andes, is now produced for external markets, often in areas with armed conflict. Internationally financed eradication campaigns force traffickers and growers to constantly relocate, making drug-related activities a principal cause of forest loss. The impact on biodiversity is known only in general terms, and this article presents the first regional analysis to identify areas of special concern, using bird data as proxy. The aim of conserving all species may be significantly constrained in the Santa Marta and Perij mountains, Darin, some parts of the Central Andes in Colombia, and between the middle Maran and middle Huallaga valleys in Peru. Solutions to the problem must address the root causes: international drug markets, long-lasting armed conflict, and lack of alternative income for the rural poor.
4314430|This article examines the process and substance of physical planning for the City of Riga. It starts by describing the system as it has been for the past 50 years and contrasting it with the system that is now evolving. The Soviet system, in practice for almost 50 years was one of central control, secrecy, and no public involvement. The presently evolving system is closely parallel to that practiced in the Western democracies. The present process for preparing the new Riga Master Plan is described. The Draft Plan has been and is being debated with the public and special interest groups. The plan stresses the priority of people, environment and cultural heritage. The key aspects of the plan are described with special emphasis on transport and environment. Finally, the article describes the proposed land-use designations and the expected next level of planning.
4315081|Sustainable use of natural resources continues to gain attention, especially in relation to energy and global carbon cycles. Biomass crops may offset fossil fuels and reduce CO
4314322|Physiological and developmental processes of plants are affected by UV-B radiation, even by the amount of UV-B in present-day sunlight. Plants also have several mechanisms to ameliorate or repair these effects and may acclimate to a certain extent to increased levels of UV-B. Nevertheless, plant growth can be directly affected by UV-B radiation. Response to UV-B also varies considerably among species and also cultivars of the same species. In agriculture, this may necessitate using more UV-B-tolerant cultivars and breeding new ones. In forests and grasslands, this will likely result in changes in species composition; therefore there are implications for the biodiversity in different ecosystems. Indirect changes caused by UV-B-such as changes in plant form, biomass allocation to parts of the plant, timing of developmental phases and secondary metabolism-may be equally, or sometimes more important than damaging effects of UV-B. These changes can have important implications for plant competitive balance, herbivory, plant pathogens, and biogeochemical cycles. These ecosystem-level effects can be anticipated, but not easily predicted or evaluated. Research at the ecosystem level for solar UV-B is barely beginning. Other factors, including those involved in climate change such as increasing CO
4312285|Analyses of grinding fluid concentrates, containing triethanolamine, nitrite and water, which have been stored at room temperature for 5-7 months in glass or plastic bottles, reveal the presence of 400-800 ppm of N-nitrosodiethanolamine. The fluids were analyzed by first destroying excess nitrite with urea at pH 1 and then irradiating the neutralized solution with long-wave UV for 30 minutes. The photolytically formed nitrite ion was then quantified by Griess' reagent. The formation of small amounts of a carcinogenic N-nitrosamine in products of this kind is, of course, a potential health hazard. Consequently, the simultaneous presence of nitrite and amines in technical products must be seriously questioned.
4314361|Like many arid and semiarid regions of the world, agriculture in Libya is mainly dependent on underlying aquifers for its water needs. In some regions of the country, which represent the best agricultural land, the groundwater withdrawn exceeds natural aquifer replenishment by more than 500% causing a significant annual decline in groundwater levels, and seawater intrusion to the coastal aquifers. A number of water-management measures are presented. These measures include water transfer; reduction of irrigated areas; desalinization of seawater; and complementary measures. Without an extensive program for managing the country's finite water resources, future generations will face serious water-resource problems.
4315021|Although motorways could affect wildlife species, only few studies have been documented on their effects on mortality and isolation. With 2266 road-killed animals representing 97 species, the results of a study on a motorway section emphasized that traffic considerably affected vertebrate populations (14.5 animals
4315199|Winters in Sweden have become warmer in the 1990s, and as a consequence the timing of ice break-up and the growth and decline of spring phytoplankton has shifted, starting earlier. Even spring temperatures have become warmer, leading to an earlier beginning of the summer phytoplankton growth. The spring-ward shift in phytoplankton population growth has resulted in an extension of the growing season by at least one month. Although mean total phytoplankton biomass from May to October has not increased, the spring and early summer biomass of temperature-sensitive phytoplankton groups, such as cyanobacteria and chlorophytes, has increased in the 1990s. No increase was noted for other phytoplankton groups. Considering that some species of cyanobacteria that commonly occur during a summer bloom, such as Anabaena, Aphanizomenon, and Microcystis, can be toxic, the effect of warmer winters on aquatic ecosystems is potentially far-reaching.
24708973|The water turnover of two coastal areas, Forsmark and Laxemar-Simpevarp, has been modeled for 13 selected years between 6500 BC and 9000 AD by utilizing information about past, present, and future bathymetry. The Forsmark area can be described as an open-ended funnel, and is analyzed with a 3D-model (MIKE 3-FM); the Laxemar area is partitioned into clusters of sub-basins treated with a discrete coupled basin model (CouBa). In all simulations, the main variation factor is the land uplift. The 3D-model domain is successively modified. For the CouBa approach the successive basin configurations are objectively deduced based on the 3D domain modifications. The average age (AvA) of the resident water relative to the open coast is generally lower for the Forsmark area. A typical progression is that the AvA values increase until a sub-basin ceases to be connected to the coastal zone. This disconnection is often preceded by a lowered AvA.
4314529|Long-term trends for cropland harvested, air emissions and deaths due to water-related diseases (selected as indicators of land, air and water pollution, respectively) are analyzed primarily for the US from the early 1900s onward. Due to technological change, the increases in these indicators are generally less than those for population (P), affluence (A) or their product (PA)-sometimes by an order of magnitude. Technological change resulted from secular improvements in technologies which were adopted voluntarily (owing to greater affluence and other economic factors) or because of national environmental laws. While environmental impacts had diminished substantially even before their enactment, these laws, whose very stringency may depend on affluence, consolidated and extended those gains. The analysis suggests that fostering economic growth and technological change will help reduce adverse environmental impacts, including further losses of habitat, and biodiversity, as new cropland is created to meet future global food demand.
4313814|In the present overview, environmental security is comprised of two interconnected parts: (a) environmental protection from wartime and similar abuse, from medically unacceptable pollution and, in some instances, from any permanent human intrusion; and (b) sane resource utilization, with the renewable resources utilized sustainably and the non-renewable resources utilized efficiently and frugally. Environmental security is considered unattainable without the concomitant achievement of social security, the latter being comprised of four interconnected parts: (a) political security; (b) military security; (c) economic security; and (d) personal security. Environmental and social security together are considered to constitute comprehensive human security. Ethiopia and Sudan are taken to illustrate this expanded concept of security. Among other conclusions, it is suggested that in order to be able to achieve environmental security, Ethiopia and Sudan must: (i) strive for this goal in cooperation with their ecogeographical partners, a fundamental prerequisite of which is to come to grips with their seemingly endless internal and cross-border wars; and (ii) bring resource utilization into balance with resource availability, a fundamental prerequisite of which is to come to grips with population pressures.
25547953|Secondary forest succession and tree planting are contributing to the recovery of the Cabo Rojo refuge (Headquarters and Salinas tracts) and Laguna Cartagena refuge (Lagoon and Tinaja tracts) of the Fish and Wildlife Service in southwestern Puerto Rico. About 80 species, mainly natives, have been planted on 44 ha during the past 25 y in an effort to reduce the threat of grass fires and to restore wildlife habitat. A 2007 survey of 9-y-old tree plantings on the Lagoon tract showed satisfactory growth rates for 16 native species. Multiple stems from individual trees at ground level were common. A sampling of secondary forest on the entire 109 ha Tinaja tract disclosed 141 native tree species, or 25% of Puerto Rico's native tree flora, along with 20 exotics. Five tree species made up about 58% of the total basal area, and seven species were island endemics. Between 1998 and 2003, tree numbers and basal area, as well as tree heights and diameter at breast height values (diameter at 1.4 m above the ground), increased on the lower 30 ha of the Tinaja tract. In this area, much of it subject to fires and grazing through 1996, exotic trees made up 25% of the species. Dry forest throughout the tropics is an endangered habitat, and its recovery (i.e., in biomass, structure, and species composition) at Tinaja may exceed 500 y. Future forests, however, will likely contain some exotics.
4313311| Each year a mussel produces an incremental layer of its shell which is composed mainly of calcium carbonate and a small fraction of organic substance. Many other elements are simultaneously deposited in these annual layers, and are assumed to be essentially immobile. Three nuclear analytical techniques, the proton microprobe (-PIXE), instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA), and -track autoradiography were used to determine the temporal history of concentrations of elements in shells of the freshwater pearl mussel, Margaritifera margaritifera (L.), from four rivers in central Sweden. The high spatial resolution (3m) of -PIXE allows analyses of samples representing small parts of single years. Thirty elements were identified and quantified using INAA technique. Elemental concentrations in old samples (from 1860) were similar to those from young specimens (1970-85). Silver, gold, iron and cobolt decrease strongly and manganese and sulfur increase in connection with acidification after 1940. The present study indicates that shells of living mussels, together with museum or subfossil shell material may be used to date environmental changes caused by natural events and large-scale industrial, agricultural or nuclear contamination. 
41417351|Decomposition studies were carried out at sites throughout Sweden, including the four Integrated Monitoring sites. Scots pine needle litterbag weight loss measurements over 3 or 5 years were determined at 26 sites and repeated up to 27 times, depending on the site. Humus layer respiration rates were determined for 20 sites in 1987-1989 and repeated in 2007-2008. Partial Least Squares (PLS) regression was used to elucidate the relative importance of climatic and soil factors. Annual needle weight losses decreased only slowly (20-10%) over 3-5 years for all northern (>60N) sites but decreased sharply from 30 to 10% in the third year in southern (>60N) sites. Respiration rates of southern sites were less (40% on average) than those of northern sites. Humus layer N was positively correlated to needle weight loss during the first and the second years, but negatively correlated in the third year and to respiration rates. The results indicated that litter formed in southern Sweden became more recalcitrant in later stages of decomposition compared to litter produced in northern Sweden.
4313129|Of the various biological processes involved in the cycling of nitrogen within the Baltic proper, the denitrification process has been projected to be the most important one responsible for removal of combined nitrogen from the system. Denitrification rates have now been measured, and these estimates are inserted into an updated nitrogen budget for the Baltic proper (including the Gulf of Finland). The budget shows a net accumulation of about
4313871|The natural forests in semiarid Africa are disappearing at a rapid rate. These forests are important for local populations as a source of fuelwood but also as a source of many other products. Scientific knowledge in regard to these forests is very limited. Because these forests are being rapidly degraded research should concentrate on ongoing practical management efforts. Otherwise there is a risk that forests will disappear before any useful research results are available. To solve immediate problems, of testing and applied research, project funds should be allocated for project-research.
4313470|This paper presents the results of mercury analyses on fish, plants and sediments, collected along the Madeira River (Amazon Basin) in January 1986. Mercury levels in muscle and eggs from detritivorous, herbivorous, carnivorous, and omnivorous fish ranged from
4313660|Research in Antarctica is becoming increasingly important to understanding global processes and plays a unique role in the management of global environmental problems. Over the last decade, increased fluxes of ultraviolet (UV-B) radiation have occurred in Antarctica as a result of an annual, seasonal depletion in stratospheric ozone. The connection between the depletion of ozone over Antarctica, as well as globally, and the release of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in the developed world is widely recognized by scientists and policymakers alike. Most research to date has focused on the atmospheric processes responsible for ozone depletion and only a few investigators have specifically addressed UV effects on the biosphere. Preliminary experiments in Antarctica indicate, however, that the marine phytoplankton are already UV stressed and investigations from other regions further suggest that other components of both the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems are very susceptible to increased UV exposure. Using information from these studies and available information on distribution and trophic dynamics of Antarctic species, potential impacts can be identified and areas for further research can be highlighted. Recommended actions for the international scientific community are set out to provide the necessary ecological information for sound policymaking in order to expedite the adoption of measures to protect Antarctica's resources.
4315188| In-lake concentration changes of phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) in lakes Vttern, Vnern, Mlaren, and Hjlmaren in response to diminished input has been examined from the mid-1960s onwards. In the former two deep and oligotrophic lakes with slow water renewal, drastic reductions in P-input from the middle of 1970s caused just minor reductions in P-concentration over a very long time. At the same time accumulation occurred in the water mass of inorganic N and possible reasons are discussed. In the latter two mesotrophic to hypertrophic lakes, two shallow basins in L. Hjlmaren showed slow recovery due to release of P from sediments. The same basins and two basins in L. Mlaren have suffered from N-deficiency, particularly during the pre-phosphorus reduction years, and nitrogen fixation was indicated. In two L. Mlaren basins recovery of in-lake P concentrations was better than expected in comparison to the so-called IMSA-model for lake recovery from nutrient pollution. In the other five lakes/basins chlorophyll concentrations after 20 years were similar compared to those modeled. 
25515843|The goals for water-quality and ecosystem integrity are often defined relative to "natural" reference conditions in many water-management systems, including the European Union Water Framework Directive. This paper examines the difficulties created for water management by using "natural" as the goal. These difficulties are articulated from different perspectives in an informal (fictional) conversation that takes place after a workshop on reference conditions in water-resources management. The difficulties include defining the natural state and modeling how a system might be progressed toward the natural, as well as the feasibility and desirability of restoring a natural state. The paper also considers the appropriateness for developing countries to adopt the use of natural as the goal for water management. We conclude that failure to critically examine the complexities of having "natural" as the goal will compromise the ability to manage the issues that arise in real basins by not making the ambiguities associated with this "natural" goal explicit. This is unfortunate both for the western world that has embraced this model of "natural as the goal" and for the developing world in so far as they are encouraged to adopt this model.
25547950|An increased ability to analyze landscapes in a spatial manner through the use of remote sensing leads to improved capabilities for quantifying human-induced forest fragmentation. Developments of spatially explicit methods in landscape analyses are emerging. In this paper, the image delineation software program eCognition and the spatial pattern analysis program FRAGSTATS were used to quantify patterns of forest fragments on six landscapes across three different climatic regions characterized by different moisture regimes and different influences of human pressure. Our results support the idea that landscapes with higher road and population density are more fragmented; however, there are other, equally influential factors contributing to fragmentation, such as moisture regime, historic land use, and fire dynamics. Our method provided an objective means to characterize landscapes and assess patterns of forest fragments across different forested ecosystems by addressing the limitations of pixel-based classification and incorporating image objects.
4314435|Adequate solutions to the shelter problems of the urban poor is one factor that can help to create municipal stability in terms of politics, economy and society. Although shelter problems are solved differently by different countries and in different cities, it is proposed that housing for the poor in Hanoi should be solved in such a way as to be in accordance with the social and economic characteristics that are specific for the city.
4313200|In Portugal nearly 300,000 hectares of agricultural land have been planted with Eucalyptus globulus since 1960, primarily for the production of pulp. This has drastically changed the scenery in some parts of the country. Various species of plants and animals have been threatened by the new ecosystems. Erosion and flooding have occurred. People complain that eucalyptus plantations have lowered the water table and that hunting and grazing possibilities have been reduced. Nevertheless, eucalyptus plantations present many benefits; the advantages and disadvantages of introducing an exotic species to central Portugal are discussed.
4312258|A budget for atmospheric ammonia and odd nitrogen oxides in northwestern Europe is presented. There are strong indications from the balance given that human activities make up the dominant part of the total fluxes of nitrogen oxides in the region. The contribution from combustion engines-mainly cars and trucks-was found to be 20-50 percent of the total anthropogenic sources and the industrial combustion for the production of electricity approximately 35 percent. A net transport out of the region of nitrogen oxides is also indicated from the mass balance given. The deposition of nitrate with precipitation has increased markedly during the last two decades and was found to account for approximately 25 percent of the acid in precipitation.
4315817|The postwar development of water protection legislation and wastewater discharges is poorly known for the Baltic Sea region as a whole. This article presents national efforts to govern wastewater discharges in Poland using legal tools over the twentieth century with an emphasis on the postwar period, 1945-2003. The study also attempts to evaluate how the state authority responded to changing legal demands in terms of urban and industrial wastewater discharges in the postwar period. It outlines the main changes during the socialist regime in Poland and after it regained independence. Also the implications of Poland's integration into the European Union are briefly discussed. Mathematical calculations are used to illustrate some changes in legal requirements over time.
25547848|We have manipulated the winter-time soil temperature regime of small headwater catchments in a montane heathland area of southern Norway to study the possible effects on concentrations and fluxes of inorganic nitrogen in runoff. The experiments included extra insulation of soils in two catchments to prevent subzero temperatures during winter, and removal of snow in two other catchments to promote soil frost. Increased soil temperatures during winter increased the springtime concentrations and fluxes of ammonium (NH) and nitrate (NO) in runoff. By contrast, snow removal with development of significant soil frost showed no systematic effects on mean concentrations or fluxes of inorganic N. The results from our experiments suggest that warmer soils during winter caused by exceptionally mild winters, or alternatively a heavy snowpack, imply a greater risk for inorganic N leaching in this region than a possible increase of soil frost events because of reduced snow cover.
4313636|In the wake of a nuclear attack, even of moderate scope, there would be pronounced biospheric impacts for Britain. The climatic conditions, known collectively as "nuclear winter", would serve to kill off much vegetation and to significantly damage surviving vegetation. The most widespread damage would more likely be caused through "chill injury" than through "freeze injury". Many agricultural crops would die in the fields, or fail to produce grain, fruits and tubers in any but meager amounts. The main environmental insults, viz. reduced temperature and light, would be aggravated, often in synergistic fashion, through additional assaults, e.g. irregular rainfall patterns, powerful winds, chemical pollutants and (eventually) UV-B radiation. In addition, the broadscale disruption of ecosystems generally could lead to a "pest, weed and disease ecology", which would make the revival of agriculture more difficult. The institutional infrastructure that supports the food industry would be largely, if not completely, eliminated. While many uncertainties attend the analysis, in many areas and for many people, food supplies could essentially prove to be zero.
25547795|The general European population has a total intake of dioxins and dioxin-like chemicals near the limit recommended by the European Union, making additional exposure above background levels undesirable. For populations living near dioxin-contaminated sites, additional exposure may occur by intake of locally produced food, inhalation of particles, dermal contact with soils, or other exposure pathways. Risk assessment tools are required to estimate risks associated with contaminated sites and to set priorities for site remediation. Here, we review several multimedia models that can be applied as tools to support risk assessment. We then present a strategy to select, apply, evaluate, and adapt a model to address a specific situation. The case study we consider is a risk assessment of generic background dioxin exposure in Sweden, and we compare the predictions with environmental observations and exposure data from Sweden. Arguments are presented for selecting the CalTOX model for this case study. We demonstrate the application, evaluation, and adaptation of the model and discuss the requirements for extending the analysis to conduct risk assessment for subpopulations living near dioxin-contaminated sites.
4312685|Small, remote island communities like the Seychelles are saddled with almost overwhelming energy problems. As the oil crisis worsens, the Seychelles are being forced into a transition away from hydrocarbons, to a greater reliance on indigenous energy supplies. This article describes the efforts made so far to deal with their energy crisis.
4312777|If a nuclear war occurs, serious atmospheric consequences will result from the production of large amounts of particulate matter due to the many fires that will start in cities, industry, and particularly in forests, agricultural fields, and oil and gas fields. We estimate that for most of the Northern Hemisphere the average intensity of sunlight reaching the surface of the earth would be reduced by a large factor as a result of light absorption by particles in the submicron diameter size range, and this darkness would persist for as long as the fires burn, which is expected to be many weeks. The screening of sunlight by the fire-produced aerosol over extended periods during the growing season would eliminate much of the food production in the Northern Hemisphere. Marine ecosystems may be particularly sensitive to the loss of sunlight that would result. The fires would also inject large quantities of oxides of nitrogen and reactive hydrocarbons into the atmosphere, creating the potential for a severe photo-chemical smog situation throughout much of the Northern Hemisphere. The production of strong oxidants such as ozone and per-oxyacetylnitrate (PAN) as the aerosol is removed from the atmosphere would also negatively influence food production throughout the Northern Hemisphere during the first year following the war.
41417320|A 30-year series (1978-2007) of photographic records were analysed to determine changes in lake ice cover, local (low elevation) and montane (high elevation) snow cover and phenological stages of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii) at the Abisko Scientific Research Station, Sweden. In most cases, the photographic-derived data showed no significant difference in phenophase score from manually observed field records from the same period, demonstrating the accuracy and potential of using weekly repeat photography as a quicker, cheaper and more adaptable tool to remotely study phenology in both biological and physical systems. Overall, increases in ambient temperatures coupled with decreases in winter ice and snow cover, and earlier occurrence of birch foliage, signal a reduction in the length of winter, a shift towards earlier springs and an increase in the length of available growing season in the Swedish sub-arctic.
40390422|Plants in Nordic regions can be more ozone sensitive at a given ozone concentration than plants at lower latitudes. A recent study shows that the Nordic summer photoperiod, particularly the dim nighttime light, can increase visible foliar injury and alter leaf transpiration in subterranean clover. Effects of photoperiod on the ozone sensitivity of white and red clover cultivars adapted to Nordic conditions were investigated. Although ozone induced visible foliar injury and leaf transpirational changes in white clover, the effects were independent of photoperiod. In red clover, ozone combined with a long photoperiod with dim nights (8 nights) induced more severe visible injuries than with a short photoperiod. Furthermore, transpirational changes in red clover depended on photoperiod. Thus, a long photoperiod can increase ozone sensitivity differently in clover cultivars with different degrees of adaptation to northern conditions, suggesting that ozone indices used in risk analysis should take this effect into account.
4315820|We are using the coupled models in a decision support system, Nest, to evaluate the response of the marine ecosystem to changes in external loads through various management options. The models address all the seven major marine basins and the entire drainage basin of the Baltic Sea. A series of future scenarios have been developed, in close collaboration with the Helsinki Commission, to see the possible effects of improved wastewater treatment and manure handling, phosphorus-free detergents, and less intensive land use and live stocks. Improved wastewater treatment and the use of phosphorus-free detergents in the entire region would drastically decrease phosphorus loads and improve the marine environment, particularly the occurrence of cyanobacterial blooms. However, the Baltic Sea will remain eutrophic, and to reduce other effects, a substantial reduction of nitrogen emissions must be implemented. This can only be obtained in these scenarios by drastically changing land use. In a final scenario, we have turned 50% of all agricultural lands into grasslands, together with efficient wastewater treatments and a ban of phosphorus in detergents. This scenario will substantially reduce primary production and the extension of hypoxic bottoms, increase water transparency in the most eutrophied basins, and virtually eliminate extensive cyanobacterial blooms.
4315568|The pattern for distribution of genetic variation within and between populations is referred to as the genetic population structure of the species. To avoid depletion of genetic resources sustainable management should be based on knowledge of this structure. We discuss key aspects of genetic population structure in the context of identifying biological units for fisheries management, suggesting three basic types of structuring: distinct populations; continuous change; and no differentiation. The type of structure determines how units for genetically sustainable management are to be identified. We also review what is currently known regarding the genetic population structure of fishes exploited in the Swedish part of the Baltic Sea, and conclude that sufficient genetic information is lacking for most of the species. This is a serious problem, particularly considering that populations of several commercially exploited fishes are declining and some exhibit recruitment problems. For six species, Atlantic herring, Atlantic salmon, brown trout, European eel, turbot, and pike, sufficient genetic data are available to provide at least basic information on genetic structure and genetic units for biologically sustainable use. Current management practices do not sufficiently consider these data.
4314617|The concept of comprehensiveness embedded in the climate convention is discussed with attention to political and scientific considerations that need to be taken into account for this approach to serve as a tool for enhancing the effectiveness of a climate regime. The manners in which the approach may serve as an instrument for facilitating negotiation and implementation of a climate regime are discussed, and an operational definition is suggested. A key question with regard to the employment of a comprehensive approach in climate politics concerns how well methodologies for comparing gases perform. This question is discussed with regard to Global Warming Potentials (GWPs). When the most important greenhouse gases are concerned, we suggest that in the absence of better alternatives, the use of GWPs may serve as a preliminary tool for policy making until better methods are developed. It is emphasized that the choice of time horizon has significant ecological and political implications that should be taken into account.
4314928| Spatial and temporal changes in South African solar UV-B (280-315 nm) exposure were modeled and mapped at 2.5 km
4314789| A forest soil survey was performed at 180 sites in the county of Vrmland in mid-western Sweden. The survey included field observations, the total composition of the soil, the composition of the exchangeable pool and the soil solution at four depths. The southwestern part of Vrmland was affected by soil acidification while no indications of soil acidification were found in the north. Evaluation of the data with principal component analysis (PCA) showed that the dominating variables, giving the same spatial distribution as the atmospheric deposition, were those of the soil solution composition and especially the concentration of total Al, inorganic Al and pH in the B-horizon. The composition of the exchangeable pool was less indicative of acidification. Sampling of soil solution in large surveys is possible by the centrifuge drainage technique. 
4315036|Effects of inputs of organic matter were studied on bioavailability and cycling of hydrophobic organic contaminants (HOCs) in benthic ecosystems of the Baltic and Kattegat Seas. In laboratory experiments, effects of microalgae additions were studied on the bioaccumulation of HOCs (PCBs and PAHs) by the blue mussel Mytilus edulis, the brittle star Amphiura filiformis, and the polychaete Nereis diversicolor. Contrary to the equilibrium partitioning theory, bioaccumulation was proportional to the concentrations of algae and organic carbon. This was attributed to the high nutritional quality of the algal organic carbon and suggests that feeding rather than equilibrium partitioning governed bioaccumulation in these species. In the field, annual mass fluxes of PCBs in blue mussels and in brittle stars were estimated, as well as contaminant transfer to higher trophic levels. Our results suggest that: i) Eutrophication processes may contribute to increase HOC accumulation in benthic species. ii) Temporal variation in the quantity and quality of organic carbon needs to be considered when assessing contamination of benthic systems. iii) Macrofaunal feeding activities are important for the benthic-pelagic coupling of HOCs. iv) Bioturbation enhances the release of HOCs from sediment to overlying water.
4312060|The growth of global ecological demand is created both by the population explosion in poor nations, and by the standard-of-living explosion in rich ones. This demand must be met by a supply of new resources, technology, social institutions, and changes in human value systems, if we want to avoid violent solutions. It is uncertain if this complicated equation can be solved in the future. This uncertainty should lead to a "mutual growth moratorium" in both population and material living standards.
4314446|The economic value of fodder and fuelwood is quantified for forests in the villages of Nepal, revealing that fodder and fuelwood are about 90% of the economic value of broadleaf forests. Branches, leaves, and grass account for about one-half of the value of multiple-use forestry. By maximizing the value of the sum of timber, fodder, and fuelwood, multiple-use forestry can outperform nonirrigated agriculture. Further, managing forests for a diversity of products would help alleviate at least some of the land-use conflicts in the villages in this region.
41418328|Changes in the Arctic's climate are a result of complex interactions between the cryosphere, atmosphere, ocean, and biosphere. More feedbacks from the cryosphere to climate warming are positive and result in further warming than are negative, resulting in a reduced rate of warming or cooling. Feedbacks operate at different spatial scales; many, such as those operating through albedo and evapotranspiration, will have significant local effects that together could result in global impacts. Some processes, such as changes in carbon dioxide (CO) emissions, are likely to have very small global effects but uncertainty is high whereas others, such as subsea methane (CH) emissions, could have large global effects. Some cryospheric processes in the Arctic have teleconnections with other regions and major changes in the cryosphere have been largely a result of large-scale processes, particularly atmospheric and oceanic circulation. With continued climate warming it is highly likely that the cryospheric components will play an increasingly important climatic role. However, the net effect of all the feedbacks is difficult to assess because of the variability in spatial and temporal scales over which they operate. Furthermore, general circulation models (GCMs) do not include all major feedbacks while those included may not be accurately parameterized. The lack of full coupling between surface dynamics and the atmosphere is a major gap in current GCMs.
4315301|This article reviews the governance and management of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs), and the coral reefs they contain, in the eastern African Region. This includes the Comoros, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mozambique, Tanzania, and the Seychelles. Three generations or categories of MPAs are distinguished: i) small areas for protection of a single species or unique marine habitat; ii) large multiple use MPAs designed for coastal development as well as biodiversity protection; and iii) MPAs managed by a nongovernmental organization (NGO) or the private sector. Each of these MPA types is examined according to the policies, legislation, and management systems they entail as well as the economic and community situation they operate within. The paper also provides a review of some eastern African MPAs in terms of their size and location, the type of MPA, zonation schemes, and financial status. The successes of the different types of MPAs are discussed based on specific indicators, such as changes in biodiversity, infrastructure, compliance to regulations and the level of involvement of primary stakeholders in the management. From the review it is clear that a fourth generation of MPAs may be forthcoming; community based MPAs. Although lack of data makes it difficult to assess the effectiveness of these different categories of MPAs, it is clear that no MPA can succeed without support of the local communities. Generally, the results of the analysis are promising for MPAs, however a lack of data is hampering a deeper analysis. The major issues facing MPAs in the region are highlighted, as well as some regional initiatives striving to address these issues. A number of recommendations are made, aiming to strengthen the establishment and management of MPAs in the eastern African region.
4312813|Modern civilization requires explicit means of conserving natural lands in order to bring benefits to mankind. One of the best means is through the establishment of protected areas, an effort that has matured over the past 110 years. This article shows how organizations in different parts of the world vary in their response to the need to establish and manage protected areas: provides a status report on the extent to which the international protected area network is covering natural ecosystems: suggests priorities for further action; describes a system which is monitoring the protected areas of the world; and outlines how protected areas can adapt to the even greater challenges that are sure to come.
4312370|Low birth weight (LBW) is suggested as an indicator of social development. An estimated 22 million babies are born each year with LBW; the majority of them in developing countries. Factors influencing or associated with LBW, such as reproductive patterns, quantity and quality of pre-natal care, socio-economic level, malnutrition and infections are discussed. The primary health care approach, supported by appropriate technology, will be needed for effective action in reducing LBW.
41417334|Over the past century, the total material wealth of humanity has been enhanced. However, in the twentyfirst century, we face scarcity in critical resources, the degradation of ecosystem services, and the erosion of the planet's capability to absorb our wastes. Equity issues remain stubbornly difficult to solve. This situation is novel in its speed, its global scale and its threat to the resilience of the Earth System. The advent of the Anthropence, the time interval in which human activities now rival global geophysical processes, suggests that we need to fundamentally alter our relationship with the planet we inhabit. Many approaches could be adopted, ranging from geoengineering solutions that purposefully manipulate parts of the Earth System to becoming active stewards of our own life support system. The Anthropocene is a reminder that the Holocene, during which complex human societies have developed, has been a stable, accommodating environment and is the only state of the Earth System that we know for sure can support contemporary society. The need to achieve effective planetary stewardship is urgent. As we go further into the Anthropocene, we risk driving the Earth System onto a trajectory toward more hostile states from which we cannot easily return.
4315168|The middle reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo, the Lhasa, and the Nianchu rivers form the center of politics, economy, and culture in the Tibetan Autonomous Region. Due to the fragility of the natural environment and overexploitation of land by the local people, desertification is becoming a serious problem in the valleys. Shifting sands cover an area of
41417245|We studied the effect of various factors on body size variation of the Eurasian lynx in Norway, using data from 374 lynx collected between 1960 and 1976 and whose locality of capture, year of birth, sex, and age were known. Body size of lynx in Norway was mainly affected by sex and age. Female skull size (and by implication body size) was also positively affected by the availability of its main prey (roe deer) and by latitude, and negatively by the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). Male size was not affected by any of the environmental factors examined. We interpret the effects of NAO and latitude on body size through their effect on the local climate and particularly snow conditions. We suggest that females are more sensitive to environmental factors than males.
4314367|The mining of live corals for use as construction material is cited as a major cause of reef degradation in a number of tropical coastal nations. At Mafia Island, Tanzania, the biological effects of mining on the reef benthos and associated fish communities were examined using SCUBA visual census techniques. Live coral cover on a mined site was found to be one third of that found on the unmined site. On the mined site, fish abundance and diversity was found to be 42% and 24% lower, respectively, compared with the unmined site. The loss of reef breakwaters through mining has led to the loss of shoreline and mangrove forest through increased erosion rates. By contrast the people of Mafia depend upon coral mining for cheap housing material and a significant proportion of their income. Tourism is seen as a future source of income for the area, however, this activity is dependent upon relatively undamaged reefs. The management strategies proposed and tested for the Maldives and Sri Lanka are examined in the context of the Mafia Island situation and the recommended management strategy and successes to date are presented.
41417277|Global warming and the stronger regional temperature trends recently recorded over the European Alps have triggered several biological and physical dynamics in high-altitude environments. We defined the present treeline altitude in three valleys of a region in the western Italian Alps and reconstructed the past treeline position for the last three centuries in a nearly undisturbed site by means of a dendrochronological approach. We found that the treeline altitude in this region is mainly controlled by human impacts and geomorphological factors. The reconstruction of the altitudinal dynamics at the study site reveals that the treeline shifted upwards of 115 m over the period 1901-2000, reaching the altitude of 2505 m in 2000 and 2515 m in 2008. The recent treeline shift and the acceleration of tree colonization rates in the alpine belt can be mainly ascribed to the climatic input. However, we point out the increasing role of geomorphological factors in controlling the future treeline position and colonization patterns in high mountains.
4314786| Estuaries and coastal streams are important reproduction areas for freshwater fish in the Baltic. In Finland, fish stocks spawning in the River Kyrnjoki have been monitored since the 1970s, and the development of the commercial catch in this area has been monitored since the 1960s. A substantial part of the river catchment area consists of sulfur-rich soils. Over the years, intensive land use, together with water engineering work, has led to episodical acidification of both the river and its estuary. This has caused the loss of fish reproduction areas which, in turn, has changed the local fish stocks and the coastal fishery. As the local spring spawning fish stocks diminished, fishing focused on passing migratory whitefish, whose reproduction and in some cases growth areas are elsewhere. The fishery for human consumption, which earlier harvested several species in the vicinity of the home harbor throughout the season, became dependent on one species only. The change in the fish community has affected the entire structure of the local fishery, which is reflected in market statistics and catch estimates. 
4315624|Today there is a strong trend in Sweden for industrially processed meals to replace homemade meals. In the public debate this is often claimed to increase the environmental impact from foods. In the study presented in this article, we used life-cycle assessment to quantify the environmental impact of three meals: homemade, semiprepared, and ready-to-eat. The differences in environmental impact between the meals were small; the ready-to-eat meal used the most energy, whereas the homemade meal had higher emissions causing eutrophication and global warming. The dominating contributor to the environmental impact was agriculture, accounting for 30% of the impact related to energy and 95% of that related to eutrophication. Industry, packaging, and consumer home transport and food preparation also contributed significantly. Important factors were raw material use, energy efficiency in industry and households, packaging, and residue treatment. To decrease the overall environmental impact of food consumption, improvements in agriculture are very important, together with raw-material use within industry and households.
40928413|This study targets plantation forestry by farm households (small holders), which is increasing globally and most rapidly in China and Vietnam. By use of an interdisciplinary approach on three study sites in Vietnam, we examined the trends in farmers' tree planting over time, the various pre-requisites for farm-based plantation forestry and its impact on rural people's livelihood strategies, socioeconomic status, income and security. The findings indicated a change from subsistence to cash-based household economy, diversification of farmers' incomes and a transformation of the landscape from mainly natural forests, via deforestation and shifting cultivation, to a landscape dominated by farm-based plantations. The trend of transformation, over a period of some 30 years, towards cash crops and forestry was induced by a combination of policy, market, institutional, infrastructural and other conditions and the existence of professional farming communities, and was most rapid close to the industrial market.
4314035|Sediment samples from the Baltic basin were analyzed for PCDD/Fs, alkyl-CDFs, chloroguaiacols and EOCI. The EOCI distribution pattern in the Iggesund pulp mill area shows high sediment concentrations close to the mill, and decreasing concentrations with increasing distance from the mill. Two series of alkyl-CDFs have been identified. The PCDD/Fs in offshore surficial sediments from the Baltic Proper show a typical incineration pattern, while sediments collected in the vicinity of the mill show enhanced levels of 2,3,7,8-tetraCDD, 2,3,7,8- and 1,2,7,8-tetraCDF, and 1,2,3,7,8-pentaCDD. These PCDD/F congeners are statistically correlated to di-, tri-, and tetrachloroguaiacols, alkyl-CDFs, EOCI, and to the distance from the pulp mill, indicating the same source and transportation regime. Principal component analysis of the data set supports this conclusion. The three 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-substituted PCDD/F congeners have formerly been found in high concentrations in sediments and crab hepatopancreas close to a pulp mill on the Swedish west coast. Our results from a pulp mill on the Swedish east coast support the conclusion that these congeners are typically associated with pulp bleaching. Deep layer sediments have significantly lower levels of PCDD/Fs. The isomer profiles are different in the surficial and the deep sediments, indicating a more natural preindustrial production of PCDD/Fs.
4315095|Concentrations of Sb, Hg, Bi, Cd, Mo, As, Co, Ni, Cr, Cu, V, Pb and Zn in surface and preindustrial sediments from 210 lakes in Norway were used for studying modern atmospheric depositions of these elements. Surface sediments had considerably higher concentrations of Sb, Hg, Bi, Cd, As, Pb than preindustrial sediments. The differences decreased with latitude and altitude. A multivariate analysis including the trace elements and the major constituents (organic matter, Si, Al, Fe and Mn) of surface sediments suggested the following relationships: Sb, Hg, Bi, As, and Pb formed a group with strong associations to organic matter. Ni, Cr and Cu formed a second group, weakly associated to the inorganic sediment fraction (Si and Al). Zn and Cd formed a third group with weak associations to organic matter. Co were associated to Mn, whereas Mo and V showed no important covariations with any other trace elements or major components.
4314531|On a European scale, the critical load concept has been generally accepted as the basis for abatement strategies to reduce or prevent damage to the functioning and vitality of forest ecosystems caused by transboundary acidic deposition. The aim of this paper is to review the scientific background and assumptions of the simple steady-state critical load model. The current use and validity of the base cation/aluminum ratio as the chemical criterion is discussed and the lack of well defined biological criteria is highlighted. Ground-layer plant species, as more sensitive indicators of acidic deposition, mycorrhizal fungi and soil animals should be considered. In particular, there is need for a more dynamic approach which takes into account the temporal and spatial variability of ecosystems, rhizosphere complexity and the functional relationships between soil organisms.
4315137|The biogeographical peculiarities of the Baltic Sea have developed since the last glacial period. The characteristic mixture of marine, brackish water, and freshwater species, and relicts from previous periods in the Baltic, is threatened by ongoing environmental changes. This review focuses on the recent impacts of nonindigenous species, eutrophication, and a temporary oxygen deficit in the deep basins, on the biogeographical integrity of the Baltic on different spatial and time scales. Today the biota of brackish waterbodies are exposed to each other because of the breakdown in geographical barriers due to shipping traffic, leading to an exchange of species and further homogenization of aquatic animal and plant life worldwide.
4313869|This paper presents an analysis of the isotopic composition of monthly rainwater samples collected at two sampling stations in the Amazon Basin over a period of 20 years. The results of this analysis not only reconfirmed the importance of evapotranspiration in water recycling but also pointed to the important role of direct evaporation from open water bodies and the forest canopy. Preliminary interpretations suggest that during the rainy season evapotranspiration is the primary source of water cycling from the land to the atmosphere, while during the dry season evaporation becomes an important source.
4312657|The Intergrated Project on Arid Lands (IPAL) is designed to provide a better scientific basis for managing arid zone ecosystems in northern Kenya, where there is a trend towards increased sedentarization of pastoralists. Baseline data have been obtained on climate, soils, water, vegetation, wildlife, domestic animals and human populations. Aerial surveys reveal that about 20 percent of the lowland portion of the IPAL study area has a carrying capacity which has been exceeded by small stock and camels alone. These high stocking rates occur near settlements and water. Meanwhile, some 40 percent of the study area is unused, due to fears of inter-tribal raiding.
4313061|The islands and coastal waters of the South Pacific region are the focus of environmental concern. Principal problems include waste disposal, water pollution and shortages, soil, forest and fisheries management, inefficient land use, and endangered species. Many countries also suffer from toxic chemicals, sand mining, and poor housing and sanitation. Locally serious environmental problems include coastal erosion, mining and industrial pollution. Radioactivity is a concern for political and moral reasons. It is difficult to achieve sustainable use and management of limited island resources in the face of human pressures.
4315552|The ongoing program Clean Air for Europe (CAFE) is an initiative from the EU Commission to establish a coordinated effort to reach better air quality in the EU. The focus is on particulate matter as it has been shown to have large impact on human health. CAFE requested that WHO make a review of the latest findings on air pollutants and health to facilitate assessments of the different air pollutants and their health effects. The WHO review project on health aspects of air pollution in Europe confirmed that exposure to particulate matter (PM), despite the lower levels we face today, still poses a significant risk to human health. Using the recommended uniform risk coefficients for health impact assessment of PM, regardless of sources, premature mortality related to long-range transported anthropogenic particles has been estimated to be about 3500 deaths per year for the Swedish population, corresponding to a reduction in life expectancy of up to about seven months. The influence of local sources is more difficult to estimate due to large uncertainties when linking available risk coefficients to exposure data, but the estimates indicate about 1800 deaths brought forward each year with a life expectancy reduction of about 2-3 months. However, some sectors of the population are exposed to quite high locally induced concentrations and are likely to suffer excessive reductions in life expectancy. Since the literature increasingly supports assumptions that combustion related particles are associated with higher relative risks, further studies may shift the focus for abatement strategies. CAFE sets out to establish a general cost effective abatement strategy for atmospheric particles. Our results, based on studies of background exposure, show that long-range transported sulfate rich particles dominate the health effects of PM in Sweden. The same results would be found for the whole of Scandinavia and many countries influenced by transboundary air pollution. However, several health studies, including epidemiological studies with a finer spatial resolution, indicate that engine exhaust particles are more damaging to health than other particles. These contradictory findings must be understood and source specific risk estimates have to be established by expert bodies, otherwise it will not be possible to find the most cost effective abatement strategy for Europe. We are not happy with today's situation where every strategy to reduce PM concentrations is estimated to have the same impact per unit change in the mass concentration. Obviously there is a striking need to introduce more specific exposure variables and a higher geographical resolution in epidemiology as well as in health impact assessments.
4314606|An intensive study on N inputs and losses has been carried out in six sub-catchments and the main catchment of the river Auli
4315651|In southern Sweden, wetlands are constructed to remove nitrogen (N) in agricultural catchments. The possible effects of such wetlands on riverine phosphorus (P) were also estimated using input-output data from three well-monitored wetlands. This was done to formulate a simple model for removal of P that is dependent on inflow characteristics. Next, the N- and P-reducing effects of wetlands were modeled on a catchment scale (1900 km
4315368|In small temperate lakes, predation by fish generally regulates the species structure and abundance of larval Chaoborus. Yet, Chaoborus abundance may also vary appreciably among lakes with no fish. Many fishless lakes in Sudbury, Ontario, have transparent waters. This raises the possibility that low abundance of Chaoborus in such lakes may be attributable to UVR-induced mortality. To determine whether UVR affects Chaoborus survival, we performed 6 in situ experiments over 2 to 4 day periods at 4 depths in Ruth-Roy Lake (a clear fishless lake with few Chaoborus). Third and fourth instar C. punctipennis were randomly allocated to 3 treatments: quartz (UVR+PAR), OP3 acrylite (PAR only) and dark controls. Survival under UVR+PAR was significantly reduced in comparison with the other treatments. Survival under PAR only was high, and did not differ from the dark controls. Time to death increased with incubation depth and larval stage. These results suggest that the small Chaoborus population in Ruth-Roy Lake, and perhaps in other fishless, clear lakes may be attributed to UVR-induced mortality.
4314910|This paper develops climate-response functions for sensitive market sectors in the United States' economy using two empirical methods. The experimental approach constructs a process-based impact model from the results of controlled experiments. Reduced-form equations can be estimated from the model responses to multiple climate scenarios. The cross-sectional approach estimates response functions directly from empirical evidence in the field. Both methods indicate that agriculture, forestry, and energy have a hill-shaped relationship to temperature. Precipitation, sea-level rise, and carbon dioxide are also important.
4314090|The pelagial communities of lakes undergo dramatic changes during the course of acidification and all major groups of organisms; algae, rotifers and crustaceans showing a reduction in number of species. Calanoid copepods, Eudiaptomus gracilis in particular, increase in relative importance, cladocerans become less important, and daphnids are lost. The decrease in diversity in the plankton community is more apparent in clear-water lakes than in humic lakes. Invertebrate zooplanktivores, especially, increase in importance after the loss of fish species. The increase in concentration of hydrogen ion and metals have had a direct impact on reproduction and survival of both algae and invertebrates. Indirect effects contributing to reduced diversity are altered species structure via predatory and competitive changes, and impact on pathways and rates for nutrient cycling.
4313039|By analyses based on information in scientific literature, population trends in five Swedish raptors are examined and related to the introduction and subsequent ban of alkyl-mercury and DDT. There was a time lag of about ten years from the introduction of mercury until an asymptotic concentration level in the raptors was reached. In four out of five species, the populations declined after 1950, which indicates a time lag reaction from the introduction of pesticides during the 1940's. Only one of these five species has recovered since the ban of mercury and DDT.
4315753|Various types of ecosystem-based climate proxies have been used to assess past arctic change. Although lotic records are relatively poor because of the constant reworking of riverine material, high-quality lentic data have been assembled back to the end of the Pleistocene and deglaciation of the circumpolar Arctic. In general, climatic variations in the Holocene, partly due to changes in the shrinking effect of glacier coverage, produced significant temporal and spatial variations in arctic hydrology and freshwater ecosystems. Of particular note, were the major expansions of northern peatlands during major protracted periods of wetting. More recent lake biota and sedimentiological data reflect the general warming trend that has occurred over the last one to two centuries and indicate major changes to freshwater characteristics such as ice-cover duration and thermal stratification. Such data provide an excellent baseline against which future effects of climate change can be both projected and measured.
25547934|This paper reports on research conducted to elucidate the risk posed to the Sicilian population of the endangered lanner falcon Falcon biarmicus feldeggii Schlegel by organochlorine (OC) pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), as part of a wider study on contaminant risk to the lanner. Seventeen lanner nest sites were studied in northern and central Sicily. Sampling (in 2005) and analysis were carried out for selected OC pesticides and PCB congeners in lanner chick blood (15 chicks from 6 nest sites) and in two of the main lanner prey species, magpie Pica pica (36 individuals from 6 lanner nest sites) and rock dove Columba livia (10 individuals from 2 lanner nest sites). No OC and PCB residues were found in lanner chick blood above the detection limits, except for one solitary congener PCB153 (21.8 ng g wet weight), suggesting that these contaminants do not pose a significant risk to lanner chicks in the study area. Magpie and dove appeared mostly free of contamination with OC pesticides, though contamination levels were significantly higher in magpie than in dove. The presence of exceptional DDE and HEOD values in 8% of the P. pica sample, and one P. pica sample showing recent DDT contamination, may indicate a local OC pesticide hazard to some lanner. Future research to further elucidate the contaminant risk to lanner in Sicily is suggested.
4313397|Deforestation in Jamaica, according to the United Nations (FAO/UNEP) and other sources, is occurring at an annual rate of about three percent. This is accepted by some Jamaican government agencies, but strongly disputed by others. The Ministry of Agriculture, in particular, claims that the national forested area is actually increasing rapidly. A survey of humid tropical forests in Jamaica, carried out by the author in 1986, indicates a 3.3 percent per annum rate of deforestation for 1980-1986. But, despite significant commercial lumber production, large clear fellings are rare and most modification of the forest is due to expansion of small-scale farming (including Cannabis sativa) and pastoral activity. The size of area cleared is most often 20 to 25 hectares. As uncontrolled deforestation is adversely affecting watersheds and inducing serious flooding, some form of control and management is urgently required.
4314335|This paper describes features of terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity in Papua New Guinea, current efforts at local, national and international levels to conserve species-rich areas and the socioeconomic and cultural constraints and conflicts behind those efforts. Undocumented customary land tenure, resource development and environmental degradation and the growth in human populations and their aspirations are identified as issues requiring specific solutions. Education, financial support for conservation initiatives and poor information transfer from gatherers to decision-makers are impediments to achieving ecological sustainability. Conflict resolution lies in the design of conservation measures specifically appropriate to PNG. Compromise is required between the advantages of coordination at the national level (top-down) and those gained through initiatives stimulated through dialogue with stakeholders (bottom-up). Education (both formal and informal) and the dissemination of relevant information are regarded as keystones in conservation efforts. Conservation agencies should prepare sustainable development plans for areas regarded as worthy of conservation and incorporate the biological merits, social impacts and sustainable economic potential of selected areas.
4314904|A large-scale hydrologic model of macroscale dimension for total daily runoff to the Baltic Sea has been developed using 25 subbasins ranging from 21 000 to 144 000 km
4315470|Social pressure on alluvial plains and deltas is large, both from an economic point of view and from a nature conservation point of view. Gradually, flood risks increase with economic development, because the expected damage increases, and with higher dikes, because the flooding depth increases. Global change, changing social desires, but also changing views, require a revision of flood-risk management strategies for the long term. These should be based on resilience as opposed to the resistence strategy of heightening dikes. Resilience strategies for flood-risk management imply that the river is allowed to temporarily flood large areas, whereas the flood damage is minimized by adapting land use. Such strategies are thus based on risk management and 'living with floods' instead of on hazard control. For The Netherlands, one of the most densely populated deltas in the world, alternative resilience strategies have been elaborated and assessed for their hydraulic functioning and 'sustainability criteria'.
4313915| Five sets of 18 to 25 flounders each (Platichthys flesus) were collected in four locations in French coastal waters, near the Gironde, Loire and Seine estuaries and western Normandy. Concentrations of metals (Cd, Cu, Pb, Zn, total Hg and CH
4313635|The sustainability of agricultural development has long been neglected due to short-term perspectives and the striking productivity of the green revolution. This is the case even concerning the supply of nutrients. Heavy usage of chemical fertilizers involves large amounts of nonrenewable energy resources for production, as well as for the operation of distribution systems. These aspects have been studied with an interdisciplinary approach involving the documentation of practices and perspectives of local farmers. Special emphasis has been placed on paddy-rice cultivation carried out in five villages with low-resource agriculture in the Dry Zone of Sri Lanka.
4315006|Energy consumption in the various stages of the food chain, provides a reasonable indicator for the environmental impact in the production of food. This paper provides specific information on the energy requirement for the main alternatives in each production stage, which should allow the identification of improvement options. One observation is that there seems to be a remarkable relationship between energy requirement throughout the production chain and market value. Products with a high added (emotional) value, e.g. wine, season fruits, and coffee, deviate from the abovementioned relationship. However, that deviation may be overcome when the emotional value is included in the functional unit of the food product. It is concluded that there seems to be no systematic environmental benefit for home-made over industrially produced food. For all food categories, there is a wide variety in energy requirement due to three major factors. viz. season of consumption (fresh versus import and glasshouse production), scale of preparation (home-made and industrial scale) and consumer preference (meat versus vegetable food).
4313371|RAINS (Regional Acidification INformation and Simulation) is an integrated model of acidification in Europe designed as a tool for evaluating control strategies. It is currently sulfur-based, but is being expanded to include nitrogen species. Emphasis of the model is on the transboundary aspects of the acidification problem. Model computations are performed on a personal computer. Linked submodels are available for SO
4315728|We analyze the role of urban green areas managed by local user groups in their potential for supporting biodiversity and ecosystem services in growing city-regions, with focus on allotment areas, domestic gardens, and golf courses. Using Stockholm, Sweden, as an example city-region, we compile GIS data of its spatial characteristics and relate these data to GIS data for protected areas and "green wedges" prioritized in biodiversity conservation. Results reveal that the three land uses cover 18% of the studied land area of metropolitan Stockholm, which corresponds to more than twice the land set aside as protected areas. We review the literature to identify ecosystem functions and services provided by the three green areas and discuss their potential in urban ecosystem management. We conclude that the incorporation of locally managed lands, and their stewards and institutions, into comanagement designs holds potential for improving conditions for urban biodiversity, reducing transaction costs in ecosystem management, and realizing local Agenda 21.
4311958|The working conditions of the majority of the population have, in the current swell of interest in the environment, been neglected in an almost discouraging way, in spite of the fact that most environmental "poisons" are found inside factories and workshops in much higher concentrations than in the "outer" environment. The chemical revolution has worsened this situation. Furthermore, many dangers in the working environment can only be averted by changing to alternative technological methods. The problems must be attacked at the sources, i.e. inside the industries, in such a way that both the workers and the "outer" environment are protected. These matters are dealt with in the reports of the Royal Swedish Environment Control Committee (published May 1972, SOU 1972: 31).
24708990|Droughts often pose situations where stream water levels are lowest while human demand for water is highest. Here we present results of an observational study documenting changes in freshwater mussel communities in two southern US rivers during a multi-year drought. During a 13-year period water releases into the Kiamichi River from an impoundment were halted during droughts, while minimum releases from an impoundment were maintained in the Little River. The Kiamichi observed nearly twice as many low-flow events known to cause mussel mortality than the Little, and regression tree analyses suggest that this difference was influenced by reduced releases. During this period mussel communities in the Kiamichi declined in species richness and abundance, changes that were not observed in the Little. These results suggest that reduced releases during droughts likely led to mussel declines in one river, while maintaining reservoir releases may have sustained mussel populations in another.
4314493|Attempts to reverse surface water acidification over large areas of Europe and North America require major reductions in the emission of sulfur dioxide from fossil-fuel combustion plants. The second sulfur protocol recently signed in Oslo (June 1994) is based on a "critical loads" approach(1) to emission reduction. In this approach sulfur dioxide reductions are calculated according to the need to reduce acid deposition at sensitive acidified sites to below a threshold, or critical load, where ecological "damage" should not occur (1, 2). Using our large dataset of inferred acidification profiles from dated lake sediment cores throughout the UK (3-5), we have developed an empirical model based on a dose-response function that can be used to set critical load values for a site from a knowledge of the ratio of Ca
25547857|Numerous technologies have been proposed as partial solutions to our declining fossil energy stocks. There is a significant need for consistent metrics to compare the desirability of different technologies. The ratio of energy produced to energy consumed by an energy production technology-known as the energy return on investment (EROI)-is an important first indicator of the potential benefits to society. However, EROI analysis lacks a consistent framework and has therefore yielded apparently conflicting results. In this article, we establish a theoretical framework for EROI analysis that encompasses the various methodologies extant in the literature. We establish variations of EROI analysis in two different dimensions based on the costs they include and their handling of nonenergy resources. We close by showing the implications of the different measures of EROI upon estimating the desirability of a technology as well as for estimating its ultimate net energy capacity.
4312955|This article discusses in detail the causes and effects of massive soil erosion on Madagascar. The problem is both man-made and natural. Poor land management and slash and burn agricultural practices have made much of the interior of the country erosion-prone. To make matters worse, during the wet season the country is plagued by tropical cyclones which wash away tremendous amounts of soil. The Government has instituted soil conservation projects, educational programs, re-settlement schemes and tough legislation, but much more needs to be done, before the problems are brought under control.
4313632|Two mutually supporting initiatives have arisen under the auspices of the Canada-United States International Joint Commission (IJC) in the context of the evolution of Great Lakes Water Quality Agreements: an ecosystem approach to resolving problems; and the development of comprehensive remedial-action-plans to restore 42 degraded areas (i.e., Great Lakes Areas of Concern). The ecosystem approach is a deceptively simple idea of taking account of the interrelationships among water, land, air, and all living things, including people; and involving all user groups in management. The remedial action plan program represents the first opportunity, on a broad and practical scale, to implement an ecosystem approach in the Great Lakes basin. It is an experiment in setting up the institutional arrangements necessary to implement locally-designed ecosystem approaches to cleaning up Great Lakes Areas of Concern. The key to implementing an ecosystem approach is establishing a basin committee, stakeholders' group, citizens' advisory committee, or comparable group broadly representative of social, economic, and political interests in the affected area. Such groups provide an opportunity to change the traditional way of doing business by increasing the level of interaction. As is the case in all IJC activities, group members serve in their personal and professional capacities and not as representatives of agencies that employ them.
4314445|This paper describes how human activities have impacted the ecological state of a large subtropical lake, Lake Okeechobee, Florida, USA. Since the early 1900s, the lake has experienced alterations of its hydrology and morphology, and recently there has been an accelerated eutrophication. Total phosphorus concentrations have doubled; nitrogen:phosphorus ratios have declined by 50%; and lake sediments have accumulated a massive quantity of phosphorus. The biotic community has undergone changes that appear to be due to eutrophication: oligochaetes have become the dominant macrobenthos; cyanobacteria have replaced diatoms as the dominant phytoplankton; nitrogen limitation has increased in frequency; and nitrogen-fixation has become a major route of nitrogen input. There is evidence that the lake has reached a new ecological steady state, buffered against change by nutrient loading from the sediments. Shallow depth and wind-driven sediment resuspension contribute to this situation.
4314169|The interface between the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP) and discussions of policy alternatives for global environmental change has not yet been clearly articulated. As a possible framework for this needed debate, a natural scientist's view is presented of the different perspectives that appear to underlie conflicting agendas for mitigation, adaptation and response strategies. Based upon different ways individual humans respond to uncertainties in everyday life, these agendas have distinct but specific needs for scientific and technical information. IGBP can best serve decision makers by consciously catering to the highest priority requirements of each agenda, without attempting to pass judgement between them. The dialogue with social scientists and members of action groups necessary to clarify these information needs and expectations has barely begun. It can be anticipated that as this dialogue develops it will have a far reaching influence on the future formulation of IGBP.
4313275|The concentration of nitrate in North America's largest freshwater lake has quadrupled in this century, due to similar increase in the rate of nitrogen loading. Circumstantial evidence indicates that anthropogenic emissions of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere outside the lake drainage basin account for the increase. The nitrogen content of the lake is far below equilibrium values corresponding to the present loading rate, and therefore will continue to rise in future years even if the loading rate levels off. Values eventually attained may be of concern to human health.
4315849|This paper examines a community grazing project to rehabilitate degraded land in Swaziland. Using data from interviews, questionnaires, and focus groups, we show that the ways in which participatory, decentralized approaches to natural resource management play out at the local level are closely linked to national-level power structures. The successes and issues that emerge at different stages of the grazing project reflect local socioeconomic priorities and show how people manage their time and labor according to household livelihood goals. However, the project favored the interests of cattle owners who were already the more socially and politically powerful members of the community. We argue that for participatory natural resource management to be more meaningful to communities, projects should focus on local ecological priorities, rather than addressing the environmental concerns that are rooted within existing dominant power structures. This requires change to social and political relationships across levels and the building of new institutions.
4312822|Until the late 1950s human impact on the Antarctic continent stemmed from the challenge of exploration. The International Geophysical Year (1957-58) saw the beginning of a continuing program of scientific research, while territorial claims were frozen with the adoption by interested nations of the Antarctic Treaty which entered into force in 1961. The Treaty provides for Antarctica to be used only for peaceful purposes with concentration on scientific research and safeguards for conservation of its flora and fauna. Mineral resource exploration and possible extraction has become a recurring issue since the discovery of evidence of hydrocarbons. The effectiveness of the Treaty in preserving the Antarctic environment is assessed.
4314214|This paper reports a link between crown density of coniferous trees and natural factors in Norway. The findings are discussed in relation to monitoring of forest decline, potentially caused by air pollutants. Productivity class, tree age and average temperatures in April and July accounted for 43% of the variance in crown density of spruce (Picea abies). For crown color, productivity class, age and aspect of plot explained 11% of the variance. Variation in crown color and crown density in pine was low and results therefore more diffuse. By using these observations to stratify the sample plots, a higher frequency of plots with relatively low crown densities was found in the heaviest polluted region. Sample size was too small to verify a true regional pattern. To avoid confounding the effects of air pollutants with natural factors, a prior stratification of sample plots is needed particularly in relation to tree age and climate. An investigation of the spatial distribution of the relatively poorest forest within each strata can thus be used to identify patterns less biased by natural factors, and may aid in recognizing otherwise undefected effects of air pollutants on the forest ecosystem.
4313221|Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon is rapid, but varies greatly in different parts of the region. The pattern of growth in cleared areas depends on the size of the area to which a given deforestation estimate applies. Areas which include a large proportion of newly-arrived migrants show exponential deforestation. Clearing, which before 1980 was concentrated in the states forming the southern periphery of Amazonia, is spreading to new foci as a result of highway improvements.
4315380|Amazonian deforestation rates vary regionally, and ebb and flow according to macroeconomic policy and local social factors. We used remote sensing and field interviews to investigate deforestation patterns and drivers at a Peruvian frontier during 1986-1991, when rural credit and guaranteed markets were available; and 1991-1997, when structural adjustment measures were imposed. The highest rate of clearing (1.5% gross) was observed along roads during 1986-1991. Roadside deforestation slowed in 1991-1997 (0.7% gross) and extensive regrowth yielded a net increase in forest cover (0.5%). Deforestation along rivers was relatively constant. Riverside farms today retain more land in both crops and forest than do roadside farms where pasture and successional growth predominate. Long-term residents maintain more forest on their farms than do recent colonists, but proximity to urban markets is the strongest predictor of forest cover. Future credit programs must reflect spatial patterns of development and ecological vulnerability, and support the recuperation of fallow lands and secondary forest.
4313885|Differences exist between demographers and economists regarding the relationship between population and urban growth; and among economists about the consequences of urbanization in developing countries. Can the adoption of an ecological perspective help resolve these differences? This question is explored in the context of Pakistan, the ninth most populous country in the world and one experiencing a prolonged period of demographic increase, based on the findings of two national policy studies undertaken in the early and late 1980s.
4314645|Since 1950, Danish agriculture has increased its production, and has become very specialized and highly and consistenly productive both per unit area and per unit resource. The negative effects of agriculture are starting to weigh too heavily on the environment, e.g. fertilizer residues in water, pesticides in food and water, and resource use. In order to reduce the loss of nutrients and change the landscape to facilitate higher biodiversity, several national programs have been set up between 1980 and 1990. In 1987, the first Danish law to introduce organic farming was approved. Sustainable development has two sides, the well-being of human society, and that of the natural environment. A third component explicity includes succeeding generations. We conclude that the intentions of sustainable development are more easily formulated than the means by which they can be achieved. Our final conclusion is that radical change of direction in Danish agriculture is not apparent at present nor is such a change likely to happen quickly, even if desired, because of social and economic resistances.
4314363|The performance of economic instruments in resource management in developing countries is inadequately known. This paper contributes to filling this gap with a case study from Botswana's water-supply sector. It was found that economic instruments contribute towards better resource management, especially in terms of fund raising for the construction of new water-works, but that their impact on the actual resource use is less certain and that their performance can be significantly improved. The low per capita water consumption figure cannot be solely attributed to the high water price. The economic structure, poverty and inadequate access to water in remote areas also explain the low figure. It was found that the scope of economic instruments is limited because of the large "nonmarket" water sector, the ambiguity about property rights and low incomes. Economic instruments should be part of an instrument package, which includes regulations and consultation. Consultations were effective during the last drought period.
24708986|A number of recent studies have suggested that black carbon (BC), the light-absorbing fraction of soot, is next to CO2 one of the strongest contributors to the global climate change. BC heats the air, darkens the snow and ice surfaces and could contribute to the melting of Arctic ice, snowpacks, and glaciers. Although soot is the oldest known pollutant its importance in climate modification has only been recently recognized. In this article, we trace the historical developments over about three decades that changed the view of the role of BC in the environment, from a pollutant of marginal importance to one of the main climate change agents. We also discuss some of the reasons for the initial lack of interest in BC and the subsequent rigorous research activity on the role of aerosols in climate change.
25094555|Some three dozen biologists, resource managers, social scientists, and volunteers worked together between 1993 and 1996 to study the biological, socioeconomic, and managerial concerns of harvesting chanterelle (Cantharellus sp.) mushrooms on the Olympic Peninsula of Washington State in the Pacific Northwest. Highly variable productivity across different landscapes combined with low prices for mushrooms make harvesters wary of more regulations, higher permit fees, and contracts that restrict harvesting to those who pay the highest bid price for the right to pick certain areas. Public and private resource managers face decreasing budgets, necessitating permits and other fees to cover the actual costs of administering harvests; public land managers must also comply with existing laws that require charging those who use forests for commercial or recreational purposes. Vandalism to machinery and property, potential liability claims, and illegal waste dumping are forcing public and industrial forest landowners to gate their properties; this action limits access to forest lands by the general public and mushroom pickers who seek traditional and new harvest sites. Although harvesters and research volunteers come from diverse social and economic backgrounds, most are willing to help managers and scientists conduct long-term field studies. Key elements of successful cooperation are early front-end planning and information sharing by all parties, from initial project conception and establishment through data collection, analysis, synthesis, and reporting.
4312135|The types and rates of present water erosion/sedimentation were studied in catchments of two different environments in Tanzania: overgrazed, semi-arid plains and cultivated, sub-humid mountains. On overgrazed, semi-arid plains of Dodoma and Arusha districts, soil erosion by rain splash, sheet wash, and gullying caused very high rates of sedimentation in river reservoirs. Expected reservoir lives as short as 25 years were predicted on the basis of the surveys. The corresponding annual sediment yields of the catchments were 200-730
41417401|Climate change and sea level rise urge lowlying countries to draft adaption policies. In this context, we assessed whether, to what extent and when the Netherlands' current flood risk management policy may require a revision. By applying scenarios on climate change and socio-economic development and performing flood simulations, we established the past and future changes in flood probabilities, exposure and consequences until about 2050. We also questioned whether the present policy may be extended much longer, applying the concept of ' policy tipping points'. Climate change was found to cause a significant increase of flood risk, but less than economic development does. We also established that the current flood risk management policy in the Netherlands can be continued for centuries when the sea level rise rate does not exceed 1.5 m per century. However, we also conclude that the present policy may not be the most attractive strategy, as it has some obvious flaws.
24709002|Fishing capacity management policies have been traditionally implemented at national level with national targets for capacity reduction. More recently, capacity management policies have increasingly targeted specific fisheries. French fisheries spatially vary along the French coastline and are associated to specific regions. Capacity management policies, however, ignore the capital mobility associated with second-hand vessel trade between regions. This is not an issue for national policies but could limit the effectiveness of regional capacity management policies. A gravity model and a random-effect Poisson regression model are used to analyze the determinants and spatial extent of the second-hand market in France. This study is based on panel data from the French Atlantic Ocean between 1992 and 2009. The trade flows between trading partners is found to increase with their sizes and to be spatially concentrated. Despite the low trade flows between regions, a net impact analysis shows that fishing capacity is redistributed by the second-hand market to regions on the Channel and Aquitaine from central regions. National capacity management policies (constructions/destructions) have induced a net decrease in regional fleet capacity with varying magnitude across regions. Unless there is a change of policy instruments or their scale of implementation, the operation of the second-hand market decreases the effectiveness of regional capacity management policies in regions on the Channel and Aquitaine.
25066565|By airborne remote sensing the search for oil spills can be performed more efficiently. The cleanup operations are also facilitated if a survey image of the oil spill is available. Parameters of great interest for the user are the extent of the slick, thickness and oil type. The extent is easily mapped in most wavelength bands with different types of sensors. Limited information about the thickness and the oil type is also available. A main problem during the interpretation is the strong influence of environmental parameters, which reduce the accuracy of the extracted information.
4313890|The environmental problems of today can essentially be seen as a consequence of the biological success of the human species, the dominating role of man over various ecosystems and his ability to overcome biological control mechanisms. What is the biological background of this human prosperity? Evidently, the most significant evolutionary feature of mankind is the development of the brain. All evolution is based on the transfer of altered information from one generation to the next. For every plant and animal species, except the human species, evolution is based on the transmission of altered genetic information through mutations. This, however, is a slow and impractical process, where almost all changes constitute useless mistakes. Man has succeeded to by-pass this time-consuming evolutionary process by a different kind of evolution; cultural evolution. Acquired experiences can be transmitted orally or in writing from one generation to the next-an evolutionary system infinitely faster, more selective and more efficient than the genetic evolution. The spectacular human development over the last ten thousand years can be entirely ascribed to a cultural and not a genetic evolution. The storage and transmission of information has gone through dramatic development that has resulted in practically unlimited possibilities to store and sort information by means of computer techniques. The accumulation of scientific information in life sciences has enabled man to learn enough about genetics to manipulate himself with genetic information. The horizontal spread of information through mass media may accelerate the cultural evolution, but it also implies a loss of cultural diversity. The ability to overcome biological control mechanisms has caused decreased mortality without a corresponding decrease in fertility, resulting in human population crises and unsustainable use of natural resources. This development has caused a drastic decrease in global biodiversity through human interference with natural ecosystems.
4315539|Despite the pivotal role human factors (anthropogenic drivers) are presumed to play in global environmental change, substantial uncertainties and contradictory conclusions about them continue. We attempt to further discipline the human factors issue by estimating the effects of two anthropogenic drivers, population and affluence, on a wide variety of global environmental impacts, including greenhouse gas emissions, emissions of ozone depleting substances, and the ecological footprint. Population proportionately increases all types of impacts examined. Affluence typically increases impacts, but the specific effect depends on the type of impact. These findings refocus attention on population and material affluence as principal threats to sustainability and challenge predictions of an ameliorating effect of rising affluence on impacts.
24708845|The root causes and impacts of three severe accidents at large civilian nuclear power plants are reviewed: the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, the Chernobyl accident in 1986, and the Fukushima Daiichi accident in 2011. Impacts include health effects, evacuation of contaminated areas as well as cost estimates and impacts on energy policies and nuclear safety work in various countries. It is concluded that essential objectives for reactor safety work must be: (1) to prevent accidents from developing into severe core damage, even if they are initiated by very unlikely natural or man-made events, and, recognizing that accidents with severe core damage may nevertheless occur; (2) to prevent large-scale and long-lived ground contamination by limiting releases of radio-active nuclides such as cesium to less than about 100 TBq. To achieve these objectives the importance of maintaining high global standards of safety management and safety culture cannot be emphasized enough. All three severe accidents discussed in this paper had their root causes in system deficiencies indicative of poor safety management and poor safety culture in both the nuclear industry and government authorities.
25547850|Projected changes in climate in Southern Norway include increases in summer and autumn precipitation. This may affect leaching of dissolved organic matter (DOM) from soils. Effects of experimentally added extra precipitation (10 mm week) during the growing season of 3 years (2004-2006) to small headwater catchments at Storgama (590'N, 550-600 m a.s.l.) on leaching of total organic carbon (TOC) and total organic nitrogen (TON) were assessed. Extra precipitation did not have a significant effect on average TOC and TON concentrations in runoff. Thus, fluxes of TOC and TON increased nearly proportionally with water fluxes. This suggests that a store of adsorbed and potentially mobile TOC and TON in catchment soils buffers the concentration of DOM in runoff. The size and dynamics of the pool of TOC and TON depends on the balance between production and leaching rates. Infrequent short droughts had only small effects on TOC and TON fluxes in runoff from the reference catchments.
4314088|pH trends from the last deglaciation to present day are assessed for acid clear-water lakes in South Sweden in relation to natural development, land use, and acid deposition. A general model for pH development is presented, based on diatom analysis of sediment cores from about 20 lakes, providing, in part, a new view of acidification history. Four periods are identified: (I) the natural long-term acidification period (12000 B.P.-2300 B.P. or later), with gradually decreasing pH values from about 7 to 5.5 resulting from soil acidification and declining fluxes of base cations from catchment soils; (II) the anthropogenic alkalization period (2300 B.P.-1900 A.D.), when pH increased to above 6 due to land use; (III) the recent acidification period (about 1900 A.D.-present), when pH decreased to about 4.5 due to acid deposition and possibly altered land use; and (IV) the liming period (1970s-present), when pH often increases to values above 7 following liming to counteract acidification. The implications of past pH changes are discussed in the context of contemporary lake acidification and liming policy.
4315498|Attacks by large carnivores on humans can occasionally help to generate significant resistance to carnivore conservation efforts. We have reviewed research addressing concerns for human safety in large carnivore conservation, and have evaluated statements about the frequencies and causes of attacks based on our findings concerning i) existing data on the number of attacks by large carnivores in various parts of the world; ii) information systems documenting details of attacks; and iii) research that provides credible advice on what to do when encountering a large carnivore, to minimize the likelihood of being attacked. We conclude that little information exists for any of these criteria and what is available is often inadequate to determine the frequency of attacks, their causes and how to avoid them. We suggest that information systems, including database(s) on attacks and encounters, should be established for large carnivore conservation efforts, to supply information and to answer future requests for this information.
4312297|Figures are presented for the discharge of nitrogen, phosphorus, and organic matter from Finland and Sweden into the Gulf of Bothnia during the first half of the 1970s. Rivers are the main sources for nitrogen and phosphorus, industrial wastewaters in the coastal areas are chiefly responsible for the discharge of organic matter. The nutrient-loading figures for the Gulf of Bothnia are similar to or less than those characteristic of large oligotrophic lakes.
4313934|A hierarchical approach to natural systems, which assumes that smaller subsystems change according to a faster dynamic than do larger systems of which they are a part, is advocated as a useful means to conceptualize problems of scale in determining biodiversity policy. It is argued that conservation biology is a normative science that, like medicine, is shaped by a goal of protecting and healing ecosystems. The goal of sustaining biological diversity over multiple human generations implies that biodiversity policy must be set at the landscape level of the ecosystem. Since ecosystems can be described at many levels of organization, conservation biologists must model ecosystems on a scale appropriate to the crucial dynamic that supports the sustainability goal. This dynamic, the autopoietic feature of ecosystems, supports and sustains species across generations. The value of these ecosystem processes is measured as the avoided costs of sustaining species in zoos or highly managed habitats. The protection of the health of these landscape-level processes should therefore be the central goal of biodiversity policy.
4312455|Minnows, Phoxinus phoxinus (L), were fed for 29 days with food containing four different concentrations of polychlorinated biphenyls (Clophen A50). The fish were weighed individually at the start and at the end of the experiment. All four groups of minnows exposed to increased levels of polychlorinated biphenyls had gained more in weight than the control group. It is suggested that this phenomenon results from a disturbance of the hormonal system and that the occurrence of stimulated growth is related to seasonal variations in the metabolic activity of the fish.
4313156|Small, developing island nations are characterized by limited manpower, biomass, and other resources, and a dependence on imported oil. This places particular constraints on economic development and heavy pressure on existing natural resources. Energy dependence is likely to continue, not least since new and renewable energy options will impact mostly in the long term. Cooperative programs to develop alternative energy technologies and policies may afford the best possible solution.
4313883|This paper is an interdisciplinary attempt to address the relation between the population with its social interactions, and the resource base of the surrounding landscape. It tries to merge a sociological and anthropological approach in explaining population and demographic conditions with an ecohydrological approach in explaining fundamental environmental functions and phenomena in the landscape. It draws attention to the fact that Third World development often has to take place under genuine water scarcity. At the same time, livelihood demands and production activities necessitate manipulations of soil, vegetation and water, in spite of the environmental vulnerability typical of low latitudes. This calls for skillful balancing methods between intended benefits and unavoidable side effects to secure environmental sustainability, protection of land fertility being crucial.
4312088|Clear-felling, forest fertilization, and drainage of swamps are forest management operations which disturb the nutrient cycle in the forest land. Leaching of plant nutrients as a consequence has been reported from various countries and new data are presented on nitrate nitrogen in groundwater as well as on phosphate leaching from fertilized drained peatlands. The leached nutrients may cause undesired eutrophication of lakes and streams, and in the case of nitrates may also cause health risks. Further research may necessitate modifications of present forest management practices.
25547917|The organisms living on and in the sea floor, the benthos, represent an important ecological group. Although some (shellfish) have an economic value, most do not, and so little long-term data are available. We have identified three sources of historic benthic data for the North Sea, a regional sea that has been subjected to multiple human impacts for at least several hundred years. Each dataset has its limitations, but by their use together some issues emerge. Wider community shifts were observed in the shorter term and a number of extirpations at the scale of the North Sea were seen over longer time scales. The extirpated taxa share a number of characteristics consistent with an effect of fisheries such as fragile morphology. We must concentrate now on furthering our understanding of the ecological significance of shifts in dominance of particular functional units and protecting those habitats and species most vulnerable to fisheries-driven extirpation.
4314351|Most developing countries suffer from growing population pressure on soil and trees. Unless action is taken soon, there will not be enough arable land to feed future populations, nor will there be enough fuelwood. As these countries have poor economies but many people, action needs to be based on people's creativity and energy through mass movement. The major prerequisites are technology, resources, institutions, and motivation. In Tanzania, simple tree-planting technology (within farming systems), human resources (creativity and energy), and suitable supporting institutions (village authorities) are in place. The urgent task is motivation and mobilization. In the choice of a mobilization approach, essential aspects to consider are the magnitude and urgency of the required efforts. The approach suggested is a combination of encouragement, coercion and trust. Coercion with trust will provide the short-cut to action required to win the race against time. While tree planting is compulsory, people are trusted to decide where, what and how to plant, thus easing the chronic shortage of extension staff. The present conventional community-forestry efforts, backed by the Tanzania Forestry Action Plan, will lend support to the mass movement required.
4313507|The degradability of any organic compound depends on the intrinsic characteristics of that compound and the environmental properties of the ecosystem receiving the compound. In complex effluents, which are mixtures of many individual compounds, microbial degradation of these compounds may differ significantly from results of single compound studies. Therefore, methods that monitor the overall degradation of the mixture should be adopted. So far, degradability studies (mainly BOD measurements) on complex effluents have dealt only with the readily degradable organic material which might cause oxygen deficiency in receiving waters. This method, however, provides no information on inherently degradable or persistent compounds. Due to their longevity, such compounds may cause long-term effects in the environment. This paper presents a strategy for an evaluation of the content of inherently degradable and persistent organic material as well as the readily degradable material. The strategy is based on the use of modifications of existing test methods for testing individual compounds. The course of degradation has been followed by a combination of non-compound specific analyses, group variables like adsorbable organic halides and specific analyses. In addition, the course of degradation of toxic and potentially bioaccumulating compounds has been followed by toxicity tests and Thin-Layer-Chromatography (TLC)-screening tests for potentially bioaccumulating compounds. The paper presents examples of the feasibility of the test strategy, and tries to use the test results in an initial hazard evaluation of the complex effluents.
40390423|The impact of elevated ozone concentrations on early ontogenetic stages of pine (Pinus sylvestris) and spruce (Picea abies, Picea obovata, P. abies  P. obovata) seedlings originating from different provenances in Russia were studied in the open-field ozone fumigation system located in Kuopio, Finland, over a span of 2 y. The AOT40 value (accumulated ozone dose over the threshold 40 ppb during daylight hours) was 11 ppm hr per growing season, which was 1.4 times higher than the ambient air concentration. The plants were measured for germination rate; shoot increment; needle length; and dry mass of needles, shoots, and roots. Significant differences between pine and spruce provenance response to ozone were found in all parameters. Ozone stress immediately reduced the germination rate of Northern pine provenances, whereas biomass reductions became evident during the second year of the exposure in all pine provenances. Spruce species were more tolerant to elevated ozone concentrations. Our results indicate that seedling development is vulnerable to increasing ozone concentrations and that attention must be paid to the provenance selection.
4314072| Early developmental stages of Atlantic salmon and brown trout were exposed in situ to different water qualities in a river affected by acidification and wetland liming. Mortality, hatching frequency, histopathology and whole-body electrolytes were investigated. The hatching frequency was low in acidic aluminum-rich water, and the whole-body concentration of potassium and sodium decreased as early as after 13 days of exposure. Prolonged exposure caused 100% mortality of Atlantic salmon at this locality. A histochemical study disclosed Al precipitates in the gills of fish exposed to the acidic brooks. The precipitates were associated with the apical plasma membrane, and were also occasionally present intracellularly. The latter observation was confirmed by ultrastructural studies in which electron-dense precipitates were found in the cytoplasm of chloride cells. Chorions from non- or incompletely hatched eggs exposed in the acidic part of Torskabcken were compared with the chorions from fry hatched in the limed part of the same brook. Eggs which failed to hatch had an intact inner chorion surface. Atlantic salmon were more sensitive to acidic Al-rich waters than brown trout, both at hatching and as yolksac fry. Wetland liming effectively protected salmonid fish reproducing in such waters. 
4315644| The European Water Framework Directive puts strong emphasis on stakeholder and public participation in water management. Several practical questions regarding who should be involved, why, when, and how still remain unanswered. This paper investigates stakeholders' own experiences and views of increased public participation in water management. The article also explores the potential for increasing levels of participation by forming catchment committees with representation from stakeholder groups and through the use of various practical methods for participation. For both these aspects of participation, the views, expectations, and apprehensions of different stakeholder groups involved in nutrient loss management are investigated. Stakeholder opinions were collected by inviting representatives from five stakeholder groups within the Rnne catchment in southern Sweden to a catchment dialog process. 
4315378|Pesticide residues in water, sediment, and fish samples from rivers of a Brazilian Rain Forest Reserve were measured in November 1998, March 1999, and January 2000. Concentrations of the individual pesticides were compared to ecotoxicological benchmarks based on acute toxicity tests, and to regulatory guidelines to determine the potential concern for effects on aquatic life and human health. Pesticides and metabolites were detected at all 7 sites surveyed. Residues of a total of 27 pesticides or metabolites were found in water and/or sediment samples and fish have accumulated some of the most persistent of these residues. Measured concentrations in water and sediment indicated concern for preservation of aquatic fauna. Several pesticides in water were above levels for drinking water recommended by Brazilian and/or European Union authorities, indicating also a concern for human health.
4313958|During the past few years, the critical-load concept has evolved to form the basis for international negotiations on reducing emissions of sulfur and nitrogen with the aims of counteracting acidification and eutrophication. Critical loads are thresholds of damage which indicate the degree to which deposition will have to be reduced if emissions are to be acceptable. The critical load may be employed in cost-effective environmentally optimized abatement strategies. The concept was introduced in the late 1970s and further improved in the 1980s. Based on the critical-load concept, individual countries have set deposition goals called target loads. The Nordic countries in particular, have taken a special interest in developing and refining the critical-load concept. This is mainly because of the serious effects caused by acidification and eutrophication in the Nordic countries during the past few decades; including heavily acidified soils, forest damage, thousands of seriously acidified surface waters, and decreased flora and fauna diversity. The risk of further environmental deterioration in the future is also of concern.
4312399|The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, held in Stockholm in 1972, recommended that plans be developed for an International Registry of Data on Chemicals in the Environment. A description is given of the way in which plans have been implemented since then to build up the International Register of Potentially Toxic Chemicals (IRPTC). IRPTC's objectives and strategies are presented as well as a review of the achievements of the Register in establishing a network of participating institutions and national correspondents. Recent progress regarding information collection, storage and dissemination is reported.
4315097|The southern Namib is characterized by high biodiversity, changes in winter and summer rainfall, extreme climatic conditions and associated geomorphologic processes, a paucity of ecological knowledge, and multiple environmental threats posed by conflicting development options. With the long-term view to establish a research initiative focussing on restoration ecology in the southern Namib Desert, this article provides a review of current ecological knowledge and proposes potential research priorities. The aims of a research initiative would be twofold. On the academic side, understanding processes operating at different scales will be critical to develop methods of ecological restoration suitable for southern Namib ecosystems. On the practical side, the development of appropriate methods will focus on facilitating ecological processes such as restoration of biologically active substrate, natural succession, and concentration of limited resources. The function of landscapes, plant-soil interface, soil-, vegetation- and plant population dynamics will likely provide some of the answers for ecological restoration.
4312286|Female minks were divided into three groups, each of which received different doses of PCB daily for two months, beginning about one month before the breeding season. At a concentration of 3.3 ppm PCB in the feed, the number of whelps borne per bitch was significantly lower than at 0.05 ppm (controls). At a concentration of 11 ppm in the feed, no whelps were born. Minks fed DDT demonstrated no such effects.
41418342|The prospects of rapid climate change and the potential existence of tipping points in marine ecosystems where nonlinear change may result from them being overstepped, raises the question of strategies for coping with ecosystem change. There is broad agreement that the combined forces of climate change, pollution and increasing economic activities necessitates more comprehensive approaches to oceans management, centering on the concept of ecosystem-based oceans management. This article addresses the Norwegian experience in introducing integrated, ecosystem-based oceans management, emphasizing how climate change, seen as a major long-term driver of change in ecosystems, is addressed in management plans. Understanding the direct effects of climate variability and change on ecosystems and indirect effects on human activities is essential for adaptive planning to be useful in the long-term management of the marine environment.
4315407|In a world increasingly modified by human activities, the conservation of biodiversity is essential as insurance to maintain resilient ecosystems and ensure a sustainable flow of ecosystem goods and services to society. However, existing reserves and national parks are unlikely to incorporate the long-term and large-scale dynamics of ecosystems. Hence, conservation strategies have to actively incorporate the large areas of land that are managed for human use. For ecosystems to reorganize after large-scale natural and human-induced disturbances, spatial resilience in the form of ecological memory is a prerequisite. The ecological memory is composed of the species, interactions and structures that make ecosystem reorganization possible, and its components may be found within disturbed patches as well in the surrounding landscape. Present static reserves should be complemented with dynamic reserves, such as ecological fallows and dynamic successional reserves, that are part of ecosystem management mimicking natural disturbance regimes at the landscape level.
41417350|The aims of this study were to investigate spatial patterns and temporal changes in understorey vegetation at four forest catchments forming a depositional gradient. Inventories of the bottom and field layers were carried out in the 1990s and repeated after 5-14 years, depending on catchment. It was hypothesized that changes and patterns in ground vegetation would be related to changes and patterns in N and S deposition. The data were analyzed using Ellenberg indices and multivariate methods. All catchments showed temporal changes in species composition. Analyses of the bottom layer were confounded by a change of field staff, but after accounting for this observer effect, differences in species composition between the catchments remained. Within catchments, the changes in species composition were unrelated to N or S deposition. Relationships between environmental factors, expressed as Ellenberg indices, and compositional patterns differed between catchments although Ellenberg indices showed small temporal changes.
4312683|Despite the evident need for energy in developing countries, renewable energy technologies-apart from large-scale hydropower and firewood-have not yet found a significant role. This paper analyzes their potential in the commercial-industrial sector, the subsistence sector, and the rural transitional sector. The analysis is placed in the context of the UN Conference on New and Renewable Energy Sources. It also points to the danger of over-valuing renewable energy sources and imposing a prejudiced view upon developing country energy policy-making.
4315231|Higher crop production normally demands higher nutrient application rates and consequently increased mineral nitrogen use. With food demand for 2030 estimated around 2800 mill. tonnes (t) yr
4315196| Lake Vttern in southern Sweden is a large oligotrophic lake with high surface to catchment area ratio (ca. 0.4) and a water residence time of 60 years. The lake combines sensitivity to atmospheric POP-pollution with general susceptibility for effects of POPs and slow concentration decline. Time series, from the 1960s until 1996, of PCBs and DDT in fish and data on TCDD in sediment of L. Vttern are presented and compared to other large lakes. The long time dataset of POPs in char (Salvelinus salvelinus) shows a significant annual decline of about 5% for PCBs and 13% for DDT. These rates are in agreement with other studies. Nutrients as well as biological effects and factors affecting the fate of POPs in oligotrophic lakes with long residence times are being discussed. We state that oligotrophic clear lakes are important ecosystems for monitoring POPs in biota. 
4312106|Physiological responses to heat stress consist of eg an elevated pulse rate and sweating. Peak pulse rates of about 160-180 beats/min are common and fluid losses may amount to 5-6 l/shift during severe heat loading. Uncompensated sweating results in dehydration. Dehydration impairs physical work capability and circulatory response in the upright position, the so-called orthostatic tolerance. The ability to withstand heat can be vastly improved by acclimatization. The SWBGT ("Swedish" Wet Bulb-Globe Temperature) index is recommended for practical application in industry, mainly as a guide for identifying work situations with serious heat loading, in order to avoid harmful effects.
4312355|This report outlines the environmental impact to be expected from the aerial detonation of a one-kiloton enhanced-radiation fission/fusion weapon of the sort the USA has announced it has the ability to produce. This munition is reported to be enhanced in the sense that it emits a great flux of high-energy neutrons, coupled with reductions in blast wave, thermal pulse, and (assuming an air burst) residual radiation. Such a device would be lethal to exposed biota approximately as follows: to mammals and birds over an area of 490 hectares, to higher plants 350 ha, to amphibians and reptiles 330 ha, to insects 100 ha, and to microorganisms 40 ha. Similar values are provided for the annihilation of six types of major ecosystems, eg, coniferous forest 310 ha and tundra 40 ha. The broader social implications of developing such a weapon are discussed briefly.
4312732|The Caribbean region is exposed to three of the worst kinds of natural disaster. Each has claimed thousands of lives and caused massive property damage. In this century volcanic eruptions have caused greater loss of life in the Lesser Antilles alone than in the entire rest of the world. Careful monitoring and planning can reduce the loss of life, but a number of difficult questions must be answered before future vulnerability can be decreased. The author describes the extent of losses from natural disasters in the historical perspective, assesses present and future vulnerability, and initiates a discussion of the adequacy of present monitoring and decision-making methods.
25547847|To provide baseline data for climate manipulation experiments in 11 small (30-268 m) headwater catchments at Storgama, Telemark County, Southern Norway, we assessed the natural variability in site characteristics and runoff quality. Annual average concentrations in runoff at the sites have coefficients of variation between 26-61%, with the smallest values for total organic carbon (TOC) and carbon to nitrogen (C/N) ratios and the largest for inorganic nitrogen (N). The catchments have between two and five times higher concentrations of inorganic N, TOC, and total phosphorus than the larger (0.6 km) Storgama watershed nearby. Concentrations of TOC and TON in runoff tend to increase with soil C and N content and with the volume of soil in the catchment. For nitrate (NO) and ammonium in runoff, the reverse is true. In wet years the proportion of bare rock is a major predictor for the annual average NO concentration in runoff.
4314654|Precipitation and evaporation rates over the Baltic Sea during the period 1981-1994 have been analyzed. The precipitation rate was based upon available meteorological weather, which were interpolated to grid points using a two-dimensional objective analysis scheme. The evaporation rate was calculated using an ocean model, in which the Baltic Sea was treated as 13 sub-basins with high vertical resolution. Sea-surface temperatures as well as sea ice were calculated and verified extensively against temperature and ice-chart information. In the model, the latent heat flux was calculated according to a bulk formula parameterization. The evaporation rate was then calculated from the latent heat calculations and reduced by sea ice concentration, assuming that evaporation from sea ice is negligible. The long-term difference between precipitation and evaporation rates (the atmospheric fresh water inflow) is positive, which implies that the atmosphere adds fresh water to the Baltic Sea. For the period 1981-1994, the total mean atmospheric freshwater inflow was calculated to be 1986 m
4312928|The United States accuses the Soviet Union of secretly employing (either directly or by proxy) an array of harassing, incapacitating, and lethal chemical agents, including toxin agents of fungal origin ("Yellow Rain"), in Afghanistan, Laos, and Kampuchea. The evidence presented thus far to support these continuing charges is based primarily on interviews with refugees and defectors, correlations of reported symptoms with those that might be produced by fungal toxins, and physical evidence whose origins and subsequent handling are questionable. Independent investigations conducted by the United Nations, Canada, Australia, and others have failed to substantiate these allegations. The United States has begun production of new "binary" nerve gas munitions, raising the possibility of further escalations in the arms race.
4314965|Sustainable development is an intergeneration concept. It cannot be achieved without far-reaching visions, nor without specific knowledge, solutions, and actions. The academic world is witnessing strong tendencies of specialization and fragmentation; whereas the challenges to policy making lie in integration, interdisciplinarity, and broadness. From a narrow standpoint, many things appear "linear", with straightforward, one-directional causal relationships. In reality, however, they constitute complex interconnected networks with many feedbacks and cycles. A broad view is necessary when identifying such interconnections. The challenges to water-resources development in most parts of the world are increasing. Besides present tasks, the sector professionals should be encouraged to broaden their expertise from fragmented, highly specialized approaches to integrated, multidisciplinary ones.
4312080|The behavior of Cd in the soil system was studied in laboratory experiments and pot trials. It is demonstrated that the adsorption to soil material and thus solubility, mobility and plant availability, are affected by the type of soil material and the pH of the system. In pot trials with loamy sand it is shown that a decreased pH leads to an increased exchangeability and availability to plants of Cd added to the soil in sewage sludge, and consequently, higher Cd levels in the test plant, which was fodder rape.
4313436|The environmental degradation of large lakes and coastal seas shows similar disturbance patterns which calls for a common approach to redevelopment. Energy analysis sensu H.T. Odum is proposed as a tool to understand and quantify processes in ecological and economic systems and their interrelationships. It facilitates the design of management strategies that with moderate expenditures of energy and capital for the human society takes greatest possible advantage of Nature's own capacity for rehabilitation. The basic principle is that energy during its flow through the systems network is successively upgraded in quality by various processes and that the emergy, the embodied energy of different parts expressed in solar energy units, quantifies the work spent to produce and maintain them. As an example the eco-redevelopment of the Baltic salmon fishery, affected by the construction of hydroelectric dams in the river systems, is compared with the Great Lakes fishery, affected by the opening of the Erie-Welland canals. Emergy calculations are demonstrated in a comparison of the fish yields of the Baltic Proper and Lake Michigan. The total fixation of insolated solar energy is 0.175 percent and 0.125 percent, respectively, and the areal commercial fish yield 10 times higher in the Baltic Proper, suggesting that Lake Michigan is the more severely degraded system. A total energy analysis will give a more complete evaluation of the sustainability of the two systems.
4315304|Preliminary results for the artisanal fisheries of Octopus cyanea Gray (1849) in Tanzania are provided for the period April 2000 until June 2001. A total of 2546 individual catches and 15473 specimens were analyzed from 3 sites located at Tanga, Mafia Island, and Mtwara. Size range, average weight and catch per unit effort (CPUE) were all significantly lower at Tanga and Mtwara compared to Mafia indicating that the former sites may be overfished. Abundance of smaller individuals was higher at Tanga and Mtwara, but overall biomass was lower. Octopi at each site exhibited allometric growth as indicated by analyses of the length-weight relationships. Females become sexually mature at a minimum weight of 600 g while for males the minimum weight was 320 g. Higher numbers of mature individuals were found in June of both years and correlate with peaks in the gonosomatic index. Recruitment peaked a few months after brooding periods. Sex ratios indicate females may be more prone to capture during brooding periods. Reasons for differences between sites are discussed.
4315717|The Seychelles is a small island state in the western Indian Ocean that is vulnerable to the effects of climate change. This vulnerability led the intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2001 to express concern over the potential economic and social consequences that may be faced by small island states. Small island states should be prepared to adapt to such changes, especially in view of their dependence on natural resources, such as water and coral reefs, to meet basic human welfare needs. Analysis of long-term data for precipitation, air temperature, and sea-surface temperature indicated that changes are already observable in the Seychelles. The increase in dry spells that resulted in drought conditions in 1999 and the 1998 mass coral bleaching are indicative of the events that are likely to occur under future climate change. Pre-IPCC Third Assessment Report scenarios and the new SRES scenarios are compared for changes in precipitation and air surface temperature for the Seychelles. These intercomparisons indicate that the IS92 scenarios project a much warmer and wetter climate for the Seychelles than do the SRES scenarios. However, a wetter climate does not imply readily available water, but rather longer dry spells with more intense precipitation events. These observations will likely place enormous pressures on water-resources management in the Seychelles. Similarly, sea-surface temperature increases predicted by the HADCM3 model will likely trigger repeated coral-bleaching episodes, with possible coral extinctions within the Seychelles region by 2040. The cover of many coral reefs around the Seychelles have already changed, and the protection of coral-resilient areas is a critical adaptive option.
4315240|The international science community stresses the importance of the local perspective in the context of dryland degradation. This paper explores changes in management and attitudes in a mixed farming system in northern China, since the introduction of the economic reforms in the early 1980s, and the following changes in land-use rights. The area encompasses a dune landscape scattered with cropland, as well as the Daqinggou Nature Reserve, an area of natural vegetation. According to farmers new varieties of maize in combination with increased use of fertilizers have improved yields, though high yield variability persists due to erratic rainfall. Farmers acknowledge the importance of the 30-year contract on cultivated land in 1997 for their investment in long-term management, but emphasize the importance of chemical fertilizers for short-term economic survival. The farmers stressed the negative impact of grazing and cultivation on soil erosion and stated that differences in vegetation composition and cover in the nature reserve are due to anthropogenic factors.
4314620| Wetlands are the largest natural source of methane to the atmosphere. Methane emission from a polluted, tropical coastal wetland in Madras City was measured throughout the year adopting the closed-chamber technique. Distinct spatial and temporal variations in methane emission were observed in the wetlands, based on the degree of pollution, at each of these locations. The inhibiting influences of sulfate and salinity on methanogenesis were also obvious features in the present study. Soil temperature, sediment water content, salinity and sulfate were found to be critical natural variables influencing the methane emission rates. This study indicates that due to human interference in this ecosystem, on an average,  15.58 mg
4314365|This article examines the institutional development within the afforestation of village revenue lands in India as well as institutions set up for management of already existing forests. These institutions are termed "collective or joint forest-management committees" indicating a joint government-village arrangement for forest protection. However, it is often unclear or skewed who has which rights and to what. The present article argues for a careful analysis of the kinds of rights, of the categories of rightholders as well as of the bio-physical character of the resource itself. The degree of sociopolitical overlap between new induced institutions and the existing ones of local government such as the village panchayat is counterproductive. Another critical issue is the match between the institutional set-up and the biophysical characteristics of the resource itself. Both issues are examined in the article.
4312333|The size of a nature reserve affects the number of species present. Small reserves contain easily dispersed species, which often can also maintain populations in habitats altered by man. Larger areas, however, are necessary for the support of viable populations of many other species. Therefore to conserve entire ecosystems it is essential that nature reserves be as large as possible.
4312966|This article details the oil pollution problems of the Region, breaking down the oil highway into two separate routes: the supply route (which shuttles oil to East African ports) and the transit route (which transports oil to European and North American consumers). Oil pollution is cited as the Region's most serious problem and one that needs collective action if it is to be dealt with realistically.
4315217|This paper examines the impact of food and energy production on the global N cycle by contrasting N flows in the late-19th century with those of the late-20th century. We have a good understanding of the amounts of reactive N created by humans, and the primary points of loss to the environment. However, we have a poor understanding of nitrogen's rate of accumulation in environmental reservoirs, which is problematic because of the cascading effects of accumulated N in the environment. The substantial regional variability in reactive nitrogen creation, its degree of distribution, and the likelihood of increased rates of reactive-N formation (especially in Asia) in the future creates a situation that calls for the development of a Total Reactive Nitrogen Approach that will optimize food and energy production and protect environmental systems.
4315197| Factors affecting long-term (1982-2000) population densities of the glacial relict amphipod Monoporeia affinis were studied in Sweden's three largest lakes. Monoporeia showed large population fluctuations in all three lakes, with conspicuous peaks in density occurring in Lakes Vnern and Mlaren. In Lake Vnern, amphipod densities showed highly significant relationships with spring maximum diatom biovolume at a 1-yr lag. The lack of relationship between diatom biovolumes and Monoporeia densities in L. Vttern is likely due to the larger depth and the lower nutrient content of this lake. In eutrophic L. Mlaren, summer hypoxia (< 4 mg
4314414|Under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), developing and transition countries are eventually required to report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventories and response (mitigation) options. The United States (US) and other donors are providing financial and technical support for climate change country studies to help meet their needs under the UNFCCC. Technical assistance to complete mitigation assessments includes training of analysts, sharing of contemporary tools and assessment techniques, implementation of information-sharing workshops, and an exchange program for analysts. Country analysts have access to more than 25 analytical tools to help them complete their GHG mitigation assessments. Preliminary assessments suggest that GHG stabilization strategies should focus on fossil-fuel combustion, the primary source of carbon dioxide ( CO
4314504|The assessment of the environmental impacts of refugees has been a neglected subject. In environmental terms, all the recent emphasis has been on environmental degradation which may have forced some people to become "environmental refugees" and not on the environmental impacts created by the refugees themselves. From a strictly environmental viewpoint, large numbers of refugees are likely to contribute to considerable stress, a fact that has basically been ignored by the environmental profession and agencies. This paper analyses the environmental impacts of the Rwandan refugees in Zaire on the basis of a field assessment. The results indicate that the environmental impacts of the refugees are substantial, and in certain areas, critical, and thus can no longer be ignored.
41417306|During the extreme dry year of 2006, abnormal salinity conditions in the Changjiang Estuary of the Yangtze River occurred in partial coincidence with the second impoundment phase of the TGD (Three Gorges Dam). Analysis of discharge observations in the upper reaches of the estuary and of salinity observations in the estuary as a whole reveals that in 2006 salinity was over 100 mg/1 during 275 days, over 250 mg/1 during 75 days and over 400 mg/1 during 48 days. It is well known that this is due to extreme low discharges from the upper catchment area into the estuary. Moreover, large amounts of water consumed along the lower reaches of the Yangtze River can also aggravate the low discharges that lead to stronger saltwater intrusion in the estuary. Of the 75 days that salinity was over 250 mg/1, the low discharge was decreased further by 10 to 20% due to water consumption. The additional impact of the impoundment phase of the TGD (lasting 37 days in autumn) was noticeable only during 7 days in 2006. During that period, the relative contributions of the TGD and the water consumption in the lower reaches of the Yangtze River amounted to 70 and 30%, respectively. It may be concluded that the impact of the second impoundment phase of the TGD on salinity intrusion in the estuary was modest, while the extreme drought of 2006 was the dominant cause.
25547814|Many aquatic mollusks, such as the freshwater pearl mussel (Margaritifera margaritifera), are in decline throughout Europe. The reasons are largely unknown; factors that have been suggested to contribute are river bed compaction due to agricultural practices, eutrophication, or pollutants of various natures. Brittle shells of recently deceased pearl mussels from northern Bavaria with weak calcium incrustations point to the possibility that calcium metabolism is affected. It is known that certain persistent organic pollutants and some heavy metals may induce calcium deficiency in wildlife. Elevated levels of the organochlorine insecticide DDT and its metabolite DDE, as well as of cadmium and some other heavy metals, have been found in pearl mussels. Both classes of environmental pollutants are known to potentially interfere with calcium homeostasis.
4314220|A database of monthly inflow of fresh water from rivers and land to the Baltic Sea and its subbasins is created. The database covers the period 1950-1990 and is based on observations from the national hydrological services of the surrounding countries. The main features of the database are presented including river flow of selected rivers and total inflow to the Baltic Sea and its subbasins. Long-term, seasonal and short-term variabilities are analyzed and the effects of hydropower development are identified. An earlier database by Mikulski is used for comparison and extension of the record to cover the period 1921-1990. It is concluded that the variability of inflow is great and that the decade 1981-1990 was the wettest in 70 years. Wet years are also found in the 1920s. The increase in runoff is mainly due to increasing river flow during the cold seasons. The effects of hydropower development are noticeable in the records for the Bothnian Bay and the Bothnian Sea.
4315618|The social dimension is central to sustainable development of agri-food systems. If farmers are not satisfied with their situation or motivated to continue farming, many of today's environmental goals will be impossible to achieve. Between 1997 and 2003, several case studies were carried out on social sustainability, the importance of recognition in the farming system, and the potential role of increased collaboration between actors. The main hypothesis was that improved recognition is a basis for sustainable social conditions. Our findings show that many farmers today perceive an impoverished social situation. They believe they lack control over decisions, which hinders their ability to continue farming. Public images and political decisions show a lack of respect for farmers' skills and knowledge. However, increased collaboration among actors is believed to be one important way forward, creating stronger relationships and networks, as well as a stronger identity for farmers. Our findings emphasize the need for authorities and other organizations to support farmers and to facilitate collaborative learning and decision-making processes for socio-ecological sustainability.
4313117|The most critical ecological crisis of East Asia is the destruction of water resources, which threatens the livelihood and indeed the survival of the poor and underprivileged majority of the people. The destruction of water resources arises from resource utilization patterns that destabilize the hydrological cycle by excessive withdrawals, or pollute water systems by excessive addition of wastes. The article illustrates, with examples, these patterns of destruction of water resources through various development activities. Finally, conservation strategies for overcoming this growing crisis and IUCN's role in research and action are suggested.
4315151| This article focuses on the emergence of water pollution problems in the city of Malm and on how they were discussed and solved. Various countermeasures were proposed and considered, but finally the discharge of wastewater into the Sound of resund was regarded as the best solution. As a result, a local pollution problem was transformed into a regional issue. The solutions adopted in Malm are briefly compared with decisions made in Gothenburg and Stockholm. 
4315022|Cacao (Theobroma cacao) is a crop of the humid lowland tropics produced largely by small-scale producers and often on farms with a canopy of shade trees. Where a diverse shaded canopy is used, cacao farms support higher levels of biological diversity than most other tropical crops. A host of viral and fungal diseases, loss of soil fertility, and numerous socioeconomic problems facing producers, often makes cacao production locally unsustainable. Continued clearing of new lands threatens biodiversity. Moreover, new frontiers for cacao expansion are rapidly disappearing. Such problems can be addressed by increasing the long-term productivity of existing cacao farms and restoring abandoned lands. Improved shade management offers guidance along this path. Institutions involved with cocoa should establish collaborations with groups concerned with development, environmental protection, and most importantly producers themselves to pursue a program of research, extension and policy initiatives focused on the ecologically and economically sustainable cacao production on farms with a diverse shade canopy.
4314739|The occurrence of extreme erosion events is governed by a complex mixture of climatic and geomorphological parameters. The high spatial and temporal variability of precipitation makes erosion events individually difficult to predict in advance, although it is clear that some areas combine many of the factors favorable to extreme erosion. Such events can have far-reaching effects on local morphology and landscape, changing channel systems and modifying the landscape, and in so doing damaging infrastructure, at a high financial cost. As we have recently seen, in human terms the cost can also be high. In order to ensure sustainable development in the Pyrenees, the possible impacts of extreme rainfall and erosion events must be considered in the context of recent changes in land use and management. This paper summarizes knowledge about extreme erosion events in the Pyrenees using recent and historical examples and suggests a way forward for risk assessment.
4313802|Swedish inventories of sources and sinks of greenhouse $\text{gases}-{\rm CO}_{2}$, CH4, N2 O and CFCs-are presented. We compare their contribution to the greenhouse effect with due regard to their radiative properties and lifetimes in the atmosphere. If the gross anthropogenic emissions of CO2 and CH4 are considered, 50-60% of the total effect is due to CO2. The second most important gas is CH4. In a short-term perspective (20 years) the contribution of CH4 is almost 30%. If the current accumulation of carbon by Swedish forests is subtracted from the direct emissions due to fossil-fuel combustion, the net contribution of CO2 is considerably smaller. Similarly, one may include a reduction of the CH4 emission due to man-made drainage of wetlands in the balance. This reduces the anthropogenic CH4 emission by almost 50%. Calculating in this way (i.e. net anthropogenic emissions), reduces the total Swedish anthropogenic emission of CO2 equivalents by almost 40%; CO2 is still the largest single contributor (40-45% of the total), but CFCs and N2 O become relatively more important.
4312109|Accident research covers a very wide field. In this paper different models for accident research are presented; ie the behavioral, the epidemiological and the systems model. Different definitions of accidents are discussed, and particular attention is given to the restrictions on research as implied by the different definitions. A method for near-accident reporting is presented as a way of activating safety work and extending cooperation concerning industrial safety measures.
25547880|Tonle Sap Lake is a large and complex data-deficient ecosystem in the Mekong River Basin. Highly valuable in biodiversity and natural livelihoods capital, it is susceptible to degradation when the flood pulse that drives its productivity is altered as a result of hydropower and irrigation development on the Mekong River. To date, there are no tools to assess the consequences of such flood pulse alterations, leaving the Tonle Sap underrated in water-resources use and planning. A combined ecological-hydrodynamic model is presented for the production potential of the Tonle Sap ecosystem and its likely response to hydrological changes.
4314104|The North American beaver (Castor canadensis) was introduced in Tierra del Fuego 40 years ago for pelt exploitation. The availability of suitable feeding and lodging sites coupled with the lack of natural predators or competitors favored rapid population growth and range expansion. In 1981, the Tierra del Fuego government authorized hunting to control the increasing beaver population. This study was conducted to investigate the current status of beaver populations, and to analyze modifications to the forest ecosystem of Tierra del Fuego, induced by beavers. Currently, beavers have colonized not only Isla Grande, but also other islands of the complex Magallanico Archipelago. Approximate densities are about 0.2-5.8 beaver colony site per km, geographical range is about 20 000 km
4313412|Coral reefs are unique structures. Created primarily by animals they have a higher biomass productivity and contain a greater number of species than any other marine ecosystem. Symbiosis between corals and unicellular algae living within the polyp tissue is the mechanism for growth of corals and the consequent production of calcium carbonate which leads to the formation of coral reefs. This paper discusses the detrimental effects on coral reefs and their inhabitants that result from human manipulation of the environment. For example, construction work in coastal regions produces extensive erosion; dredging sand and dragging the ocean floor increase suspension load and turbidity resulting in loss of light, which is essential for tropical reef-building corals; municipal sewage and agricultural fertilizers cause eutrophication; pesticides and herbicides used in agriculture are transported to the sea by rain and wind and cause mortality in reef organisms; industrial effluent and mineral oils are toxic to coral reef environments; radioactive contamination due to the testing of nuclear weapons is affecting all marine organisms; and trade in marine animals is helping to denude coastal areas and coral reefs. A case study of the coral reefs surrounding Ishigaki Island, Japan, is presented.
41417324|The changes in the vascular plant flora of Tasiilaq, low arctic Southeast Greenland, between around 1900 and 2007 were studied by comparing the data from historical literature with those of the field observations performed between the late 1960s and 2007. Since 1900, the percentage of widely distributed arctic species distinctly decreased, whereas that of the low arctic species somewhat increased, and boreal species hardly increased. Vegetation monitoring revealed minor changes and showed that several thermophilous and xerophilous species increased between 1968/1969 and 2007, whereas some hygrophilous species decreased. Repeated vegetation mapping of a shallow pond revealed conspicuous changes suggesting increased evaporation/precipitation ratios associated with environmental warming up and decreasing snow accumulation in winter, in line with results of previous investigations. In spite of climate warming, expansion of the town and increasing human impact, flora and vegetation on the whole appeared rather stable during the last 40 years without invading species or introductions.
4315772|To provide information necessary for a license application for a deep repository for spent nuclear fuel, the Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste Management Co is carrying out site investigations, including extensive studies of different parts of the surface ecosystems, at two sites in Sweden. Here we use the output from detailed modeling of the carbon dynamics in the terrestrial, limnic and marine ecosystems to describe and compare major pools and fluxes of organic matter in the Simpevarp area, situated on the southeast coast of Sweden. In this study, organic carbon is used as a proxy for radionuclides incorporated into organic matter. The results show that the largest incorporation of carbon into living tissue occurs in terrestrial catchments. Carbon is accumulated in soil or sediments in all ecosystems, but the carbon pool reaches the highest values in shallow near-land marine basins. The marine basins, especially the outer basins, are dominated by large horizontal water fluxes that transport carbon and any associated contaminants into the Baltic Sea. The results suggest that the near-land shallow marine basins have to be regarded as focal points for accumulation of radionuclides in the Simpevarp area, as they receive a comparatively large amount of carbon as discharge from terrestrial catchments, having a high NPP and a high detrital accumulation in sediments. These focal points may constitute a potential risk for exposure to humans in a future landscape as, due to post-glacial land uplift, previous accumulation bottoms are likely to be used for future agricultural purposes.
4312368|This article presents a methodology for tying together a regional complex of systems of man and nature in a coherent, systematic, and quantitative fashion. This methodology is applied to the island of Gotland, Sweden, and a number of subsectors are modelled: agriculture, terrestrial ecosystems, Baltic ecosystems, urban systems, industry, military, power-generating and energy-distribution systems. The subsectors contain storages of matter, energy and money, exchanging these quantities with one another and with the outside world. In particular, the study focuses on the flows of energy in the region as a means of tying together processes in both the systems of man and of nature, since energy is one measure common to both systems. Also presented is a detailed analysis of energy and economic flows for many activities, and some discussion of the historical use of energy. Simulation techniques for trying to predict future impact on the system are illustrated in terms of a water-nitrogen model.
4312975|This paper provides an overview of the environmental impact of the explosive remnants of war, that is, of the postwar leftovers of unexploded mines and other munitions (duds). This is a huge and growing problem owing to the vast and ever increasing quantities of explosive ordnance that are expended in modern warfare, often in an indiscriminate fashion. About 10 percent fail to explode as planned. The paper illustrates the dimensions of the problem through brief examples from World War II, the Second Indochina War, the Arab-Israeli Wars of 1967 and 1973, the Israeli incursion into Lebanon of 1982, and the Falkland/Malvinas War of 1982. It outlines the existing means of disposal, both on land and at sea, stressing the dangers and complexities involved. The paper concludes with some technical, legal, and other recommendations to mitigate the problem, among them suggestions that all explosive ordnance be designed so as to become automatically harmless in due course; that an open clearing house, information repository, and research and training center be established, presumably under United Nations auspices; that cooperative multinational cleanup programs be initiated; and that the Inhumane Weapon Convention of 1981 be widely adopted.
4314305|To investigate the effects of increased UV-B radiation on a natural subarctic ecosystem a field irradiation experiment was established at Abisko, northern Sweden. The vegetation in the plots consists of a dwarf shrub layer with mosses and lichens beneath. Many response variables of the vegetation and soil are measured in these plots, e.g. photosynthesis, growth, phenology, changes in species composition and decomposition. This paper describes the methods used and some initial results. Decomposition was impaired by enhanced UV-B radiation. UV-B directly affected decomposition processes and also affected them indirectly by altering the tissue chemistry of leaves. The annual growth of the dwarf shrubs was lower under enhanced UV-B. This was more pronounced in evergreen than in deciduous species. Leaf thickness of the dwarf shrubs was changed by UV-B. The leaves of the evergreen Vaccinium vitis-idaea grew thicker, while those of the two deciduous species V. myrtillus and V. uliginosum grew thinner. In the moss Hylocomium splendens, the phenological development was accelerated under enhanced UV-B radiation. Its growth (number of primary branches, length and dry weight) also increased.
4314553|The life and work of Svante Arrhenius provides an interesting window on changes in the role of science in society. One hundred years ago, Arrhenius too served as science adviser to government, and he emphasized the importance of internationalism. World War I ruptured the social relations of science, and marked the beginning of a complex intertwining of research with the realm of politics. This paper considers Arrhenius' response to this trend, and asks what he would have thought of today's situation when climatology has become a megascience. Some hints of a possible answer are given against the background of a review of Arrhenius' ideas on method, and his Darwinian perspective on the growth of scientific knowledge. In the course of this, the author makes some observations on how policy determination of scientific agendas introduces an organized social dimension, where the dive for consensus may contradict the traditional ideal of a "Darwinian struggle of hypotheses", Arrhenius advocated. At the same time it is noted how the traditional ideal of science as neutral "truth speaking to power" is constantly being resuscitated, among others by the leading echelon of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). It is suggested that the social dynamics of global-climate-change-science (or "greenhouse research") may be understood in terms of a model of mutually reinforcing credibility cycles, linking science and politics.
25547887|Poverty reduction decorates all development agendas, but the complexity of the poverty issue is too often hidden behind simplistic indicators and development goals. Here, a closer look is taken at the concepts of "deprivation" and "vulnerability" as outcomes of poverty. Deprivation leads typically to social exclusion and marginalization; such groups are particularly weak in getting themselves out of poverty by "self-help," and economic growth does not trickle down to these people. When looking at the connections between poverty reduction and economic growth, special emphasis should be put on the differences between modern and more traditional sectors: development of the modern sector should not marginalize and exclude those dependent on more traditional livelihoods. Two case studies-The Tonle Sap area, Cambodia, and the Mekong Delta, Vietnam-reveal that investment in education, empowerment of small-scale entrepreneurship and other means of microeconomic environment, along with good governance, infrastructure, and income distribution can ensure that economic growth includes the poorer echelons of society.
4314234|Nutrient retention mechanisms in riparian buffer strips are reviewed with emphasis on surface runoff and subsurface flows, the main pathways of exchanges between the stream and its surroundings. Unique physical and biogeochemical properties prevailing in these riparian ecotones dictate the flux of water, nutrients and other exogenous substances between the upland areas and the stream. Removal of nutrients from surface inflows is induced by deposition of sediment bound nutrients and exchange of dissolved nutrients with the soil/litter surface. Removal of nitrogen in subsurface flows can partly be explained by vegetation uptake, but the main mechanism for removal is usually denitrification. In channelized streams, the subsurface inflows have, in most cases, been altered to discharges via drainage tiles, with the exchange flows (water leaving and re-entering the open-channel via the stream bed and banks) being greatly decreased. Consequently, to improve nitrogen removal in these systems, these flows have to be intercepted or re-established either through restoration of the old stream valley or through managed structures in the buffer strips.
24708863|Poor pesticide handling practices and risk-awareness among African farmers puts human health and the environment at risk. To investigate information available to farmers in Zanzibar (Tanzania), an interview study was conducted with retailers, and governmental pesticide importation to Zanzibar was examined. Pesticide retailers in Zanzibar did not have the necessary knowledge to safely handle or to advise farmers on proper use of pesticides. Licensed shop owners were rarely found in the shops; instead, untrained personnel were employed to sell the pesticides. Implementation of the legislation was weak, mainly due to lack of surveillance by governmental institutions. Poor governmental importation practices and unregulated private imports indicate serious weakness in the management of pesticide importation in Zanzibar. The situation calls for increased attention on the monitoring of pesticide importation and sales to protect the health of farmers and retailers, as well as the environment.
4314696|Institutions are the social rules that guide the design of strategies such as environmental management. Institutions can therefore significantly facilitate or hinder the realization of sustainable development. This paper relies on case studies of long-term waste management in Finland and California to explore institutional arrangements that facilitate the design of sustainable environmental management. The analytical focus is on the feedback between institutions and individual perceptions. Institutions influence the mental models with which individual decision makers understand environmental issues, and individual mental models in turn reinforce the institutional context. The main policy implication of the analysis is that long-term environmental considerations should, at the institutional level, be made the responsibility of independent social bodies that could pursue sustainability goals with autonomy and authority. The paper concludes with a discussion of potential technocratic and democratic modes of establishing autonomy for the long-term sustainability concerns in society.
4313118| Water quality in the Swedish river Bran and its affluent Saxn was assessed in 1975/76 and again in 1983, using the Allium test. Macroscopic and microscopic observations revealed damage in root tips of Allium grown in water from Bran but not in water from Saxn. The closing of the chemical factory on Bran producing phenoxyacetic acids, followed by cleanup of the area, has obviously improved the water quality in Bran. 
4314890|A vast collection of mammal-bone radiocarbon data makes possible the construction of histograms (at 1000-year intervals) based on 262 dates for various animals belonging to the "mammoth fauna" of the Asiatic polar region. The date distribution indicates a shift in biological habitats during the last 50 ka (50 000 yrs) in the continental and island areas. Mammoth fauna was uniformly distributed over the whole territory of northern Asia until the beginning of the Holocene. Later, mammoth fauna moved into marginal areas and its components then began to show some quantitative oscillations. Further evaluations of the variations that occurred require additional research and more radiocarbon data. However, environmental changes related to climatic warming and sea-level rise seem to be the main reasons behind the disappearance of the mammoth fauna.
4313988|Humic substances (HS) are considered as a variable background in an approach in which the total luminescence spectroscopy (TLS) technique was used for the analysis of organic pollutants dissolved in natural water. The high spectral variability of HS two-dimensional fluorescence spectra collected from sea areas in the central part of the English Channel along the southeastern coast of the North Sea, through Skagerrak and Kattegat, Southern and Central Baltic to the Gulf of Finland are shown. Four main types of 2-D fluorescence spectra characteristic of these water areas are pointed out. The possibilities for pollutant identification based on water 2-D spectra analyses using neutral network are discussed.
4313237|Marine mammals are by and large migratory animals, and they breed, swim and eat regardless of national boundaries. Thus, international conventions and treaties are necessary to manage and conserve them. The history of law as regards marine mammals is examined and shortcomings in the present system are scrutinized. The author suggests that increased cooperation among states through international organizations may help to ease some of the difficulties.
4314961|The concept of critical loads has been widely accepted as a basis for designing control strategies to reduce regional air pollution. Data from the "1000 lake survey" carried out in Norway in 1986 were used to derive a dose-response function for the probability of damage to fish populations as a function of the critical load exceedance, by means of a logistic regression model for fish damage. A corresponding function based on a fish damage database (brown trout, arctic char, and perch) and the national critical load database for Norway compared well with the derived dose-response function. When the critical load is not exceeded there is only a very small probability that the fish population will be damaged, but when the critical load is exceeded the chance of damage increases with the amount of exceedance. At critical load the probability of damage to fish populations is about 20. These results confirm that the critical load concept is a strong tool for estimating the extent of biological damage caused by long-range transported air pollution, and that prognoses based on this method can give reliable estimates of the extent of fish damage under future scenarios of acidic deposition.
4313375|Plant and animal biological resources provide the material basis for human life. Eighty percent of the food consumed by man is derived from twenty kinds of plants and animals. The genetic variation within each species that contributes to its gene pool is a very important attribute that is easily exhausted by unwise monoclonal overexploitation. The genetic variation in plant and animal species provides the requisite materials for sustaining and improving farm production, forestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, etc. Therefore, conservation of the full range of genetic variation within each species is essential for sustained human progress and for the continued development and utilization of biological resources.
4313962|Temperate and boreal forests develop naturally under nitrogen stress, whereas nitrogen deficiency limits tree growth. Increased combustion of fossil fuels and concentration of animal husbandry has resulted in increased emissions and deposition of nitrogen compounds to forest soils. The critical load for nitrogen, as a nutrient, is calculated for forests in the Nordic countries with a simple mass-balance method. The present deposition of nitrogen compounds exceeds calculated critical loads in large parts of the mapped areas, especially in the south. Accumulated nitrogen and current nitrogen deposition has resulted in changes in ground vegetation in areas where critical loads are exceeded.
4313066|Net exporters of energy in the 19th century, and modest per capita importers of coal and smaller amounts of oil in the 1950s, the island states of the Pacific (excluding Papua New Guinea and Fiji) are now dependent upon imports of refined petroleum fuels for about 96 percent of commercial energy consumption. This extreme dependence, due mainly to modernization during a period of historically low oil prices and a heavy energy demand in the transport sector, resulted in foreign exchange costs for oil typically reaching 40-200 percent of national export earnings by 1981. Although the Region has abundant and diverse indigenous biomass energy resources, which already account for half of total primary energy consumption, very little enters the cash economy. Attempts are being made to reduce the landed cost of oil, use it more efficiently, and replace it with local energy forms. The main opportunities are for power generation from hydro and biomass (including the ubiquitous coconut resource) and, for small loads in remote areas, photovoltaics.
25515825|Evidence is mounting regarding the significant extent and scope of long-term human modification of "pristine nature" in the neotropics. In Amazonia, recent studies point to the landscape imprint of human activity that has transformed the forests, savannas, soils, and waterways of the basin. In this report, we describe a massive meander cutoff in the Peruvian Amazon along the Ucayali River-the fifth-longest river in the Amazon basin-that was triggered by small-scale human actions and resulted in significant ecological and economic consequences for the region. The modern case of the Masisea cutoff-near the Amazonian port city of Pucallpa, Peru (285 000 inhabitants)-indicates that humans using simple tools can play a major role in transforming large meandering rivers and their floodplains.
4312958|This article describes the risk approach to basic medical care, giving Mozambique as an example of a developing country that is attempting, with varying degrees of success, to introduce primary health care to its citizens. This system emphasizes prevention rather than treatment. When treatment is required a triage system funnels patients into three different levels of care, depending on their condition.
4314944|Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and pH are key variables influencing mercury levels in freshwater biota. DOC complexes with mercury, facilitates its transport to and accumulation in aquatic ecosystems. Low pH favors the methylation and bioaccumulation of mercury in aquatic food chains. Mercury concentrations in predatory fish tend to be positively correlated with DOC and negatively correlated with pH. We encountered a similar pattern for fish-eating human populations in the upper Rio Negro, a black water tributary of the Amazon river. The highest levels of human contamination were encountered in affluents with exceptionally high DOC and low pH. When data from other Amazonian tributaries were included, a general pattern emerged. Hair mercury was positively correlated with river DOC and negatively correlated with pH. No clear effect of gold-mining activities was encountered. The results demonstrate the importance of river chemistry in determining the pattern of mercury contamination in the Amazon basin.
4314639|An overview of natural conditions and socioeconomic factors of the contemporary development of agriculture in the Baltic region of Russia is presented. Special attention is paid to the critical situation in agriculture and its economic, demographic and ecological consequences. Because of different circumstances and specific priorities in the regional policy of the Federal Government, rural areas in the Baltic region have suffered a drastic decline in population and agricultural production. In spite of the removal of former agricultural lands from usage, spontaneous eco-development in the region can not be considered as only positive. Optimization of land use with a precise indication of the geographical address for the policy recommendations is needed for the development of agriculture. Recommendations and concrete project proposals are proposed based on the territorial differences in the current types of agriculture.
4314860| We assessed the current status of fish populations (N = 39 093) in 32 303 Norwegian lakes in relation to the effects of acidification. The number of lost and reduced populations of the 6 most common species of fish in Norwegian lakes greater than 3.0 ha (
4312279|On May 18, 1977, the UN Secretary-General opened for signature the convention banning military or any other hostile use of environmental modification techniques having "widespread, long-lasting or severe effects", as a means of destruction, damage or injury to states party to the convention. An analysis of the text of the agreement, as well as of the understandings reached during the negotiations, reveals that the prohibition covers techniques which do not exist, or are the subject of scientific speculation, or which, if proved feasible, could hardly be used as rational weapons of war. Techniques which can produce more limited (that is, not widespread, long-lasting or severe) adverse effects, such as precipitation modification, have escaped proscription. And it is precisely these techniques that are likely to be used with hostile intent to influence the environment in a selected area, especially in tactical military operations, facilitating the effectiveness of other weapons. The author concludes that the ENMOD Convention has contributed very little to humanizing the methods of warfare.
4314501|This review is the first attempt to compare the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea, from an environmental viewpoint. These two seas are subjected to maninduced change and seriously threatened by increasing eutrophication and environmental deterioration. Both sea basins are isolated from the ocean by physical and ecological barriers. Following the glacial period, both seas were freshwater lakes; today they exhibit stratified conditions. The changes during the last decades can be related to pollution, large-scale changes within the catchment area, deterioration of habitats, overexploitation of living resources and biogeographical events (establishment of new species, extinction of indigenous biota). Examples of responses to multi-source stresses in primary production, phytoplankton, zooplankton, macrophytic, macrozoobenthic and fish communities are presented. Symptoms of ecosystem pathology, and mechanisms by which the two seas cope with stress, are discussed on local, regional and basinwide scales.
4315720| The Arctic environment, including sea ice, is changing. The impacts of these changes to Inuit and Iupiat ways of life vary from place to place, yet there are common themes as well. The study reported here involved an exchange of hunters, Elders, and others from Barrow, Alaska, USA, and Clyde River, Nunavut, Canada, as members of a larger research team that also included visiting scientists. Although the physical environments of Barrow and Clyde River are strikingly different, the uses of the marine environment by residents, including sea ice, had many common elements. In both locations, too, extensive changes have been observed in recent years, forcing local residents to respond in a variety of ways. Although generally in agreement or complementary to one another, scientific and indigenous knowledge of sea ice often reflect different perspectives and emphases. Making generalizations about impacts and responses is challenging and should therefore be approached with caution. Technology provides some potential assistance in adapting to changing sea ice, but by itself, it is insufficient and can sometimes have undesirable consequences. Reliable knowledge that can be applied under changing conditions is essential. Collaborative research and firsthand experience are critical to generating such new knowledge. 
24708999|Decades of acid deposition have caused acidification of lakes in Sweden. Here we use data for 3000 lakes to run the acidification model MAGIC and estimate historical and future acidification. The results indicate that beginning in about 1920 a progressively larger number of lakes in Sweden fell into the category of "not naturally acidified" (pH > 0.4). The peak in acidification was reached about 1985; since then many lakes have recovered in response to lower levels of acid deposition. Further recovery from acidification will occur by the year 2030 given implementation of agreed legislation for emissions of sulphur (S) and nitrogen (N) in Europe. But the number of catchments with soils being depleted in base cations will increase slightly. MAGIC-reconstructed history of acidification of lakes in Sweden agrees well with information on fish populations. Future acidification of Swedish lakes can be influenced by climate change as well as changes in forest harvest practices.
4313765|Biomass burning in Brazil's Amazon Basin was detected during the dry season of 1987 using 46 images of the AVHRR sensor on board the NOAA-9 satellite. A conservative estimate indicated 350 000 independent fires, corresponding possibly to about twenty million hectares of different types of vegetation burned, of which eight million were associated with recent deforestation. Giant smoke and haze clouds produced by the fires extended over millions of km
4315620|In order to assess the ecological sustainability of agricultural production systems, there is a need for effective tools. We describe an environmental systems analysis tool called SALSA (Systems Analysis for Sustainable Agriculture). It consists of substance/material flow models in which the simulation results are interpreted with life-cycle assessment methodology. The application of SALSA is demonstrated in a case study in which three different ways of producing pigs are compared with respect to energy input and the environmental impacts of global warming, eutrophication, and acidification. The scenario that combined a low-protein diet without soy meal with an improved manure-management technique with low nitrogen losses was the best for all impact categories studied. The strength of the SALSA models was their capacity to capture consequences of management options that had an influence on several processes on a farm, which enabled the type of complex studies we describe.
4313394|Most African governments are aiming to provide a supply of clean and safe water for rural people by the year 2000. Faced with a rapid population growth rate of four percent per annum (the highest in the world) and limited high-potential agricultural land, the Kenyan government recognizes the need to examine the problems and prospects of developing the water resources of the marginal semiarid areas for agricultural and domestic use. Wise management of the scarce resources of these areas entails an understanding of the factors which influence supply and demand of water and is a matter of urgency. Few studies exist on total or per capita water consumption in rural areas. This paper presents the results of a recent survey of rural agricultural and domestic water consumption in the Machakos district, an ecologically marginal area of Kenya.
4313852|Several mechanisms have been used to acquire land for tropical-forest reservations. Legislative designation of National Parks on government-owned land, condemnation of private land, debt swaps, and outright purchase of private lands for reserves may, however, be inappropriate strategies in areas occupied by extant indigenous populations. In areas where indigenous peoples have a strong conservation ethic, the creation of reserves under partial or complete aboriginal control represents a viable alternative to the more traditional forms of land acquisition. Recently, three significant rain-forest reserves were created in Samoa using alternative strategies. 1) A US National Park in American Samoa involves the long-term lease of customary lands with local chiefs forming an advisory board on park policy; 2) in the Falealupo peninsula in Western Samoa, a covenant was established between the villagers who pledged to preserve and manage a large rain forest and private donors who provided funds for the construction of an elementary school; 3) in Tafua, Western Samoa, a covenant was established between the village, which vowed to preserve and manage the forest, and the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (SNF) which provided funds for an elementary school and public works. These reserves suggest that under indigenous control robust solutions to the problems of rain-forest preservation can be achieved.
4314163|The Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems (GCTE) project has twin objectives: To predict the feedback effects of changes in terrestrial ecosystems on the atmosphere and climate; and, at a finer scale, the effects of global changes on the structure and function of natural and agro-ecosystems. The main feedback effects are via exchanges of energy, water and momentum, and changes in biogeochemistry. All these processes are affected by ecosystem composition; to obtain a quantitative understanding of the interactions involved, it is necessary to describe vegetation in terms of its functional characteristics, based on a generally applicable classification of Plant Functional Types (PFTs). Global-scale simulations of induced changes in ecosystem composition have progressed from non-dynamic, top-down models to mechanistic, ecophysiological models that predict PFTs and leaf-area index or biomass using plant responses to environmental conditions. Two such models are now being incorporated into General Circulation Models (GCMs), as first attempts at coupled atmosphere-biosphere models. Parallel developments include global-scale process models, which use fixed vegetation types to predict net primary production and nitrogen cycling, and a bottom-up modelling approach. The latter begins with detailed, mechanistic patch-scale models, extending to spatially variable versions involving landscape processes and gradually incorporating simplifying routines to allow for large data sets. The many implications of global change for agriculture are illustrated by two examples: Cereal crop-effects; and pests and diseases.
4315832|The main aims of the present study, conducted in the framework of the MONIQUA-Egadi Scientific Project, were twofold: first, to make the first step in the development and validation of an ecotoxicological approach for the assessment of marine pollution in coastal environments on the basis of a set of biomarker responses in new sentinel species; and second, to obtain preliminary information on environmental quality in an Italian marine protected area, the Egadi Islands (Sicily). Several cytochrome P450-dependent mixed-function oxidase activities were measured in the following sentinel species: rainbow wrasse Coris julis, gastropod limpet Patella caerulea, and sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus. The results suggest that specimens from the Favignana Harbor may be exposed to P450 inducers, whereas most of the other sites seem to share similar environmental quality. The proposed approach has potential for assessment of environmental quality in marine protected areas.
4315134|Understanding the mechanisms that govern biological diversity in various environments is one of the greatest challenges for the scientific community of today. Compared to terrestrial and benthic habitats, mechanisms regulating species diversity in planktonic ecosystems have been dealt with relatively little. This is mainly due to the scarcity of the experimental evidence from field studies where the multitude of spatiotemporal scales have been covered with sufficient resolution. This paper discusses the pecularities of the aquatic system as a growth environment for phytoplankton in comparison to terrestrial/connected systems. Examples of the regulation of species diversity in the Baltic Sea are presented.
40730866|Ongoing eutrophication is changing the Baltic Sea ecosystem. Aquaculture causes relatively small-scale nutrient emissions, but local environmental impact may be considerable. We used substance flow analysis (SFA) to identify and quantify the most significant flows and stocks of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) related to rainbow trout aquaculture in Finland. In 2004-2007, the input of nutrients to the system in the form of fish feed was 829 t N year and 115 t P year 1Around one-fifth of these nutrients ended up as food for human consumption. Of the primary input, 70% ended up in the Baltic Sea, directly from aquaculture and indirectly through waste management. The nutrient cycle could be closed partially by using local fish instead of imported fish in rainbow trout feed, thus reducing the net load of N and P to a fraction.
24708971|This paper presents an analysis of present and future hydrological conditions at the Forsmark site in Sweden, which has been proposed as the site for a geological repository for spent nuclear fuel. Forsmark is a coastal site that changes in response to shoreline displacement. In the considered time frame (until year 10 000 AD), the hydrological system will be affected by landscape succession associated with shoreline displacement and changes in vegetation, regolith stratigraphy, and climate. Based on extensive site investigations and modeling of present hydrological conditions, the effects of different processes on future site hydrology are quantified. As expected, shoreline displacement has a strong effect on local hydrology (e.g., groundwater flow) in areas that change from sea to land. The comparison between present and future land areas emphasizes the importance of climate variables relative to other factors for main hydrological features such as water balances.
4314476|This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of water management and the application of rice straw on methane emissions from paddy soil. Sixteen static chambers were installed in eight experimental plots. Methane emissions were monitored during the entire rice growing season in Suwon, Korea. Air samples, collected from the closed static chambers, were analyzed by using gas chromatography. Intermittent irrigation reduced methane emissions by 36% compared to flooding. The incorporation of well-decomposed rice straw (rice straw compost) before transplanting reduced methane emissions by as much as 49% relative to rice straw amendment. In addition, the incorporation of fresh rice straw three months before transplanting reduced methane emissions by 23%. Both intermittent irrigation and incorporation of decomposed rice straw, which are common practices for Korean farmers, proved to be effective in reducing methane emissions from rice fields in Korea.
4315668|Over the course of the 20th century, fossil fuels became the dominant energy input to most of the world's fisheries. Although various analyses have quantified fuel inputs to individual fisheries, to date, no attempt has been made to quantify the global scale and to map the distribution of fuel consumed by fisheries. By integrating data representing more than 250 fisheries from around the world with spatially resolved catch statistics for 2000, we calculate that globally, fisheries burned almost 50 billion L of fuel in the process of landing just over 80 million t of marine fish and invertebrates for an average rate of 620 L
4315526|Historically, the function of Arctic ecosystems in terms of cycles of nutrients and carbon has led to low levels of primary production and exchanges of energy, water and greenhouse gases have led to low local and regional cooling. Sequestration of carbon from atmospheric CO
40928412|Riparian forests (RF) growing along streams, rivers and lakes comprise more than 2% of the forest area in the Nordic countries (considering a 10 m wide zone from the water body). They have special ecological functions in the landscape. They receive water and nutrients from the upslope areas, are important habitats for biodiversity, have large soil carbon stores, but may emit more greenhouse gases (GHG) than the uplands. In this article, we present a review of the environmental services related to water protection, terrestrial biodiversity, carbon storage and greenhouse gas dynamics provided by RF in the Nordic countries. We discuss the benefits and trade-offs when leaving the RF as a buffer against the impacts from upland forest management, in particular the impacts of clear cutting. Forest buffers are effective in protecting water quality and aquatic life, and have positive effects on terrestrial biodiversity, particularly when broader than 40 m, whereas the effect on the greenhouse gas exchange is unclear.
4314159|The compilation and analysis of geological and biological data from terrestrial environments form important elements in the Past Global Changes (PAGES) project of the international Geosphere-Biosphere Programme. Palaeodata provide the principal means of extending the limited instrumental and historical record of past changes in terrestrial (including freshwater) ecosystems. This paper focuses on specific examples of state-of-the-art research that highlight the potential contribution of palaeodata to the IGBP as a whole. They include: glacial/interglacial changes in carbon storage on land; the feedback effects of variations in atmospheric CO
4315676|Despite the important role that tropical forests play in human existence, their depletion, especially in the developing world, continue relentlessly. Agriculture has been cited as the major cause of this depletion. This paper discusses two main theoretical underpinnings for the role of agriculture in tropical deforestation. First, the forest biomass as input in agricultural production, and second, the competition between agriculture and forestry underlined by their relative marginal benefits. These are supported by empirical evidence from selected countries in Africa and South America. The paper suggests a need to find a win-win situation to control the spate of tropical deforestation. This may imply improved technologies in the agriculture sector in the developing world, which would lead both to increased production in the agriculture sector, and would also help control the use of tropical forest as an input in agriculture production.
4315411|The transport of organic and inorganic material in 10 Norwegian rivers has been monitored from 1990 to 1998. The suspended material in the rivers consisted of 40-80% organic materials. A major part of this was DOC with a C/N mole ratio > 25. The C/N ratio of the organic material increases with increasing river flow when drained from forest-dominated catchments, in contrast to mountain dominated catchments where variation in runoff does not influence the C/N ratio. Laboratory experiments showed that more than 90% of the DOC remained in solution when salinity increased to 30. The flocculated and settled material contained less than 5% organic material with a C/N ratio of 6.7-12.4, comparable to C/N ratios in cultivated soils and coastal marine sediments. This confirms that only a minor amount of organic material carried to the sea by rivers settles in the coastal zone.
24708989|This paper examines the recent appearance of four migratory species in the Upper Mekong: Dasyatis laosensis, Anguilla bicolor, Anguilla marmorata, and Chitala ornata. Since 2006 these species have been continually sampled in an area below Jinghong Dam in Xishuangbanna, China. This region is far beyond their historical upstream distribution, and the reasons for these appearances and their subsequent impact on river ecosystem are considered.
24708858|Megacities are not only important drivers for socio-economic development but also sources of environmental challenges. Many megacities and large urban agglomerations are located in the coastal zone where land, atmosphere, and ocean meet, posing multiple environmental challenges which we consider here. The atmospheric flow around megacities is complicated by urban heat island effects and topographic flows and sea breezes and influences air pollution and human health. The outflow of polluted air over the ocean perturbs biogeochemical processes. Contaminant inputs can damage downstream coastal zone ecosystem function and resources including fisheries, induce harmful algal blooms and feedback to the atmosphere via marine emissions. The scale of influence of megacities in the coastal zone is hundreds to thousands of kilometers in the atmosphere and tens to hundreds of kilometers in the ocean. We list research needs to further our understanding of coastal megacities with the ultimate aim to improve their environmental management.
4313815|Examined here are two recent episodes of drought that occurred in western Ethiopia, Sudan and elsewhere in the Sahelian zone immediately south of the Sahara during the periods 1968-1973 and 1979-1984. These are shown to have followed on a series of similar episodes during the earlier decades of the 1900s. Another disaster of drought, war and famine struck western Ethiopia and Sudan in 1990-1991. The zone has been arid for the past 4000 years at least. The dryland degradation associated with episodes of drought is considered to result from a combination of climatic and human impact factors. It is suggested that recently elucidated correlations between the Sahelian drought episodes and oceanic temperatures and circulation lead to the possibility of developing a predictive system for Sahelian droughts. However, to establish a functional early-warning system will require a sustained trans-disciplinary research and development effort of some magnitude.
41417249|This article uses a case study in Southeast China to demonstrate how the substantial changes in rural livelihoods have been driven by a combination of "pull" forces from external economic development, and "push" forces from local areas, leading to a shift in rural household economic activities: household outmigration and de-population of the countryside, changes in energy consumption, and most importantly, changes in land uses and eventually, ecological restoration. Such dramatic changes are becoming common across the Chinese countryside. It is pointed out that economic development has generally caused a deterioration of the environment at least at the early period of economic growth, but the positive impacts, especially in some ecosystem in rural areas, have become more apparent.
4313799|Closely determined (2 mm intervals) diatom stratigraphy coupled with lead-210 estimated sedimentation rates indicated that recent changes in the relative abundance of diatom pH indicator assemblages provided evidence of lake deacidification in Sudbury and Algoma area lakes. This is the first report of evidence for lake deacidification occurring in the Algoma Region. One hundred and fifty lakes north of Sudbury, Ontario were cored during the summer of 1986. The cores from 2 of these lakes were selected for sectioning on the basis of their apparent lack of bioturbation. The 2-mm thick sections from the shallower of these two lakes (Lake 29B) revealed a significant (P < 0.05) upcore increase in diatom-inferred pH from 4.3 (c. 1983) to 5.0 in 1986. This reduction in acidity was attributed to the reduction in SO<sub>2</sub> loadings in the region around Sudbury, following the closure of the Coniston smelter in 1972, the construction of the 381-m high superstack by Inco in 1972 and the government regulated reductions in SO<sub>2</sub> loadings. A similar study of 150 lakes in the Algoma District north of Lake Superior indicated that there was also evidence of deacidification in one of two lakes located downwind of iron smelters of Sault Ste. Marie.
4314077|The potential risks of unintentional releases of genetically modified organisms, and the lack of predictable behavior of these in the environment are topics which are the subject of considerable concern. This concern is accentuated in connection with the next phase of gene technology comprising deliberate releases. The possibilities of reducing such potential risks and increasing the predictability of the organisms are discussed for genetically engineered bacteria. Different approaches towards designing disabled strains without seriously reducing their beneficial effects are presented. Principally, two types of strain design are discussed: Actively contained bacteria based on the introduction of controlled suicide systems; and passively contained strains based on genetic interference with their survival under environmental stress conditions.
4312516|Environmental monitoring systems are now developing in an ad hoc manner. For the most part they are based on economic, engineering and technocratic approaches which inadequately reflect the complex relationships between human activities and the environment. An ecological approach, consisting of a taxonomy of major stresses and a characterization of ecosystem responses to those stresses, provides a framework which enables decision-makers and the public to understand the states and transformations of nature.
4312814|Royal Chitwan National Park has been successful in restoring depleted populations of rhino and tiger in Nepal's Terai region. But this success has been achieved at the price of direct conflict between park authorities and the local people. The restrictions imposed by park regulations, and losses of livestock, crops, and human lives to game from the park are the principal causes of these conflicts. Park authorities have experimented with public relations efforts at the community level, and an annual harvest of thatch grass as compensation for losses, as ways of ameliorating the villagers resentment. Expected benefits from tourism have not materialized, and tourism revenues do not meet government financial inputs. Few jobs in tourism go to local residents.
4315513|Changes in boreal climate of the magnitude projected for the 21st century have always caused vegetation changes large enough to be societally important. However, the rates and patterns of vegetation change are difficult to predict. We review evidence suggesting that these vegetation changes may be gradual at the northern forest limit or where seed dispersal limits species distribution. However, forest composition may be quite resilient to climate change in the central portions of a species range until some threshold is surpassed. At this point, changes can be rapid and unexpected, often causing a switch to very different ecosystem types. Many of these triggers for change are amenable to management, suggesting that our choice of policies in the coming decades will substantially influence the ecological and societal consequences of current climatic change.
4315719|Unprecedented global changes caused by human actions challenge society's ability to sustain the desirable features of our planet. This requires proactive management of change to foster both resilience (sustaining those attributes that are important to society in the face of change) and adaptation (developing new socioecological configurations that function effectively under new conditions). The Arctic may be one of the last remaining opportunities to plan for change in a spatially extensive region where many of the ancestral ecological and social processes and feedbacks are still intact. If the feasibility of this strategy can be demonstrated in the Arctic, our improved understanding of the dynamics of change can be applied to regions with greater human modification. Conditions may now be ideal to implement policies to manage Arctic change because recent studies provide the essential scientific understanding, appropriate international institutions are in place, and Arctic nations have the wealth to institute necessary changes, if they choose to do so.
4312299| The placental and mammary transfer of two pure chlorobiphenyls-2,4,5-trichlorobiphenyl (TCB) and 2,2,4,4,5,5-hexachlorobiphenyl (HCB)-have been studied in mice. The frequency of pregnancies and the number of fetuses per female among mice prenatally and postnatally exposed to either of the two chlorobiphenyls were also recorded. It is obvious from the results that fetuses and sucklings of females given low doses of the HCB are exposed to greater amounts of chlorobiphenyls than those of females given similar doses of the TCB. The results also indicate that the enzymes essential for the breakdown of the TCB are already present in sucklings less than 12 days after birth. Neither chlorobiphenyl had any demonstrated effect on the reproductive capacity. 
4312010|Synergistic effects of three interacting heavy metals ( HgCl
4315667|The growing gray seal population in the Baltic Sea has led to increased conflicts with fisheries. Despite limited data on gray seal ecology, management measures, such as culling, have been implemented recently. We studied movements and site fidelity of Baltic gray seals using mark-recapture analysis based on photographic identification of individuals (photo-id). Seals were photographed at the major summer haul-out sites. Profile photographs of the head and neck were matched using purpose-written software to generate a database of capture histories from 1995-2000. The haul-outs were grouped into seven areas. Darroch's method (20) for a two-sample capture-recapture census was adapted to estimate rates of movement between the areas. The majority of seals were estimated to remain within the same area, suggesting that Baltic gray seals exhibit a high degree of site fidelity during the summer, and that fidelity to a site lasts for more than one season.
25094575|Feedbacks, or internal interactions, play a crucial role in the climate system. Negative feedback will reduce the impact of an external perturbation, a positive feedback will amplify the effect and could lead to an unstable system. Many of the feedbacks found in the climate system are positive; thus, for example, increasing
4314927|In this paper, lessons learnt from a 25-year old conservation program in the Kondoa Highlands of Dodoma Region in central Tanzania are presented. The area has been the focus of the soil and water conservation program commonly known as Hifadhi Ardhi Dodoma (HADO). It started being implemented during the 1973/74 financial year. The paper presents an almost 10-year ongoing research program in the same area as the HADO program has been operating. This research program is commonly known as Man Land Interrelations in Semi-Arid Tanzania (MALISATA). Preparations for the MALISATA research program started in 1989, but it was not until 1991 that research started. Thus, MALISATA started almost 18 years after the HADO program had been in operation. The implications of this are also discussed in the paper. An overview of land conservation in Tanzania is provided as a background to the breakdown of law and order in resource management and conservation, in order to provide background for the emergence of soil and water conservation programs. The renewal of conservation initiatives hence the start of HADO, and many other soil and water conservation programs are discussed.
4312228| The enrichment of lead in the shells of Mytilus edulis has been studied. The animals were bred in tanks with seawater, spiked with lead at concentrations of 0, 0.02, 0.10 and 0.50 g Pb/g seawater. The shells were fractioned into periostracum, calcitic and calcitic/aragonitic calcium carbonate and intercrystalline organic matrix. The samples were analyzed with the differential pulse anodic stripping technique (DPAS). All of the examined fractions were found to concentrate lead; the highest values were found in older parts of the periostracum and in the newly formed calcium carbonate. 
4315080|Small-scale gold mining in southern Ecuador is causing considerable environmental impacts, the most important of which are related to the discharge of metals, metalloids and cyanide into adjacent rivers. In the rivers, these con-taminants are generally not present in water-soluble forms, but are instead associated with suspended particles and river bed sediment. However, elevated levels in biota show these contaminants to be readily bioavailable. These results suggest a need to consider the suspended and sediment phases when evaluating water-quality impacts, and in setting appropriate environmental water quality standards. Contaminant discharges are almost entirely caused by inadequate management of the waste products derived from mining and processing activities, indicating a failure of policy and public supervision to control the mining activities, as well as a general difficulty in achieving good environmental performance among small-scale miners. These findings suggest that Ecuadorian policy needs to develop to enable small scale and artisanal miners to become larger scale.
4312903|Everglades National Park includes only the downstream portion of a much larger wetlands system that once reached from Lake Okeechobee to the Gulf of Mexico. The park contains many habitat types: wetland marsh, pine forest, hardwood forests, a vast mangrove estuary, and shallow bays. The last suitable habitat for many species of endangered wildlife is within the park's boundaries, and park estuaries support an impressive regional fishery. However, because of the park's geographical location at the bottom of the drainage, it is subject to sometimes adverse water management practices. Changes in the quantity and time of delivery of water flowing into Everglades National Park have upset the marsh's ecological balance. The park is undertaking an intense research effort to correct many of the unfavorable upstream water management practices.
25547831|Humans have continuously interacted with natural systems, resulting in the formation and development of coupled human and natural systems (CHANS). Recent studies reveal the complexity of organizational, spatial, and temporal couplings of CHANS. These couplings have evolved from direct to more indirect interactions, from adjacent to more distant linkages, from local to global scales, and from simple to complex patterns and processes. Untangling complexities, such as reciprocal effects and emergent properties, can lead to novel scientific discoveries and is essential to developing effective policies for ecological and socioeconomic sustainability. Opportunities for truly integrating various disciplines are emerging to address fundamental questions about CHANS and meet society's unprecedented challenges.
4315451|Lake Victoria is an international waterbody that offers the riparian communities a large number of extremely important environmental services. Over the past three decades or so, the lake has come under increasing and considerable pressure from a variety of interlinked human activities such as overfishing, species introductions, industrial pollution, eutrophication, and sedimentation. In this paper we examine the root causes for overfishing and pollution in Lake Victoria and give possible policy options that can help remediate or mitigate the environmental degradation.
4315406|In this paper, the processes that affect mercury (Hg) cycling in the Amazonian environment were reviewed, criticized and new directions of research are proposed. The discussion of the origin of the mercury contamination, whether natural or anthropogenic is marked by a lack of fundamented arguments from both sides. Undoubtedly mercury inputs from gold mining have locally increased environmental concentrations, but in the whole Amazon, these loads would be insignificant, considering the high concentrations observed by some authors in remote soils. A reasonable process that should explain these elevated concentrations in soil is that B horizons function as a mercury "sponge" that have been accumulating mercury over a geological time scale, releasing it back to cycling during erosion and forest fires. The environmental degradation of the Amazonian forest due to human activities is probably enhancing the release of that mercury to the cycle. Mercury transformations in reduced, anoxic environments-sediments and waters-are also a key problem for the understanding of the environmental methylation. The studies that have been carried out in the Amazonian environment are too restricted and results permit only circumstantial conclusions. Large efforts must be directed to monitoring programs considering time and space variability.
4314182|In an area of small-scale gold mining in southern Colombia, data for toxic trace-metal pollution: nickerl, chrome, lead, zinc, mercury, cadmium and arsenic (Ni, Cr, Pb, Zn, Hg, Cd, As) have been determined in stream sediments. Analyses have been carried out using AAS and AES/ICP techniques. The data show different contamination factors due to different mining processes, and give hints on possible severe pollution of downstream areas, especially by Hg and As. The risks involved include contamination of drinking water and agricultural products and introduction of toxic elements into the food chain. Possible solutions to the problems are discussed.
4312079|The mutagenicity of vinyl chloride was studied in Salmonella typhimurium by means of reversion of histidine dependence. Liver cell preparations containing microsomes from rats were added according to Ames' system in order to mimic metabolic conversions in the mammalian body. Vinyl chloride caused point mutations, but only at the presence of liver microsomes, indicating that the mutagenic action of vinyl chloride requires a metabolic activation. Although the active metabolite is not know, the most plausible suggestion would be an epoxide. From the data on different strains of Salmonella it can be concluded that vinyl chloride causes base pair substitution in DNA, but no deletions or insertions of bases.
4312239|Rainfall and water supplies vary with respect to time considerably more in arid and semi-arid regions than in temperate, humid regions. Food production in these areas is therefore much less stable. Developing countries on account of their geographical location, are often affected by such fluctuations. Because of this, and because compensatory measures have been implemented to a limited extent only, consequences on a catastrophic scale are often experienced.
4313973|Tropical forestry has over the past decade received increased attention in view of its supposed potential to contribute to a reduction of the greenhouse effect. Two forestry strategies are described to this end; forest conservation and expansion of the forest area. For both strategies a realistic maximum area to be preserved/planted is estimated. These estimates are based on predictions of population growth and land-use developments in 117 tropical countries as well as wood utilization trends and market developments for forest products. It is concluded that from the viewpoint of sequestering carbon dioxide, 15 countries have a major potential for forest conservation, whereas afforestation efforts should concentrate on 11 countries. The article estimates that the contribution of such global forest conservation and afforestation to reduce atmospheric carbon content, is at best moderate. Furthermore, a comparison of these maximum figures for forest conservation and afforestation with the current effort in tropical forestry as carried out in the framework of the Forestry Action Plan, reveals that a dramatic increase of activities is needed in order to have an impact on atmospheric carbon concentrations. The paper concludes that it is not realistic to boost tropical forestry for the sake of sequestering carbon dioxide alone. Rather tropical forestry should focus on other more direct benefits whereas the fixation of carbon should be seen as a positive side-effect.
4313471|One of the new concepts that emerged from the Third Law of the Sea Conference is that of the exclusive economic zone. Coastal states, particularly developing countries, have, by extending their fisheries jurisdiction to 200 nautical miles, acquired considerable problems of enforcement because of physical and economic cost involved. To minimize these, developing countries in the South Pacific are cooperating through the South Pacific Forum Fisheries Agency Convention, inter alia, to devise new strategies of enforcement. A most useful device adopted has been compilation of a Regional Register of Fishing Vessels in "good standing."
25547810|Conflicts between the conservation of biodiversity and other human activities have been and continue to be of increasing concern in the European Union, often having important political, economic, and environmental repercussions. These conflicts have been addressed in the European Union by using a wide array of top down and bottom up tools, with varying degrees of success. A new challenge is now facing Europe with the integration of 10 new countries in the European Union (EU) and an additional range of biodiversity-rich habitats placed under EU legislation. The rich biodiversity of the central and eastern European countries (CEEC) is likely to be threatened by some aspects of the integration process, and conflicts between the conservation of biodiversity and other human activities are expected. In this paper, we review certain existing conflicts between biodiversity conservation and human activities in the CEEC, expected conflicts associated with integration to the EU, particularly in terms of new policy and legislation implementation, and, finally, explore possible conflict management options.
4313554|Acidified ecosystems have been studied scientifically for about two centuries, with a gradual increase in knowledge that has accelerated greatly during the last 60-70 years. Studies of anthropogenic acid deposition date back 135 years, and knowledge of its effects upon ecosystems has increased rapidly in the last 30 years.
24708798|This paper evaluates the feasibility of establishing a multiple-use marine protected area. The methodology was applied to evaluate three proposed sites in Chile with diverse conservation needs, social stress and poverty levels, and different economic activities (small-scale fishing, heavy industry, and mining activities). We use two broad categories for the evaluation: socio-economic and politicalinstitutional. The methodology uses a combination of secondary data with personal interviews, workshops, and focus groups with stakeholders (e.g., fishermen, unions, politicians, social organizations) from different political, social, and economic backgrounds to characterize current and potential natural and social resources and to evaluate in an ordinal scale the feasibility of establishing the protected area. The methodology allows us to correctly identify the challenges faced in each site and can be used to develop appropriate strategies for balancing economic, social, and environmental objectives. This methodology can be replicated to evaluate the feasibility of other marine or terrestrial protected areas.
4315098|In Orissa 100 thousand ha of village plantations were established from 1985 to 1992 as an aid project to support the subsistence needs of rural poor and to relieve heavy pressure on the natural forests. The aim of this paper is to examine the welfare and environmental effects of these village plantations. To do this, extensive data collection was needed which included both household utilization of different sources of biomass as well as remote-sensing information, to establish the status of the vegetation and it's spatial location vis-a-vis the users. The study shows that plantations have the potential for substantial welfare improvements for the target population, especially women, through increased consumption of biomass, decreased time for collection and decreased pressure on natural forests. However, interventions need to be very selective in order to be successful, with special consideration given to plantation location compared to natural forest.
4313722|An international consensus now exists on the desirability of a global greenhouse-gas convention and associated protocols. The principal goal of these international agreements should be to implement effective responses to the threat of global warming as rapidly as possible through the establishment of specific obligations designed to reverse the ongoing atmospheric buildup of greenhouse gases. The fundamental requirements of an effective response are now clear, and the menu of policy options is already large. For this reason, a greenhouse-gas convention analogous to the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Layer should establish global goals for future emissions of greenhouse gases, and at a minimum for CO
4315469| In the Hetao region in northern China drinking water has become toxic due to the presence of arsenic (As) and other heavy metals in soil and water. The 7 counties in this region cover approx. 6100 km
4314185| At present, numerous studies are devoted to changes in the Earth's climate. Besides changes in temperature and precipitation regimes, changes in radiation transfer in the atmosphere and in the resulting radiation regime on the ground have been obvious. Based on the actinometric measurements data obtained at Travere Actinometric Station (Estonia, 58 16N, 26 28E) during more than 30 years, long-term changes in radiation budget (net radiation) and its components are examined as well as changes in atmospheric transparency and cloudiness. The analysis has shown marked decreasing trends (significance by Student parameter p  0.05) of direct solar radiation (14.1%); global radiation (6.4%); reflected radiation (20.6%); and atmospheric transparency (3.7%). However, annual values of net radiation, its longwave component and low cloudiness, have increased during recent decades by 33.0%, 31.2%, and 11%, respectively. Human activities are considered as a possible reason for the trends described. 
25547892|The effort toward restoring lost mangroves in the Philippines has been commendably immense, specifically during the past two decades. In light of such, it is important to evaluate outcomes and, where appropriate, apply the lessons learned to the current strategies in mangrove forest management. This article synthesizes the results from several research projects assessing the performance of planted mangroves across the country. Overall, there is a widespread tendency to plant mangroves in areas that are not the natural habitat of mangroves, converting mudflats, sandflats, and seagrass meadows into often monospecific Rhizophora mangrove forests. In these nonmangrove areas, the Rhizophora seedlings experienced high mortality. Of the few that survived (often through persistent and redundant replanting), the young Rhizophora individuals planted in these nonmangrove and often low intertidal zones had dismally stunted growth relative to the corresponding growth performance of individuals thriving at the high intertidal position and natural mangrove sites. From this evidence, this article argues that a more rational focus of the restoration effort should be the replanting of mangroves in the brackish-water aquaculture pond environments, the original habitat of mangroves. For such, a number of management options can be explored, the implementation of which will ultimately depend on the political will of local and national governments.
4312293|Recent advances in molecular genetics have made it possible to introduce genes from any living organism into the bacterium Escherichia coli and eventually, presumably, into other organisms. The so-called "Recombinant DNA Methodology" promises to revolutionize our knowledge and the practice of molecular biology; it also can provide great rewards for medicine, agriculture and industry. But these experiments were suspected of posing certain potential risks: the construction of organisms with enhanced pathogenicity or greater resistance to treatment; the dissemination or redistribution of genetic elements to a wide variety of living organisms. These concerns provoked an appeal by a group of American scientists for a pause in certain types of recombinant DNA experiments. Subsequently, a conference of experts from throughout the world met to consider these issues and to make recommendations for how to proceed. The conference proposed that most kinds of recombinant DNA research should proceed using appropriate safeguards, principally biological and physical barriers, adequate to contain the newly created organisms. In the United States and other countries, these recommendations have been incorporated into guidelines that govern the conduct of such research.
4315488|River flow to the Baltic Sea originates under a range of different climate regimes in a drainage basin covering some 1 600 000 km
4314792|We investigated changes in land use between 1945 and 1996, as well as current farm-management practices, to identify factors which may be intervening to prevent or delay the negative impact of population growth on the environment in Kabale District, Uganda. Transects conducted in 1945 provided the baseline against which we measured changes in land use; we also interviewed farmers concerning their management of individual fields. We found that a higher proportion of land was being left to fallow in 1996 than in 1945. Grazing land has been relocated from marginal land on steep back slopes to valley pastures reclaimed from wetlands. In 1996, the land allocated for woodlots was more than double that in 1945. Farmers are using fallow, animal manure, household compost and mulching to improve soil fertility. Changes in land use and current farm management techniques may have contributed to the apparent lack of severe land degradation in the area.
4314530|Harvesting natural populations is practiced for many animal and plant species and frequently constitutes a part of the management of those populations. Similarly, enhancement through the release of captively bred animals and cultivated plants is an increasingly common practice in the management and protection of biological resources. Both harvest and enhancement may, however, constitute potential threats to biodiversity at the gene level. Many of these perils are not recognized today, and strategies for carrying out these activities in a genetically sustainable manner are largely lacking. The potentially negative effects on intraspecific biodiversity caused by harvest and enhancement are particularly serious when managing economically important species since those programs are typically carried out on a very large scale. Contrary to the potential perils associated with high technology DNA engineering and the release, or escape, of transgenic organisms, these genetic manipulations presently attract very little attention.
4313834|Ranching and logging operations are transforming the moist tropical forests of an eastern Amazonian landscape into a mosaic of pastures and regrowth forests. The new ecosystems of this region are agriculturally unproductive, biologically impoverished, and far more flammable than the mature forests they replace; hydrologic differences between the new and old ecosystems are unknown and potentially large. In the absence of fire, the forest regrows on abandoned sites, accumulating biomass and species at a rate that is inversely related to the intensity of use prior to abandonment. Forest regrows slowest on those rare abandoned pastures that were once scraped with bulldozers. The grass- and shrub-dominated old fields that form on some of these sites resist forest regrowth because of numerous barriers to tree establishment and growth, including: low propagule availability, seed predation, seedling predation, seasonal drought, and root competition with old field vegetation. Knowledge of these barriers provides a basis for developing inexpensive techniques to restore agricultural productivity in old fields by implanting tree-based agricultural systems or to restore forest regenerative capacity in old fields by establishing trees that attract seed-carrying animals and ameliorate harsh environmental conditions. These restoration techniques will be needed over large areas of Amazonia if current attempts to reform degraded pasture fail.
4314754| Atmospheric deposition is one source of persistent pollutants such as polychlorinated biphenyis (PCB) in aquatic environments. Other point sources can also contribute to the PCB loadings in the water. In Emn river, in southeast Sweden, contaminated sediment was a source of PCB, the largest deposits of it being found in a small lake (Lake Jrnsjn) connected with the river, the sediment contained about 400 kg of PCB. The concentrations of PCB in the water and in the fish were more elevated downstream from the lake than at upstream sites. Jrnsjn was cleaned-up by dredging in 1993 and 1994. The dredged sediment, estimated to contain over 95% of the PCB in the lake, was deposited in a landfill. Monitoring carried on for 2-years following completion of the remediation showed there to be a decrease in the PCB concentration in the water of the lake. The PCB was found to vary seasonally with water discharge and with temperature. The PCB concentration was highest at low water discharge and high temperature. Both the levels of PCB and the variations in these levels approached those found at an upstream location. Upstream, precipitation was found to be the main source of PCB during high water discharge, desorption from the sediment prevailing under conditions of low water discharge. In the summer of 1996, nearly 2 years after remediation had been completed, an investigation of the PCB concentrations in the fish of the river system was conducted. This investigation was a repetition of one made in 1991, prior to remediation. It showed that after remediation the concentration of PCB in 1-yr old fish in Jrnsjn had been halved. 
4312315|In the Mediterranean area, specific hydrographic and ecological conditions necessitate close cooperation among all the nations of the region to protect the marine environment from pollution. The legal framework for such international cooperation was established by the Convention for the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea Against Pollution, on February 16, 1976, in Barcelona. Besides agreeing to prevent, abate and combat pollution in all its forms, the contracting parties committed themselves to the formulation and adoption of protocols for the implementation of the Convention. A protocol on dumping and one on cooperation in cases of emergency were adopted at the same date as the Convention. A protocol on pollution from land-based sources is under consideration. By adopting these instruments, under the auspices of UNEP, and with the valuable cooperation of FAO, IMCO and WHO, the Mediterranean States have shown that political differences can be put aside to improve the quality of life in the Mediterranean.
4315222|Aquatic ecosystems respond variably to nutrient enrichment and altered nutrient ratios, along a continuum from fresh water through estuarine, coastal, and marine systems. Although phosphorus is considered the limiting nutrient for phytoplankton production in freshwater systems, the effects of atmospheric nitrogen and its contribution to acidification of fresh waters can be detrimental. Within the estuarine to coastal continuum, multiple nutrient limitations occur among nitrogen, phosphorus, and silicon along the salinity gradient and by season, but nitrogen is generally considered the primary limiting nutrient for phytoplankton biomass accumulation. There are well-established, but nonlinear, positive relationships among nitrogen and phosphorus flux, phytoplankton primary production, and fisheries yield. There are thresholds, however, where the load of nutrients to estuarine, coastal and marine systems exceeds the capacity for assimilation of nutrient-enhanced production, and water-quality degradation occurs. Impacts can include noxious and toxic algal blooms, increased turbidity with a subsequent loss of submerged aquatic vegetation, oxygen deficiency, disruption of ecosystem functioning, loss of habitat, loss of biodiversity, shifts in food webs, and loss of harvestable fisheries.
4314717|In 1995 the writer assessed the feasibility of designating Karanambu ranch in the northern Rupununi savannah, Guyana, as a protected area. Karanambu is one of Guyana's leading ecotourism destinations, popular because of the well-publicised interest of its owner, Diane McTurk, in conserving the endangered giant river otter (Pteronura brasiliensis). It had been suggested that such a protected area could be financed by expanding the existing ecotourism operations and connected with development programs benefitting local Macusi Amerindian com-munities. However, questions soon emerged concerning potential conflicts with Amerindian land rights and the effect that a protected area would have on traditional resource-management practices. Fieldwork was carried out between April and November 1995 involving Rapid Rural Appraisal of local indigenous Macusi communities, combined with an Environmental Impact Analysis at Karanambu. The study recommended the establishment of a research station at Karanambu accompanied by a small Nature Reserve, rather than a more extensive protected area. This station, already under construction, will provide a focus for visiting scientists and increase the sustainable ecotourism potential of the ranch. It is to be combined with wildlife farming to provide additional employment and economic opportunities for local communities.
25515829|Wetlands are among the most valuable ecosystems in the world and are crucial in supporting biodiversity. They also provide space for storing surface waters, where intense biological processing occurs that helps improve water quality. Human activities, particularly irrigated agriculture and urban developments instigating water diversions from rivers, have altered the hydrology of most wetlands. The Lower Murrumbidgee wetland, located in the Murrumbidgee River Catchment, is an example and is one of the significant wetlands across the Murray Darling Basin of Australia. Historic estimates show the volumes of water ranged from none in dry years to about 300 to 400 GL (1 GL = 10 L) in an average and wet year, respectively. The flows reaching the Lower Murrumbidgee wetland have been drastically reduced by at least 60% because of the upstream diversions introduced during the last century. These reductions have adversely affected the health of natural vegetation and agricultural crops in the Lower Murrumbidgee floodplain. This article presents the results of the quantification of total water consumption of various land uses in the Lower Murrumbidgee floodplain using the remote sensing-based Surface Energy Balance Algorithm for Land (SEBAL) modeling approach. The spatial analysis of actual evapotranspiration (ET) shows that ET rates are the highest (13-26%) for the red gum (Eucalyptus camaldulensis) forests both in summer and winter days. However, in terms of total ET volume, lignum (Muehlenbeckia florulenta) constitutes the most significant part, which is around 14-30% of the total ET volume for the area. Actual evapotranspiration from winter cereal cropping areas following the summer ponding is the third highest consumer of water after the river red gum and lignum. Actual evapotranspiration from the fallow land is also significant, representing 5-28% of total ET from the region. In view of the extent of the unaccounted flows in the overall water balance of the system, there is a need to upgrade measuring and reporting infrastructure by strengthening the institutional and management arrangements to better gauge the efficiency of environmental and consumptive water use. The state-of-the-art technology of remote sensing-based SEBAL modeling proved to have potential for measuring actual water use with reliable accuracy and can be used for assessing the environmental and productive use of water from wetlands in other regions of Australia.
4315689|A massive development of offshore windmill farms has been planned along the European coastline. This raises important questions about the possible effects on the marine environment. Effects during the construction period may be minimized to a negligible impact if care is taken to avoid areas containing rare habitats or species. Disturbance caused by noise, vibrations, and electromagnetic fields during windmill operation may, with present knowledge, be considered to be of minor importance to the marine environment. The reef effect (i.e. addition of a hard substratum), is believed to cause the largest impact on the marine environment and at different scales: the micro scale, which involves material, texture, and heterogeneity of the foundation material; the meso scale, which involves the revetments and scour protection; and the macro scale, which encompasses the level of the entire windmill farm. Effects on these scales are discussed in relation to results obtained from natural habitats, artificial reefs, and other man-made constructions at sea.
4313069|In relation to its relatively small size. Guam generates a large amount of hazardous waste. Most of this is of US military origin, with Guam's oil refinery, hospitals, agricultural sector and others producing the remainder. All hazardous waste must be shipped off-island to licensed disposal sites on the US west coast, which is costly. The Guam Environmental Protection Agency has legal responsibility for hazardous waste management, including monitoring, analysis, enforcement, contingency planning, and public awareness. To date no serious incidents have occurred, and prospects look good for the protection of Guam's limited water resources from contamination.
4314198|The resources necessary for food production have shown a disquieting deterioration during the last two decades. Modern intensive agriculture has had an adverse effect not only on the physical environment but also on human health. Land has been degraded, water resources have been depleted, and genetic resources have been lost. In addition, there have been negative impacts on human health because of agricultural inputs. Extensive data have been used to indicate the evolution of the problems and the present status.
4313316|Blooms of the planktonic alga Phaeocystis pouchetii in the continental coastal zones of the North Sea have been observed to occur more and more frequently and intensively over the past twenty years, probably as a result of nutrient enrichment from river discharge. The peculiar physiology of this colony-forming flagellate strongly influences the structure and function of the coastal ecosystem. It is a major nuisance alga mainly because it can lead to the development of massive foam banks which accumulate near shore.
4314485|This paper discusses the greenhouse impact of the forest sector in Finland including the growing stock, forest industry, forest products in use, foreign trade and waste management. The biomass of the forest ecosystem and the amount of forest products in use are increasing and, thus, act as net carbon sinks from the atmosphere. The sink impact is to a large extent compensated by fossil emissions from the forest industry and its transportations and, from waste management by methane. The wastes of the forest sector are partly converted into methane in landfills. An important conclusion is that the waste-management practices are a major factor to be taken into account in the mitigation of the greenhouse impact of the forest sector.
4313661|This paper discusses the role of some ancient Greek and Roman conceptions of Nature's modi operandi as predecessors of various current ecological theories. The aim is to reveal the imprisoning characters of these perceptions if conceived as modern and final truths concerning future environmental management. The implications of various such perceptions for potential environmental futures are also briefly touched upon. The discovery of the ozone hole is referred to as an example where such a preconceived vision of Nature's behavioral pattern may have implied a "prison for thought". The final section is devoted to the potentials for creating a more fruitful dialogue with Nature. The means of such an achievement are believed to be found in a constructive evaluation of alternative technological strategies as well as in consideration of mankind's intimate affinity with Nature.
4314392|The involvement and participation of indigenous marine resource users in the planning and management of marine conservation areas has received considerable attention in recent years. Although various projects have considered this aspect there has been little in situ study of how indigenous practices can affect a conservation area, and it has been seen that many conservation projects have largely failed because of a lack of understanding as to how the indigenous resource users relate to the environment socioeconomically. The present study examines such interrelations for the coastal communities within the newly established Mafia Island Marine Park in southern Tanzania. From an extensive survey of the marine resource users in the area it was possible to identify and quantify the prevailing resource-usage patterns as well as to examine the perception and expectations of the various communities with regard to the marine park and conservation issues. The study also demonstrated that local involvement can be of great value in finding viable solutions with regard to issues such as economic incentives, alternatives to destructive activities, education and compensation. In addition, it was found that different forms of compensation could be a cost efficient and sustainable means of enforcing regulations, but on the condition that it was appropriate and that it stemmed from direct involvement of the indigenous resource users.
24708803|Many authors have pointed out the need for simpler assessment and management procedures for avoiding overexploitation in small-scale fisheries. Nevertheless, models for providing scientific advice for sustainable small-scale fisheries management have not yet been published. Here we present one model; the case of the Barefoot Fisheries Advisors (BFAs) in the Galician co-managed Territorial Users Rights for Fishing. Based on informal interviews, gray literature and our personal experience by being involved in this process, we have analyzed the historical development and evolution of roles of this novel and stimulating actor in small-scale fisheries management. The Galician BFA model allows the provision of good quality and organized fisheries data to facilitate and support decision-making processes. The BFAs also build robust social capital by acting as knowledge collectors and translators between fishers, managers, and scientists. The BFAs have become key actors in the small-scale fisheries management of Galicia and a case for learning lessons.
4315440|When seeking to resolve complex land-management issues, geographical assessment of resources that are in short supply or in dispute can aid the communication of knowledge and the understanding among the between different stakeholders. In this paper, we illustrate how remote sensing and GIS can be used to gather and compile information regarding land-use activities and patterns among reindeer herders and other land users (forestry, mining, tourism, etc) in northern Sweden. The project represents a novel user-oriented effort largely based on the work carried out by the principal end user, i.e. the reindeer herders themselves. The basis for development of land-use plans for reindeer husbandry, was the following: to collect and digitally systemize traditional ecological and landscape knowledge of reindeer habitat use; to integrate this information with results from field inventories and satellite-based vegetation classifications; to map activities of other land users. The resulting land-use plans provide information that can facilitate consultation between the reindeer herders and other stakeholders and can facilitate operational work in reindeer management. This project can serve as a model for participatory involvement and planning, bringing indigenous knowledge and advanced remote-sensing techniques together in an interactive process.
4313586|Two extreme patterns dominate streamwater chemistry in the Mlynaruv Luh catchment, Czechoslovakia. Baseflow chemistry of the stream is governed by weathering reactions which produce base cations and alkalinity, effectively neutralizing acid atmospheric input. High discharge periods are characterized by decreased concentrations of elements supplied by weathering reactions and increased concentrations of solutes related either to vegetational cycling or atmospheric deposition. Exceptionally high sulfate concentrations observed in the catchment (up to
4314060|Indigenous peoples with a historical continuity of resource-use practices often possess a broad knowledge base of the behavior of complex ecological systems in their own localities. This knowledge has accumulated through a long series of observations transmitted from generation to generation. Such "diachronic" observations can be of great value and complement the "synchronic" observations on which western science is based. Where indigenous peoples have depended, for long periods of time, on local environments for the provision of a variety of resources, they have developed a stake in conserving, and in some cases, enhancing, biodiversity. They are aware that biological diversity is a crucial factor in generating the ecological services and natural resources on which they depend. Some indigenous groups manipulate the local landscape to augment its heterogeneity, and some have been found to be motivated to restore biodiversity in degraded landscapes. Their practices for the conservation of biodiversity were grounded in a series of rules of thumb which are apparently arrived at through a trial and error process over a long historical time period. This implies that their knowledge base is indefinite and their implementation involves an intimate relationship with the belief system. Such knowledge is difficult for western science to understand. It is vital, however, that the value of the knowledge-practice-belief complex of indigenous peoples relating to conservation of biodiversity is fully recognized if ecosystems and biodiversity are to be managed sustainably. Conserving this knowledge would be most appropriately accomplished through promoting the community-based resource-management systems of indigenous peoples.
4314968|Development in the Baltic ringed (Phoca hispida) and grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) populations during the past century is reconstructed using uniquely detailed hunting records from the Nordic countries and published data on demographic parameters. A projection model was elaborated where annual variations in the composition of catches by sex and age were taken into account. Grey seals decreased from 88 000-100 000 in the beginning of the century to approximately 4000 in the late 1970s. The Baltic ringed seal population decreased during the same period from 190 000-220 000 to approximately 5000. In the mid-1960s, the remaining populations were afflicted by sterility, probably caused by organochlorines, which inhibited natural growth during a 25-years period. Thus, the decrease in seal numbers was a consequence of excessive hunting, but the present low numbers are due to lowered fertility rates after 1965.
40390253|Forest harvest is hypothesized to increase the mercury (Hg) load in aquatic ecosystems. The Balsj paired catchment study examined the outputs of methylmercury (MeHg) and total mercury ( <tex-math>$Hg_{tot} $</tex-math> ) from two boreal catchments during the 2 y following forest harvest but prior to site preparation. This enabled us to separate the effect of the two operations that followed best management practices. <tex-math>$Hg_{tot} $</tex-math> concentrations increased by approximately 15%, and fluxes by 20-30%. The MeHg concentrations and fluxes either declined or increased by up to 60%, depending on whether annual MeHg peaks during summer low flows were considered to have been influenced by forest harvest. The lack of a severalfold increase in Hg outputs after forest harvest, as reported from other sites, may be the result of minimal soil disturbance during the winter forest harvest operations. If so, there may be a greater Hg response after soil scarification to prepare for planting.
4312583|Has man's activity significantly increased the atmospheric concentrations of heavy metals and sulfur compounds on a global scale? This article describes how this can be looked at by comparing the chemical composition of the present day surface snow layers of the remote Antarctic and Greenland ice caps with that of the ice layers deposited several centuries ago before human activity started impacting on the atmosphere. The available reliable data suggest that the present atmospheric concentrations of heavy metals and sulfate in remote areas are not strongly influenced by human activity, but are likely related to natural phenomena, possibly volcanism.
4315288|The Kyoto Protocol opens new possibilities for using the biosphere as a carbon sink. Using agro-ecosystems as carbon sinks may be the most appropriate practice from both environmental and socioeconomic points of view. Degraded agro-ecosystems in Africa might benefit significantly from the improved land management that would be part of a carbon sequestration program. There are vast areas of these agro-ecosystems in Africa and their rehabilitation is an urgent matter. We agree with UNEP that there are potentially important synergies to be made between the Convention on Climate Change, the UN Convention to Combat Desertification and the UN Convention on Biodiversity. In this paper, we have investigated the potential for increasing soil carbon content in semiarid agro-ecosystems in the Sudan and found that increasing fallow periods will result in increased soil carbon content and converting marginal agricultural areas to rangeland will restore the carbon levels to 80% of the natural savannah carbon levels in 100 years. The economic gain from a future carbon sequestration program has the potential of a significant contribution to the household economy in these agro-ecosystems.
4312606|Serial photographs emphasize the gradual effects of the Amoco Cadiz oil on the algae of a very polluted sheltered cove near Portsall. The major damage, which was restricted to the algae of high tide levels, appeared to be a function of the duration of their contact with the oil. A noticeable expansion of the Fucus vesiculosus belt down to its lower limit, was the most important fluctuation which appeared in algal zonation during the year following the spill.
4314734| Changes in the size of glaciers, in the altitude of the alpine tree-limit, and variation in the width of tree-rings during the Holocene clearly indicate that the average Scandinavian summer temperature has fluctuated. During warm periods it has been about 2C warmer than at present; during cold periods it has been almost as cold as it was during the coldest decades of the previous centuries. Superimposed on these long-term variations, which have lasted from 100 to 200 years, are short fluctuations in temperature. The Scandinavian chronology, which is based on glacier and alpine tree-limit fluctuations as well as on dendrochronology, is well correlated with the changes in climate, which studies of ice cores from central Greenland have revealed. It is therefore believed that the Scandinavian climate chronology depicts conditions typical of a large area. The Scandinavian record is compared with data concerning solar irradiation variations estimated as
4313677|The discharge of nutrients to the Baltic Sea has increased considerably during the 20th century. There are several indications that this eutrophication has affected the fish community. Changes in species composition have been reported from coastal areas, e.g. local increases in the abundance of pike-perch and decreases in whitefish. Total fish catches, dominated by herring, sprat, and cod, have increased tenfold in the past fifty years and doubled in the last twenty-five years. This increase is mainly due to intensified fishing, but possibly also to eutrophication and decreased fish predation by seals.
4315551|The control of transboundary air pollution in Europe has been successful. Emissions of many key pollutants are decreasing and there are signs of improvements in damaged ecosystems. The strategies under development within the CAFE programme under the European Commission and the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution (CLRTAP), aim to take regional air pollution control a large step further, in particular with respect to small particles. In this paper we highlight the new strategies but look primarily at socioeconomic trends and climate change feedbacks that may have a significant influence on the outcome of the strategies and which so far have not been considered. In particular, we point out the influence on air quality of increased summer temperatures in Europe and of increasing emissions including international shipping, outside of Europe. Taken together the further emissions reductions in Europe and the increasing background pollution, slowly cause a greying of the Northern Hemisphere troposphere rather than the traditional picture of dominant emissions in Europe and North America ('black') with much lower emission intensities elsewhere ('white'). A hemispheric approach to further combat air pollution will become necessary in Europe and elsewhere.
4315350|Inhaca Island, southern Mozambique, is located towards the southerly latitudinal limits of coral reef growth. Reef development is restricted to the margins of channels which dissect intertidal flats on the Maputo Bay side of the island, and to depths of around 6 m. In contrast to lower latitude reefs, reef development is therefore both spatially and bathymetrically restricted (largely due to high turbidity levels). These natural stress levels were exacerbated, via increased freshwater and sediment discharge, during the severe floods of late 1999/early 2000. Flood impacts varied but were most significant on reefs on the inner (western) side of the island where live coral cover (LCC) decreased from 60.5% (1999) to 24.0% (2001). This is attributed to freshwater-induced bleaching. Dead in situ coral cover increased from 18.6% (1999) to 51.3% (2001). Reefs on the southern tip of the island, by contrast, were relatively unaffected. It is suggested that this largely reflects a closer proximity to the open Indian Ocean which mitigated the effects of freshwater dilution.
4312282|Three types of oils were studied in simulated oil spills. A model ecosystem representing the littoral zone of the Baltic Sea, contained in large plastic pools, was used for the simulations. Changes in oil composition and distribution were monitored for 54 days. The production of bacteria, due to the additional carbon source provided by the oil, was taken as a measure of the microbial degradation of the oil. A theoretical model is presented to summarize the events leading to the disappearance of oil at sea. Based on this model, the rate of degradation at sea is discussed.
25547914|The Panama Canal is near its vessel size and tonnage handling capacity, and Panamanians have decided to expand it. The expansion of the Canal may consider the historical long-lasting impacts on marine coastal habitats particularly on sensitive coral reefs. These potential impacts were discussed during the national referendum as were other equally important issues, such as its effects on forests, watersheds, and water supply. Coral growth rates provide a direct measure of coral fitness and past environmental conditions comparable to analyses of tree rings. We examined stable isotopes, metal geochemical tracers, and growth rates on a century-long (1880-1989) chronology based on 77 cores of the dominant reef-building coral Siderastrea siderea collected near the Caribbean entrance to the canal. Our results showed a gradual decline in coral growth unrelated to changes in sea surface temperature but linked to runoff and sedimentation to coastal areas resulting from the construction and operation of the Panama Canal.
4314715| This paper describes the developments that transformed the global warming problem from that arising solely from CO
24708810|This paper analyzes how sustained yield (SY) forestry is defined and implemented in Sweden and Russia, two countries with different forest-industrial regimes. We first compare definitions of SY forestry in national legislation and policies. Then we study forest management planning in two large forest management units with respect to: delivered forest products and values, how the harvest level of timber is defined, where the harvest takes place, and what treatments are used to sustain desired forest products and values. In Sweden SY forestry is maximum yield based on high-input forest management, and in Russia it is forestry based on natural regeneration with minimum investments in silviculture. We conclude that how SY forestry contributes to SFM depends on the context. Finally, we discuss the consequences of SY forestry as performed in Sweden and Russia related to its ability to support diverse forest functions, as envisioned in sustainable forest management policy.
4312926|Contrary to previous reports of the great afforestation successes in China new admissions (verifiable by remote sensing) disclose massive deforestation resulting in acute rural energy shortages and in accelerated environmental degradation, especially severe erosion and more frequent and more intensive droughts and floods.
4314388|The shoreline of Eastern Africa and the island states of the western Indian Ocean extend over a distance of 11 000 linear km and its coastal zone is inhabited by between 30 and 35 million people. This is an area of remarkable geographical, ecological and human diversity with unique coastal habitats and high biodiversity. Widespread poverty, together with rapid population growth, inappropriate or poorly planned development, and a lack of integrated planning and management have resulted in the environmental degradation and resource depletion of many coastal areas, accompanied by increasing conflicts among stakeholders. Severe cases of coastal pollution and habitat destruction tend to be restricted to the immediate vicinity of major cities. However, these effects are gradually spreading to the less densely populated areas of the region. Integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) has been recognized as an effective resource-management approach in the region and a number of ICZM programs have been initiated at the regional, national and local levels. These programs are reviewed here, with particular reference to recent and ongoing ICZM initiatives supported by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) as well as other donor and UN agencies.
4315420|The drastic loss of seminatural grasslands and the decrease in species diversity in Europe during the 20th century are closely linked to social-economic factors. Development in agricultural production drives land-use changes, and thus controls the capacity of landscapes to maintain biodiversity. In this study, we link agricultural production changes to landscape fragmentation and species diversity. Our results show that the termination of grazing on seminatural grassland caused significant changes in landscape structure and a decline in the number of vascular plant species. The decline of grazed grasslands has been driven mainly by farm-level economic efficiency and profitability interests, which have been connected with agricultural policy measures. Since 1995, when Finland joined the European Union, the area of grazed patches in our study area has again increased as a result of a support scheme for the management of seminatural grasslands.
4313933|Considerable progress has been made recently in identifying and measuring protected area eco-nomic costs and benefits in developing countries. This paper departs from this approach by concentrating not on the measurement of total economic costs and benefits from protected areas but on their distribution. Protected area benefits and costs are discussed at three separate spatial scales: local, national/regional, and global/transnational. The overall picture shows that economic benefits-although difficult to measure and varying from site to site-are limited on a local scale, increase somewhat on a regional/national level and then become potentially substantial on a transnational/global scale. The economic costs follow an opposite trend, from being locally significant, regionally and nationally moderate, and globally small. It is evident that there are few local incentives and very limited regional and national incentives for protected area establishment and management in developing countries. Very little, if any, empirical work has been done on the distribution of protected area costs and benefits. The conclusion of this paper is that such analysis can provide an essential bridge between economic valuation studies and the identification of necessary and practical action steps.
4314490| The distribution of elements in shells of the freshwater pearl mussel, Margaritifera margaritifera, from the River Vramsn, southern Sweden, was analyzed with high temporal resolution with the nuclear microscope SLIM-UP. The results show: (i) annual variations of strontium and manganese. The variation of Sr is anticorrelated to that of Mn with high Sr concentration on the winter lines, and high Mn in the summer. The high Mn concentration in the summer correlates to a depletion in oxygen in the surrounding water; (ii) high Sr concentrations on growth disturbance lines; (iii) an ontogenetical variation of Sr with high concentrations in younger stages (before sexual maturation); and (iv) a long-term decrease of manganese in the shells. The long-term decrease of Mn is also consistent with results from Neutron Activation Analysis. 
4312186|Urbanization is still at an incipient stage in both India and China where four-fifths of the population is still in the rural areas, mainly engaged in agriculture. Large numbers of people are still needed to provide food with production methods which are only slowly becoming mechanized. The marginalization of rural areas must for obvious political reasons be avoided. Consequently, the traditional linkage between modernization and urbanization is challenged. New concepts of rural modernization are required and the developments in China might possibly indicate some promising approaches which, however, cannot be accepted as general solutions.
4314202|Land degradation has assumed alarming proportions in the foothills of northern India. The traditional forest-management practices have failed to provide goods and services to the village community. The attitudes of the villagers, and of foresters, changed with the adoption of a new conservation strategy, which included harvesting of rainwater for irrigation to rainfed agricultural lands, grants of fodder and fiber-grass leases to registered village societies, and involvement of the people in forest management. The average annual grass yield increased from 0.04 t ha
4312653|Initial work within the MAB project in East Kalimantan has dealt with the environmental effects of different kinds of land use, entailing study of floristic, faunistic, and soil changes in logged-over forest, secondary forest and dry-land farm, as well as socio-economic conditions in the neighboring settlements of transmigrants. In logged-over forest, 41 percent of residual trees are damaged; fewer tree species are present than in primary forest; 30 percent of the ground is bare; the soil is compacted, with slow infiltration rates, and is subject to erosion. Burnt and unburnt plots of clear-cut primary forest are completely covered by pioneer tree species within six months; both seedlings and resprouts play an important role in recovery. Growth is better in the burnt plot. A similar situation is observed in six-month-old abandoned dry-land farm. In a two-year-old dry-land farm, the undergrowth is dominated by herbaceous plants, whose species composition is affected by kinds of crops cultivated and by topography. Owing to unfavorable farming conditions, the people in the neighboring settlements turn to collecting forest products to supplement their income. Most residents of East Kalimantan-local people as well as migrants-seem responsive to changing economic opportunities.
4314681|Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi constitute a living bridge for the transport of nutrients from soil to plant roots, and are considered as the group of soil microorganisms that is of most direct importance to nutrient uptake by herbaceous plants. AM fungi also contribute to the formation of soil aggregates and to the protection of plants against drought and root pathogens. Assessment of soil quality, defined as the capacity of a soil to function within ecosystem boundaries to sustain biological productivity, maintain environmental quality, and promote plant health, should therefore include both quantitative and qualitative measurements of this important biological resource. Various methods for the assessment of the potential for mycorrhiza formation and function are presented. Examples are given of the application of these methods to assess the impact of pesticides on the mycorrhiza.
4315702|Miombo woodlands and associated habitats provide a vital resource for both humans and chimpanzees in western Tanzania. A baseline survey was conducted to determine the perceived relative value of different woody species to local people in the six villages adjacent to Gombe National Park. This area also provides direct comparison of tree utilization by humans and chimpanzees since it has been the site of a long-term behavioral study on chimpanzees. Four hundred and fifty-two people, all over 30 y old, were interviewed and were asked to select the 10 trees that they considered to be the most important in their everyday lives: 77% of the 4520 responses (represented by 260 species) were native and 23% (represented by 35 species) were exotic trees. In this study, particular focus was paid to the 25 tree species most frequently listed. Of these trees, 19 (representing 50% of all responses) were native, and 6 were exotic. There was a marked difference in the choices, especially with respect to native trees, by men and women. Many of the trees highly prized by humans are also of great importance in the diet of chimpanzees. It is recommended that a major effort be made to maintain the usage and availability of native trees outside the park boundary, which, in conjunction with the balanced planting of exotics for meeting local needs, should contribute to protecting the biodiversity of Gombe and the local ethnobotanical heritage.
4313975|Until the late 1960s, when the Village Afforestation Programme (VAP) was initiated in the form of a pedagogical top-down extension service, professional forestry in Tanzania was developed in isolation from rural development. The VAP emanated from studies which predicted forest resources depletion and the ensuing energy crisis and environmental degradation. The identified strategy of village forestry on a large scale was established. For various reasons, these early efforts have not been very effective. People's participation in VAP appears to be binding. Concepts like participatory rural appraisal and participatory technology development are essential and are based on the conviction that people's participation works by focusing on their own perspectives. Although this approach is still in its early stages of application in Tanzania, the initial results are encouraging. VAPs are proceeding beyond lipservice in some localities. Further refinement is needed of the approach and its sustainability and replicability through research and development.
4314436|Hanoi has been an established settlement for a very long time. In the year 1010, the Ly Dynasty moved the capital of Vietnam to Hanoi. Since then, although experiencing many historical changes, Hanoi is still a political, social, economical, scientific and technological center. The urban architectural heritage of Hanoi comprises: The Ancient Citadel; The Ancient Quarter (The 36 Ancient Street Quarter from the 19th century); The French Quarter (established in the French time from 1888 to 1954); Groups of Ancient Architectural Objects (temples, shrines, pagoda etc.). The ancient core and groups of ancient architectural objects are considered precious and well worth preserving by local and international experts and laymen. Hanoi is currently attracting an increasing number of tourists due to the beauty of the residential quarters that were built in the French period.
4314058|Concern about the state of tropical forests has led to increased interest in the role of timber production and the international timber trade in promoting forest depletion and degradation in the tropics. Although the direct and indirect environmental impacts of commercial logging may be significant, particularly for a few specific regions and countries, this is generally not thought to be the predominant cause of tropical deforestation. Other factors, in particular conversion of forest land for agricultural use and harvesting of trees for fuelwood, are considered to be much more important in the process of tropical deforestation. A review of statistical analyses of the causes of deforestation provides only limited evidence of the linkages between tropical timber production, trade and deforestation. However, the timber trade can lead to greater net returns for forestry investments and sustainable management of production forests, making this option more attractive than converting forest land to alternative uses. Therefore, an important factor in reducing timber-related tropical deforestation is ensuring proper economic incentives for efficient and sustainable management of tropical production forests. Appropriate forest management policies and regulations within producer countries ought to provide these incentives so that the long run income-generating potential of harvesting timber is maximized, and any significant external environmental costs associated with timber harvesting are internalized.
4312473|The evolution and spread of pesticide plasmids in soil microbial populations provides an explanation for the widespread occurrence of microorganisms able to degrade the chlorinated phenoxyherbicides, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 2-methyl, 4-chloro, phenoxyacetic acid. Recalcitrant pesticides such as 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid may be unable to elicit the same response from soil microbial populations.
4313458|Tin ore is one of the major export commodities of Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. Tin mining is carried out extensively both on land and in coastal waters. Dredging has taken place along the west coast of Thailand and in the tin islands off the east coast of Sumatra, Indonesia. Marine pollution as a result of tin mining has become of concern within the last decade. Apart from direct physical destruction of the environment, pollution is mainly caused by suspended mine tailings, which increase the turbidity of coastal waters as well as smothering sessile benthic organisms in the nearshore areas. The ecosystems of the coral reefs are particularly sensitive to the effects of suspended sediment. Reefs in the vicinity of dredging activities are damaged by smothering as well as by the increase in turbidity. However, some reefs partially recover following natural removal of sediment by the turbulent water movement that occurs during the monsoon season. Effects on benthic macrofauna and primary productivity remain localized. Thus, the scale of mining activity is the main factor determining the impact of tin wastes on open-water ecosystems.
4314513|Following the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska, the government gathered environmental data about this accident's environmental consequences. This was done primarily as part of natural-resource damage assessment, a focused process which is defined in United States law and which limits information gathering to a specific set of studies to meet those statutory requirements. The goal of the damage assessment process is to determine the extent of injury to natural resources so that biological restoration can be obtained; it was neither designed nor intended to study effects of oil spills in a broad sense. Other programs and funding sources exist for that purpose. In our opinion, however, two major problems arose when damage assessment was applied to the Exxon Valdez oil spill. First, the procedural constraints on environmental data collection severely compromised the state and federal governments' ability to demonstrate natural resource injury. Second, by the time it became generally understood what kinds of studies would and would not be conducted as part of the natural-resource damage assessment, numerous valuable research opportunities had either been lost or curtailed for lack of alternate funding. We suggest possible solutions to these problems including better understanding of the goals and limitations of the damage assessment process by those involved, decreased reliance on ecological baseline data, and replacement of restoration with mitigation as a goal of damage assessment.
25547886|The Mekong River Basin possesses the region's largest potential water source and related resources, which support ongoing economic development and basin community livelihoods. It is currently witnessing a major demographic transition that is creating both opportunities and challenges. An analysis of the complex relationship between demographic changes and impacts on the natural-resource based confirms that resource exploitation is occurring not only to meet growing domestic needs but also for other vested interests. Population, together with other major drivers, such as institutions, markets, and technology, will have a very strong bearing on the way in which the rich resources of the Mekong River Basin are developed and distributed in the present and future. The Mekong River Basin's rich resources, and the benefits derived from them, are unevenly distributed both in time and geographically. Moreover, since the causes and impacts do not respect political boundaries, the Mekong countries need to jointly develop alternative management strategies to meet projected demands within the sustainable capacity of the Mekong River Basin natural-resource base.
4315522| At the last glacial maximum, vast ice sheets covered many continental areas. The beds of some shallow seas were exposed thereby connecting previously separated landmasses. Although some areas were ice-free and supported a flora and fauna, mean annual temperatures were 10-13C colder than during the Holocene. Within a few millennia of the glacial maximum, deglaciation started, characterized by a series of climatic fluctuations between about 18 000 and 11 400 years ago. Following the general thermal maximum in the Holocene, there has been a modest overall cooling trend, superimposed upon which have been a series of millennial and centennial fluctuations in climate such as the "Little Ice Age spanning approximately the late 13th to early 19th centuries. Throughout the climatic fluctuations of the last 150 000 years, Arctic ecosystems and biota have been close to their minimum extent within the most recent 10 000 years. They suffered loss of diversity as a result of extinctions during the most recent large-magnitude rapid global warming at the end of the last glacial stage. Consequently, Arctic ecosystems and biota such as large vertebrates are already under pressure and are particularly vulnerable to current and projected future global warming. Evidence from the past indicates that the treeline will very probably advance, perhaps rapidly, into tundra areas, as it did during the early Holocene, reducing the extent of tundra and increasing the risk of species extinction. Species will very probably extend their ranges northwards, displacing Arctic species as in the past. However, unlike the early Holocene, when lower relative sea level allowed a belt of tundra to persist around at least some parts of the Arctic basin when treelines advanced to the present coast, sea level is very likely to rise in future, further restricting the area of tundra and other treeless Arctic ecosystems. The negative response of current Arctic ecosystems to global climatic conditions that are apparently without precedent during the Pleistocene is likely to be considerable, particularly as their exposure to co-occurring environmental changes (such as enhanced levels of UV-B, deposition of nitrogen compounds from the atmosphere, heavy metal and acidic pollution, radioactive contamination, increased habitat fragmentation) is also without precedent. 
4315009|Species extinction and gene erosion are still widespread in spite of numerous national and international efforts and conventions. It is now clear that only through symbiotic partnerships between local communities and civil society organizations, industrial enterprises, and government and academic institutions that we can implement effectively the triple goals of the Convention on Biological Diversity, namely conservation, sustainable use and equitable sharing of benefits. This paper describes the approach adopted by the author and his colleagues in India to promote a community-led integrated gene management system.
4313742|Chemicals for crop protection and pest control, i.e. pesticides, are being increasingly used to ensure the production of adequate supplies of food. Some of these pesticides find their way into soils, water and other parts of the environment as a result of direct application or by indirect means. Although current use of pesticides is much lower in developing countries than in industrialized countries, it is rising continuously and there is great need to deal with the problems of increasing environmental pollution. The aim of the present study was to determine levels of pesticide residues in some components of Lake Mcllwaine and its surroundings. Agriculture is one of the main industries in the catchment area of Lake Mcllwaine and it is necessary to monitor the water for possible pesticide contaminants since the lake is also the main source of water supply for human consumption in the city of Harare. A number of water, bottom sediment, soil and fish samples were taken in and around the lake and analyzed for residues of pesticides including: hexachlorobenzene, DDT and its metabolites DDE and DDD, aldrin, dieldrin, endrin, chlordane, toxaphene and thiodan. Traces of BHCs, aldrin, dieldrin, DDE, DDD and DDT were detected in water, soil and sediment samples. BHCs and DDTs were detected in all fish species analyzed and traces of dieldrin were detected in tilapia. Water contains the lowest levels of residues and fish the highest levels, although these were still well below permissive levels for consumption.
4313021|Employment prospects for the next 50 years are difficult to predict. With the First World experiencing a major technological revolution the Second World abandoning an extensive model of development for an intensive model of growth and the Third World halted in its efforts to industrialize, job opportunities are uncertain. The authors examine the economic and political implications of the employment situation in light of the changing demographic profile.
4315847|This paper presents the results of a preliminary study of climate vulnerability in East Timor. It shows the results of projections of climate change in East Timor. The country's climate may become hotter, drier, and increasingly variable. Sea levels are likely to rise. The paper then considers the implications of these changes on three natural resources-water, soils, and the coastal zone-and finds all to be sensitive to changes in climate and sea level. Changes in the abundance and distribution of these resources is likely to cause a reduction in agricultural production and food security, and sea-level rise is likely to damage coastal areas, including Dili, the capital city.
24708967|This is an overview of the strategy used to describe the effects of a potential release from a radioactive waste repository on human exposure and future environments. It introduces a special issue of AMBIO, in which 13 articles show ways of understanding and characterizing the future. The study relies mainly on research performed in the context of a recent safety report concerning a repository for spent nuclear fuel in Sweden (the so-called SR-Site project). The development of a good understanding of on-site processes and acquisition of site-specific data facilitated the development of new approaches for assessment of surface ecosystems. A systematic and scientifically coherent methodology utilizes the understanding of the current spatial and temporal dynamics as an analog for future conditions. We conclude that future ecosystem can be inferred from a few variables and that this multidisciplinary approach is relevant in a much wider context than radioactive waste.
4314721|Public consciousness about biodiversity and the environment, and their importance for sustainable development is not widespread in the Philippines. This article advocates nonformal environment education through nature recreation as a means toward 'greening, the mind and the spirit of the citizens. Information is provided about biodiversity, and the status and potential of nature parks, museums, gardens, and zoos in the country. Many of the 116 national parks and protected areas have been exploited for products and energy, and only some provide for recreation-cum-education. The Philippines has no national botanical garden, zoo, or aquarium, and the National Museum is not the proud institution that it should be. Some universities have small museums, botanical gardens, and other biodiversity exhibits for instruction and research, but these and the few zoos and wildlife centers are poorly funded or managed.
4315825|Eutrophication of the Baltic proper has led to impaired water quality, demonstrated by, e.g., extensive blooming of cyanobacteria during the premium summer holiday season and severe oxygen deficit in the deepwater. Sustainable improvements in water quality by the reduction of phosphorus (P) supplies will take several decades before giving full effects because of large P storages both in soils in the watershed and in the water column and bottom sediments of the Baltic proper. In this article it is shown that drastically improved water quality may be obtained within a few years using large-scale ecological engineering methods. Natural variations in the Baltic proper during the last decades have demonstrated how rapid improvements may be achieved. The present article describes the basic dynamics of P, organic matter, and oxygen in the Baltic proper. It also briefly discusses the advantages and disadvantages of different classes of methods of ecological engineering aimed at restoring the Baltic proper from eutrophication effects. Preliminary computations show that the P content might be halved within a few years if about 100 kg <tex-math>${\rm O}_{2}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math> are supplied to the upper deepwater. This would require 100 pump stations, each transporting about 100 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> of oxygen-rich so-called winter water from about 50 to 125 m depth where the water is released as a buoyant jet. Each pump station needs a power supply of 0.6 MW. Offshore wind power technology seems mature enough to provide the power needed by the pump stations. The cost to install 100 wind-powered pump stations, each with 0.6 MW power, at about 125-m depth is about 200 million Euros.
4315613| This paper gives an overview of the cadmium (Cd) situation in agricultural systems and human exposure in Sweden. Cadmium levels in agricultural soils (the plow layer) increase by 0.03% to 0.05% per year. Feed can give substantial contributions of Cd to local agricultural systems. Effects on human kidney function are indicated by some measurements already at today's exposure levels. If food products reach the maximum permissible levels given by the European Union, 10% to 25% of the Swedish population will be exposed to Cd levels above the provisional tolerable weekly intake (PTWI 7 g Cd kg
23257422|The objective of our study was to identify how actors from the main socio-economic sectors perceive their interactions and impacts on a sensitive wetland in an arid climate, specifically the salt pans of Chott Merouane in Algeria. The results revealed that there are three main economic stakes including agriculture, livestock production and salt mining, each activity providing a great benefit for local and national populations. The local population perceived that the current activities are conducted in such a way that they created conflict between socio-economic sectors and caused a threat for long term sustainability of the wetlands. The results highlighted the need to initiate an integrated management approach between the different sectors and to develop a shared vision for the territory.
4312499|Iron and manganese, together with ten trace metals, were investigated in sediments from 21 stations in the northern part of the Baltic Sea, the Gulf of Bothnia. This water body is polluted with metals from the paper mills (Hg), ore dressing plants (especially As and Pb) and metal plating industries (Cr ad Cd) located along its coast. The primary source of the metals, however, is the rivers. The metal content of the sediments does not correlate to the river loading. This probably indicates that large amounts of metals are transported further south to the Baltic proper. Very high concentrations of eg As and Pb are found close to ore dressing plants. Most trace metals enter the sediment bound in compounds with either iron or manganese. The low plankton activity in the Gulf of Bothnia means that the effect of plankton in trapping metal in sediments can be considered negligible. Partial correlation analyses show copper as the only metal that has a significant correlation with organic matter.
4315557|EU's programme Clean Air for Europe (CAFE) is presently revising the policy on air quality which will lead to the adoption of a thematic strategy on air pollution under the Sixth Environmental Action Programme by mid-2005. For the abatement of surface ozone it is becoming evident that processes outside European control will be crucial for meeting long-term aims and air quality guidelines in Europe in the future. Measurements and modelling results indicate that there is a strong link between climate change and surface ozone. A warmer and dryer European climate is very likely to lead to increased ozone concentrations. Furthermore, increased anthropogenic emissions in developing economies in Asia are likely to raise the hemispheric background level of ozone. A significant increase in the background concentration of ozone has been observed at several sites in Northern Europe although the underlying causes are not settled. The photochemical formation of tropospheric ozone from increased concentrations of methane and CO may also lead to a higher ozone level on a global scale. Gradually, these effects may outweigh the effect of the reduced European ozone precursor emissions. This calls for a global or hemispheric perspective in the revision of the European air quality policy for ozone.
4314980|Lake Taihu is a large shallow lake situated in the delta of the Changjiang River (Yangtze River), eastern China. Since the 1980s, this lake has suffered from water-quality deterioration, aquatic ecosystem degeneration, and eutrophication induced by increased pollution. Hydrodynamic activity is believed to be an important factor in the linkages between nutrient concentration and sediment resuspension, the underwater light intensity, and primary production. This paper attempts to summarize the observations and simulations of hydrodynamic processes and related fields, such as solid suspension measurements, carried out in Lake Taihu, and to address environmental issues relating to future research in Lake Taihu.
4312927|Tropical rainforests in Mexico and Central America are being eradicated at the rate of 4000 km
41417352|Long-term (18602010) catchment mass balance calculations rely on models and assumptions which are sources of uncertainty in acidification assessments. In this article, we report on an application of MAGIC to model acidification at the four Swedish IM forested catchments that have been subject to differing degrees of acidification stress. Uncertainties in the modeled mass balances were mainly associated with the deposition scenario and assumptions about sulfate adsorption and soil mass. Estimated base cation (BC) release rates (weathering) varied in a relatively narrow range of 47-62 or 42-47 meq m year, depending on assumptions made about soil cation exchange capacity and base saturation. By varying aluminum solubility or introducing a dynamic weathering feedback that allowed BC release to increase at more acidic pHs, a systematic effect on predicted changes in acid neutralizing capacity (ANC ca. 1041 eq) and pH (ca. pH = 0.10.6) at all sites was observed. More robust projections of future changes in pH and ANC are dependent on reducing uncertainties in BC release rates, the timing, and extent of natural acidification through BC uptake by plants, temporal changes in soil element pools, and fluxes of Al between compartments.
4314009|Organ tissues from 109 seals were grouped by sampling area, species, sex, age and health status. The concentration of Al, Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mg, Mn, Ni, Pb, V, W, and Zn were determined in liver and kidney cortex by simultaneous direct current plasma atomic-emission spectrometry (DCP-AES). Concentrations of Hg and Se in liver as well as As in blubber were determined by continuous hydride atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS). Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina vitulina) from the Skagerrak, the Kattegat and the Baltic, grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) and ringed seal (Phoca hispida botnica) from the Baltic were studied. Juveniles were used for comparison of concentrations between areas and species, and seals hit by the PDV epizootic with uninfected specimens. Adult males were compared to juveniles. Adult female grey seals, apparently healthy, were compared to unstarved and starved females showing the symptoms of the disease complex earlier described as hyperadreno-corticism. The concentrations of most elements were at similar levels in corresponding tissues from Baltic harbor seals and harbor seals from the Swedish west coast. However, concentrations of several elements were generally lower in the coastal living Baltic harbor seals compared with Baltic grey and ringed seals. Increasing concentrations with age were ascertained for Cd, Hg and Se. Diseased old adult female grey seals had altered concentrations of Al, As, Ca, Cr, and Fe compared to the undiseased females, adult males and/or juveniles. No support was found for the assumption, that heavy metals contributed to the outbreak of the epizootic among harbor seals in 1988. The distribution pattern of some elements appeared to be influenced by infectious and inflammatory processes in animals that died during the epizootic.
4314479|In this paper, we present an inventory of greenhouse gas sources and sinks in Bangladesh for the year 1990. Because CO
23322895|This paper invokes the theory of planned behavior (TPB) as a diagnostic tool to explain an existing public education program's limited success at improving river water quality in the City of Perth, Western Australia. A reflective, client-driven research approach was used. A facilitated expert workshop defined an environmental problem (excess nutrients leaving gardens and entering waterways) and a desired behavior (residents purchasing environmentally sensitive fertilizer) to address the problem. A TPB-based belief elicitation survey captured respondents' beliefs regarding the desired behavior. The findings suggest respondents were aware of the links between purchasing environmentally sensitive fertilizer and river water quality. However, this behavior is compromised by the challenges in identifying appropriate products, product quality concerns, and cost. Viewing the content of a public education program through the lens of the TPB reveals insights into how and why the program fell short in achieving one of its key behavioral change goals.
4313092|Great species diversity is characteristic of Peninsular Malaysia, especially of the lowland dipterocarp-dominated forests. In recent decades, however, land clearance for agriculture, selective logging, hunting and collecting, and pollution of water bodies have taken a heavy toll of the region's fauna. Conservation, which is pursued on an ad hoc basis, is underfunded and there is a shortage of trained personnel. Environmental awareness is growing but lack of co-operation between Federal and State authorities is a major problem.
4313418|Meteorological satellite data were acquired for the southern portion of the Amazon Basin of Brazil in 1984 and 1985. Analysis of these data for the states and territories of Mato Grosso, Rondonia, and Acre has documented a substantial increase in the rate of forest conversion or deforestation from 1984 to 1985. The 1985 data indicated that the deforested area within the states or territories studied totaled
4315001|The aim of the calculations in this paper was i) to estimate the effect of measures to reduce nitrogen leaching from arable land and ii) to estimate what reduction in the gross load from southern Sweden could be expected. The measures taken were i) cultivation of a catch crop in spring cereals; ii) smaller applications of fertilizer-N to crops in cultivation systems without manure; iii) spring application of manure and a smaller amount of complementary fertilizer-N; and iv) a catch crop in combination with spring application of manure and a reduced rate of fertilizer-N. The models used were the mechanistic SOIL/SOILN models describing water, heat, and nitrogen flows in the soil profile. The largest reduction in leaching was obtained with the combination of catch crop, spring application of manure and reduced rate of fertilizer-N. Total gross load decreased with 16% in this scenario. The catch crop scenario reduced gross load by a mere 5% because it was only introduced in 30% of the acreage of spring cereals. The scenario with a 10% reduction in fertilizer-N resulted in a decrease in load of about 6000 tonnes, i.e. 11%, as well as a yield decrease of about 10%
41418330|Changes in sea ice, snow cover, lake and river ice, and permafrost will affect economy, infrastructure, health, and indigenous and non-indigenous livelihoods, culture, and identity. Local residents are resilient and highly adaptive, but the rate and magnitude of change challenges the current adaptive capacity. Cryospheric changes create both challenges and opportunities, and occur along local, regional, and international dimensions. Such changes will provide better access to the Arctic and its resources thereby increasing human activities such as shipping and tourism. Cryospheric changes pose a number of challenges for international governance, human rights, safety, and search and rescue efforts. In addition to the direct effects of a changing cryosphere, human society is affected by indirect factors, including industrial developments, globalization, and societal changes, which contribute to shaping vulnerability and adaptation options. Combined with non-cryospheric drivers of change, this will result in multifaceted and cascading effects within and beyond the Arctic.
25547835|The cost of fishing and the income earned by fishers using small and large traps, gill nets, beach seines, hand lines, and spearguns were assessed in the multigear fishery of southern Kenya to establish a financial rationale for fishing gear use. Direct observations and key-informant interviews with fish leaders and boat captains were used to gather data on fish catch, cost of fishing gear, boats, and the price of fish. Among the fishing gear used, spearguns had the lowest monthly cost (USD 1 mo) while big traps had the highest (USD 13 mo). Income was highest among capital cost beach seine fishers (USD 183 mo) and lowest among noncapital cost beach seine fishers (USD 20 mo). There was a direct positive correlation between income earned and profitability of gear. Correlation of the financial measure for each gear to four categories of damage to fish and habitats showed that low cost fishing gear were associated with the highest environmental damage indicating a trade-off between cost of gear and environmental health.
4314246|Effective forest management requires balancing conservation and local economic development objectives. This project demonstrated a method for mapping customary land-use systems using oral histories, sketch maps, and GPS and GIS methodologies. These maps can form the basis of talks for identifying customary forest-tenure boundaries in order to assess how indigenous ways of organizing and allocating space might support or conflict with the objectives of forest protection, for evaluating different means of coordinating indigenous resource-management systems with government-instituted systems of management, and as a basis for formal legal recognition and protection of customary forest-tenure arrangements. The constraints on this process include the accuracy of the base maps, the ability of social scientists and mapmakers to accurately capture the complex relationships of traditional resource-management systems on maps, and the political will of the parties involved for recognizing different forms of land rights.
4312536|Available evidence about the carcinogenic and genetic effects of low levels of radiation is not sufficient to determine their extent. Moreover, it is unlikely that we will discover these effects in the forseeable future. But researchers in the field believe that firmer conclusions can be drawn from their results than is actually the case. And politicians, as is usual when they are faced with uncertainty, do not take the effects of low levels of radiation on populations into account when making decisions about nuclear energy. The genetic effects of this radiation may, for all we know, have serious consequences for future generations.
4315449|Why GIWA? Six years ago several people had their doubts as to whether a Global International Waters Assessment would be worth the money and effort. Nowadays, it is no longer necessary to justify the creation of GIWA. On the contrary, we will show how important it was that the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) and UNEP, constituted GIWA. Countless water-related assessments focus on specific regions and/or specific issues. But GIWA is unique in its global and holistic policy-oriented approach applying a common methodology to address the major problems in all parts of the global hydrosphere. One major achievement of GIWA will be the GIWA publications which provide advice to GEF and other decision-making organizations. Further assets include the network of regional focal points and teams. GIWA encompasses marine, surface freshwater, and groundwater systems, following the flow of water from the sources in the mountains through the rivers and estuaries into the coastal waters and the shelf seas. GIWA studies the physical, chemical and biological properties of those waterbodies and living resources in relation to the human activities, combining ecological and socioeconomic considerations.
4314326|Synthetic polymers, naturally-occurring biopolymers, as well as some other materials of commercial interest are adversely affected by solar UV radiation. Applications of these materials, particularly plastics, in situations which demand routine exposure to sunlight is only possible through the use of light-stabilizers and/or surface treatments to protect them from sunlight. Any increase in solar UV content due to partial ozone depletion will therefore accelerate the photodegradation rates of these materials, limiting their service lifetimes outdoors. The nature and the extent of such damage due to increased UV radiation in sunlight is quantified in action spectra. In spite of the several action spectra for polymers, reported in the research literature, the information is often inadequate to make reliable estimates of the increased damage. The specific formulation of the polymer material, the damage criterion employed, and even the manner in which data are interpreted, can often influence the results. However, it is clear from the available data that the shorter wavelength UV-B processes are mainly responsible for photodamage ranging from discoloration to loss of mechanical integrity in polymers exposed to solar radiation. The molecular level interpretation of these changes remains unclear in many instances. The use of higher levels of conventional light stabilizers in polymer formulations will likely be employed to mitigate the effects of increased UV levels in sunlight. However, such an approach assumes that a) these stabilizers continue to be effective under spectrally-altered sunlight conditions; b) they are themselves photostable on exposure to UV-rich sunlight; and c) they can be sufficiently effective at low enough concentrations to economically serve the purpose: Experimental data bearing on these issues is sparse. Ongoing research, particularly those relating to extreme environment exposure of polymers, is expected to shed more light on these unresolved questions. Substitution of the affected materials by more photostable varieties of plastics and other materials also remains an attractive possibility. Both these approaches will add to the cost of plastic products in target applications. With plastics rapidly displacing conventional materials in numerous applications, this is an important consideration particularly in the developing world.
4314472|It may be possible to sequester carbon in forests and forest products, but to date global trends in land management have resulted in a release of terrestrial carbon to the atmosphere. Over 100 PgC were released between 1850 and 1980, and during the 1980s global changes in land use (predominantly deforestation) caused a net release of 1.6 PgC yr
4313299|Many of the small developing island states in the South Pacific have claimed exclusive economic zones (EEZs). Those who have not yet done so are in the process of making their claims as part of their Law of the Sea Convention implementation programs. One of the problems being faced by by the South Pacific states with regard to their EEZ claims is the shortage of trained personnel, particularly in the legal field, to manage their fisheries resources. A regional strategy for training in the legal aspects of fisheries is necessary.
25547875|The Mekong region is undergoing rapid transitions, socially, economically, and environmentally. Economies are stabilizing after the political turbulence of the last several decades, and development pressures as well as ambitions are vast. Water is related to these social, economic, and environmental changes in many ways and in a very profound manner. This article summarizes the approach and major conclusions of the research project title "Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) on the Mekong River." The concept of IWRM is elaborated in the setting of these major transitions, and the roles of academic research and education are highlighted.
4314205|Environmental degradation around the Mediterranean is growing alarmingly. Short-cut methods must be sought to deal with two critical problems: the disposal of urban wastes and the rehabilitation of the severely-degraded semiarid coastal hinterlands. We report on progress to date in a major research program to use urban wastes to amend soil physical and chemical factors so that vegetation is re-established and land productivity is restored. Remarkable and lasting changes in soil factors related to plant-available water and nutrient supply have been found. Care must, however, be taken to monitor levels of toxic elements. An optimum level of application of urban wastes is our objective where conservation and restoration of the soil is achieved without significant pollution problems.
25547817|Conventional perceptions of the interactions between people and their environment are rapidly transforming. Old paradigms that view humans as separate from nature, natural resources as inexhaustible or endlessly substitutable, and the world as stable, predictable, and in balance are no longer tenable. New conceptual frameworks are rapidly emerging based on an adaptive approach that focuses on learning and flexible management in a dynamic social-ecological landscape. Using two iconic World Heritage Areas as case studies (the Great Barrier Reef and the Grand Canyon) we outline how an improved integration of the scientific and social aspects of natural resource management can guide the evolution of multiscale systems of governance that confront and cope with uncertainty, risk, and change in an increasingly human-dominated world.
4315590|This study demonstrates the use of globally available Earth system science data sets for water assessment in otherwise information-poor regions of the world. Geospatial analysis at 8 km resolution shows that 64% of Africans rely on water resources that are limited and highly variable. Where available, river corridor flow is critical in augmenting local runoff, reducing impacts of climate variability, and improving access to freshwater. A significant fraction of cropland resides in Africa's driest regions, with 39% of the irrigation nonsustainable. Chronic overuse and water stress is high for 25% of the population with an additional 13% experiencing drought-related stress once each generation. Paradoxically, water stress for the vast majority of Africans typically remains low, reflecting poor water infrastructure and service, and low levels of use. Modest increases in water use could reduce constraints on economic development, pollution, and challenges to human health. Developing explicit geospatial indicators that link biogeophysical, socioeconomic, and engineering perspectives constitutes an important next step in global water assessment.
4315174| The spatial and temporal pattern of annual rainfall and the strength of the dry season within the Amazon region are poorly known. Existing rainfall maps are based on the data from full-scale, long-term meteorological stations, operated by national organizations linked to the World Meteorological Organisation, such as INMET in Brazil. Stations with 30 or more years of uninterrupted and reliable recordings are very few, considering the size of the region, and most of them are located along the major rivers. It has been suggested that rainfall conditions away from these rivers are substantially different. An analysis has been made of the records of a network of simple pluviometric sites in the Brazilian part of the region as maintained by the National Agency for Electric Energy (ANEEL) since 1970. The latter data sets were used to draw more detailed maps on annual rainfall, and on the strength of the dry season in particular; average number of consecutive months with less than 100 mm, 50 mm, and 10 mm, respectively. Also, some data were obtained on the spatial expression of El Nio events within the region. Sub-regional differences are large, and it is argued that they are important for the success or failure of agricultural settlements; for the hazard of large-scale fire damage of the still existing primary forest vegetation; for the functioning of this land cover as stock and sink of CO
24708970|To assist transport modeling in assessments of the radiological impact of a geological repository for radioactive wastes, the mobility of various elements was studied in arable and wetland soils in the Forsmark region, Sweden. Pore water and total element contents were determined for five types of unconsolidated deposits (regolith), spanning a wide range of soil properties with respect to pH and organic matter content. Two soil depths were sampled to capture element mobility in regolith layers affected and unaffected by soil-forming processes. The solid/liquid partition coefficients (Kd values) for most elements varied significantly among regolith types. For most elements, the observed variations in Kd values could be explained by variations in soil properties. For many elements, mobility increased with decreasing soil pH. The results provide a significant addition of data on radionuclide retention in soils, taking account of soil properties and processes.
4312452|The American and Swedish clean air policies in force since 1969-1970 differ in many important aspects, thus offering an interesting case for comparison of the impact of different air pollution control approaches. Both countries have had some success in fighting air pollution. However, the United States has been more successful in controlling auto emissions, while Sweden seems to have been somewhat more effective in controlling emissions from stationary sources. At first glance, this may seem to correspond closely to the differences in policy emphasis and control approaches. However, other factors may be equally, or more, responsible for the changes in air pollution loads on the average citizen.
4314139|The highlands of East Africa have a high agricultural potential and have historically supported kingdoms with stratified social structures. Today, traditional fertility practices cannot be maintained under conditions of mounting population growth and land scarcity. Land degradation is now threatening the very basis of the farming communities. This paper discusses land degradation in East Africa in the context of soil conservation. It describes technical and institutional responses to land degradation including regional cooperation and concludes that degradation is not yet irreversible. Relatively low-cost technologies exist that have the potential, given supportive institutions and incentives, to achieve widespread adoption among smallholders.
4314514|Peat growth in temperate peat-forming wetlands is believed to have been one of the major climate regulation mechanisms throughout the late Phanerozoic era. Since plant life first evolved on land, peat-forming wetlands have been significant terrestrial carbon sinks, which could well explain the variations in atmospheric composition observed in sediment and glacier cores, etc. The results of this process are hard coal, lignite and peat, which have all been formed under the same conditions. Peat growth and decay is believed to be responsible for the more or less regular shifts between glacials and interglacials during the late Cenozoic, offering an alternative to the Milankovitch theory. Glaciations are also believed to transform landscapes into types suitable for peatland initiation and, hence, form a system of feedback mechanisms. Our model shows that in a future perspective, under natural conditions without anthropogenic emission of greenhouse gases, e.g. carbon dioxide, the initiation of a new ice age would have been expected in less than 1000 years; taking into account the regulating role of the oceans. With situations like the present, characterized by increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases, initiation would most probably be delayed in proportion to atmospheric concentrations. With the present levels of CO
4313972|Methane has been a major contributor to the enhanced greenhouse effect during the 1980s, second only to carbon dioxide. Because of uncertainties about the sources and sinks of methane, policy discussions focus on more manageable substances like carbon dioxide and CFCs. In this paper it is argued that international response with respect to methane does not have to wait until the uncertainties are resolved or carbon dioxide controls have been negotiated. Methane has a short lifetime relative to most other greenhouse gases. Model calculations with the Integrated Model to Assess the Greenhouse Effect (IMAGE) indicate that a 10% reduction of current methane emissions combined with a stabilization of carbon monoxide emissions by 2025 would probably stabilize atmospheric methane concentrations at present-day levels. A stricter carbon monoxide reduction by 50% would even permit the emissions of methane to increase by about 6% to stabilize atmospheric concentrations. Controls of CFCs, HCFCs and nitrogen oxides have an adverse effect on methane concentrations, making necessary additional reductions of methane emissions. But even if these controls materialized a considerable slowing down of the present rate of increase around the turn of the century would be possible. Through improved management techniques such controls are considered to be a realistic option in the not too distant future. This offers a unique opportunity to show globally that effective control of greenhouse gases is indeed possible. If temperature feedbacks on methane emissions from natural wetlands, rice paddies and methane hydrates do materialize, the reductions would have to be larger, but not as large as the reductions required to stabilize the atmospheric concentrations of longer-lived greenhouse gases. A protocol on methane as part of a global climate convention should focus on technology transfer and increased research opportunities especially in developing countries.
4314168|Human actions are altering the terrestrial environment at unprecedented rates, magnitudes, and spatial scales. Land-cover change stemming from human land uses represents a major source and a major element of global environmental change. Not only are the global-level data on land-use and land-cover change relatively poor, but we need a much better understanding of the underlying driving forces for these changes. Many forces have been proposed as significant, but single-factor explanations of land transformation have proved to be inadequate. How the human causes interact, and under what circumstances each is important, are questions needing systematic research. An international and interdisciplinary agenda is currently being developed to address these issues, through several closely-connected foci of study. A division of the world according to common situations of environment, human driving forces, and land-cover dynamics will be followed by detailed study of the processes at work within each situation. The results will form the basis for a concurrent effort to develop a global land model that can offer projections of patterns of land transformation.
4313335|Shortages of woodfuels in developing countries are generated by the complex interaction of many conditioning factors-environmental, economic, demographic, sociopolitical and cultural-leading to a site-specificity that defies generalization. Solutions involve using existing wood resources as efficiently as possible in order to buy the time needed to switch over in the towns to electricity, kerosene and bottled gas and to stimulate all forms of wood-fuel generating landuse practices including agroforestry among farmers in the rural areas. Foresters have an important cooperative role to play with agriculturalists in the agroforestry solution. It would be a tragic waste of scarce resources, if in the absence of this, agriculturalists were forced to "reinvent the silvicultural wheel."
4313892|In response to even modest social change, vastly increasing numbers of the population in developing countries are opting for the small family norm. This responsible behavior is yet to be matched by an adequate response from governments and from the international community. Current needs for family planning are largely unmet. Future needs are going to be much greater, in terms of expanding access to services, improving quality of services, and broadening contraceptive choices. The voluntary non-governmental sector and the private sector are needed to play an important role in the future. Political commitment, mobilization of resources and know-how through research will be essential requisites for meeting the future needs.
41418331|The Arctic cryosphere is a critically important component of the earth system, affecting the energy balance, atmospheric and ocean circulation, freshwater storage, sea level, the storage, and release of large quantities of greenhouse gases, economy, infrastructure, health, and indigenous and non-indigenous livelihoods, culture and identity. Currently, components of the Arctic cryosphere are subjected to dramatic change due to global warming. The need to document, understand, project, and respond to changes in the cryosphere and their consequences stimulated a comprehensive international assessment called "SWIPA": Snow, Water, Ice, Permafrost in the Arctic. Some of the extensive key SWIPA chapters have been summarized and made more widely available to a global audience with multi-disciplinary interests in this Special Report of Ambio. In this article, an overview is provided of this Special Report in the context of the more detailed and wider scope of the SWIPA Report. Accelerated changes in major components of the Arctic cryosphere are documented. Evidence of feedback mechanisms between the cryosphere and other parts of the climate system are identified as contributing factors to enhanced Arctic warming while the growing importance of Arctic land-based ice as a contributor to global sealevel rise is quantified. Cryospheric changes will result in multifaceted and cascading effects for people within and beyond the Arctic presenting both challenges and opportunities.
4314885|Several different aspects of the geographical ecology of tundra birds were investigated during the Swedish-Russian Tundra Ecology -94 expedition along the Northeast Passage in 1994. Quantitative censuses of breeding bird communities and populations were made at the temporary field sites, supplemented by surveys from helicopter over wider tundra areas. The occurrence of avian predatory species-skuas, snowy owl and rough-legged buzzard-was analyzed with respect to interspecific relationships as well as to the abundance of their main prey, the lemmings. Geographical variation in color phases among skuas and of genetics in dunlins (based on mitochondrial DNA) were examined, as well as the social organization in different wader species and moult strategies among populations of dunlins. Bird migration was recorded by a tracking radar placed on the expedition ship, and by complementary visual observations. These studies demonstrated the patterns of flight directions, altitudes, speeds (also measured by optical instruments) and migratory routes of the tundra birds. Ringing results contributed to put these results into a global migratory perspective. Two important aspects of the energetics of arctic birds were investigated during the expedition: the basal metabolic rates of waders when departing on migration, and the fuel loads deposited by the migrating waders. The effect of longitudinal displacement on the migratory orientation of a long-distance passerine migrant, the wheatear, was tested by repeated orientation experiments at a number of test sites along the Northeast Passage.
4314847| The role of the carotenoid astaxanthin in progeny of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) from the Baltic Sea with and without the M74 syndrome is assessed. Astaxanthin deficiency is strongly correlated to M74 and a threshold concentration level, 0.11 g astaxanthin per egg, below which healthy egg batches are not found is implicated. Furthermore, all Baltic salmon family groups with an astaxanthin concentration > 0.22 g per egg were healthy. Also reported are dynamic changes of astaxanthin in eggs and yolk-sac fry, before and after the eyed stage and after hatching. Compared to North Atlantic salmon roe much less of the carotenoids is converted to esters in the yolk-sac fry of Baltic salmon, and the fraction of unesterified astaxanthin remaining in 2-3 week old yolk sac fry developing M74 is extremely low and apparently no longer metabolized. Different biological functions of carotenoids are discussed, emphasizing the role of astaxanthin in the antioxidative protection of sea-run salmon and its progeny. 
4314362|This study analyzed human-induced loss and fragmentation of tropical forests in three upland watersheds in northern Thailand between 1954 and 1992. During this 38-year period, forest cover declined, agricultural cover increased, population and population density grew, and agriculture changed from subsistence to cash crops. These changes resulted in a spatially diverse landscape with implications for biological and cultural diversity, sustainable resource use, and the economic conditions of the region. By quantifying the spatial and temporal patterns of tropical-forest change, we have attempted to show how the landscape in these upland tropical forests is controlled by physical and biological, as well as social and economic, parameters. The study illustrates the hierarchy of temporal and spatial events that result in global biome changes.
4313223|Energy planning in developing countries is only meaningful when it takes into account the constraints inherent in the development transition. Economic potential, balance of payments and political goals concerning increased equity are essential considerations for energy planners. The energy future of Zimbabwe will be determined not by the technicalities of energy production and consumption, but rather by the extent to which future energy options can be integrated into the present constraints and future development of the country.
4314821|This study describes the coastal reefs of southern and southwestern Sri Lanka including reefs at Hikkaduwa, Unawatuna, Rumassala, Weligama, Mirissa and Polhena. Two reef types are defined: coral reefs and rock reefs. The coral reefs were all fringing the coast. Some of them were described as lagoon reefs with an adjacent reef slope, while others were typified as nearshore reefs without typical zonation patterns. However, there were similarities among coral reefs as most of them had a significant coral growth; the overall average live coral cover was almost 50%. The dominant coral genera were Acropora followed by Montipora and Pocillopora. The reef slopes had a low coral cover as they were dominated by coralline rock and patches of sand. The rock reefs were dominated by large boulders and rocky outcrops and the coral growth was sparse, but small colonies of different coral genera were present. Generally, the rock reefs were situated in more exposed areas and at greater depths, further offshore, than the coral reefs. The development of the reefs in this study was influenced by a range of factors. Important natural processes seemed to be related to hydrodynamics and sedimentation. However, as all these reefs are situated near the shore, they are also influenced by various human activities including fishing, boating, reef walking, snorkelling, pollution, and sedimentation, which clearly have altered reef structure at some sites.
4314029|The impact of human activities on the Himalayan biogeophysical, socioeconomic and cultural environments has been analyzed. The main man-induced activities which threaten the Himalayan Mountain ecosystems are unplanned land use, cultivation on steep slopes, overgrazing, major engineering activities, overexploitation of village or community forests, shifting cultivation, unplanned tourism and urbanization. Cold desert conditions prevail in 41 692 km
40390417|Forests in northern Fennoscandia are mainly composed of the O3 -sensitive species Scots pine and downy, mountain, and silver birches. Seminatural vegetation also contributes to biodiversity, carbon cycling, and ecosystem services as a part of forests, mires, meadows, and road verges. Fumigation experiments show that current O3 concentrations of 30-50 ppb reduce plant biomass production and reproduction. Visible foliar injury is attributable to peak O3 concentrations and relates to fast phenological development and high growth rate. Trees can acclimate to O3 -induced water stress by producing more xeromorphic leaves or needles. The direct effects of O3 on grassland vegetation also translate to changes in the structure and size of the soil microbial community, and ecosystem N cycling. It is necessary to reduce the emission of O3 precursors and maintain high biodiversity to protect northern ecosystems. Regular, systematic, countrywide monitoring and validation as well as quantification of the effects of O3 on plants in the Nordic countries are also necessary.
4314300|This paper examines the ways in which farmers exploit edaphic variability in Mutoko communal area in northeastern Zimbabwe. Land use on ten farms was surveyed in detail. Crop development, soil type and management history were recorded, and soil samples were collected for a range of microenvironments which farmers used to their advantage. The contrast between these small spatial concentrations of nutrients and larger surrounding areas of infertile soils, and their complimentary function in relation to moisture and nutrient availability are highlighted. Crop- and soil management are interpreted in terms of farmers' strategies for dealing with environmental variability. Outsiders' subjective assessments of acceptable levels of soil fertility may be meaningless under such circumstances. In order to increase or sustain productivity, the State and researchers could support farmers' efforts to maintain flexibility in the face of uncertainty rather than proscribe farmers' actions or provide broad packages of recommendations aimed at intensification.
4312292|Risk assessment has developed in response to the new and newly-discovered hazards of the environment. The environment is perceived as becoming more hazardous by science, media and the public but is not demonstrably so in the statistical record. Overlapping elements of risk assessment include the identification of hazard, the estimation of the risk it poses, and the social evaluation of its meaning and importance. With high perception of hazard, ambiguous assessments of risk and a still evolving methodology, three ideological assumptions flourish. Each is based on the implicit assumption that the true hazard potential is greater than, less than, or different from the prevailing risk assessment.
4312269|Nitrogen-fixing plants supply the bulk of the combined nitrogen added each year to the surface of the Earth. The author considers each of the major groups of such plants, their role as providers of combined nitrogen and ways in which such plants could be further exploited as sources of combined nitrogen. Using examples from his own work, he points to some of the problems which will have to be overcome if new groups of nitrogen-fixing plants are to be achieved.
41417243|The development of the mercury (Hg) amalgamation process in the mid-sixteenth century triggered the onset of large-scale Hg mining in both the Old and New Worlds. However, ancient Hg emissions associated with amalgamation and earlier mining efforts remain poorly constrained. Using a geochemical time-series generated from lake sediments near Cerro Rico de Potos, once the world's largest silver deposit, we demonstrate that pre-Colonial smelting of Andean silver ores generated substantial Hg emissions as early as the twelfth century. Peak sediment Hg concentrations and fluxes are associated with smelting and exceed background values by approximately 20-fold and 22-fold, respectively. The sediment inventory of this early Hg pollution more than doubles that associated with extensive amalgamation following Spanish control of the mine (1574-1900 AD). Global measurements of [Hg] from economic ores sampled world-wide indicate that the phenomenon of Hg enrichment in non-ferrous ores is widespread. The results presented here imply that indigenous smelting constitutes a previously unrecognized source of early Hg pollution, given naturally elevated [Hg] in economic silver deposits.
25515810|The Khangchendzonga National Park is a part of the eastern Himalaya global biodiversity hotspot and is located in the Sikkim state of India. Increasing livestock populations coupled with the government policy to ban grazing and its selective implementation resulted in conflict. Hence we undertook this multidisciplinary study involving consultations with traditional resource users, field surveys, and remote sensing. We found that in the greater Himalayan part, over the past 6 decades sheep have been increasingly replaced by yaks (and their crossbreeds), who descend only up to the multilayered temperate and subalpine forests during winter. These forests have been extensively manipulated by the yak herders to increase the fodder availability. In terms of economics and equity in benefit sharing, we found that a few yak herders earn high incomes by maintaining large herds while the sheep and pack animal herders earn subsistence level incomes from small herds. We propose a reduction in yak (and their female crossbreed) numbers with adequate alternative livelihood support for the herders.
4312623|The problems arising from Three Mile Island were not limited to deficiencies in reactor design, safety controls or manpower training. The author, Pennsylvania's newly appointed Secretary of Health, states that the public health sector was totally unprepared to cope with this accident. He contends that decisions were made by engineers and physicists when medical doctors were called for; that the incidence of hypothyroidism has increased tenfold downwind from two Pennsylvania reactor sites and he appeals for cooperation between physicians specialized in radiation medicine, nuclear physicists and engineers to establish public health safeguards in the event of future accidents.
4315854|The results from the multimillion dollar Enrichment of Nutrients on Coral Reefs Experiment (ENCORE) nutrient enrichment experiment on One Tree Island Reef (OTIR) suggest that increased nutrient loads to coral reefs will have little or no effect on the algal growth rates and, hence, on the associated effects that increased algal growth might have on the functioning and stability of coral reefs. However, a comparison of the concentrations of nutrients within the OTIR lagoon with the proposed nutrient threshold concentrations (NTC) for coral reefs suggests that all sites, including the control sites, were saturated with nutrients during ENCORE, and, hence, one would not expect to get any differences between treatments in the algal-growth related measurements. Thus, ENCORE results provide strong support for the proposed NTCs and support the ecological principle that algal productivity and, consequently, the functioning of coral reefs are sensitive to small changes in the background concentrations of nutrients. The principal conclusion of ENCORE, namely that the addition of nutrients did not cause the "pristine" OTIR to convert from coral communities to algal dominated reefs, is contrary to the fact that there was prolific macroalgal growth on the walls and crests of the experimental microatolls by the end of ENCORE.
4315713|Human activities over the past few centuries have profoundly changed the functioning of the earth system as a whole. These changes are particularly evident in the high latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere, where environmental change has been pronounced and rapid. Such changes have implications beyond the region, as they can lead to two important feedback processes: the ice-albedo feedback and the terrestrial carbon cycle-climate feedback. These processes play an exceptionally important role in earth system functioning, particularly because they may switch this century from damping the effects of anthropogenic climate change to accelerating them. Rapid environmental change in the high latitudes also has consequences for issues of direct importance to humans, particularly water resources.
4312049|Most chlorinated biphenyls present in the technical PCB products Clophen A 50 and A 60 have-after fractionation into sub-groups on charcoal columns-been characterized and estimated by comparison with synthetic compounds. The composition of the chlorobiphenyl residues found in human adipose tissue was investigated using the same method after removal of DDT and its metabolites by a new oxidation procedure. Some conclusions as to the structural requirements needed for the metabolism of chlorobiphenyls have been drawn.
4312902|The Ngorongoro Conservation Area is a challenge to conservation and to development. It was excised from the Serengeti National Park and designated as a conservation area more than 20 years ago. As a result, most of the invaluable forests have been preserved and the resident wildlife survives even though the rhino and the cheetah are still poached and the migratory herds of plains animals numbering over a million still continue to use the plains. The pastoral Maasai, squeezed from other areas have been allowed to practice part of their traditional way of life here even if the future is precarious. Fossil finds, including those of hominids, dating back nearly four million years make it a priceless natural laboratory. The question is whether the grandeur and the diversity of landscapes and what they offer can be sustained for future generations.
4313942|Although recent estimates have concluded that the temperate forest is approximately in carbon balance or perhaps a small carbon source, failure to balance the global carbon budget indicates that some of the accepted ranges for sinks or sources contain large errors or that an important sink has not been properly accounted for. Two very recent attempts to account for the fluxes by identifying carbon sources and sinks have provided evidence, of a missing carbon sink and that the missing sink is located somewhere in the temperate region of the Northern Hemisphere. The estimates of the temperate forest as being roughly in carbon balance in recent decades are at variance with the well-documented rise in northern forest timber volumes that has been occurring throughout much of the temperate Northern Hemisphere for the past several decades. Newly available data for all the forests of North America, Europe, and the former USSR allow a reexamination of the overall northern forest carbon balance. The findings of that reexamination suggest northern forest ecosystems as the missing carbon sink. These forests are estimated to be sequestering carbon at a rate of about 0.7 Gigatons (Gt) annually. A sink of this size is outside the range of recent estimates that are commonly used for purposes of estimating the global carbon budget.
4313530|Environmental impact assessment (EIA) is generally recognized as a useful tool in reducing human impacts on the environment. The Antarctic environment is especially sensitive to harmful perturbation. Regulations introduced under the Antarctic Treaty have provided limited environmental protection. Following proposals from the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research, the XIV Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting in October 1987 adopted a Recommendation which suggested guidelines to be used in a formal system of environmental impact assessment for scientific research and associated logistic activities in the Antarctic.
41417292|Here, we show for one of the Dutch Rhine River branches that large-scale riverine ecosystem rehabilitation and related vegetation succession may lead to up to 0.6 m higher river flood levels, because of increased hydraulic roughness. We hydraulically modeled future succession stages of embanked floodplain vegetation, following from present ecosystem rehabilitation plans for the 124-km-long river IJssel, and found flood levels exceeding the safety levels (related to dike heights). Our models take into account river engineering measures that are presently carried out, aimed at enhancing the river discharge capacity in order to meet required safety standards. Our study shows that there is a pressing need for integrated hydraulicecological evaluation of river engineering measures and ecosystem rehabilitation plans in the Rhine embanked floodplains. An important conclusion also is that hydraulic evaluation of planned vegetation goals only is inadequate, because flow resistance of preceding succession stages may be higher.
4313161|Biomass gasifiers may be an important energy alternative for agriculture and small industry in developing countries. They will be more economical than diesel only where the annual operating times are long and the load factor high, unless diesel fuel is very costly. Biomass gasification can be important where the use of small engines to provide mechanical or electrical energy is not economically feasible because of high transportation costs for petroleum fuels or a shortage of foreign currency. Local manufacturing is the most reasonable basis for large-scale introduction of biomass gasification in developing countries. There are several obstacles to the introduction of gasifiers, but they can be overcome. A well-organized and integrated program supported by government authorities will be required.
4312731|Although three main systems typify agricultural production in the Wider Caribbean, agricultural growth and export and import status differ in the different territories, for the different crops, and from year to year. Several natural and institutional factors restrict the development of agriculture in the region. Weather, pests, disease, and soil erosion are the most important natural constraints. The major institutional constraints are land tenure; lack of credit, market information and linkages between agriculture and other sectors of the economy; the biased orientation of the education system; lower wages in agriculture; and the inadequacy of the infrastructure.
4315516|Across the circumpolar North large disparities in the distribution of renewable and nonrenewable resources, human population density, capital investments, and basic residential and transportation infrastructure combine to create recognizable hotspots of recent and foreseeable change. Northern Fennoscandia exemplifies a relatively benign situation due to its current economic and political stability. Northern Russia is experiencing rapid, mostly negative changes reflecting the general state of crisis since the collapse of the Soviet Union. North America enjoys a relatively stable regulatory structure to mitigate environmental degradation associated with industry, but is on the verge of approving massive new development schemes that would significantly expand the spatial extent of potentially affected social-ecological systems. Institutional or regulatory context influences the extent to which ecosystem services are buffered against environmental change. With or without a warming climate, certain geographic areas appear especially vulnerable to damages that may threaten their ability to supply goods and services in the near future. Climate change may exacerbate this situation in some places but may offer opportunities to enhance resilience in the long term.
41510592|The large majority of biofuels to date is "firstgeneration" biofuel made from agricultural commodities. All first-generation biofuel production systems require phosphorus (P) fertilization. P is an essential plant nutrient, yet global reserves are finite. We argue that committing scarce P to biofuel production involves a trade-off between climate change mitigation and future food production. We examine biofuel production from seven types of feedstock, and find that biofuels at present consume around 2% of the global inorganic P fertilizer production. For all examined biofuels, with the possible exception of sugarcane, the contribution to P depletion exceeds the contribution to mitigating climate change. The relative benefits of biofuels can be increased through enhanced recycling of P, but high increases in P efficiency are required to balance climate change mitigation and P depletion impacts. We conclude that, with the current production systems, the production of first-generation biofuels compromises food production in the future.
4312040|Factors that influence the distribution pattern of mercury in lake sediments have been studied in three Swedish lakes. The lakes differ in size, topography, and water quality. The mercury contamination is of different magnitudes and the sources of contamination are dissimilar. Laboratory tests have revealed that the affinity and distribution of mercury ( Hg
4315307|Coral recruitment, following the coral bleaching episode in 1998, was studied on the Kenyan coast. Scleractinian recruits representing 31 genera from 13 families were recorded in 2001, the dominant families at all sites being the Pocilloporidae, Poritidae, and Faviidae. The highest diversity and density of scleractinian recruits was observed at a site located within a marine park, with 11 families, 20 genera and 21.4 recruits per m
4314238|Microbial nitrogen fluxes were measured in two eutrophic lakes and compared with nitrogen budgets based on measurements of inflows to and outflows from the lakes. Phytoplankton primary production was largely dependent on regenerated nitrogen and ammonium was the preferred form. Pelagic bacteria could satisfy their need for nitrogen by uptake of dissolved free amino acids during most of the year and also contributed considerably to the regeneration of inorganic nitrogen. Microbial denitrification of nitrate to molecular nitrogen and permanent retention in the sediments are the most important pathways of nitrogen loss from aquatic ecosystems. Estimates of denitrification in lake sediments were made using
41417316|Monitoring of permafrost has been ongoing since 1978 in the Abisko area, northernmost Sweden, when measurements of active layer thickness started. In 1980, boreholes were drilled in three mires in the area to record permafrost temperatures. Recordings were made twice per year, and the last data were obtained in 2002. During the International Polar Year (2007-2008), new boreholes were drilled within the 'Back to the Future' (BTF) and Thermal State of Permafrost' (TSP) projects that enabled year-round temperature monitoring. Mean annual ground temperatures (MAGT) in the mires are close to 0C, ranging from -0.16 to -0.47C at 5 m depth. Data from the boreholes show increasing ground temperatures in the upper and lower part by 0.4 to 1C between 1980 and 2002. At one mire, permafrost thickness has decreased from 15 m in 1980 to ca. 9 m in 2009, with an accelerating thawing trend during the last decade.
4312539|By combining analysis of stable isotope lead concentrations in three cores from the recent sediments of Lake Mirwart, in south Belgium with dating by
4313356|Geographical associations were investigated between various demographic factors and mortality from nonmalignant respiratory diseases in Scottish communities. The standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) for bronchitis, emphysema and asthma, for pneumonia, and for other respiratory disease were calculated for all cities, large burghs, small burghs and landward areas of Scotland for the periods 1959-63 and 1969-73; for 1979-83 the SMRs calculated were for local government districts. The Poisson exact test was used to identify communities with significantly high or low SMRs. The geographical locations of the communities and their mortality records for some of these diseases are shown in a series of maps. Bronchitis was consistently high in communities northwest and east of Glasgow, but generally not in other industrial communities. For pneumonia and other respiratory disease the communities with high SMRs were largely confined to the industrial central belt. Of the demographic factors, domestic overcrowding correlated most strongly with respiratory disease. An urban-rural gradient for bronchitis and the other diseases persisted through the three time periods.
4315646| The objective of this study was to increase the knowledge of local stakeholders' acceptance of model-generated data when used as a communication tool in water quality management. The Rnne catchment in the southwest of Sweden was chosen as the study area. The results indicate the model-generated data served as a uniting factor. Simultaneously, the stakeholders were concerned with presented data, the main problems being sources of pollution, which were not accounted for, lack of trustworthiness when measuring pollution, and the uncertainty of the impact of natural variation and delayed effects. Four clusters of factors were identified as influencing stakeholders' acceptance of the model-generated data: confidence in its practical applications, confidence in the people involved in or providing material for the dialog (such as experts, decision-makers, and media), the social characteristics of the participants (such as age and profession), and the way of communicating the data (such as tone of communication, group composition, duration, and geographical scope of the dialog). The perception of the fairness of the practical application of given model-generated data was also an important factor for acceptance. 
4314571|The N-enrichment of the biosphere due to human activities has potential global consequences in enhancing, cumulatively, the emission of N
4313752|The integration of aquaculture with livestock production offers increased efficiency in resource utilization, reduces risk by diversifying crops and livestocks and, thus, provides additional food and income. In the Ilocos Region. Philippines, intensive goat raising is possible due to the high demand for chevron (goat meat) which is the main delicacy of the Ilocanos. However, intensification is greatly limited by the problem of waste disposal. On the other hand, many Ilocanos are engaged in small-scale aquaculture, but operations are hindered by the shortage and high cost of commercial feeds and fertilizer for their fish ponds. A goat/fish production trial is described employing 0, 200, and 300 goats with fish-stocking densities of 10 000 and 20 000 of Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) per ha. The highest individual fish weight (78.05 g), in a 120-day fish-culture period, was recorded for the combination of 300 goats and 10 000 O. niloticus per ha, whereas the lowest gain (45.95 g) was obtained at the stocking density of 20 000 O. niloticus per ha without goat manure. However, the highest total fish yield of
4315064|Alpine tundra of the Rocky Mountains is subject to relatively little direct anthropogenic environmental change, and provides a good ecosystem for the detection of human effects associated with climate change and atmospheric pollution. The majority of the plants have patterns of vegetative development which limit the degree to which they can respond to variation in resource availability. Field experiments indicate that changes in the abundance of plant species is the predominant response of alpine tundra to simulated climate change (snow augmentation) and increased nitrogen deposition. This biotic change in turn influences ecosystem function, including the magnitude and variation in primary production, and nutrient cycling. These biotic responses may have a greater impact on changes in ecosystem function than the direct effects of environmental change.
4315271|Agricultural soil is a contributor of nitrate to natural waters. High nitrate levels in water leached from soils are related to high nitrate concentrations in drinking water, and excess levels change the ecological balance of rivers and lakes. In this paper, sound solutions to the major environmental issue of limiting nitrate leaching by modifying agricultural practices are discussed. The causes of nitrate leaching from agricultural land are briefly explained and existing measures for the reduction of nitrate losses are described, analyzed and evaluated. Reduction of nutrient leaching is not a question of organic or conventional farming, but rather of the introduction and use of appropriate countermeasures. We propose the following guiding principles to minimize leaching from agricultural soils. To some extent these principles require a new way of thinking: i) environmental indexing of fields and consideration of spatial variability within fields in relation to their contribution to leaching losses within a catchment; ii) reduction of nitrogen inputs to soil to levels slightly below those expected to give the optimum yield by applying less nitrogen fertilizer and by a further reduction in animal density; and iii) use of a range of countermeasures (catch crops, minimum tillage, control of biological processes, etc.) depending on how sensitive the farming system, soil and climate are to the risk of nitrate leaching.
4313817|This paper deals with the occurrences of en-vironmental stress and degradation in Ethiopia and their relation to social and political conflict. It is clear that drought, locust infestations, crop failures, livestock losses, epidemics, famine and major migrations have been frequent occurrences in Ethiopia as elsewhere in the world. In many cases, the consequence has been social and political conflict, banditry, rebellion and civil war. Armed conflict has also contributed to the severity of the environmental catastrophes. In modern times, threats to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the nation have led to militarization and diverted resources that Ethiopia could have employed to better advantage for the alleviation and prevention of its growing environmental problems.
4314160| This study investigates the response of a climate model to a 1% per year increase of atmospheric carbon dioxide. The model is a general circulation model of the coupled ocean-atmosphere-land surface system, with a global computational domain, smoothed geography, and seasonal variation of insolation. The simulated increase of sea-surface temperature is very slow in the northern North Atlantic and the Circumpolar Ocean of the Southern Hemisphere where the vertical mixing of water penetrates very deeply and the rate of deep water formation is relatively fast. Extending this work, we investigated the transient responses of the coupled model subsequent to the doubling and quadrupling of atmospheric CO
4312100| Current observations of hemangiosarcoma among vinyl chloride-exposed workers have reattracted attention to cancer hazards in the petrochemical industry. The neoplasms seen have had the characteristic attribute of most occuptional neoplasms-a long period of clinical latency between onset of exposure and evidence of disease. As with asbestos-induced cancers, or those with such diverse agents as -naphthylamine, benzidine, arsenic, chromates, uranium mining, nickel carbonyl, bischlormethylether, 20 years or more often pass before neoplasms appear. This phenomenon has made difficult evaluation of the important influence of multiple factor interactions, and dose-disease response relationships, and indicates the necessity of developing effective techniques for identification of carcinogenicity of new materials or those recently introduced, by laboratory pretesting and/or more sensitive epidemiological approaches. 
4313136|Markedly increased levels of cadmium, zinc and copper were found in the biosphere in and around brooks, streams, fenny areas and lakes downstream from the waste tips of an old copper mine (Bersbo) in Sweden. There were plans to cultivate one of these fenny areas after artificial drainage. Part of it, however, was so contaminated by heavy metals from a brook directly draining the waste tips, that it was considered that this part should not be cultivated, but be used for forestry instead.
4315490|Sea-ice in the Baltic Sea in present and future climates is investigated. The Rossby Centre Regional Atmosphere-Ocean model was used to perform a set of 30-year-long time slice experiments. For each of the two driving global models HadAM3H and ECHAM4/OPYC3, one control run (1961-1990) and two scenario runs (2071-2100) based upon the SRES A2 and B2 emission scenarios were conducted. The future sea-ice volume in the Baltic Sea is reduced by 83% on average. The Bothnian Sea, large areas of the Gulf of Finland and Gulf of Riga, and the outer parts of the southwestern archipelago of Finland will become ice-free in the mean. The presented scenarios are used to study the impact of climate change on the Baltic ringed seal (Phoca hispida botnica). Climate change seems to be a major threat to all southern populations. The only fairly good winter sea-ice habitat is found to be confined to the Bay of Bothnia.
41417339|This study investigates environmental change over a 30-year period and attempts to gain a better understanding of human impacts on an arid environment and their consequences for regional development. Multitemporal remotely sensed imagery was acquired and integrated to establish the basis for change detection and process analysis. Land cover changes were investigated in two categories, namely categorical change using image classification and quantitative change using a vegetation index. The results show that human-induced land cover changes have been minor in this remote area. However, the pace of growth of human-induced change has been accelerating since the early 1990s. The analysis of the multi-temporal vegetation index also shows no overall trend of rangeland deterioration, although local change of vegetation cover caused by human activities was noticeable. The results suggest that the current trend of rapid growth may not be sustainable and that the implementation of effective counter-measures for environmentally sound development is a rather urgent matter.
4313585|This paper examines the economic impact of business investments made in 1985 in pollution abatement and control by industry, occupation, and region for the US. Pollution abatement and control has become a major industry in the US during the past twenty years, with total expenditure of nearly USD 70 billion in 1985. The analysis undertaken in this paper presents simulation results on the gross economic effects of business investments in the control of air, water, and solid-waste pollution for 80 industries and 475 occupations. The findings do not lend support to the widely-held belief that environmental programs generally hurt the economy by crippling industries and increasing unemployment.
4314285|In order to develop criteria for the assessment of releases of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) into the environment in Austria, Austrian scientists and government experts discussed case studies: on microorganisms, plants and animals. Taking into account the relevant EU and other international regulations, as well as the familiarity and the internationally accumulated experience, not only with GMOs but also with recipient organisms as well as traits and environmental conditions, recommendations are made to streamline the current risk-assessment procedure by reducing information requirements on aspects where experience has been gained and concentrating on the new characteristics of the particular GMO and its environment. On this basis, key criteria for the assessment of releases of genetically modified microorganisms, plants and animals are elaborated and a scheme for the categorization of releases of certain transgenic animals is suggested.
4314602|The deposition of atmospheric pollutants in southern Norway is relatively high, and exceeds the critical load for acid deposition in sensitive ecosystems. While the effects of the sulfur deposition are relatively well known and documented, the fate and effects of oxidized and reduced nitrogen compounds are much less well known. In order to study the cycling of nitrogen in southern Norway, the inter-institutional research program Nitrogen from Mountains to Fjords was launched in 1991. The program aims to describe the nitrogen mass balance and the effects of nitrogen deposition in two different watersheds in southern Norway. In this respect, quantification of the atmospheric input for comparison with runoff and other transfer data has been an important task. The atmospheric input has been estimated on the basis of available data from the national monitoring of air and precipitation chemistry, and additional measurement activities within the study areas, for the period 1993-1995. In the Bjerkreim watershed topographical effects result in large variation in precipitation amounts within the study area, and between the individual 44 hydrological subcatchments. Annual nitrogen deposition varied between 1400 and 2300 mg N m
25547852|The mass transport model TEOTIL was used to project nitrate (NO) fluxes from the Tovdal River basin, southernmost Norway, given four scenarios of climate change. Forests, uplands, and open water currently account for 90% of the NO flux. Climate scenarios for 2071-2100 suggest increased temperature by 2-4C and precipitation by 3-11%. Climate experiments and long-term monitoring were used to estimate future rates of nitrogen (N) leaching. More water will run through the terrestrial catchments during the winter but less will run in the spring. The annual NO flux from the Tovdal River to the adjoining Topdalsfjord is projected to remain unchanged, but with more NO delivered in the winter and less in the spring. Algal blooms in coastal waters can be expected to occur earlier in the year. Major sources of uncertainty are in the long-term fate of N stored in soil organic matter and the impacts of forest management.
4314166|The terrestrial hydrological cycle is a critical component of the Earth system, playing a key role in climate processes, biogeochemical cycles and their interactions. Better knowledge about the land/atmosphere exchanges of water is also needed to maintain human development, by improving water management practices and providing a better understanding of the local, regional and global consequences of human impacts on freshwater resources. Research into global hydrology is fostered under several international projects and programs. This paper briefly overviews past activity and progress in the field of large-scale observations and their associated modelling. It then previews upcoming activities, discerning a change of emphasis: increasing effort is now being given to broadening objectives, with more attention directed at larger-scale observations and truly interdisciplinary studies. These involve observations which are geographically widely-distributed, to sample a range of natural and man-made eco-climatological gradients.
4313555|The acidification problem associated with anthropogenic emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxides is addressed from a global perspective. The picture is dominated by the highly acidified regions in Europe and the eastern parts of North America. An additional acidified region is emerging in the southern parts of China. In most tropical countries emissions are still low, but in many cases increasing. Areas with sensitive soils are identified. Where these areas coincide with present or expected industrial development, future acidification problems are anticipated to occur.
4315442|In this paper we discuss information theoretical landscape indices based on data from digitized maps in grid format: measures based on Shannon's entropy, e.g. the measures of diversity and contagion; and measures based on conditional entropy, e.g. a new index which can be seen as an alternative to the measure of contagion that does not have the disadvantage of being highly correlated to the measure of diversity. We also introduce a measurement on how much information is contained in a coarse-scale map about a fine-scale map.
4315740|Sea-level rise, as a result of climate change, will likely inflict considerable economic consequences on coastal regions, particularly low-lying island states like Singapore. Although the literature has addressed the vulnerability of developed coastal lands, this is the first economic study to address nonmarket lands, such as beaches, marshes and mangrove estuaries. This travel cost and contingent valuation study reveals that consumers in Singapore attach considerable value to beaches. The contingent valuation study also attached high values to marshes and mangroves but this result was not supported by the travel cost study. Although protecting nonmarket land uses from sea-level rise is expensive, the study shows that at least highly valued resources, such as Singapore's popular beaches, should be protected.
4313541|Ways have to be found to improve life quality and food security in Africa's semiarid countries, despite the environmental constraints of hydroclimatically-induced water scarcity and the considerable interannual fluctuations which characterize the natural freshwater supply. A water-stress profile is presented on a) the role of improved water supply for self-sufficient crop production and b) the number of individuals jointly depending on each flow unit of water available to the country from the water cycle. In a medium-term-perspective, water will not be readily available to support improved life quality for growing African populations. There is an urgent need for increased awareness among African leaders so that adequate strategies can be made for development under conditions of severe water scarcity. Such strategies are urgently needed to stop the present multi-risk spiral from producing repeated collapses during recurrent drought years.
4312163|Sphagnum samples were collected from ombrotrophic bogs in 15 sites in Finland and two sites in western continental Canada and studied to reveal possible regional differences in heavy metal concentrations. Atomic absorption spectrophotometry was used for Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, Pb, Cr, Ni, Cd, and Hg. The minimum contents of Pb, Ni, Cr and Fe in the whole material were found in the Canadian samples near Great Slave Lake. Within Finland, Pb showed the steepest increase towards south. The use of peat mosses, especially Sphagnum fuscum, is suggested for extensive mapping of heavy metal deposition within the boreal forest vegetation zone.
4315555| Ground level ozone concentrations, in combination with the prevailing climate, at the estate stads Steri in southwestern Sweden were estimated to reduce the yield of wheat and potato ranging between 5% and 10%. Occasionally, in years with the highest ozone concentrations and/or climatic conditions favoring high rates of ozone uptake to the leaves, yield loss levels above 10% may occur. Based on simple extrapolation, these ozone-induced reductions of crop yields at stads Steri represent a potential total annual yield loss in Sweden in the range of 24.5 million Euro for wheat and 7.3 million Euro for potato, respectively. A simulation of forest growth at stad Steri predicted that prevailing mean ozone exposure during 1993-2003 had the potential to reduce forest growth by 2.2% and the economic return of forest production by 2.6%. Using this value for extrapolation to the national level, the potential annual economic loss for Sweden due to negative impacts of ozone on forest production would be in the range of 56 million Euro (2004 prices). 
24708991|This paper explores the concept of homegardens and their potential functions as strategic elements in land-use planning, and adaptation and mitigation to climate change in Sri Lanka. The ancient and locally adapted agroforestry system of homegardens is presently estimated to occupy nearly 15 % of the land area in Sri Lanka and is described in the scientific literature to offer several ecosystem services to its users; such as climate regulation, protection against natural hazards, enhanced land productivity and biological diversity, increased crop diversity and food security for rural poor and hence reduced vulnerability to climate change. Our results, based on a limited sample size, indicate that the homegardens also store significant amount of carbon, with above ground biomass carbon stocks in dry zone homegardens (n = 8) ranging from 10 to 55 megagrams of carbon per hectare (Mg C ha1) with a mean value of 35 Mg C ha1, whereas carbon stocks in wet zone homegardens (n = 4) range from 48 to 145 Mg C ha1 with a mean value of 87 Mg C ha1. This implies that homegardens may contain a significant fraction of the total above ground biomass carbon stock in the terrestrial system in Sri Lanka, and from our estimates its share has increased from almost one-sixth in 1992 to nearly one-fifth in 2010. In the light of current discussions on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+), the concept of homegardens in Sri Lanka provides interesting aspects to the debate and future research in terms of forest definitions, setting reference levels, and general sustainability.
4312950|Madagascar, the Comoros, Mauritius and the Seychelles, although forming part of the same geographical and biogeographical Region, differ ethnically, socio-culturally, historically and economically. There are a number of similarities, however, which are discussed; the main one being a history of colonialism.
4314467|Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in India have important implications for global climate change. Emission trajectory and mitigation policies for India are analyzed using two models, a bottom-up energy systems optimization model (MARKAL) and a top-down macroeconomic model (Second Generation Model (SGM)). MARKAL is used to analyze technologies, peak electricity demand, carbon taxes, and a range of different policy scenarios. Carbon taxes and emissions permits are analyzed using SGM. In the reference scenario, energy use and carbon emissions increase nearly fourfold between 1995 and 2035. The analysis indicates that investment in infrastructure can substantially lower energy intensity and carbon intensity. A high carbon tax induces the substitution of natural gas and renewable energy for coal, and also causes a significant decrease in gross national product and consumption. The limitations of present models for analyzing mitigation policies for developing countries are discussed. Improvements for realistic representation of developing country dynamics and a policy agenda for GHG mitigation studies in developing countries are proposed.
4314347|Concentrations of trace metals and nutrient elements from Chinese rivers were examined on the basis of high-quality analyses and monitoring data. Routine monitoring practices may provide trace-metal levels two or three orders of magnitude higher than those from high-quality analyses. This is most likely due to the contamination and defects associated with sample collection and analysis. Elevated nutrient concentrations in Chinese rivers are attributed to extensive agricultural activities, e.g. use of chemical fertilizers. Riverine concentrations of nutrients have doubled over the last decade. Taking into account the higher demand for crop production, nutrient levels can be expected to continue to increase in the near future. This will have an important influence on bioproduction in coastal waters unless environmental management and protection are effectively introduced.
4315664|The practice of integrated coastal management (ICM) has matured sufficiently since its beginnings in the early 1980s to suggest a set of principles that could be used to guide the massive investments that will be made over the next several years to rehabilitate and reconstruct the thousands of kilometers of coastlines devastated by the 26 December 2004 tsunami. We offer six principles to guide what can be done to make coastal communities less vulnerable, to improve the conditions of the poor, and to avoid repeating the mistaken judgements that have been made in the past about how shorelines are allocated and developed. We then offer a set of five principles to guide how action plans are formulated and implemented. These stress the critical importance of tailoring principles to the unique conditions and needs of each place. The roles of national government in setting policies to guide a decentralized planning and decision-making process are distinguished from a negotiation process that engages the people of the place in a bottom-up application of ICM good practices.
25547828|With the large scale developments of offshore windpower the number of underwater electric cables is increasing with various technologies applied. A wind farm is associated with different types of cables used for intraturbine, array-to-transformer, and transformer-to-shore transmissions. As the electric currents in submarine cables induce electromagnetic fields there is a concern of how they may influence fishes. Studies have shown that there are fish species that are magneto-sensitive using geomagnetic field information for the purpose of orientation. This implies that if the geomagnetic field is locally altered it could influence spatial patterns in fish. There are also physiological aspects to consider, especially for species that are less inclined to move as the exposure could be persistent in a particular area. Even though studies have shown that magnetic fields could affect fish, there is at present limited evidence that fish are influenced by the electromagnetic fields that underwater cables from wind-mills generate. Studies on European eel in the Baltic Sea have indicated some minor effects. In this article we give an overview on the type of submarine cables that are used for electric transmissions in the sea. We also describe the character of the magnetic fields they induce. The effects of magnetic fields on fish are reviewed and how this may relate to the cables used for offshore wind power is discussed.
4313068|The South Pacific region is fortunate in being relatively free of major pollution problems. However, increasing development and the fragility of regional ecosystems mean that potential dangers exist. The management and disposal of hazardous substances such as pesticides, wood treatment chemicals, industrial chemicals and discharges, urban solid waste and sewage is an area of major concern. The principal problem is that carelessness, negligence and ignorance have led to pollution of coastal and inland water systems. Unless there is a marked improvement in the level of environmental legislation, monitoring activity and technical expertise, further and even more serious problems will occur.
4314713|Vegetation fires occur in almost all parts of the globe. Both natural and man-made, they interact in a complex manner with the biosphere. Using a series of global data sets of NOAA AVHRR satellite imagery, spread over a 12 month period in 1992-1993, it has been possible, for the first time, to carry out a quantitative study of fire dynamics from a global perspective. The results presented here show the spatial and temporal distribution of active fires as derived from this remotely sensed data. Fires have been detected at all times of the year and in almost every region of the globe, however, 80% of those detected were within the tropics, and the largest number were in the African continent. The main vegetation types affected were savanna woodlands. The potential application of this information to atmospheric chemistry, land-use and land-cover change studies is discussed.
4312621|The growing demand for beef in the US is by far the major factor in the destruction of Central American rainforests. Forests are converted to pasture lands to support cattle, but the beef is exported to the US where it serves as a non-inflationary source of meat for the fast-food trade, notably the hamburger chains. The 'cheap' price of this beef does not reflect the total costs of production, especially the environmental costs involved in the destruction of some of the most diverse ecosystems in the entire tropical biome, including exceptional concentrations of species. The destruction of the forests clearly illustrates the connection between consumerist lifestyles in North America and environmental impoverishment in Central America.
23253250|Current atmospheric warming due to increase of greenhouse gases will have severe consequences for the structure and functioning of arctic ecosystems with changes that, in turn, may feed back on the global-scale composition of the atmosphere. During more than two decades, environmental controls on biological and biogeochemical processes and possible atmospheric feedbacks have been intensely investigated at Abisko, Sweden, by long-term ecosystem manipulations. The research has addressed questions like environmental regulation of plant and microbial community structure and biomass, carbon and nutrient pools and element cycling, including exchange of greenhouse gases and volatile organic compounds, with focus on fundamental processes in the interface between plants, soil and root-associated and free-living soil microorganisms. The ultimate goal has been to infer from these multi-decadal experiments how subarctic and arctic ecosystems will respond to likely environmental changes in the future. Here we give an overview of some of the experiments and main results.
4315232|Nitrogen oxides are released during atmospheric combustion of fossil fuels and biomass, and during the production of certain chemicals and products. They can react with natural or man-made volatile organic compounds to produce smog, or else can be further oxidized to produce particulate haze, or acid rain and eutrophy land and water. The reactive nitrogen that begins in the energy sector thus cascades through the atmosphere, the hydrosphere and soils before being eventually partially denitrifed to the global warming and stratospheric ozone-depleting gas nitrous oxide or molecular nitrogen. This paper will suggest how an economic analysis of the nitrogen cycle can identify the most cost-effective places to intervene. Nitrogen oxides released during fossil-fuel combustion in vehicles, power plants and heating boilers can either be controlled by add-on emission control technology, or can be eliminated by many of the same technical options that lead to carbon dioxide reduction. These integrated strategies also address sustainability, economic development and national security issues. Similarly in industrial production, it is more effective to focus on redesigning industrial processes rather than on nitrogen oxide pollution elimination from the current system. This paper will suggest which strategies might be utilized to address multiple benefits rather than focusing on single pollutants.
4312647|The traditional form of nature conservation in Kenya's National Parks must be adopted to socio-economic and cultural pressures. The cultural and economic attitudes of the African population to wildlife and the conflict with the imposed, safari-style, tourist-oriented National Park policies which prohibit access and traditional exploitation of these areas are described. The author emphasizes the need to involve the local people in conservation by allowing traditional land use rights in certain areas and strict conservation or limited production in others. A patchwork grid of zones with different management policies is proposed and compared to the Biosphere Reserve concept. The implementation of the Biosphere Reserve concept is discussed and three Kenyan Biosphere Reserves are described briefly.
4314683|Silver is widely dispersed in the environment as a result of its industrial and medical use. Although silver is toxic to microorganisms, its effects in soil are poorly investigated. In the present work, basal respiration, substrate-induced respiration, and potential denitrification activity were used to evaluate effects of silver (
4313543|An attempt at desalination has been performed on two soils containing different levels of sodium-chloride contamination. The study was carried out in upper-Alsace, France, from 1980 to 1982. Contamination was caused by sylvinite extraction and by the potash industry. The two alluvial soils that were analyzed contained sodium concentrates of 42 and
4312217|A wide range of organic micropollutants has been identified in samples of precipitation collected in Norway. They include alkanes, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), phtalic acid esters, fatty acid ethyl esters and many chemicals of industrial origin. The analysis and identification were performed by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. The presence of PAH in the precipitation is a matter of concern; the level of these compounds at the sources is probably much higher than in the samples analyzed in this study, due to reduction in concentration during transport over long distances.
4315437|Forest reflectance models are able to contribute to the interpretation of satellite images over forested areas. A multipurpose forest reflectance model, its basic ideas, model input and output options are briefly described. The possibility to apply the model in forest remote sensing is demonstrated through the following simulation examples: the age dependence of forest reflectance, the seasonal course of forest reflectance, defoliation effects on forest reflectance, sensitivity of chlorophyll and water indices with respect to leaf chlorophyll and water content, respectively, and uncertainties in these indices introduced by the variation in stand parameters. When used together with the atmospheric radiative transfer and sensor calibration models, the forest reflectance model is applicable in satellite-imagery-aided forest ecology and health assessment, forest inventory and management.
4312008|[
4313157|Sri Lanka provides an interesting case study of the problems of energy and development. Because of the implementation of large-scale projects, notably the Mahaweli program, there is currently a surplus of biomass for household consumption. In future years, however, the difficulty in obtaining wood fuel for households will increase substantially and will exert pressure on the commercial fuelwood market. The Sri Lanka case demonstrates that the problems with meeting people's energy needs and sustaining supplies are evident even in those countries not currently perceived as facing an energy crisis.
4313678|A prerequisite for understanding the large-scale eutrophication of the Baltic Sea is an understanding of the factors responsible for regional and long-term variations of nutrients. This article summarizes recent studies on the changes in overall total amounts and the distribution pattern of nutrients. The total amounts of phosphorus and nitrogen have increased over the last few decades. On the other hand, silicate levels have been decreasing, indicating a higher net primary production and sedimentation of diatoms. A series of models has been used to test our present understanding of the critical processes controlling nutrient and oxygen conditions. It is shown that a few morphometric factors are essential, like shallow sill depth at the entrance of the estuarine-like sea and shallow mean depth. It is also shown that phosphorus, nitrogen and silicate differ in terms of residence times and their response to external loading. Some of the critical processes controlling the fate of these nutrients take place in the sediments. A model showing the long-term behavior of this system in response to external loading illustrates the importance of these processes.
4314333|Combustion of peat leads to emission of carbon dioxide ( CO
4312313|Because of its configuration and proximity to a number of more developed nations, the Mediterranean is expected to be one of the first seas to suffer harm from man's impact. An overview of the major pollutants impinging on the Mediterranean is presented, and some judgements are made of their relative importance. Although fringes of the sea are polluted, particularly in the northwest basin, the levels of most pollutants in the open sea are similar to those in other oceans. Sewage and oil pollution appear to be the principal problem.
4315061| This paper presents examples of environmental changes in the Canadian Rockies in the context of a 1.5C increase in mean annual temperatures over the last 100 years. During this period increases in winter temperatures have been more than twice as large as those during spring and summer. Glacier cover has decreased by at least 25% during the present century and glacier fronts have receded to positions last occupied ca. 3000 years ago. These two lines of evidence suggest that the climate of the late 20th century is exceptional in the context of the last 1000 to 3000 years. Detailed studies in three closely located upper treeline sites document variable responses of vegetation to climate change that reflect species differences as well as local differences in microclimate and site conditions. Treeline has advanced upslope in response to climate warming, but site and species differences control the rate and nature of the advance. Human impacts on the environment compound the changes due to climate warming. Historic photographs indicate significant changes in the type and density of forest cover due to the absence of significant forest fires within these National Parks during the last 70-80 years. The visual impact of these changes, which partially reflects a policy of fire suppression, is far greater than the impact of changes associated with more direct tourist-related impacts. It is therefore important that monitoring programs examine vegetation changes over the entire landscape rather than focussing exclusively on supposedly climate-sensitive sites. 
23253251|Dead wood provides a huge terrestrial carbon stock and a habitat to wide-ranging organisms during its decay. Our brief review highlights that, in order to understand environmental change impacts on these functions, we need to quantify the contributions of different interacting biotic and abiotic drivers to wood decomposition. LOGLIFE is a new long-term 'common-garden' experiment to disentangle the effects of species' wood traits and site-related environmental drivers on wood decomposition dynamics and its associated diversity of microbial and invertebrate communities. This experiment is firmly rooted in pioneering experiments under the directorship of Terry Callaghan at Abisko Research Station, Sweden. LOGLIFE features two contrasting forest sites in the Netherlands, each hosting a similar set of coarse logs and branches of 10 tree species. LOGLIFE welcomes other researchers to test further questions concerning coarse wood decay that will also help to optimise forest management in view of carbon sequestration and biodiversity conservation.
4313472| The Thousand Lake Survey was conducted in Norway in the fall of 1986 to determine the chemical status of lakes in areas sensitive to acidic deposition. The survey was also designed to detect possible changes in water quality as a follow-up to extensive regional surveys which were conducted in 1974/75. In large areas of southern Norway receiving acidic precipitation thousands of lakes and streams are acidic (ANC <0). Large areas elsewhere in Norway contain lakes with low concentrations of base cations. These areas would also be expected to contain acidic lakes if they receive acidic loadings equivalent to those in southernmost Norway. The pH of lakes in southern Norway has changed little from 1974/75 to 1986. Sulfate concentrations are significantly lower today in the most affected lakes in southernmost and eastern Norway, corresponding to reductions in emissions, but are still elevated. Nitrate concentrations in most of the lakes in Srlandet have, however, doubled on average over the same period, while no significant changes have occurred in the rest of southern Norway. In the lakes with higher concentrations of nitrate in 1986, aluminum concentrations are also higher. At present, about 70 percent of the lakes sampled in southern Norway have lost all of their bicarbonate buffering capacity. With a 30-percent reduction from present levels of SO
4313520|A synthesis of fundamental characteristics of Arctic and Antarctic inland water ecosystems is provided as a background to a more detailed review on polar freshwater vertebrate ecology and interactions including these and other trophic levels as well as other biomes. The arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus) species complex is used as a northern ecological model to describe processes of speciation, introgression, life-history strategies and vertebrate interactions with lower trophic levels. The significance of polar freshwater ecosystems as vulnerable sources of genetic and ecological information is pointed out and exemplified. Unique gene pools are exterminated by exploitation of the freshwater environment, introduction of alien species, and pollution. The urgent need for efficient conservation of polar freshwater ecosystems is emphasized.
4315608|Good animal welfare is necessary if an agricultural system is to be sustainable. Although we have been concerned about the welfare of our animals since we first domesticated them and became dependent on their health and reproduction, this article focuses mainly on the development of the animal welfare debate since the 1960s. It presents animal welfare as a science that arose from society's concern about the way animals are kept. These moral and ethical concerns lead to it having a value framework that must also be taken into consideration. Different definitions of animal welfare, as well as examples of research, are presented and discussed in the light of developments in this area. For example, in recent years there has been an increased interest among consumers for animal-friendly products, as there has been for environment friendly products, and this has stimulated the move from experimental studies of animal welfare to its application in practice and to monitoring animal welfare on farms. Traditionally such measurements have been resource based, e.g. specifying the minimum amount of feeding space or the maximum stocking density, but now the trend is toward animal-based measures, such as the number of lame animals, body condition, etc.
4313878|Population growth rate has been shown to decline with development. The flow of greenhouse active gases to and from the atmosphere, which is associated with several activities in society, is used to demonstrate that development, based on present techniques and projections of developed countries' industrial systems, is associated with insurmountable economic constraints and is also not sustainable. It is argued that this is because present development organization is hampered in its efficient natural-resource management by conservative procurement activities. This is claimed to be due to the fact that the market-oriented economic theory which dominates present development activities, has a low capacity to pragmatically attack the problem complex of natural-resource management, a process where several independent infrastructure subsystems interact with the same function in ecological systems by different mechanisms. It is proposed that the governance of development should be analyzed in terms of management, transactions and property rights and their influence on the structure and function of the development organization, emphasizing the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources.
4315542|There is little evidence that nitrogen (N) cycling in the highly weathered, low-phosphorus (P), acidic soils found in Southern Hemisphere continents will differ greatly from that in North America and Europe. Evidence from the 'south' shows: the similarity in forms and temporal patterns in losses of N from different land uses; that the C:N ratios of the forest floor/litter layer from different continents are strongly predictive of a range of processes on a global scale; that generalizations based on Northern Hemisphere experience of the impact of N additions to 'P-limited' ecosystems are likely to fail for southern ecosystems where anatomical and physiological adaptation of native plants to low-P soils makes questionable the concept of 'P-limitation'; that the greatest threats in the 'south' are probably changes in land use that may greatly increase N inputs and turnover; that localized increases in N inputs produce similar effects to those seen in the 'north'.
4313905| Bridge piers may reduce flushing in a strait. It has been demonstrated that this effect is strongly dependent upon the relative magnitude of the flow resistance induced by the bridge. If this is small, flow reduction due to the bridge will be small. This is the case in resund where the resistance in pre-bridge flow is two orders of magnitude greater than would be the flow resistance of the proposed bridge. It is estimated that the proposed bridge will decrease the inflow to the Baltic Sea through resund by less than 0.6%. The total inflow, including the flow through the Danish Belts, will decrease by less than 0.2%. The mean salinity of the surface water in the Baltic Sea, which is about 7-8 salinity units, will thus decrease by less than 0.015 units. In the light of this very small reduction, both in absolute terms, and compared to the much greater natural variations, it is suggested that the proposal of a zero solution for resund, implying extensive dredging to compensate for the flow resistance of the bridge piers, should be reconsidered. 
4315227|Globally, energy demand is projected to continue to increase well into the future. As a result, global NO
4314767|A sampling program was initiated by the Swedish Polar Research Secretariat with the purpose of exploring the possibility of using trace analyses of snow samples to identify anthropogenic influences in the environments of two small research stations in Antarctica. During the field season 1991/92, surface snow samples and a short firn core were collected in the vicinity of the Swedish station Wasa and the Finnish station Aboa. Surface snow was sampled again in 1993/94. Major ions ( Na
4312964|This article describes how the tiny Indian Ocean Republic of Seychelles was able to push through a resolution, during the 1979 session of the International Whaling Commission, to declare the Indian Ocean a whale sanctuary. Its success marks a turning point in the history of the IWC, which until that time was completely dominated by an exclusive club of whaling nations and former whaling nations. It was also a determining force which in 1982 enabled the Commission's members to vote an end to all commercial whaling after 1985.
4312453|Economic and regulatory approaches for water quality management are described. Important elements of the effluent charges system in France, the Netherlands, West Germany, Hungary and Czechoslovakia are cited. The water management structure in France, Finland, the United States, Japan, the Netherlands and England and Wales is touched upon. Empirical results for Japan, the United States, the Netherlands, France and Sweden indicate that at least for conventional pollutants (oxidizable substrate and suspended solids), water quality has ceased to deteriorate in the past decade and in some instances it has improved.
4313646| Numerical models of the global climate are now in general agreement that a doubling of the atmospheric- CO
4314981|This paper reviews the status of biodiversity in Chinese inland waters, and the threats this biodiversity now faces. The potential ecological impacts of the biodiversity loss on both the ecosystems and the future of mankind are also discussed. The main emphasis is on diversity at species level. Habitat loss, modification or fragmentation, introduction of exotic species, overfishing, destruction of aquatic macrophytes due to overstocking of plant-eating carps, inbreeding depression of "domestic" carps, and deterioration of ecological environments due to accelerated eutrophication, appear to be the most serious threats to the biodiversity of Chinese inland waters. Severe declines in species diversity of fish, coupled with inadequate knowledge of freshwater fauna, indicate that conservation of biological diversity in aquatic systems requires more attention in China.
4315178|Urban metabolism measures quantitatively a city's load on the natural environment. We update the Newcombe et al. (3) pioneering study of Hong Kong's urban metabolism in 1971, highlighting trends in resource consumption and waste generation. Per capita food, water and materials consumption have surged since the early 1970s by 20%, 40%, and 149%, respectively. Tremendous pollution has accompanied this growing affluence and materialism, and total air emissions, CO
23322898|The energy and material flows of a city are often described as urban metabolism (UM), which is put forward as a way to link a city's ecology and economy. UM draws parallels to the biology of individual organisms, yet the analogy is misapplied. In striving to be interdisciplinary, UM makes this organismic comparison rather than identifying the city as an ecosystem, thereby ignoring developments in ecological theory. Using inappropriate rhetoric misdirects researchers, which influences scientific investigationfrom problem statements to interpretations. UM is valuable in quantifying the city's use of natural resources but does not achieve a comprehensive, integrated analysis of the urban ecosystem. To realize an interdisciplinary, perhaps transdisciplinary, understanding of urban ecology, researchers need to emphasize the essential tenets of material flows analysis, view the city as an ecosystem, and use language that properly reflects current knowledge, theory, and conceptual frameworks in the foundational disciplines.
4313795|Formic acid is the major contributor to acidity of tropical rains. In this work, formic acid and formaldehyde were measured in rain collected at two rural savannah sites, a suburban location, and in the city of Caracas. Higher concentrations of both compounds were recorded in the first rains at the end of the dry season, when vegetation burning occurs throughout Venezuela. From the samples at all four sites, a significant statistical correlation was found between HCHO and HCOOH. The HCOOH/HCHO ratio in heavy rains (> 10 mm) is 1.2, and in fairly good agreement with predictions from theoretical models. The results suggest that incloud oxidation of formaldehyde plays a major role in controlling the concentration of formic acid in tropical rains.
4314204|Roots are a major source of the soil carbon that is necessary for improving soil fertility in degraded rangeland. The root growth dynamics of the shrubs Artemisia halodendron and Caragana microphylla were monitored during three growing seasons using mini-rhizotrons, i.e., transparent tubes inserted into the soil. The area studied was protected from grazing during the observation period. Root numbers were lower during the dry growing season of 1989 than during the wetter 1990 and 1991 growing seasons. The two species showed similar root-growth dynamics during all three years. Root-growth dynamics were well correlated with soil-moisture dynamics.
4315663|This study estimates the national-level annual volume and value of commercial medicinal plant harvest in Nepal. Data were collected using open-ended questionnaires administered to local medicinal plant traders (n = 149) in 15 districts in Nepal and regional wholesalers (n = 53) in India. The annual trade volume is estimated to range from 7000 to 27 000 tons, with 14 500 tons harvested in the case year 1997-1998. The corresponding annual export value, calculated using regional wholesaler purchasing prices in the main markets in India, is estimated at US$7-30 million, with a value of US$16 million in 1997-1998. Around 10% of rural households are involved in commercial harvesting. Lower ecological zones dominate supplies in both volume and value terms; herbs constitute the most important life form in value terms. Around 36% of volume and 51% of value derive from destructive harvesting. It is argued that annual volume and value figures are likely to be conservative estimates. The implications of findings for Himalayan medicinal plant conservation and trade are briefly discussed.
4315341|We report the first confirmed records of the pathogenic protozoa Giardia lamblia and Cryptosporidium parvum from small remote streams in pristine protected areas in Australia, beyond the reach of urban or agricultural contamination.
41418337|Arctic ecosystems have experienced and are projected to experience continued large increases in temperature and declines in sea ice cover. It has been hypothesized that small changes in ecosystem drivers can fundamentally alter ecosystem functioning, and that this might be particularly pronounced for Arctic ecosystems. We present a suite of simple statistical analyses to identify changes in the statistical properties of data, emphasizing that changes in the standard error should be considered in addition to changes in mean properties. The methods are exemplified using sea ice extent, and suggest that the loss rate of sea ice accelerated by factor of ~5 in 1996, as reported in other studies, but increases in random fluctuations, as an early warning signal, were observed already in 1990. We recommend to employ the proposed methods more systematically for analyzing tipping points to document effects of climate change in the Arctic.
4314052|This paper looks at coastal and estuarine ecosystems in terms of their unique biodiversity characteristics and the implications of these characteristics for management. With the exception of coral and other reef communities, coastal and estuarine systems are generally low in species diversity. But estuaries are typically dominated by strong aperiodic physical forces (e.g. salinity changes due to freshwater inflows, storm events) and under these conditions structure is more difficult to build and maintain. Estuaries are also characterized by a high degree of organism mobility. These characteristics point to a high degree of ecosystem resilience. The general hypothesis is that the biodiversity achievable in a system is a function of the predictability and scales of its physical environment. This hypothesis is consistent with the limited data on diversity in estuaries and other systems, and can be further tested in the future via comparative analysis. These ideas are elaborated and extrapolated to the task of managing complex and coupled ecological economic systems. Biological or species diversity is put in a systems context as a scale-dependent measure of an important system characteristic. In estuaries it is the diversity of ecological processes, and in particular certain keystone processes, that are more critical and that should be the focus of management efforts. Effective management is seen as the process of escaping from social traps that occur when local, individual incentives diverge from global, long-term goals.
4312218|Trace substances have been cycling through the atmosphere/ocean/biosphere system since the beginning of time. However, traditional pathways are increasingly being short-circuited by human intervention, eg, by the combustion of fossil fuels and by the use of chemical fertilizers. The evidence that climate may be changed inadvertently by some of these interventions is reviewed briefly. The main pollutants discussed are carbon dioxide, suspended particulates, heat, and substances such as supersonic aircraft emissions and chlorofluoromethanes, that may affect the stratosphere.
25547845|Projected climate change might increase the deposition of nitrogen by about 10% to seminatural ecosystems in southern Norway. At Storgama, increased precipitation in the growing season increased the fluxes of total organic carbon (TOC) and total organic nitrogen (TON) in proportion to the water flux. In winter, soil temperatures near 0C, common under a snowpack, induced higher runoff of inorganic nitrogen (N) and lower runoff of TOC. By contrast, soil temperatures below freezing, caused by little snow accumulation (expected in a warmer world), reduced runoff of inorganic N, TON, and TOC. Long-term monitoring data showed that reduced snowpack can cause either decreased or increased N leaching, depending on interactions with N deposition, soil temperature regime, and winter discharge. Seasonal variation in TOC was mainly climatically controlled, whereas deposition of sulfate and nitrate (NO) explained the long-term TOC increase. Upscaling to the river basin scale showed that the annual flux of NO will remain unchanged in response to climate change projections.
4315604|Nitrogen release from organic nutrient sources in soil is influenced by a range of factors such as soil temperature and moisture, and chemical composition of the organic material. Chemical composition can, to a certain degree, be controlled to increase the synchronization of nitrogen (N) release with plant N demand, whereas climatic factors cannot be controlled and so must be taken into account when planning management measures. In this paper, we discuss different ways to affect N release through manipulation of the chemical composition of fresh or pretreated plant materials and animal manures, timing of incorporation, and intentional distribution during application. We conclude by giving an overview of off-farm options that may need to be implemented to achieve improved use of N, especially in agricultural systems with surplus N.
4315660|This study compares diversity and abundance of birds plus abundance of butterflies, bumblebees and herbaceous plants between six small farms (<52 ha arable land) and six large farms (>135 ha arable land) in Roslagen in southeastern Sweden. Two of the large and four of the small farms were organic. Large-scale landscape mosaic and underlying bedrock were similar for all farms. Statistical analysis was performed using box-plots on medians and analysis of variance on mean values. More than twice as many bird species and territories, butterflies, and herbaceous plant species, and five times more bumblebees were found on the small compared to the large farms. The largest differences were found between small organic and large conventional farms. Differences were also noted between small and large organic farms: 56% more bird species were found on small organic than on large organic farms, although none of the farms used any pesticides. We therefore argue that the consideration of organic agriculture's effect on biodiversity should include factors affected by farm size.
4312648|The Mapimi Biosphere Reserve is one of two MAB reserves in the state of Durango in northwestern Mexico. The Mapimi site has been set aside for a combination of conservation, research, training and development activities. The local population has been actively participating in the creation and management of the reserve. Their continued support and involvement are considered crucial in achieving the success the reserve has so far enjoyed. In exchange, the local people may benefit directly from these activities.
4313853|The 1980s have seen an unprecedented growth in awareness of the problem of climatic change. The 1990s will be the critical decade during which collective concern must be turned into concerted action through global Climate Conventions and related Protocols. This article proposes such a strategy with the following elements: setting of a warming ceiling and a rate of change per decade: development of emission scenarios which come close to the set limits using climate modeling; allocation of emission shares by nation; assessment of emission reduction potential by gas, source, measure and nation; development of national emission reduction plans; agreement, implementation and supervision of such plans; establishment of a climate fund. This study addresses the first element of the strategy by making extensive use of model-based climate scenario analysis. The results of this analysis will help identify emission reduction measures which could limit the mean global surface warming to approximately between 2 K in 2100 over the preindustrial level and restrict the average rate of global warming to about 0.1 K per decade. The effectiveness of these scenarios is assessed using a one dimensional(1-D) climate model from 1860 to 2100. The results of this research will help widen the scope for a more flexible climate protection policy.
4312025|The causes of the worldwide difficulties in energy supply, summarized under the label "the Energy Crises", are not dependent on total scarcity of resources, but are rather the result of uneven distribution of resources and of political actions. In most industrialized countries the politically necessary changeover from imported oil to domestic energy sources increases their vulnerability to disturbances. Large economical and technical resources are allocated to that transfer. In the developing countries the lack of access to large-scale energy use constitutes the main energy problem, and is an important obstacle to progress. The energy problem should be regarded as a global problem with global consequences.
24708866|There is an urgent need to develop sound theory and practice for biodiversity offsets to provide a better basis for offset multipliers, to improve accounting for time delays in offset repayments, and to develop a common framework for evaluating in-kind and out-of-kind offsets. Here, we apply concepts and measures from systematic conservation planning and financial accounting to provide a basis for determining equity across type (of biodiversity), space, and time. We introduce net present biodiversity value (NPBV) as a theoretical and practical measure for defining the offset required to achieve no-net-loss. For evaluating equity in type and space we use measures of biodiversity value from systematic conservation planning. Time discount rates are used to address risk of non-repayment, and loss of utility. We illustrate these concepts and measures with two examples of biodiversity impactoffset transactions. Considerable further work is required to understand the characteristics of these approaches.
25515805|Skin lesions and physical deformities on coastal and offshore bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) were assessed during a photo-identification study conducted between 1997 and 2007 in Santa Monica Bay and adjacent areas in California. During 425 boat surveys, 647 individuals were identified based on marks on their dorsal fins. Of 637 individuals examined for skin lesions and deformities, 79.0% exhibited at least one type of lesion. Offshore animals showed more lesions than coastal animals (offshore: 87.8%, n = 209; coastal: 73.4%, n = 270). Only one individual showed a physical deformity. Results show that skin lesions affect a large portion of the coastal and offshore dolphin populations in the study area. When considering that lesions and physical deformities can be a sign of disease and may be related to anthropogenic factors, their high presence on dolphins must be a cause of concern.
4313137|Woodlice were used as a bioassay to determine the toxicity of soil litter treated with oxides of lead or zinc in the range of 100 ppm to 12,800 ppm. The survival of the adults, the maximum number of young alive at any time, and the average number of young alive, were recorded over 64 weeks. Lead at 12,800 ppm and zinc at 1,600 ppm or more had statistically significant negative effects on the laboratory populations.
4312778|The most severe radioactive contamination of freshwater systems following a nuclear war would be due to
4313604|Global climate changes caused by human activities have the potential to alter agricultural productivity, freshwater availability and quality, sea level, and many other factors of importance to society. Although the principal responsibility for the production of greenhouse gases lies with the industrialized countries, some of the worst impacts will fall on developing countries least able to prevent or adapt to the changes. This characteristic, together with the long history of political frictions and disputes worsened by environmental stresses suggests that global climatic changes have the potential to exacerbate existing international tensions. Severe risks facing developing nations from rapid climatic changes are discussed here together with actions that both the industrialized and developing world can take to prevent or mitigate the worst effects. The world is already committed to some climatic changes because of gases emitted over the last century. Slowing the rate of future change can increase the time available to understand and prevent the worst impacts and reduce the risks of international disputes and conflicts.
4311978|The rates of chemical sedimentation of domestic waste water and of bacteria with aluminum sulfate and polyelectrolytes vary with changing concentrations of certain dissolved organic impurity materials (protein, lipid and saccharide) present in the system. In general, proteins increase, while saccharides and lipids decrease the sedimentation rate observed. This may explain the periodic variation in efficiency of chemical sedimentation often observed in domestic waste water plants.
4314826|Sea level and current measurements were carried out in Bamburi coral reef lagoon on the Kenyan coast. The lagoon is of a type that is common along the East Africa coastline as well as other parts of the tropical region. It consists of a semicontinuous barrier reef, a few hundred meters wide and extending more or less parallel to the beach at a distance of a few kilometers. The tides are of fairly strong semidiurnal type, characterized by marked asymmetries in sea level and current cycles. At irregularly spaced points, the reef is broken with gaps large enough to permit a limited exchange with the ocean through tidal channels. The circulation in the lagoon is highly modified by the fringing reef, acting as a barrier when exposed during low water spring. Incoming swell continuously breaks on the reef-top, causing significant wave set-up and wave-induced volume flux, resulting in a net cross-reef flow of ocean water into the lagoon, being returned to the ocean through the tidal channels. Our data show a clear difference in the flow pattern between neap and spring tides. During the neap periods, the reef is more or less permanently submerged and ocean water flows into the lagoon for the complete tidal cycle with corresponding outward volume flux through the channel. At spring tide, the lagoon is cut off from the ocean at low tide, and there is a short period of intense inflow through the channel until the oceanic sea level reaches the reef top and flow direction is reversed. The lagoon water exchange is controlled by a number of factors such as reef submergence, characteristics of the incoming swell, pressure head and reef-bottom friction. A simple analytical model, using parameterizations of wave set-up and flux has been applied to the lagoon, yielding reasonable results with volume inflow across the reef of similar order of magnitude as the observed net channel outflows. It is found that the important flushing mechanism for the lagoon is the continuous pumping of water over the reef and its exit through the channels. This process assures efficient flushing of the lagoon, securing good water quality inside the reef.
4315000|Over the years, cultural, economic and social factors have led to the development of distinct cultural landscapes in and around the villages of the highlands of southwestern Saudi Arabia. Through centuries, the local inhabitants perpetuated this cultural landscape through subsistence agriculture and managed local natural resources through consensus-driven institutions. This paper describes the changes that have taken place with regard to the cultural landscape in a village of Asir province of Saudi Arabia. This community has recently experienced profound changes in its social, cultural, administrative and technical conditions. The situation of this and similar villages in this province is a particularly clear and interesting case of a general phenomenon of structural change in society interacting with the physical environment producing attitudinal and consequently physical changes in the field of environmental identity particularly at the macro-level. Recent economic growth in Saudi Arabia and an opening of the village of AFkas to outside influences has placed the future of this cultural landscape in doubt. The paper explores the basis of new values and examines some of the conflicts which will need to be resolved. AFkas cultural landscape continues to reflect the local identity of the place and residents and represents the regional characteristics of the highlands of southwestern Saudi Arabia.
4314336|Findings of a field survey on the interface between local people and wildlife in the Royal Chitwan National Park explore the potential for coexistence of wildlife and local people. Based on three distinct areas defined by their distance to the park, the complexities and dynamics of local people's perceptions, attitudes and motivation towards wildlife conservation are analyzed. The findings indicate that although local people disliked the restrictions imposed by the park authority, curtailing the use of park resources, they take a positive attitude to wildlife conservation. Their active involvement in protection and conservation could be secured if due consideration is given to their needs, which would have to be addressed in the overall planning and management of the park.
4315687|Collecting marine organisms for the discovery and development of pharmaceuticals has been perceived variously as sustaining and threatening conservation. Our initial expectations that marine bioprospecting might pose conservation challenges were largely not confirmed. Thousands of marine species have been collected for initial assessment, but usually only in very small amounts. Very few compounds are sufficiently promising to provoke re-collections, where volumes can be much larger. This is where conservation concerns may arise, particularly if the organism is rare, has a restricted distribution, or is targeted in one narrow area. However, industry generally seeks to avoid dependency on small populations, for economic as well as ecological reasons. Alternative supply strategies to wild capture include synthesis and culture. Mandatory collection protocols and environmental impact (stock) assessments are useful routes for management to achieve sustainable use where extraction is desirable. In general, the scanty information available suggests that marine bioprospecting for pharmaceuticals may have minimal impacts on the environment, particularly compared with those created by other pressures.
4314165|A simple new classification logic for global vegetation is proposed. The critical features of this classification are that: it is based on simple, observable, unambiguous characteristics of vegetation structure that are important to ecosystem biogeochemistry and can be measured in the field for validation; the structural characteristics can be determined by remote sensing, so that repeatable and efficient global re-classifications of existing vegetation will be possible; and the defined vegetation classes directly translate into the biophysical parameters of interest by global climate and biogeochemical models. A first test of this logic for the continental United States is presented based on an existing 1 km Normalized Difference Vegetation Index database. Currently recognized global biome classes can easily be derived from this classification by adding climate descriptors and defining mixtures of these fundamental six vegetation classes.
4315388|Many modern agricultural systems are structured around one dominant form of water storage and distribution, usually large reservoirs. In contrast, in peninsular India, small reservoirs (tanks), predominantly supplied by surface runoff as opposed to river canals have for centuries been the trademark of an entire agrarian civilization, with no equivalent elsewhere in the semiarid tropics. This article focuses on the physical and socioeconomic conditions that underlie the success of an indigenous technology which has for centuries exploited the potential for runoff harvesting by i) optimizing water management for agriculture; and ii) minimizing soil loss. Today, siltation of reservoirs, privatization of water resources, and generalized mining of groundwater, pose a threat to the sustainability of these water-harvesting systems. The ongoing transformation of this common resource pool is critically assessed.
25547801|Contaminant transport is generally considered to be a key factor when assessing and classifying the environmental risk of polluted areas. In the study presented here, a steady-state approach was applied to obtain estimates of the transit time and concentration of the pesticide metabolite BAM (2,6-dichlorobenzoamide) at a site where it is contaminating a municipal drinking water supply. A Monte Carlo simulation technique was used to quantify the uncertainty of the results and to evaluate the sensitivity of the used parameters. The adopted approach yielded an estimated median transit time of 10 y for the BAM transport from the polluted site to the water supply. Soil organic carbon content in the unsaturated zone and the hydraulic conductivity in the saturated zone explained 44% and 23% of the uncertainty in the transit time estimate, respectively. The sensitivity analysis showed that the dilution factor due to regional groundwater flow and the soil organic carbon content at the polluted site explained 53% and 31% of the uncertainty of concentration estimates, respectively. In conclusion, the adopted steady-state approach can be used to obtain reliable first estimates of transit time and concentration, but to improve concentration predictions of degrading contaminants, a dynamic model is probably required.
4312537|Mangrove swamps are a common feature along shorelines throughout the tropics and in many temperate areas of the world. They provide a defense against erosion and flooding, and shelter the young of many commercially valuable marine species. Pressures from increasing populations seeking arable land, fuel and building material are fast eliminating this valuable natural resource. The authors explain the dynamics of the mangrove community and its role in the creation of land, and present a strong case for its conservation.
4312672|The mercury content of the epiphytic lichen Hypogymnia physodes was used to investigate the long-range transport of mercury in air and mercury air pollution in Finland. Highest background values were found in SW Finland, indicating an influx of mercury with the prevailing winds. High concentrations were found near the three Finnish chlor-alkali works.
4315313|Seagrasses are marine angiosperms widely distributed in both tropical and temperate coastal waters creating one of the most productive aquatic ecosystems on earth. In the Western Indian Ocean (WIO) region, with its 13 reported seagrass species, these ecosystems cover wide areas of near-shore soft bottoms through the 12 000 km coastline. Seagrass beds are found intertidally as well as subtidally, sometimes down to about 40 m, and do often occur in close connection to coral reefs and mangroves. Due to the high primary production and a complex habitat structure, seagrass beds support a variety of benthic, demersal and pelagic organisms. Many fish and shellfish species, including those of commercial interest, are attracted to seagrass habitats for foraging and shelter, especially during their juvenile life stages. Examples of abundant and widespread fish species associated to seagrass beds in the WIO belong to the families Apogonidae, Blenniidae, Centriscidae, Gerreidae, Gobiidae, Labridae, Lethrinidae Lutjanidae, Monacanthidae, Scaridae, Scorpaenidae, Siganidae, Syngnathidae and Teraponidae. Consequently, seagrass ecosystems in the WIO are valuable resources for fisheries at both local and regional scales. Still, seagrass research in the WIO is scarce compared to other regions and it is mainly focusing on botanic diversity and ecology. This article reviews the research status of seagrass beds in the WIO with particular emphasis on fish and fisheries. Most research on this topic has been conducted along the East African coast, i.e. in Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique and eastern South Africa, while less research was carried out in Somalia and the Island States of the WIO (Seychelles, Comoros, Reunion (France), Mauritius and Madagascar). Published papers on seagrass fish ecology in the region are few and mainly descriptive. Hence, there is a need of more scientific knowledge in the form of describing patterns and processes through both field and experimental work. Quantitative seagrass fish community studies in the WIO such as the case study presented in this paper are negligible, but necessitated for the perspective of fisheries management. It is also highlighted that the pressure on seagrass beds in the region is increasing due to growing coastal populations and human disturbance from e.g. pollution, eutrophication, sedimentation, fishing activities and collection of invertebrates, and its effect are little understood. Thus, there is a demand for more research that will generate information useful for sustainable management of seagrass ecosystems in the WIO.
4315244|Secondary forests regrowing on abandoned agricultural land constitute an important, albeit widely overlooked, component in the landscape matrix of tropical lowland America. These 'new' forest resources on private landholdings derive either from unsustainable cattle-ranching practices of better-off farmers or are part of the crop/fallow system of resource-poor farmers. If previous land use was light, secondary forest management may offer an interesting use option to better-off farmers, providing that subsidies for stand improvement are given. Improved fallow systems using partly the successional vegetation may be a way to establish sustainable small-scale agriculture for resource-poor farmers. Given some technical and financial input, land-use systems based on secondary vegetation could play a vital role both in sustainable landscape management and biodiversity conservation.
25547951|Forest fragmentation affects the heterogeneity of accumulated fuels by increasing the diversity of forest types and by increasing forest edges. This heterogeneity has implications in how we manage fuels, fire, and forests. Understanding the relative importance of fragmentation on woody biomass within a single climatic regime, and along climatic gradients, will improve our ability to manage forest fuels and predict fire behavior. In this study we assessed forest fuel characteristics in stands of differing moisture, i.e., dry and moist forests, structure, i.e., open canopy (typically younger) vs. closed canopy (typically older) stands, and size, i.e., small (10-14 ha), medium (33 to 60 ha), and large (100-240 ha) along a climatic gradient of boreal, temperate, and tropical forests. We measured duff, litter, fine and coarse woody debris, standing dead, and live biomass in a series of plots along a transect from outside the forest edge to the fragment interior. The goal was to determine how forest structure and fuel characteristics varied along this transect and whether this variation differed with temperature, moisture, structure, and fragment size. We found nonlinear relationships of coarse woody debris, fine woody debris, standing dead and live tree biomass with mean annual median temperature. Biomass for these variables was greatest in temperate sites. Forest floor fuels (duff and litter) had a linear relationship with temperature and biomass was greatest in boreal sites. In a five-way multivariate analysis of variance we found that temperature, moisture, and age/structure had significant effects on forest floor fuels, downed woody debris, and live tree biomass. Fragment size had an effect on forest floor fuels and live tree biomass. Distance from forest edge had significant effects for only a few subgroups sampled. With some exceptions edges were not distinguishable from interiors in terms of fuels.
24708783|Proposals to end the use of lead hunting ammunition because of the established risks of lead exposure to wildlife and humans are impeded by concerns about the availability, price, and effectiveness of substitutes. The product availability and retail prices of different calibers of lead-free bullets and center-fire rifle ammunition were assessed for ammunition sold in the USA and Europe. Lead-free bullets are made in 35 calibers and 51 rifle cartridge designations. Thirty-seven companies distribute internationally ammunition made with lead-free bullets. There is no major difference in the retail price of equivalent lead-free and lead-core ammunition for most popular calibers. Lead-free ammunition has set bench-mark standards for accuracy, lethality, and safety. Given the demonstrated wide product availability, comparable prices, and the effectiveness of high-quality lead-free ammunition, it is possible to phase out the use of lead hunting ammunition world-wide, based on progressive policy and enforceable legislation.
4314732| Climate change in the European Alps during the 20th century has been characterized by increases in minimum temperatures of about 2C, a more modest increase in maximum temperatures, little trend in precipitation data, and a general decrease of sunshine duration through to the mid-1980s. Temperature increase has been most intense in the 1940s, followed by the 1980s. The warming experienced since the early 1980s, while synchronous with the global warming, is of far greater amplitude and reaches close to 1C for this ensemble average and up to 2C for individual sites. Such changes caused pronounced effects in the glacial and periglacial belts. Since the middle of the past century-the end of the Little Ice Age-the glacierization of the European Alps has lost about 30 to 40% in surface area and around half its original volume. The estimated total glacier volume in the European Alps was some
41417276|Assessments of adaptation options generally focus on incremental, homogeneous ecosystem responses to climate even though climate change impacts can be big, fast, and patchy across a region. Regional drought-induced tree die-off in semiarid woodlands highlights how an ecosystem crash fundamentally alters most ecosystem services and poses management challenges. Building on previous research showing how choice of location is linked to adaptive capacity and vulnerability, we developed a framework showing how the options for retaining desired ecosystem services in the face of sudden crashes depend on how portable the service is and whether the stakeholder is flexible with regard to the location where they receive their services. Stakeholders using portable services, or stakeholders who can move to other locations to obtain services, may be more resilient to ecosystem crashes. Our framework suggests that entering into cooperative networks with regionally distributed stakeholders is key to building resilience to big, fast, patchy crashes.
4312053|A micro-plot method useful for studies of long-term variations in cadmium availability and the effect of cultivation practices such as fertilization and liming is presented. The uptake of cadmium from soils and different applications of sewage sludge was determined independently by use of sludge labelled with
4314823| The present study examines the spatial differences in benthic macrofauna and nutrient dynamics in areas of intense and minimal forestry activity. The study was conducted in the mangrove forest in Kisakasaka, Zanzibar, Tanzania and samples were taken from two areas with different degrees of deforestation; a heavily logged area and an unlogged area. In each area, two 10  10 m quadrants were mapped, and pH, temperature and salinity were measured. Historical information indicated that the areas originally had the same sediment type and mangrove species composition. The results of the macrofauna sampling showed a significant difference between the areas, both quantitatively and in species composition. No significant differences were observed in the crab communities between the two different areas, however, examinations of the nutrient content indicated differences in the interstitial water concentrations of nitrate, ammonia and phosphate. No differences were found for the reversibly bound ammonium pools. The data obtained suggested a connection between the interstitial levels of nitrate and ammonia with the presence of roots and the associated bacterial processes in the sediment. Hence, for DIN, there appears to be an impact from logging. By comparison, phosphate content appeared to be dependent on ablotic factors and, together with ammonia in the solid phase, does not seem to change due to logging. Overall, this study shows that deforestation leads to rapid changes in the ecosystem. The study suggests that the rate of logging is unsustainable and that more work is required to better understand the processes involved in logged mangrove ecosystems. 
4314147|Egypt now has the lowest arable land per capita of any country in Africa. With steadily increasing population and high import of food crops, it will be necessary for Egypt to manage its arable land sustainably. This paper analyzes the present status of the agricultural land base, including loss of productive land to urbanization and effectiveness of past land reclamation measures.
41510594|Non-point source (NPS) pollution has been increasingly serious in China since the 1990s. The increases of agricultural NPS pollution in China is evaluated for the period 20002008 by surveying the literature on water and soil pollution from fertilizers and pesticides, and assessing the surplus nitrogen balance within provinces. The main causes for NPS pollution were excessive inputs of nitrogen fertilizer and pesticides, which were partly the result of the inadequate agricultural extension services and the rapid expansion of intensive livestock production with little of waste management. The annual application of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers and pesticides in China increased by 50.7 and 119.7%, respectively, during 1991-2008. The mitigation measures to reduce NPS pollution include: correct distortion in fertilizer prices; improve incentives for the recycling of organic manure; provide farmers with better information on the sound use of agro-chemicals; and tighten the regulations and national standards on organic waste disposal and pesticides use.
4315623|Two scenarios for future pig meat production were constructed. The first was a "business as usual" scenario, where the pig feed was based on domestic grain and imported soy-meal, and no efforts were made to reduce pesticide use. The second scenario had a strong environmental focus, and both peas and rapeseed were grown at pig-farm level to produce grain and protein feed. Preventive measures, such as a more diverse crop rotation and mechanical weed control, were combined to reduce pesticide use. The two scenarios were environmentally assessed by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and a pesticide risk indicator model (PRI-Farm). The results showed environmentally sound possibilities to reduce pesticide dependency and risks by using altered plant protection strategies in pig-feed production. Organizing on-farm feed production so that protein feed crops are integrated with grain crops contributes to a more diverse crop rotation.
4314742|The predicted changes in climate over the next 50 years are expected to be most pronounced in arctic and subarctic regions. In the present study, we examine the responses of a subarctic-alpine rich meadow and poor heath community to factorial manipulations of temperature and nutrient treatments. Specifically, we address response to the treatments in terms of biodiversity and relative cover of the bryophyte, lichen and vascular plant communities. We point out that the responses differ among mosses, lichens, vascular plants, and communities, and this will probably cause shifts in the dominance of both bottom layer and canopy layer species. It is important to note that the decrease in cover and species number of the bottom layer mainly occurred due to a decline in mosses; in contrast, lichen cover increased in all treatments in both communities. Climate change may thus cause a shift in the bottom layer from being dominated by mosses, to become dominated by lichens.
4313075|All traditional Pacific societies used wild animals for food and those living along coasts supplemented their diets with finfish, dugongs, shellfish, cetaceans and turtles. In most cases, however, the harvesting of fish and mammals was secondary to the staple agricultural crops that provided the mainstay of the islanders diets. As a result of "usufruct" rights, Melanesian societies, for example, laid claim to certain resources, species, or hunting/fishing techniques, thus limiting access and providing an unintentional "conservation regime"
4314050|The precautionary principle is becoming an established guideline for policy makers tackling environmental problems. In salient respects, it applies to biodiversity more than to any other environmental problem. This is because the mass extinction gathering force will, if it proceeds unchecked, not only eliminate half or more of all species, but will leave the biosphere impoverished for at least 5 mill. years-a period twenty times longer than humankind itself has been a species. Present society is effectively taking a decision on the unconsulted behalf of perhaps 100 trill. of our descendants, asserting that future generations can certainly manage with far less than a full planetary stock of species. Yet despite the ostensible certainty we display in taking this decision, the biodiversity issue is attended by exceptional uncertainty, notably as concerns the adverse repercussions-biological, ecological and economic among others-of mass extinction. Thus, there is a super-premium on applying the precautionary principle to the biotic crisis in a manner expansive enough to match the scope and scale of the problem. Policy implications have received all too little attention. Far from supplying the right answers, we are hardly at a point where we are asking all the correct questions.
4312354|The planned introduction of more intensive management systems in Sweden's forests will make it difficult to guarantee the survival of all species of animals and plants. On the other hand most of the new methods will not diminish the long-term production potential of the land, as erosion is an unknown phenomenon. Most of the proposed measures will to some extent decrease the recreation value of the forests.
4314574|Total amounts of plant nutrients in biomass and soil were estimated in a tropical rainforest ecosystem in Sabah, Malaysia. Amounts of some elements, especially calcium, were very low in the soil. The loss of calcium through log removal after clearfelling represented about 19% of the total amount in the ecosystem, indicating that sustainable forestry in this area is not possible without replacing the calcium removed. Neither the calcium content of the biomass nor the amount of exchangeable calcium in the soil were extremely low. Total analyses of the soil, including a complete digestion of the minerals are, therefore, necessary for a satisfactory determination of the long-term productivity of forest soils in areas with low contents of one or more plant nutrients.
4314016|Reproductive outcome of 160 female minks (Mustela vison) of Standard Breed given daily doses of commercial PCB or fractions of it was studied. Exposure began in February and ended 5 days after parturition or expected parturition in mid-May. Fractions of PCB studied were (i) chlorinated biphenyls (CBs) with 2 or more chlorine atoms in the ortho-positions to the biphenyl bond; (ii) CBs with only one chlorine atom in ortho-position; (iii) CBs without chlorine atoms in ortho-position; (iv) the bi- and tricyclic contaminants found in technical PCB. Finally, a mixture of synthesized CBs without chlorine atoms in ortho positions was studied. Exposure to PCB, 2 mg Clophen A50 per or 1.64 mg Aroclor 1254 per day per individual, decreased the number of live whelps born as well as the litter size without decreasing the implantation rate. The frequency of interrupted pregnancies increased, as did relative liver weights. These results confirm earlier observa-tions. The same results were obtained when the animals were given combinations of two or more CB fractions. When given single CB fractions separately, no significant such effects occurred. However, exposure to the single fraction containing the bi- and tricyclic contaminants-polychlorinated naphthalenes (PCN) and polychlorinated dibenzo-fuans (PCDF)-produced a significantly higher number of live whelps and increased survival rate. In general, the discrepancy in concentrations of total PCB in extractable fat in the various groups normally corresponded to the discrepancy of total doses given.
4313071|Though industrially a very undeveloped country, Papua New Guinea is susceptible to important localized environmental problems where the resource demands of, or effluents from, large scale national development projects conflict with subsistence economies whose tribal ownership is jealously maintained. The basis of an enlightened environmental legislation for regulating resource utilization has been laid, and though suitable regulations are incomplete, those for water quality are available. These are based upon a flexible system of impact assessments.
4313437|Recultivation processes in the area of the Visonta open-cut mine enterprise were studied. Different recultivation efforts have been combined to form a landscape protection plan, which is responsible for preservation and enhancement of landscape potential. The physical, chemical and biological properties of spoil originating from different geological layers have been examined. The recolonization of microorganisms and natural vegetation were studied during the different phases of recultivation. Formation of coenoses on the spoil surface is influenced by the undisturbed environment of the damaged surface, by the physical and chemical characteristics of the spoil banks, and by intensive anthropogenous effects. A special soil-estimation system was developed to determine the economical usefulness of recultivated spoils. Basic principles for a combined recultivation process were introduced.
4314550|The treatment of radiation in contemporary climate models is considerably more complex than that used by Arrhenius. While this offers many more possibilities for investigations than were available a century ago, the very complexity of the models now in use demands that they be subjected to wide-ranging evaluation. This paper discusses some of the ways in which the radiation codes and models may now be compared with observations and some of the issues which those comparisons have raised. The opportunities for studies of the clear-sky greenhouse effect offered by data from the re-analysis project performed at the European Centre for Medium-range Weather Forecasts are highlighted, and some preliminary results from comparisons with the Hadley Centre Climate Model are shown.
4312115|Increasing concern with environment and soaring costs for oil and nuclear power have revived interest in wind energy. Earlier 1 MW plants in the USA and France were technically successful but uneconomical. Vertical axis rotors might be a solution for economical designs. Available wind energy follows the electrical consumption, which is greatest in the winter. In Sweden 5000 MW of wind power can be accepted by the national grid without provisions for accumulation. The Western economic philosophy reflects our preference of today.
4315384|The terrestrial water cycle and the impact of climate change are critical for agricultural and natural ecosystems. In this paper, we assess both by running a macro-scale water balance model under a baseline condition and 2 General Circulation Model (GCM)-based climate change scenarios. The results show that in 2021-2030, water demand will increase worldwide due to climate change. Water shortage is expected to worsen in western Asia, the Arabian Peninsula, northern and southern Africa, northeastern Australia, southwestern North America, and central South America. A significant increase in surface runoff is expected in southern Asia and a significant decrease is expected in northern South America. These changes will have implications for regional environment and socioeconomics.
4314449|This paper presents an overview of banana production in Costa Rica based on the importance of bananas as an export crop and the environmental impacts associated with their production. The paper takes a systems approach to identifying major environmental problems associated with banana production. Ecomanagement alternatives are recommended, based on what has been learned managing a 306-ha banana plantation at EARTH College. It is hoped that these experiences will help bring about a more balanced approach to the exploitation of Costa Rica's natural resources.
41417321|Canopy-forming shrubs are reported to be increasing at sites around the circumpolar Arctic. Our results indicate expansion in canopy cover and height of willows on Herschel Island located at 70 north on the western Arctic coast of the Yukon Territory. We examined historic photographs, repeated vegetation surveys, and conducted monitoring of long-term plots and found evidence of increases of each of the dominant canopy-forming willow species (Salix richardsonii, Salix glauca and Salix pulchra), during the twentieth century. A simple model of patch initiation indicates that the majority of willow patches for each of these species became established between 1910 and 1960, with stem ages and maximum growth rates indicating that some patches could have established as late as the 1980s. Collectively, these results suggest that willow species are increasing in canopy cover and height on Herschel Island. We did not find evidence that expansion of willow patches is currently limited by herbivory, disease, or growing conditions.
4312626|A study has been made of the chemical and microbiological quality of wastewaters flowing in open drains in high-, medium-, and low-density areas in the city of Ibadan in Nigeria. The wastewater from the high-density area showed high values for turbidity, suspended solids, oxidizable organic matter, BOD, ammoniacal nitrogen and fecal coliforms. In the medium-density area the values were lower and in the low-density area the values were lowest. The samples also showed considerable numbers of total coliforms, Staphylococcus aureus, Trichomonas sp, Balantidium coli, Giardia intestinalis, Entamoeba histolytica, Entamoeba coli, Ascaris sp, Ancylostoma sp, Schistosoma hematobium, and Strongyloides sp. Scattered all over the city, the open drains contributed to parasitic infections in the populations and pollution of streams and groundwater. The information presented in this report should be of considerable interest to many developing countries where open drains are common. The solution lies in the elimination of open drains by introducing underground water carriage systems or through organized open drains with covers.
4315101|How can governments in developing countries act together with local people to promote sustainable forest land use? Based upon an initial review of man's use of natural resources in Southeast Asia over 100 years, an interdisciplinary approach to strategic planning based on interaction among stakeholders is outlined. A case study in a water catchment area in Laos, dominated by shifting cultivation, is used to test and illustrate the approach, which includes interviews with local people about historical events and socioeconomic and environmental conditions. The study also includes field point sampling, remote sensing, official records and a simulation tool (the Area Production Model), for verification, calibration and supplementation of the information provided by villagers. By presenting the consolidated data to the villagers and giving them opportunities to consider their land-use and explain discrepancies, and comment on the conclusions, a dialogue on land-use strategies was initiated.
4314908|Emerging problems with acid rain and other airborne toxins are reviewed. Long-term acid precipitation has depleted base cations in soils of many areas, so that complete recovery of lakes cannot occur. Increased deposition of nitric acid and reoxidiation of sulfur in catchments as the result of climate warming and drought also inhibit lake recovery. Climate warming, drought, and lake acidification also cause decreased concentrations of colored organic matter in lakes. The resulting decrease in attenuation of incident solar radiation greatly increases the exposure of aquatic communities to UV radiation. Several factors including climate warming, increased UV, temperature-dependent volatility, and greater condensation in cold regions appear to be enhancing the movement of organochlorine pollutants and mercury from warm regions to high altitudes and latitudes. At high latitudes, biomagnification in food chains poses a significant threat to indigenous people.
4312317| This article attempts to demonstrate that a well planned development of the tourist industry is one which contributes to its very "raison d'tre"-unspoilt environment. Every year the Mediterranean region attracts about one-third of all international tourism. The tourist industry is one of the most important economic activities in several countries of the region: however, this industry is being threatened by pollution that affects Mediterranean marine and coastal environments. On the other hand the tourist industry itself, if it is not properly integrated into the natural, socio-cultural and man-made environments, can have damaging effects on them. Mediterranean governments are fully aware of this, and some have already formulated policies to achieve an environmentally sound development of the tourist industry. 
25515807|Blooms of Cyanobacteria are a major concern during the summer period in the Baltic Sea Proper. The nitrogen-fixing Nodularia spumigena forms massive toxic blooms in the surface layers, with a concentration of biomass in the uppermost 1-m water layer. This pilot study describes the construction and test of a Nodularia collecting device during the summer of 2006. Oil booms were modified so that their dragging skirt was replaced with a water-permeable forming fabric used in the pulp and paper industry. The results showed that the modified oil booms worked and operated in an effective way when towed in the sea. Calculations showed that the collecting device used in this study has a theoretical capacity of cleaning 0.055 km (5.5 ha) of sea surface hr, compared with the 6600 km of the Baltic Sea that were covered by Nodularia blooms during the summer of 2005. Future possibilities for Nodularia harvesting are discussed.
4314825|Mundel Lake is the innermost part of a shallow lagoon system on the west coast of Sri Lanka. It is connected to the ocean in its northern end through a long and narrow channel system, the Dutch Canal, which subdues all tidal motions in the lake; the oceanic mean tidal range is 0.5 m or less. Freshwater enters through a seasonal river, the Battulu Oya. Until recently, the lagoon was also intermittently connected to the ocean through a sandbar in the southern end. This opening allowed for a rapid exchange with the ocean, effectively counteracting large salinity and sea level variations in the lake area. Measurements of sea levels and salinities were carried out within the lagoon system from February 1993 to July 1994 while the southern opening was closed. The lake salinities varied from 5 to 46.5 psu and the sea level from -0.25 to + 1.2 m relative to the ocean. Water and salt budgets indicated that periods of decreasing sea level resulted in a deposition of salt on the lake bottoms and its surroundings. The exchange of water through the Dutch Canal is driven by the sea level difference between Mundel Lake and the ocean. This difference is influenced by variations in the net freshwater supply and the oceanic sea level. A mean sea level difference of 0.12 m was estimated from variations in the salinity gradient within the channel. The average residence time vs the ocean amounts to a couple of months, prolonged because of a sill in the Dutch Canal. In order to reduce variations in salinity and sea level, and to increase water exchange, we suggest a reopening of the sandbar. A sluice at this site and in the Dutch Canal, and a regulation dam in the river Battulu Oya would make it possible to keep salinities and sea levels under control even during longer periods of rain or drought.
4314621|Suitable species to be established in fluctuating water-level areas on reservoirs were identified among spontaneous species. The effects of environmental factors on the germination of 12 species selected were simulated in Petri dishes. The effects of drought and immersion on plant growth were evaluated on three different substrates (leaf mould, silt and sand) by biomass measurements in a glasshouse experiment. The establishment of the species was tested in situ on reservoir margins. Results showed that seed treatments considerably improved seed germination for most of the species, thus facilitating rapid establishment. All the species selected survived both drought and immersion. Plant growth was more sensitive to the type of substrate than to water stress conditions, however, immersion was a more severe constraint than drought. Finally, 8 species were recommended for the revegetation of reservoir margins.
4314196|The Spratly Islands encompass a dense system of several hundred coral reefs in the most biodiverse of the world's seas. They serve as breeding grounds for a wide variety of organisms including sea turtles, birds, marine mammals, and tuna. A study of pelagic larval survival times and current patterns indicates that they may supply recruiting organisms for marine ecosystems throughout the South China Sea. They may be of growing importance in replenishing overharvested stocks which provide food and livelihood to coastal villagers in the Philippines, Taiwan, mainland China, Vietnam, and Malaysia. Strategic concerns and vague possibilities of hydrocarbon deposits have led each of these countries to station troops in the area, resulting in violent confrontations and environmental stress. Future oil drilling could have widespread impacts. A more sustainable-use strategy would be to freeze current claims on the islands and establish an international marine park. Such a park would rival the Great Barrier Marine Park in size, number of reefs and biodiversity, and could generate on the order of USD 1 billion annually from tourism. Carefully managed, the park would safeguard substantially-sized populations of tens of thousands of species, and help to ensure a steady supply of recruits to regional fisheries.
4312976|During the past ten years the National Swedish Environment Protection Board has supported ecological studies on the impact of heavymetal pollution on coniferous forest ecosystems. This report concludes studies on the effects of deposited copper and zinc, emitted from an isolated brassworks, on vegetation, soil biological and biochemical processes and the diversity, abundance and performance of soil fauna and microflora. The Gusum case study is probably the most comprehensive work of this kind ever performed on a forest ecosystem polluted by heavy metals.
4315834|The thesis of this article is quite different from many other theses of papers, books, and articles on the Aral Sea. It is meant to purposely highlight the reality of the situation in Central Asia: the Aral Sea that was once a thriving body of water is no more. That sea is dead. What does exist in its place are the Aral seas: there are in essence three bodies of water, one of which is being purposefully restored and its level is rising (the Little Aral), and two others which are still marginally connected, although they continue to decline in level (the Big Aral West and the Big Aral East). In 1960 the level of the sea was about 53 m above sea level. By 2006 the level had dropped by 23 m to 30 m above sea level. This was not a scenario generated by a computer model. It was a process of environmental degradation played out in real life in a matter of a few decades, primarily as a result of human activities. Despite wishes and words to the contrary, it will take a heroic global effort to save what remains of the Big Aral. It would also take a significant degree of sacrifice by people and governments in the region to restore the Big Aral to an acceptable level, given that the annual rate of flow reaching the Amudarya River delta is less than a 10th of what it was several decades ago. Conferring World Heritage status to the Aral Sea(s) could spark restoration efforts for the Big Aral.
4313891|Fertility and mortality have declined substantially in the developing world over the last 30 years. The pace of the decline in mortality has been fairly constant across regions, but the pace of decline in fertility has varied widely, having been fastest in east and southeast Asia and slowest in Africa. With both fertility and mortality declining, the growth rate of the population of the developing world has remained approximately constant at around 2% per annum over the last thirty years. Both fertility and mortality are expected to continue to decline in the foreseeable future, but the growth rate is also expected to decline, to about 1.2% per annum by 2020. On a cross-national basis, the level of fertility is strongly related to the extent of contraceptive use, and there is no doubt that family-planning programs in the developing world have contributed to the pace of fertility decline over the last three decades. Evidence is accumulating to support the view that health interventions, particularly child survival programs, have also accelerated the pace of mortality decline over the last decade.
4312445|The uptake from the water of chlorinated paraffins (CP) with various carbon chain lengths and various levels of chlorination was studied in bleaks, Alburnus alburnus L. Subsequent elimination from the fish, when placed in clean water, was also traced. CPs with short carbon chain lengths and low levels of chlorination showed the highest uptake. The CPs had a lower uptake than the tested PCB formulation, but demonstrated a comparatively high retention. Symptoms of toxic effects of CPs were also noted.
4313751|In Malaysia, farmers practice the capture method of rice/fish farming to supplement income. Seasonally, such fish harvests have contributed 6.8% to the income of owner farmers, whereas, the contribution to tenant farmers is higher (9.0%). The system requires no biological and little economic input, and native fish are found to be both biologically and economically suitable. The system can utilize different specific habitats, the fish are tolerant to extreme physicochemical changes, and command good market prices. The different feeding habits of the predatory snakehead (Channa striata). omnivorous catfish (Clarias macrocephalus). insectivorus climbing perch (Anabas testudineus), and planktivorous-omnivorous gouramies (Trichogaster pectoralis and T. trichopterus) indicate possible yield improvements through rice/fish polyculture. Aquatic productivity of the prevailing ecosystem is low despite repeated seasonal fertilization. Productivity is probably low due to shading and competition with aquatic weeds and rice plants. Zooplankton are not readily available to the fish larvae and fingerlings because aquatic weeds provide easy refuge. This lack of food results in fish below marketable size. The short growing season resulting from double cropping, coupled with widespread use of herbicides and pesticides, also affects fish production. Several improvements in management for this type of farming system are recommended.
4314994| A frequent conclusion based on study of individual records from the so-called Medieval Warm Period (1000-1300 A.D.) is that the present warmth of the 20th century is not unusual and therefore cannot be taken as an indication of forced climate change from greenhouse gas emissions. This conclusion is not supported by published composites of Northern Hemisphere climate change, but the conclusions of such syntheses are often either ignored or challenged. In this paper, we revisit the controversy by incorporating additional time series not used in earlier hemispheric compilations. Another difference is that the present reconstruction uses records that are only 900-1000 years long, thereby, avoiding the potential problem of uncertainties introduced by using different numbers of records at different times. Despite clear evidence for Medieval warmth greater than present in some individual records, the new hemispheric composite supports the principal conclusion of earlier hemispheric reconstructions and, furthermore, indicates that maximum Medieval warmth was restricted to two-three 20-30 year intervals, with composite values during these times being only comparable to the mid-20th century warm time interval. Failure to substantiate hemispheric warmth greater than the present consistently occurs in composites because there are significant offsets in timing of warmth in different regions; ignoring these offsets can lead to serious errors concerning inferences about the magnitude of Medieval warmth and its relevance to interpretation of late 20th century warming. 
4313583|During May and June 1988 an exceptional mass occurrence of the toxin producing phytoflagellate Chrysochromulina polylepis was accompanied by extensive mortalities among marine biota on the Norwegian coast of the North Sea, the Norwegian and Swedish coasts of the Skagerrak and the Kattegat. The most intriguing feature of the algal bloom was its toxicity and the variety of organisms affected. The long-term severity of the episode is still to be assessed. Marine biologists were surprised also by the geographical magnitude of this algal bloom and its severe consequences. The results of some biological, ecological, and toxicological observations carried out 1988 during and after the bloom event in Norway are presented.
4314591|Efforts to quantify net greenhouse gas emissions at the national scale, as required by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, must include both industrial emissions and the net flux associated with the land base. In this study, data on current land use, rates of land-cover change, forest harvest levels, and wildfire extent were analyzed under a common framework for three countries in order to compare net CO
4314390|In recent years the open-water cultivation of the red algae, Eucheuma spinosum, has become a large-scale activity within much of the coastal zone around the island of Zanzibar and in areas along the Tanzanian coast. This commercial venture provides a good deal of foreign exchange and has brought about a considerable change in the economy and social structure of many coastal villages. To assess the environmental effects of Eucheuma spinosum farming, the present study investigated the population dynamics of benthic meiofauna, the primary and bacterial production in the associated water column and benthos, and the flux of nutrients between the benthos and water column in farm areas and nonfarmed control areas. The results indicate that the farming has no discernible effects on water-column microbial production, but has a clear effect on both benthic microbial processes and meiofauna populations. It is not entirely clear, however, which particular aspect of the algal farming is responsible for the observed changes, but it is thought that mechanical alteration of the sediment surface and possible enhancement of local benthic fish grazing may play a role.
4313823|The causes and impacts of famine and desertification in Umm Ruwaba district, Kordofan Region, Sudan, are examined.. This eastern extension of the Sahel is a semi-arid area inhabited largely by sedentary cultivators. The drought of 1983-1984 led to severe famine in the district, largely because the local inhabitants had conformed to the government policy of commercializing a substantial fraction of their crop production (a component of which was to encourage regional specialization), that had led to a partial abandonment of their traditional land-use and food-storage practices. Desertification in the district has been attributed largely to a shortening of the soil-renewing fallow period, carried out in an attempt to make up for declining crop yields per unit area; and also to overexploitation of the protective tree cover, largely for the making of charcoal, as a source of needed cash income.
4312609|The fate and effects of oil in the marine environment are summarized in this article. Hydrocarbons in the marine environment undergo spreading, evaporation and dispersion. Chemical degradation, biodegradation and sedimentation are of considerable importance. Toxicological effects of petroleum on marine organisms include sublethal effects, effects of direct coating and ingestion of oil, tainting, bioaccumulation, and changes in habitats and ecosystems. Most studies of effects on organisms have dealt with onshore or nearshore impacts; however, offshore impacts have been noted.
4313148|The current level of per-capita energy use in developing countries could be sufficient to support the creation of an industrial infrastructure and a standard of living ranging from that presently found in developing countries to that found in Western Europe. This would depend on the extent to which there is a shift to modern energy carriers, an emphasis on energy-efficient end-use technologies now available, and a commercialization of advanced energy-saving technologies.
4314647|Swedish institutes and organizations established agricultural research and development projects in the Baltic Sea region already in 1991. Activities have mainly been performed by the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), the Federation of Swedish Farmers (LRF), the Swedish Institute of Agricultural Engineering (JTI), and Agricultural Societies in Sweden. The main financiers have been BITS, Sida and the Swedish Institute. In research cooperation, NOVABA has played an important role. NOVABA is the organization for cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic agricultural universities in the above-mentioned sector. Experience has shown that all projects must have a comprehensive view. Economic, environmental, social and cultural aspects must be observed simultaneously. The goals and ambitions for the environmental sector will probably fail if they are not followed-up by economic development. The major economic problem to be solved in the Baltic republics, Russia and Poland is how to stimulate privately owned farms, in order to attain sustainable agriculture. In this process local mobilization, business planning, local cooperation, and production combinations are key concepts.
4312327|The fishery prospects in the Mediterranean are still incompletely developed, even though yield is steadily increasing and demand is still unsatisfied. Further exploitation of these resources necessitates international cooperation and coordination, since the problems are regional rather than national in character. The GFCM of FAO has an important function in this context.
4312098|The history of technological development from ancient time to the present is also the history of its adverse effects on the workers' health. Tens of millions of workers are injured each year in the world; of that number about 100 000 are killed. Technology is a single-minded human activity directed towards solving technological problems and at the same time setting human health aside. Methods for taming technology are reviewed, such as demands for social responsibility on the part of the individual technologist, technology assessment, legislation and participatory technology.
4314416|The conservation community is faced with the need of protected areas to attract public and political support. It needs to be shown that the contribution of protected areas to society is relevant and important. This article assesses the promotion of human health facilitated by the opportunities created by the presence of a national park, and the contribution of such protected areas to the health of the community. A case study approach has been adopted. The observed improvements in the living conditions of the communities neighboring the Serra da Capivara National Park, Brazil, have arisen from the need to conserve the local natural and cultural heritage. It is suggested that the interrelationships between health and conservation can enable local communities to sustain their living and increase their commitment to neighboring protected areas.
25515794|This paper provides an overview of the evolution of pollution problems in the Northeast Atlantic and associated responses and considers the effectiveness of these measures on environmental contamination. It identifies shortcomings in past practices and shows how marine environmental pollution may be perpetuated if new products and processes release novel contaminants or "emerging substances" without adequate management on a precautionary basis. The study concludes that it is necessary to develop innovative techniques capable of making reasonable quantitative estimates of not only environmental pathways, loads, and concentrations but also the socioeconomic drivers and "upstream" control measures (control, reduction, or elimination of emissions) so that a clear understanding of the causes and effects of our actions can be obtained. The development of a European Observatory for Emerging Substances to coordinate concerns, observations, and practices is suggested as a proactive approach for anticipating emerging problems.
4312133|Overgrazing and overly intensive cropping encourage the spread of deserts in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, and undermine the productivity of vast semi-arid zones throughout the world. The evidence of desert encroachment worldwide is surveyed, and the implications of recent climatic change theories are discussed. Directions for the ecologically sustainable exploitation of arid lands are outlined.
25547902|This paper examines potential effects of predicted climate changes on the forage conditions during both summer and winter for semidomesticated reindeer in Sweden. Positive effects in summer ranges include higher plant productivity and a longer growing season, while negative effects include increased insect harassment. Forage quality may change in both positive and negative ways. An increase in shrubs and trees in alpine heaths is also likely. A warmer climate means shorter winters, which will have positive effects for the survival of reindeer. However, warmer and wetter weather may also result in increased probabilities of ice-crust formations, which strongly decrease forage availability. A warmer climate with higher forest productivity will also likely reduce lichen availability through competitive interactions. Adaptations to these changes will include maintaining a choice of grazing sites in both summer and winter. However, this capacity may already be severely limited because of other forms of land use.
41418326|Paleolimnological evidence from some Arctic lakes suggests that longer ice-free seasons have been experienced since the beginning of the nineteenth century. It has been inferred from some additional records that many Arctic lakes may have crossed an important ecological threshold as a result of recent warming. In the instrumental record, long-term trends exhibit increasingly later freeze-ups and earlier break-ups, closely corresponding to increasing air temperature trends, but with greater sensitivity at the more temperate latitudes. Broad spatial patterns in these trends are also related to major atmospheric circulation patterns. Future projections of lake ice indicate increasingly later freeze-ups and earlier break-ups, decreasing ice thickness, and changes in cover composition, particularly white-ice. For rivers, projected future decreases in south to north air-temperature gradients suggest that the severity of ice-jam flooding may be reduced but this could be mitigated by changes in the magnitude of spring snowmelt.
25434349|The emergence of climate change as a central political issue around the world, along with growing concern for the environment more generally, has raised the challenge to achieve sustainability as a high order social goal. Yet over the 20 y since the publication of the landmark Brudtland Report on sustainable development, humanity has moved further away from sustainability in many important aspects, particularly at the global scale. This paper provides an overview of the current understanding of how the human-environment relationship has evolved through time, analyzes the quest for sustainability in contemporary society, and briefly explores the implications of these analyses for the trajectory of the human-environment relationship in the twenty-first century. The focus is on an Earth systems perspective. Exploration of the human-environment relationship through time shows a fundamental switch about 200 y ago, when human society shifted from being largely the recipient of changes in Earth system functioning to becoming a global geophysical force itself, rivaling the great forces of nature in magnitude. Contemporary human societies are now on a demonstrably nonsustainable trajectory, especially with regard to climate change, with no sign at the global scale of any change in trajectory. An analysis of the sustainability gap suggests that a crucial missing component in our quest for sustainability is a failure to engage the humanities, along with the biophysical and social sciences, economics, and technology, in the search for solutions. An examination of the ways in which past civilizations have responded to external stresses and the analysis of the contemporary sustainability gap have come to the same conclusion. Those societies that respond to environmental and other stresses by transformation rather than collapse have the capability to question their core values if they become dysfunctional and to drive fundamental shifts in those values, leading to more adaptive and resilient societies.
4313855|An attempt is made to determine the impact of forest drainage on river runoff regime on the basis of experimental studies carried out in the central part of European USSR, on the results of hydrological modeling, and on other available data. It is shown that forest drainage can cause the increase in summer and winter low flow values, except in extremely dry periods. The impact of forest drainage on snowmelt and rainfall flood peaks is ambiguous, and only hydrological modeling can ensure substantiated estimates for concrete river basins. Examples of numerical experiments for a catchment area of $870\ {\rm km}^{2}$ are given. The possible hydrological impact of post-reclamation changes that occur in drained areas is considered.
4314589|Annual budgets were established for the flows of three important groups of hydrophobic organic contaminants (HOCs), i.e. polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), through the dense blue mussel population inhabiting the Swedish coastal zone of the Baltic proper. The budgets clearly show that the blue mussel significantly modifies the flow of all three of the examined groups of HOCs by: i) increasing the net deposition of HOCs to the bottoms by 13-19% and, thus, enhancing the availability of these contaminants to other benthic organisms; ii) increasing the retention time of HOCs in the water mass by recycling substantial amounts of HOCs back to the pelagic system through passive elimination; iii) bioaccumulating large amounts of HOCs and, thus, constituting a significant source of contaminants for the demersal fish and waterfowl species that feed on mussels; iv) liberating considerable amounts of HOCs to coastal waters of the Baltic proper via their spawning products, which may contribute significantly to the HOC exposure of herring larvae and other zooplanktivores.
4315148|Vaasa, located on the Gulf of Bothnia, is representative of medium-sized cities on the coast of the Baltic Sea. This article discusses Vaasa's impact on the surrounding sea area and the city's reactions to the pollution of the sea. The history of wastewater treatment in Vaasa strongly suggests that first-generation environmental problems, e.g. the pollution problems caused by municipal wastewater discharges, were solved only as a last resort after a prolonged development process. The first wastewater treatment plant was completed in 1953. In the long run, municipal policies became more costly for the environment and for the town itself than would have been the case if the option of constructing a central treatment plant had been accepted in the first instance. In Vaasa, the environmental itself did not provide the incentive, the change was motivated by health risks, noxious odors and poor outdoor-bathing possibilities that resulted from municipal wastewater discharges. No action was taken until ultimately forced by necessity. This article also discusses social science approaches to environmental studies.
4314217|The effect of different concentrations of distillery effluent on germination of three multi-useful tree species; Acacia catechu, Dalbergia sissoo and Morus alba, which grow abundantly under tropical and subtropical climatic conditions, were examined. The effects were investigated in relation to both concentration of distillery effluent and various parameters of vigor test such as percentage germination, germination value, and reduction in germination with respect to control of the seeds of these species. The effluent was highly acidic and had high BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand), COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) and TS (Total Solids) and very low DO (Dissolved Oxygen). Low effluent concentration (10%) enhanced the germination of all species. Higher effluent concentrations (>10%), however, inhibited, germination, and germination percentage was in order > 0 > 10 < 20 < 40 < 60 < 80% effluent concentration. No germination was observed in 100% effluent concentration. Experimental findings indicate that the seeds of A. catechu were more resistant and more vigourous than D. sissoo and M. alba. An effluent concentration of 10% was more favorable for seed germination compared to ordinary water.
4315362|Lakes in Killarney Park near Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, have shown dramatic water quality changes including general increases in pH and alkalinity, and decreases in SO
4311947|Deposition and accumulation of heavy metals in terrestrial sites (woodland, mires, meadows) is surveyed. Major ecosystem components have been analysed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Increase in atmospheric deposition is first traced in carpet-forming mosses and the highest concentrations are found in southwestern Scandinavia. Metal turnover is illustrated with examples from sea-shore meadows. An accumulation surface in bog peat is discussed, indicating movements of heavy metal ions, at least under acid, reducing conditions. Possible effects of increasing heavy metal deposition on decomposition, mineralization and primary productivity are indicated.
4314194|Dam construction is one of many ways that humans have modified river-dolphin habitats. It is suggested that physiographic and hydrologic complexity plays an important role in making rivers suitable for dolphins. If this hypothesis is true, then it can be assumed that dams and other artificial obstructions degrade dolphin habitat insofar as they reduce such complexity. This paper identifies some of the impacts that dams, barrages, and dikes might have on dolphins. Research is needed at project sites, both before and after construction, to document impacts. Specially-designed "swimways" may allow upstream and downstream passage by dolphins and thus mitigate at least one of the adverse effects of dam projects, namely population fragmentation, but such measures aimed at benefitting single species are no substitute for protecting ecosystems.
4312039|As a result of acidification, half of the lakes in the Swedish west coast region (about 1,500 of a total of 3,000) have pH values lower than 6.0, and 800-900 have pH values even lower than 5.0. Since the 1930s, the pH in some lakes has decreased by as much as 1.8 units. A pH value below 5.8 will strongly affect aquatic life. Among the phytoplankton, most of the green algae and diatoms disappear; and among the zooplankton, the daphnians disappear. The fish reproduction is affected. Thus roach, arctic char, trout, and perch have been wiped out from acidic waters.
4312194| A method for restoration of lakes which have been polluted by sewage is described. The method is based on the in situ oxidation of sediments by nitrates through denitrification processes. A tentative restoration has been carried out in Lake Lillesjn, close to the town of Vrnamo. In the short term, a drastic reduction of nutrients, nutrient recycling from the sediment, and a reduction to half the value of sediment surface biochemical oxygen demand was accomplished. The method is advantageous because it is rapid and relatively inexpensive. 
4313848|Selected polychlorinated compounds and pesticides were determined during winter and summer sampling periods in 1984 at 4 stations along a south-north profile 2500-km long starting at Birkenes, South Norway (58N, 8E) and ending at Ny lesund, Spitsbergen (79N, 12E). Several long-range transport episodes were detected by comparing the concentration profiles of the selected substances with calculated air transport trajectories to the measuring stations. The data presented clearly prove that long-range air transport of such substances is possible from North America and Eurasia to the Arctic.
4314635|Pollution by nutrients and pesticides from agriculture causes many problems in the marine environment. One of the main sources of the problem is agricultural activities. Comprehensive work has been going on for a long time within HELCOM (Helsinki Commission) and the catchment area of the Baltic Sea, but the progress in reduction of pollution from these sources has been slow. There is a need for consorted action at the international level to achieve the overall long-term objective of sustainable agriculture. The Heads of Governments decided at the Baltic Sea States Summit in 1996, inter alia, to elaborate an Annex on Agriculture to the Helsinki Convention. HELCOM reacted immediately on that wish and established a joint PITF/TC Project on Agriculture to prepare the Annex and Codes on Good Agricultural Practice. The Annex to the Helsinki Convention should be adopted by the Environmental Ministers at HELCOM 19 in March 1998. The implementation of the Annex and the Codes of Good Agricultural Practice are expected to achieve a clear reduction of pollution load from agricultural sources consistent with the target of a sound ecological balance in the Baltic Sea and of sustainable agriculture.
4312348|Roach were collected from Lake Roxen up to 12 times a year during the past seven years, and PCB levels in muscle tissue were monitored. These levels showed a rapid threefold increase during spring, while the rest of the year they were normally quite constant. It is clear that the PCB levels in roach can increase and decrease again within a two-month period. It is likely that the increase of the PCB levels in roach depend mainly on increased water flow, which causes an erosion of PCB-loaded sediment in the feeder streams. The data presented here indicate clearly that organochlorine levels in fish may show considerable short-term variation, a factor which must be included in the construction of any accurate monitoring program.
4314852|Wild salmon populations (Salmo salar) in northern Sweden were at a low level in the period from the 1960s through 1980s, mainly due to extensive exploitation of salmon in the sea. Electrofishing surveys were started in the 1970s and were carried out in 8 wild salmon rivers in the Bothnian Bay area in northern Sweden. There was a high correlation in salmon parr densities between most of the rivers. Abundance of spawners was also highly correlated between the rivers. This study showed very low salmon parr densities in all rivers for the period 1970 through 1980s. Parr densities increased in the late 1980s and at the beginning of the 1990s, probably because increased numbers of spawners ascended the rivers. From 1992, however, parr densities decreased again to low levels, although the number of spawners still remained at a high level. The decrease in parr densities coincided with a high mortality of alevin/fry due to the M74 syndrome found in Swedish salmon hatcheries in the Baltic. M74 mortality versus parr density and corresponding spawning stock (quotient parr/spawners) gave a significant negative correlation in all studied rivers. It is very likely that M74 mortality has affected salmon alevin/fry survival in wild rivers. The decrease of salmon parr production due to M74 mortality was estimated to be 55-70%. As the factors influencing the development of M74 are poorly understood, it is possible that the incidence of the disease may continue to fluctuate, without any possibility to predict its development. Only a higher number of spawners can counteract the negative effects of M74 mortality in wild salmon populations. The exploitation of wild salmon by fisheries must therefore be kept at a low level.
4315636|We provide evidence of rapid, recent environmental change in two lakes in the highlands of central Mexico. Multiple sediment cores were obtained from Lago de Zirahun (Michoacn) and Laguna de Juanacatln (Jalisco). Analysis of diatom assemblages, magnetic susceptibility, and metal concentrations was carried out, with the chronology provided by <sup>210</sup> Pb dating, <sup>14</sup> C dating, and tephrochronology. There is evidence of catchment disturbance during the colonial period in both basins, but the most striking feature at both sites is the rapid change in diatom assemblages during the last 20 y, indicating the onset of eutrophication. Limnological data from Lago de Zirahun support this interpretation, although none are available from Laguna de Juanacatln. Paleolimnology is a powerful tool in tracking recent change, particularly in the absence of regular limnological monitoring programs. These lakes appear to be highly sensitive to changes in catchment exploitation, which must be considered in future drainage basin management.
4314284|Levels of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDD) and dibenzofurans (PCDF) as well as of coplanar (non-ortho substituted) polychlorinated biphenyls (CB-77, CB-126 and CB-169) have been determined in 11 fur-seal blubber samples from female Antarctic fur seals. Measurable PCDD/PCDF concentrations averaging 2 ppt TEQ (Nordic model) were found. This is considerably less than in Arctic seals. In addition, the PCDD/PCDF congener patterns differed between Antarctic and Arctic seals. The levels of CB-77, CB-126 and CB-169 (8.5-41 pg g
23257420|A sustainable livelihood framework is used to analyse livelihood security, vulnerability and resilience in the village of Chibuene, Vilanculos, southern Mozambique from a historical and contemporary perspective. Interviews, assessments, archaeology, palaeoecology and written sources are used to address tangible and intangible aspects of livelihood security. The analysis shows that livelihood strategies for building resilience, diversification of resource use, social networks and trade, have long historical continuities. Vulnerability is contingent on historical processes as long-term socio-environmental insecurity and resultant biodiversity loss. These contingencies affect the social capacity to cope with vulnerability in the present. The study concludes that contingency and the extent and strength of social networks should be added as a factor in livelihood assessments. Furthermore, policies for mitigating vulnerability must build on the reality of environmental insecurity, and strengthen local structures that diversify and spread risk.
4315483|A set of six regional climate model experiments is investigated for future changes in daily temperature and precipitation in Europe. Changes in the probability distributions for these variables are studied. It is found that the asymmetry of these distributions change differently depending on location and season. Large summertime changes in extremely high temperatures in central, eastern and southern Europe are followed by higher than average temperature increases on warm days in general. Likewise, temperatures on cold days increase much more than the average temperature increase during winter in eastern and northern Europe. A comparison with historical data on wintertime temperature shows that the model simulated and observed daily variability are similar. In particular, the much stronger increase in temperatures on cold days, compared to the average temperature increase as observed in warm compared to cold historical periods, is simulated also by the model. The contribution from heavy precipitation events is simulated to increase over most parts of Europe in all seasons.
4314132|Economic development and urbanization worldwide have led to many pollution problems as a result of growing input to the environment of organic wastes and inorganic nutrients. Even the developed countries have not been able to solve this problem satisfactorily. The situation is especially problematical in developing countries where raw wastes are disrupting the coastal ecosystems that are the main source of food protein. This article describes how these problems are addressed in China, using aquaculture and ecological engineering not only to solve waste problems, but also to optimize food and energy production by completely recycling wastes in integrated farming systems.
41417340|A new species has recently invaded coastal dune ecosystems in North West Europe. The native and expansive inland grass, Deschampsia flexuosa, progressively dominating inland heaths, has recently invaded coastal dunes in Denmark, occasionally even as a dominant species. A total of 222 coastal locations with 5,000 random sample plots have been investigated. These findings are in contrast to historical records, and D. flexuosa has never been considered belonging to coastal dune ecosystems. The occurrence of the typical inland grass in the coastal dunes is a strong indication of increase in nutrient level and that human influences may cause a native species to be invasive in new ecosystems. This could be a radical example of change in species composition due to a long lasting exceedance of critical load of nitrogen. The investigation also showed a general increase in cover of the most dominant species.
4313650|This paper deals with phosphorus and nitrogen loads resulting from Swedish fish-farming operations. The nutrient loads from the actual 1986 fish production of 3945 tons, from the licensed production of 17 323 tons, and from a scenario of 40 000 tons are calculated. The phosphorus and nitrogen loads from Swedish farming in 1986 were about 35 tons of phosphorus and 260 tons of nitrogen. These loads correspond to 0.6% and 0.2% of the total Swedish phosphorus and nitrogen load on the surrounding sea areas. Compared to the total load from all surrounding countries, including atmospheric deposition, the share of the Swedish fish-farming activities to the adjacent seas is 0.05% for phosphorus and 0.02% for nitrogen. The contribution of phosphorus and nitrogen via precipitation and dry deposition over the Swedish land area is about 100 times greater for phosphorus and about 1100 times greater for nitrogen, than the load from all Swedish fish-farming operations. The overall nutrient load from aquaculture is obviously negligible in comparison with other nutrient sources. Local effects on coastal areas can, however, be of importance and therefore local authorities have been restrictive with licensing.
4315823|Based on an earlier published ecosystem model, we have explored possible effects of different management scenarios for the Baltic Sea. The scenarios include an oligotrophication of the system, a drastic increase in the number of seals, and changes in the fishery management. From these simulations we conclude that fisheries, seals, and eutrophication all have strong and interacting impacts on the ecosystem. These interactions call for integrated management. The modeling highlights the potential for conflicts among management mandates such as flourishing fisheries, rebuilt seal populations, and substantially reduced eutrophication. The results also suggest that fisheries management reference points have to be adjusted in response to changes in the presence of natural predators or ecosystem productivity.
41417417|A blend of regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and poly{[N,N'-bis(2-octyldodecy1)-naphthalene-1,4,5,8-bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl]-alt-5,5'-(2,2'-bithiophene)} (P(NDI2OD-T2), which has the potential for polymer solar cells application, was prepared for current mode atomic force microscopy (C-AFM) measurements in this study. Phase-separated domains and the local electrical characteristics of P3HT/P(NDI2OD-T2) blends were investigated by the C-AFM.
4312586|By the year 2000 one million species (out of a grand total of some 5-10 million) may have been pushed into extinction by human activities. A world conservation strategy is clearly needed, but if one is to actually work it must be based on hard-nosed economic considerations, taking into account institutional mechanisms and political initiatives. The author argues that so long as humankind is committed to playing God, "on the grounds that we are determining the extinction of large numbers of species," we might as well do it in a more rational, selective and considered manner. Haphazardly condemning whole communities to oblivion must cease.
4314700|Although human influence dominates present-day Amazonian rainforest fires, old charcoal fragments, buried in the soils or in lacustrine sediments, confirm that fire has played a major role in the history of Amazonian forests. These fires may have influenced the present-day diversity and structure of the rainforest and, if these fire-favorable events of the past reoccur, there may be drastic consequences for the future of the Amazonian forests. Detailed studies of Carajs lake sediments permit identification of these past fire events, through microscopic observations of small charcoal fragments. They also permit, through radiocarbon dating, a better definition of their timing and make it possible to relate them to past paleo-environmental and paleoclimatic conditions. The paleodata indicate that fire events were concomitant with short dry climate episodes whose frequency of occurrences has varied during the last 7000 years. These dry events may be related to past climate conditions observed in different regions of tropical South America.
41417327|Shrubs and trees are expected to expand in the sub-Arctic due to global warming. Our study was conducted in Abisko, sub-arctic Sweden. We recorded the change in coverage of shrub and tree species over a 32-to 34-year period, in three 50 x 50 m plots; in the alpine-tree-line ecotone. The cover of shrubs and trees (<3.5 cm diameter at breast height) were estimated during 2009-2010 and compared with historical documentation from 1976 to 1977. Similarly, all tree stems (3.5 cm) were noted and positions determined. There has been a substantial increase of cover of shrubs and trees, particularly dwarf birch (Betula nana), and mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii), and an establishment of aspen (Populus trmula). The other species willows (Salix spp.), juniper (Juniperus communis), and rowan (Sorbus aucuparia) revealed inconsistent changes among the plots. Although this study was unable to identify the causes for the change in shrubs and small trees, they are consistent with anticipated changes due to climate change and reduced herbivory.
4314061|Recognition is growing that the successful management of protected areas ultimately depends on the cooperation and support of local people. As a result, there has been a dramatic increase in financial support for projects attempting to link the conservation of biodiversity in protected areas with local social and economic development. Drawing on our recent analysis of 23 integrated conservation-development projects (ICDPs) in 14 developing countries, this paper explores the challenges which have arisen in operationalizing two key concepts which lie at the heart of community-based conservation. First, buffer zones around park boundaries. Second, greater participation of local people in conservation and development. We describe important practical constraints which have so far limited the effective implementation of these two concepts. But-despite some critical constraints operating outside individual projects' sphere of influence-we conclude that innovative, well-designed projects at carefully selected protected area sites that constructively address local people-park relationships will be essential to the conservation of biodiversity, and thus to sustainable development.
4312568|The unique character of the Baltic Sea, and its vulnerability to pollution, have drawn the attention of many scientists and administrators working with marine sciences and pollution abatement problems. Besides national boards and institutes in the seven Baltic countries, there are a number of international organizations and groups, governmental and non-governmental, which deal with Baltic problems. Some work exclusively in the Baltic, others have Baltic questions as part of their interests. Under such circumstances organizational overlappings and competition on different levels cannot be avoided. The system should be simplified in the future, not least to bring more people involved in organizational matters back to practical scientific work.
40390257|The European Union (EU) member states have agreed on the Water Framework Directive. The vision is that all European waters will achieve "good" ecological status. Each member state has agreed to meet these commitments. In Sweden, the Environmental Protection Agency regulates the methods used for classification of the ecological status of inland and coastal waters. The aim of this study was to evaluate how these criteria (using diatoms, benthic fauna, fish, water chemistry, hydromorphology) principally affect the classification of two typical forest streams. Forestland constitutes approximately 70% of the Swedish land area and forestry is the dominating human impact on many waters. Particular attention was paid to evaluate how the classification may vary with catchment size and between years. The results indicate that there is an obvious risk that many Swedish forest streams will not achieve "good" ecological status. The classification outcome may vary between years and regarding fish status; it also seems to depend on stream size.
4313074|Environmental management in the South Pacific has evolved rapidly from traditional practice with its social codes through the exploitative eras of whalers, traders and colonial regimes to the present pattern of accommodation and integration of traditional and modern management systems. Although environmental pressures in the South Pacific are intensifying there is a growing potential for effective management utilizing both traditional and modern concepts.
41510577|The collection of fog water is a simple and sustainable technology to obtain fresh water for afforestation, gardening, and as a drinking water source for human and animal consumption. In regions where fresh water is sparse and fog frequently occurs, it is feasible to set up a passive mesh system for fog water collection. The mesh is directly exposed to the atmosphere, and the foggy air is pushed through the mesh by the wind. Fog droplets are deposited on the mesh, combine to form larger droplets, and run down passing into a storage tank. Fog water collection rates vary dramatically from site to site but yearly averages from 3 to 10 1 m of mesh per day are typical of operational projects. The scope of this article is to review fog collection projects worldwide, to analyze factors of success, and to evaluate the prospects of this technology. this review is to synthesize the current understanding of fog collection and to analyze its potential and limitations for future development. In a sense, this is a follow-up contribution of a summary presented 20 years ago in Ambio (Schemenauer and Cereceda 1991). Note that the science of fog physics, chemistry, and its role in the hydrological cycle, which extends to a much wider climatic range than the "fog collection" addressed here, is not within the focus of this article.
25547833|Using Christmas Bird Count data, we analyze the annual spatio-temporal abundances of six passerine species in the upper Great Plains, US (1960-1990). This study provides new insight into how global warming could cause separation of species within present-day communities. We find that winter relative abundances of similarly-sized songbirds are differentially affected by ambient winter temperature. As such, average annual winter temperature fluctuations (i.e., severity of winter) are significantly (P < 0.05) correlated with the relative abundances of three species while the other three are not. Our conditional probability-of-occurrence analysis indicates that the abundances of the three temperature-associated species declined markedly below -4C while the abundances of the other three species fluctuated little from 8C to -16C. We conclude that even in colder climates i) the winter distributions of some, but not all, songbirds are directly or indirectly limited by temperature; and ii) these birds have dynamic abundances that can quickly respond to temperature changes.
4313180|A comparison of pre- and post-independence rainfall in sub-Saharan Africa reveals a pattern of drier weather after independence, suggesting that climatic factors have acted as a constraint to development. For the purposes of long-range planning for development in Africa, it is argued that drought must be viewed as an aperiodic, recurring phenomenon. By means of simulations, it is demonstrated that the current drought over much of Africa is not unprecedented and its eventual occurrence should have been considered as inevitable. Although droughts cannot presently be forecast, analysis of probabilities can provide information about droughts that can be used in early-warning systems for food shortages.
4314964|Large numbers of urban structures have been added to the waterways around coastal cities and many more are likely to be added in the future. Some of the most common structures seen in harbors around the world are pier pilings, pontoons, and retaining walls. These may be constructed from a variety of materials, many of which are foreign to the marine environment. Despite the proliferation of urban structures around coastal cities, there has been surprisingly little research on the effects they may have on marine biota. In this paper we present details of studies which tested whether different types of subtidal organisms grew on different urban structures and natural rocky reefs. The results indicate that many urban structures in harbors and estuaries may be considered novel habitats, quite distinct from natural rocky reefs. A great deal more research is needed to understand fully the consequences of adding new habitats to the marine environment.
25094584|This paper presents an overview of mountain biodiversity at a multitude of scales in space, time, and function. Even though species richness is usually the focal component in nature conservation, genetic diversity within species is equally important. The small-scale distribution of species in the tropical Andes, as exemplified by the plant genera Calceolaria and Bartsia, contrasts against the situation in high-latitude mountains, e.g., the Scandes, where species have wide ranges and many are circumpolar. Recent studies on alpine plants based on molecular methods show that the intraspecific genetic diversity tends to increase with latitude, a situation brought about by the glaciation history with repeated contraction-expansion episodes of species' distributions. In tropical mountains, species distributions are geographically much narrower, often as a result of relatively recent, local speciation. Thus, whereas species richness in mountains decreases from the Equator towards the poles, genetic diversity shows the opposite trend. Finally, a comparison of ecosystem diversity in low- and high-latitude mountain ranges (tropical Andes vs. Scandes) shows that the landscapes differ profoundly with regard to timberline ecotones, snow distribution, and climate variables, and are subject to widely different impacts of global change
4313798|The Valley of Butterflies on the Greek island of Rhodes is a highly touristic area. Apart from its aesthetic value, it is the site of the only natural forest of Liquidambar orientalis in Europe, and a particularly important biotope of Panaxia quadripunctaria, a nocturnal moth. Though distributed almost all over Greece, population density of this insect is exceptionally high in this valley, during the summer months. Adult insects migrate there to reproduce, after which females leave for other biotopes to lay their eggs in the early fall. New adults follow once again this migration pattern. From the early 1980s, it became apparent that the population of Panaxia had decreased dramatically. Tourism is one of the causes of the problem, but at the same time it is the motivating agent for the local population to demand remedial measures. Along with our own observations, by reviewing the literature on the biological and ecological traits of P. quadripunctaria and the history of changes on the island, we identified the causes of the problem and could apply specific measures, which succeeded in reversing the adverse effects on insect population density.
4312325|The urgent need to produce enough food for the increasing population of the Mediterranean basin has led to the over-extension of crops on marginal land, resulting in soil erosion, destruction of vegetation cover, and reduction of grazing areas. Overgrazing of marginal lands and forest areas has led to degradation of vegetation and soil. The most realistic solution to these problems lies in intensification of agriculture and resources use through the implementation of proper land-use management, the preservation and restoration of resource conditions and productivity, and through raising the level of technology.
4313416|Levels of particulates of five trace elements, copper, cadmium, nickel, lead and chrome, were determined at seven sites along the Qiantang-jiang River and in its estuary. Results indicated that concentrations of trace metal particulates are related to those of suspended matter. Concentrations of these elements were higher in the river than in the estuary and can be related to the diluting effect of the incoming water which contains high levels of suspended matter and to the desorption process. Atmospheric transportation can also play an important role in the environmental cycling of trace metals. This is reflected in the EF-values (EF-value = (concentration on microsurface/concentration in subsurface layers) - 1.0) determined for the Qiantang-jiang River. The higher EF-values for Pb, Cd and Ni are probably related to atmospheric transportation. Complexion with organic matter was perhaps the most important causal factor for the high EF-value found for copper. Chrome was less concentrated in the microsurface compared to the other elements investigated.
4314269|Interdependences between socioeconomic activities and environmental processes call for integrated approaches in planning and policy formulation to achieve long-term sustainable growth and development. Integrated ("green") environmental and economic accounting provides indicators and leads to policy variables that aim at such integration. The results of a case study of integrated accounting in Papua New Guinea are used to illustrate possible uses and limitations of such accounting in national policies and strategies of sustainable development. A broad policy framework incorporating green accounting concepts and recommendations of a post-UNCED seminar in Papua New Guinea is outlined.
4312319|Haifa is the center of an industrialized urban area characterized by rapid economic and urban growth. The metropolitan area is badly affected by pollution of its air, water and beaches, and by traffic congestion. In 1975 an experimental project was undertaken to develop methods of managing the area's environmental resources. The author discusses some administrative, jurisdictional, technical and economic problems encountered and describes the programs designed to manage air resources, reduce river and sea pollution, and prevent further degradation of the environment.
4314939|The measure of value called emergy is used to evaluate the flows of energy and resources that sustain the biosphere including the economy of humans. A donor system of value based on solar emergy required to produce things is suggested as the only means of reversing the logic trap inherent in economic valuation, which suggests that value stems only from utilization by humans. The stocks of natural capital and flows of environmental resources are evaluated in emergy and related to Global World Product. Several emergy indices are introduced as a means of evaluating sustainability of economies and processes. The total emergy flux of the biosphere is composed of 32% renewable flows of sunlight, tidal momentum and deep heat (it was 68% in 1950), and 68% slowly-renewable and nonrenewable flows. An index of environmental loading on the biosphere is shown to have increased about 4 times since 1950, while an index of global sustainability suggests that overall, sustainability of the global economy has precipitously declined.
4314176|The objective of this research was to develop a goal programming (GP) model to resolve competition and conflicts among land uses in the tropical region with Cameroon as an example. The data covered two planning periods (1981-1986 and 1986-1991) and the Statistical Analysis System/Operations Research (SAS/OR) package was used. Results indicated that land shortage limited agricultural production by 1991, while there were land surpluses in the livestock/fishery and forestry/wildlife sectors. The nation was able to meet most production goals up to 1991, but further extensive farming could only be possible through land transfers from other sectors to agriculture. Finally, the use of sensitivity analysis provided a range within which optimal land-use policy decisions could be taken. This GP model could be applied to tropical regions with similar conditions to Cameroon.
4314714|This paper is based on the commemorative lecture which was delivered at the award ceremony of the Volvo Environmental Prize. The author describes his early attempt to study the greenhouse effect using a one-dimensional model of radiative, convective equilibrium of the atmosphere. This is followed by the description of a recent study of global warming which employs a general circulation model of the coupled atmosphere-ocean-land surface system developed at the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL). In particular, the study attempts to elucidate the role of oceanic and land surface processes in shaping the response of surface air temperature to a gradual increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
24708795|Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) have been regarded as an alternative to protect natural resources and to improve fisheries. However, MPAs may also have negative socio-economic consequences on fishing communities. We aimed to check the effectiveness of a socially conflicting MPA in Brazil by assessing target reef fish biomass in islands inside (n = 6) and outside (n = 6) the MPA, fisheries' productivity (biomass), catch per unit of effort (CPUE), and fishers' socio-economic status (mainly fishers' income) in three fishing communities subjected to different degrees of influence (close, average, and long distance) of the MPA. The CPUE was higher in the fishing community that was further away from the MPA, fish biomass was higher in the islands located inside the MPA in the southern region and in the islands located outside the MPA in the northern region, while fishers were making the most money closest to the MPA, where conflicts are the highest, probably from practicing very intensive fisheries. This integrated approach showed that the studied MPA has not delivered ecological benefits, such as higher CPUE or more fish, while higher income closer to the MPA could not be clearly attributed to its effects.
4314480|Two types of Japanese CO
41510580|Global climate issues and a looming energy crisis put agriculture under pressure in Sub-Saharan Africa. Climate adaptation measures must entail sustainable development benefits, and growing crops for food as well as energy may be a solution, removing people from hunger and poverty without compromising the environment. The present study investigated the feasibility of using non-food parts of cassava for energy production and the promising results revealed that at least 28% of peels and stems comprise dry matter, and 10 g feedstock yields > 8.5 g sugar, which in turn produced > 60% ethanol, with pH  2.85, 74-84% light transmittance and a conductivity of 368 mV, indicating a potential use of cassava feedstock for ethanol production. Thus, harnessing cassava for food as well as ethanol production is deemed feasible. Such a system would, however, require supportive policies to acquire a balance between food security and fuel.
4315032|Trace metal dynamics were studied in lakes to illustrate the direct and indirect effects of eutrophication on the turnover of metals. The decreasing atmospheric load of Pb was well reflected by the Pb-profile in dated sediment cores. The trend was, however, biased by resuspension which at times dominated the flux of particles to the sediments. Since sulfides played an important role for the sequestering of metals in the sediments, resuspension, and water circulation, would facilitate the dispersal of pollutants and the solubilization of metal sulfides by sulfide oxidation. Significant effects of "seston dilution" was demonstrated as decreased Pb and Hg levels in the eutrophic lake sediments. However, the bioavailability in fish for those metals did not decrease, as it did for Cd and Tl. In the eutrophic lake, higher concentrations of Hg in fish muscle were accompanied by increasing net production of methyl-Hg in hypolimnetic waters. Higher fluxes of metals in the eutrophic lake may partly be explained by a larger biomass and partly by different geology and pH. Eutrophication decreased the residence time of Cu, Ni, and Tl, probably partly due to sulfide fixation, and decreased the concentration of Cd and Mo in water, due to a large biomass and an efficient scavenging of metals.
41417269|In this article, focusing on the ongoing implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive, we analyze some of the opportunities and challenges for a sustainable governance of water resources from an ecosystem management perspective. In the face of uncertainty and change, the ecosystem approach as a holistic and integrated management framework is increasingly recognized. The ongoing implementation of the Water Framework Directive (WFD) could be viewed as a reorganization phase in the process of change in institutional arrangements and ecosystems. In this case study from the Northern Baltic Sea River Basin District, Sweden, we focus in particular on data and information management from a multi-level governance perspective from the local stakeholder to the River Basin level. We apply a document analysis, hydrological mapping, and GIS models to analyze some of the institutional framework created for the implementation of the WFD. The study underlines the importance of institutional arrangements that can handle variability of local situations and trade-offs between solutions and priorities on different hierarchical levels.
4315436|The maintenance of biodiversity by securing representative and well-connected habitat networks in managed landscapes requires a wise combination of protection, management, and restoration of habitats at several scales. We suggest that the integration of natural and social sciences in the form of "Two-dimensional gap analysis" is an efficient tool for the implementation of biodiversity policies. The tool links biologically relevant "horizontal" ecological issues with "vertical" issues related to institutions and other societal issues. Using forest biodiversity as an example, we illustrate how one can combine ecological and institutional aspects of biodiversity conservation, thus facilitating environmentally sustainable regional development. In particular, we use regional gap analysis for identification of local forest types, habitat modelling for ascertaining the functional connectivity of "green infrastructures", as tools for the horizontal gap analysis. For the vertical dimension we suggest how the social sciences can be used for assessing the success in the implementation of biodiversity policies in real landscapes by identifying institutional obstacles while implementing policies. We argue that this interdisciplinary approach could be applied in a whole range of other environments including other terrestrial biota and aquatic ecosystems where functional habitat connectivity, nonlinear response to habitat loss and a multitude of economic and social interests co-occur in the same landscape.
4312107|Behavioral toxicology can be of major importance in monitoring of hazards to health and safety in the work environment. This statement is based on the fact that behavioral performance impairment has been observed in humans in connection with exposure to known neurotoxic substances in the absence of any medical signs of toxic effects. Behavioral performance impairment caused by exposure to chemical substances could be warning signs of potentially serious job health hazards.
41417303|Shortly after the implementation of a marine protected area (MPA) in Lyme Bay in 2008, inside which scallop dredging and bottom trawling is prohibited, a socio-economic impact assessment was initiated. This article presents the initial findings from this study. The aim was to understand the costs and benefits to fishermen and fish merchants of establishing the MPA. These were assessed using a combination of primary and secondary data. The results indicate that the impacts of the closure differ according to the gear type and the fishing location used by the fishermen. Static gear fishermen who fish inside the closed area have seen changes in terms of increased fishing effort, mostly because they have been able to increase the number of crab and whelk pots they deploy. The effects of the closure on static gear fishermen who fish outside the closed area has been reported in terms of increased conflicts with towed gear fishermen who now fish regularly in their traditional grounds. Fishermen using towed gear on the other hand have been impacted through displacement effects as they have been forced to look for other fishing grounds outside the closed area. Most fish merchants and processors initially claimed that they were heavily impacted by the closure but when they were interviewed 1 year after the closure they suggested a more stable picture. Preliminary analyses of landings data indicate that the introduction of the MPA has so far had minimal impacts on the average incomes and financial profits of fishermen and fish merchants. This conclusion, however, reflects a short-term view as the impacts of the closure of Lyme Bay are likely to be felt for a long time to come.
25515854|The physical environment of the Canadian North is particularly sensitive to changes in climate because of a large concentration of cryospheric elements including both seasonal and multiyear forms of freshwater and sea ice, permafrost, snow, glaciers, and small ice caps. Because the cryosphere responds directly to changes in air temperature and precipitation, it is a primary indicator of the effects of climate variability and change. This article reviews the major changes that have occurred in the recent historical record of these cryospheric components at high latitudes in Canada. Some changes have been less pronounced in the Canadian North than elsewhere, such as changes in sea-ice coverage, whereas others have been potentially more significant, such as ablation of the extensive alpine and high-Arctic small glaciers and ice caps. Projections of future changes are also reviewed for each cryospheric component. Discussion about two other physical components of the North intrinsically linked to the cryosphere is also included, specifically: i) freshwater discharge to the Arctic Ocean via major river networks that are fed primarily by various forms of snow and ice, and ii) the related rise in sea level, which is strongly influenced by ablation of the cryosphere, and coastal stability, which also depends on the thermal integrity of coastal permafrost.
4314070| The metals, K, Li, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Co, Ni, Zn, Cu, Cr and Pb were the subject of a distribution study in riverbed sediments of the  4 m, 4-20 m and the total  63 m fractions. The method for sequential dissolution was used in order to determine the potential of these metals for transport and uptake by biota. The mineral composition of the fine fractions was characterized by a simple mineral spectrum: mica/illite, quartz, kaolinite dominated; chlorite ( smectite  vermiculite), calcite, Na-rich plagioclase, K-feldspar and amphibole, in medium to small admixtures; gypsum and pyrite were identified in minor amounts or accessories. Average totals of sequential dissolution from the  63 m fractions were 2.03% wt Fe, 1.89% wt Ca, 0.37% wt Mg, 0.22% wt. K; 746 ppm Mn, 458 ppm Zn, 431 ppm Cr, 1030 ppm Cu, 17 ppm Li, 36 ppm Ni, 15 ppm Co and 120 ppm Pb. Metal concentrations were extracted in six steps. In size fractionated samples, K, Li, Mg, Mn, Zn, Co and Pb concentrations, generally increase with decreasing particle size; Cu, Fe, Ca, Cr and Ni were exceptions. Ca, Mn, and occasionally K, Zn and Cr, were concentrated, primarily, in the exchangeable form and adsorbed or in the carbonate phase. The remaining metals were present predominantly in (operationally defined) reducible and oxidizable chemical phases, with contributions from residual phases. 
4315123|San Quintin, Mexico, provides a useful site for integrated analyses of material fluxes and socioeconomic constraints in a geographically isolated system. Natural resource utilization on the land is dominated by groundwater exploitation for cultivation of horticulture crops (primarily tomatoes). Irrigation exceeds water recharge minus export by a factor of 6. Resource utilization in the bay is dominated by oyster culture; food for the oysters is provided by tidal exchange of bay and ocean water. Consideration of oyster respiration and system respiration suggests that the present level of aquaculture is about 40% of the sustainable level. A "physical unsustainability index" (PhUI) was developed to measure the proportional departure of utilization of the most limiting resource for sustainability: 6 on land; 0.4 in the bay. Based on PhUI and measures of economic development, we conclude that aquaculture is more viable than agriculture.
4313093| The distribution of petroleum hydrocarbons (PHC) in the water of the Stockholm archipelago (northern Baltic proper) was studied using the bivalve molluscs Mytilus edulis L. and Macoma baltica L. as indicator organisms. Concentrations of paraffin-naphthenes (p-n) and aromatic hydrocarbons were determined. The p-n fraction was between 5.6 and 87.0 g/g and the aromatic fraction between 2.9 and 28.2 g/g (wet weights). Extrapolated PHC levels in the water were between 3 and 20 g/l (p-n fraction) and between 1 and 9 g/l (aromatic fraction). A concentration gradient of PHC was found; concentrations were lowest in the outer archipelago and increased inwards. This gradient is due primarily to low level, diffuse, continuous discharges, mainly within the inner zone. The background PHC, from discharges from ships at sea, distant industrial effluents, atmospheric fallout etc, seem to be less important. Sites influenced by local sources exhibited higher levels of PHC. 
4312652|In 1974 a project to study the nutrient cycles of natural and disturbed tropical rainforest ecosystems in Amazonia was started in San Carlos de Rio Negro, Venezuela. After a brief description of the site and the goals of the project, the interpretation of the existing data indicates that the forest and its litter contain 92 percent of the total calcium, potassium and magnesium in the ecosystem. The forest's mineral nutrition is more dependent on rainfall and internal cycling for its nutrition than on supply by the soil, and it functions with a small amount of nutrients compared to the conditions in other tropical rainforest ecosystems. Very efficient nutrient capturing and cycling mechanisms have evolved so that losses from the ecosystem are minimal. Disturbances that destroy these fragile mechanisms lead to increased nutrient losses which compromise the rate of regeneration of the forest. The fate of nutrients after disturbance is controlled by the establishment of other biological mechanisms to capture and cycle the available nutrients. A serious warning is issued about the conversion of large forested areas in Amazonia to other uses before the impact of these disturbances is properly investigated.
41805979|Understanding how climate change, exploitation and eutrophication will affect populations and ecosystems of the Baltic Sea can be facilitated with models which realistically combine these forcings into common frameworks. Here, we evaluate sensitivity of fish recruitment and population dynamics to past and future environmental forcings provided by three ocean-biogeochemical models of the Baltic Sea. Modeled temperature explained nearly as much variability in reproductive success of sprat (Sprattus sprattus; Clupeidae) as measured temperatures during 1973-2005, and both the spawner biomass and the temperature have influenced recruitment for at least 50 years. The three Baltic Sea models estimate relatively similar developments (increases) in biomass and fishery yield during twenty-first century climate change (ca. 28 % range among models). However, this uncertainty is exceeded by the one associated with the fish population model, and by the source of global climate data used by regional models. Knowledge of processes and biases could reduce these uncertainties.
4311963|PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls) was used in industry for 37 years before it was found that PCB could accumulate in nature. At the time for the discovery (1966) PCB was almost as widespread as DDT. When organisms from Sweden were analysed, up to fourteen unknown peaks were found in the chromatograms. When a white-tailed eagle found dead in the archipelago of Stockholm was subjected to analysis these peaks could finally be identified as PCB with gas chromatography-masspectrometry. Recently, blood samples from PCB-intoxicated Japanese and other persons were analysed; blood levels of PCB and other contaminants were determined.
4315635|The recent rise in Brazilian soybean production has generated concern among the environmental community and some authors that natural tropical environments of the Amazon Basin are being converted to soybean fields. Proponents of soybean production counter that soybeans represent a viable agricultural commodity for the region; environmental concern is unwarranted, because new soybean fields are replacing already deforested or otherwise transformed lands. Both arguments have been made without comprehensive study and measure of land-use/land-cover (LULC) in areas undergoing expansion of soybean production. This case study, conducted in the municipality of Vilhena, Rondnia, Brazil, in the southwestern Amazon Basin, uses remote sensing to evaluate the LULC accompanying this municipality's large growth in soybean production from 1996 to 2001. Forests are being converted for soybean production, but most of the production increase appears attributable to slight expansion of already existing fields, conversion of already deforested land, and higher yields.
4315203|Global freshwater resources are being increasingly polluted and depleted, threatening sustainable development and human and ecosystem health. Utilizing casestudies from 4-different watersheds in the United States, Japan, Switzerland, and Brazil, this paper identifies the most relevant sustainability deficits and derives general vectors for more sustainable water management. As a consequence of the demographic and economic developments experienced in the last few decades, each watershed has suffered declines in water quality, streamflow and biotic resources. However, the extent and the cultural perception of these water-related problems vary substantially in the different watersheds, leading to specific water-management strategies. In industrialized countries, exemplified by the US, Switzerland, and Japan, these strategies have primarily consisted of finance- and energy-intensive technologies, allowing these countries to meet water requirements while minimizing human health risks. But, from a sustainability point of view, such strategies, relying on limited natural resources, are not long-term solutions. For newly industrialized countries such as Brazil, expensive technologies for water management are often not economically feasible, thus limiting the extent to which newly industrialized and developing countries can utilize the expertise offered by the industrialized world. Sustainable water management has to be achieved by a common learning process involving industrialized, newly industrialized, and developing countries, following general sustainability guidelines as exemplified in this paper.
4315191| The four largest Swedish lakes, Vnern, Vttern, Hjlmaren, and Mlaren, were surveyed by means of aerial IR-color photography in the 1970s. Along small slope gradients in all lakes the emergent communities extended to a width of hundreds of meters, while the extent on steeper slopes was a few meters. Because of the fractionate shape, L. Mlaren has a very long shoreline, which promotes vegetation growth in the transition zone between land and water. Sheltered conditions are numerous and water lilies and other floating leaved and freely floating plants are abundant. Emergent as well as submerged macrophytes grow vigorously in the northernmost part of the oligotrophic lake Vttern. In L. Vnern exposed shores predominate, but sheltered bays and archipelagos are overgrown with reeds. In the shallow lake Hjlmaren monospecific stands of Phragmites australis are dominant. Recurrent surveys of L. Mlaren and L. Vnern in the 1990s showed changes that could be connected to the watertable fluctuations, which have been stabilized since the first investigation. Reeds and water lilies expanded in sheltered parts of the lakes, while the distribution of reed stands growing at their deep limit decreased. 
4314167|A trend analysis of 81 series of precipitation data from the last 30 years (1960-1990) is presented. These series are from meteorological stations distributed throughout Costa Rica on the leeward and windward sides, both of which are affected by the trade-wind regime. Analysis of these data shows that over 75% of Costa Rica has experienced a precipitation decrease during this period. Most of the areas affected by this trend are located along the leeward side of the mountain range which divides the country from northwest to southeast. However, on the windward side there has been a positive trend in precipitation, suggesting a strengthened trade-wind regime. An analysis of data on Atlantic hurricane trajectories since 1900 shows that the total number of hurricanes has increased, but there has been a reduction in the number crossing the Caribbean Basin. The passage of tropical cyclones in the Caribbean Basin accounts for around 70% of total precipitation in the Pacific region of Central America. These countries economies are highly dependent on agriculture, and on water resources for energy generation, thus changes in hurricane patterns and associated rainfall could have important economic consequences.
40801589|There is a need to reduce the amount of fossil energy used for transport, both because of the easily available fossil fuel is becoming sparser and because of climate concerns. In this article, the concept of "peak oil" is briefly presented. Second, a practical approach to reduction of fossil fuel use for transport elaborated by two British commissions is presented. A key feature is the introduction of electric cars. This raises the third issue covered in this article: namely, how battery technology is going to meet the increasing needs posed by the transport sector.
4312075|Remote sensing techniques for air monitoring can be a valuable new tool for obtaining a three-dimensional picture of the air environment. Measurements of the height distribution of gases in the troposphere and the stratosphere are needed in order to obtain a reliable atmospheric model. Together with the data from ground-based air quality networks and measurements of meteorological conditions, remote sensing data can be used for predicting environmental changes on a regional and global scale. Monitoring of atmospheric components from remote sensing platforms (aircraft, balloons, rockets and satellites) could eliminate most of the problems encountered in using data from a variety of independent surveys to establish large-scale levels of pollutants and concentration trends.
40730878|Predicting mercury (Hg) concentrations of fishes at large spatial scales is a fundamental environmental challenge with the potential to improve human health. In this study, mercury concentrations were examined for five species across 161 lakes and ecosystem, and watershed parameters were investigated as explanatory variables in statistical models. For all species, Hg concentrations were significantly, positively related to wetland coverage. For three species (largemouth bass, pike, and walleye), Hg concentrations were significantly, negatively related to lake trophic state index (TSI), suggestive of growth biodilution.There were no significant relationships between ecosystem size and mercury concentrations. However, Hg concentrations were strongly, positively related to ecosystem size across species. Scores of small or remote lakes that have never been tested could be prioritized for testing using models akin to those presented in this article. Such an approach could also be useful for exploring how Hg concentrations of fishes might respond to natural or anthropogenic changes to ecosystems over time.
4314893|The Tundra Ecology -94 expedition investigated inflow of inorganic and organic carbon to the shelf seas by river runoff, and its transformation by biochemical processes in seawater and sediment. In addition, anthropogenic radionuclides,
4313974|Farm forestry was promoted in India in the late 1970s to produce fuelwood for rural consumption. The program was immensely successful in the green revolution regions in the early 1980s, but farmers produced wood for markets, and not to meet local needs. This market orientation of farmers was recognized in the new National Forest Policy of 1988. Lately, two serious problems have been noted. First, the program remained confined only to the commercialized and monetized regions, and elsewhere made little impact. Second, even in regions where it was successful in the early 1980s, it could not be sustained after 1986. This paper analyzes the likely causes for its limited success, and suggests that while market-led farm forestry may continue without subsides on a reduced scale, government attention should shift to strengthening the traditional agroforestry practices based on indigenous species.
4314891|The present study examines cranial variability in true lemmings (Lemmus) across the Eurasian Arctic using a multivariate approach. The work is based on samples obtained from populations in 11 sites during one field season in the summer of 1994 on the Swedish-Russian Tundra Ecology -94 expedition. Morphometric relationships of Palaearctic lemmings based on cranial variables were examined by multiple discriminate function analysis. The results show that all the studied populations form 4 groups: 2 island groups (New Siberian Islands and Wrangel Island) and 2 mainland groups, designated conventionally as western and eastern with the boundary along the Lena River. Morphometric groupings correspond well to the results of mtDNA variation analyses carried out on the same material by V. Fedorov and colleagues at the Department of Genetics, University of Uppsala, Sweden. The distances between the groups obtained with different methods differ notably. Some of the groups distinguished in both analyses are consistent with the current Lemmus taxonomy, whereas distinction between the western and eastern mainland groups revealed both by genetic and morphologic methods till now have not been taken into account. The data from the present study provide a sound basis for the reestablishment of the subspecies L. sibiricus bungei Vinogr., 1925, in the Arctic mainland tundra. This subspecies had previously been defined from insufficient material and was, therefore, not recognized in subsequent studies. The distribution range of L. s. bungei covers tundra from the eastern shore of the Lena River up to the western shore of the Kolyma River. The range of the nominal subspecies L. s. sibiricus should, therefore, be regarded as including the tundra east of the White Sea up to the Lena River.
4312158|Biological control of forest insects has played a modest role in Sweden. The economically most important species belong to ecological groups which are controlled mainly by silvicultural and related methods. The possibilities of microbiological control and of biotechnical methods such as the use of olfactory stimuli are insufficiently explored. These methods are considered to be of potential use, mainly against needle-feeding larvae and requisite-governed insect species.
4313907|Administrative Region II in the north of Chile is rich in minerals and natural salts. It is an extremely arid region with very limited water resources. The nature of the soil and the Andes mountains' volcanic sediment, is responsible for the high salt, boron and arsenic content in natural water. Under these conditions, only salts and boron-resistant native crops and vegetables can be cultivated in the region. Drinking water for urban areas is being treated to remove the high arsenic content and the raw wastewater is being discharged to the Pacific Ocean or to the desert plain. The limited water availability for urban and industrial expansion and the exposure risk to arsenic requires a multidisciplinary approach to implement successful water-related programs. Accordingly, a general overview of the existing water resources and its chemical quality, wastewater recycling procedures and a framework for an adequate implementation program in the north of Chile is presented.
4314076|In 1989, a research program was initiated in Sweden to study the ecological risks following release of transgenic organisms. This paper presents a strategy for ecological risk assessment of genetically modified microorganisms (GMMs) and current information concerning the regulation of GMMs released into the environment. The ecotoxicological evaluation of pesticides as a regulatory model is discussed. GMMs are capable of growth, proliferation and, potentially, gene transfer and therefore require additional regulatory considerations. Ecological risk assessment of GMM requires: i) biology of the organism; ii) nature of the genetic modification; iii) fate of the organism in the environment; iv) fate of the modified genome in the environment; v) potential environmental impact; and vi. potential effect on nontarget organisms. To obtain the necessary data for risk assessment, tests are needed that increase in complexity in a stepwise manner from controlled laboratory tests to small-scale field trials. These tests require efficient detection methods and adequate model systems.
4312824|The Amboseli ecosystem in Southern Kenya typifies the problems of conserving communities of large migratory mammals in Africa. The local pastoral herdsmen exerted increasing pressures on wildlife because they contributed nothing to their own economy, even though the value of wildlife nationally through tourism was considerable. A 15-year program is described which attempts to create an integrated use of the ecosystem by including the Maasai landowners in the benefits from the national park, thereby justifying to them the continued migrations of wild animals across park boundaries.
40801585|Planet Earth has experienced repeated changes of its climate throughout time. Periods warmer than today as well as much colder, during glacial episodes, have alternated. In our time, rapid population growth with increased demand for natural resources and energy, has made society increasingly vulnerable to environmental changes, both natural and those caused by man; human activity is clearly affecting the radiation balance of the Earth. In the session "Climate Change and Mitigation" the speakers offered four different views on coal and CO : the basis for life, but also a major hazard with impact on Earth's climate. A common denominator in the presentations was that more than ever science and technology is required. We need not only understand the mechanisms for climate change and climate variability, we also need to identify means to remedy the anthropogenic influence on Earth's climate.
4315489| The physical state of the Baltic Sea in possible future climates is approached by numerical model experiments with a regional coupled ocean-atmosphere model driven by different global simulations. Scenarios and recent climate simulations are compared to estimate changes. The sea surface is clearly warmer by 2.9C in the ensemble mean. The horizontal pattern of average annual mean warming can largely be explained in terms of ice-cover reduction. The transfer of heat from the atmosphere to the Baltic Sea shows a changed seasonal cycle: a reduced heat loss in fall, increased heat uptake in spring, and reduced heat uptake in summer. The interannual variability of surface temperature is generally increased. This is associated with a smoothed frequency distribution in northern basins. The overall heat budget shows increased solar radiation to the sea surface, which is balanced by changes of the other heat flux components. 
4313417|Development projects that aim to increase the numbers of trees for wood energy must first acquire a solid understanding of the quantity, form, and function of existing stocks of woody biomass. The author describes the methods and results of a survey undertaken in Kenya to assess wood stocks on individual farms, and on the basis of certain consumption assumptions, attempts to define the level of domestic woodfuel shortages.
4314636|A major challenge in the restoration of the ecological balance of the Baltic Sea is the successful development and implementation of environmental management measures for the diverse and dynamic agricultural sector and rural settlements. This challenge exists throughout the Baltic Sea region; both the countries in economic transition and traditional market economies are involved with significant changes in the structure of agriculture, with associated impacts on rural settlements. This process will be become more complex with the continued economic recovery of countries which have undertaken economic restructuring and anticipated expansion of membership in the European Union. Addressing these concerns is a long-term process which involves support for policy, financial, technical and educational interventions. Success could be accelerated by promoting regional partnerships, sharing experience, and regular assessment of performance. Adoption of participatory approaches which directly involve agricultural interests and rural communities is an important element of this process. Agriculturists and rural communities should be viewed as critical partners in environmental management and actively engaged in a program of actions cooperatively developed for their specific conditions.
4312236|Groundwater resources could meet the total water demand of the world for a long period, but the consumption of stored groundwater would cause serious environmental changes. It is necessary, therefore, to study the natural recharge of the soil moisture as well as the shallow and deep groundwaters. The principles governing the combined use of surface waters and groundwaters, the rational application of artificial recharge, and the harmonization of quantitative and qualitative management activities in groundwater basins can be determined by investigating the hydrological processes influencing the regime of groundwaters.
4312225|While human health impairment has been attributed to pollution by sulfur dioxide ( SO
4313910|Acidification of Swedish forest soils on glacial till was investigated along three transects representing southern, central and northern Sweden. The acidification follows closely the pattern of acid deposition over Sweden. In the southwest, acidification from acid deposition could be traced well below 2 m depth in the soil while the east coast is less affected. In northern Sweden acid deposition has no noticeable effect on soil acidification. The acidification has decreased the soil storage of base cations in central and southern Sweden. Adsorption of sulfate in the soils is considerable in many parts of the country and has reached saturation state in the west coast area. Even if deposition of acidity is halted several decades are needed before base cations can be restored to normal levels.
4315603|Producing an adequate quantity of healthy food without polluting the environment is a serious challenge for future agriculture around the world. The Food 21 research program in Sweden has researched all aspects-economic, environmental, and social-of sustainable farming systems. This paper presents some of the research from that and other relevant international research programs that have focused on better nutrient-use efficiency, especially for nitrogen and phosphorus. It shows that a range of sustainable solutions to nutrient-use efficiency exists, some of which are complex but some very simple. Government policies, including subsidies; research and technology; and public acceptance of farming practices all combine to create these solutions. Participatory approaches to knowledge transfer are needed, in which scientists, policy makers, farmers, advisers, and consumers exchange information and together build sustainable farming systems.
4315546|Deposits of lacustrine calcite are important records of environmental changes. In order to interpret these archives, knowledge about the origin of the calcite is essential. It has been accepted that calcite precipitation can be induced by bacteria and algae. However, the detailed mechanisms are still unclear. This review summarizes what is known about the interactions between calcite precipitation and the autotrophic picoplankton. We consider findings from both field and laboratory studies. Field studies show that calcite precipitation in oligotrophic lakes is strongly linked with piocyanobacteria blooms. Laboratory experiments led to the formulation of the mechanism of precipitation induced by microalga. Experiments also showed that precipitation induced by picocyanobacteria is influenced by various factors including the uptake of inorganic carbon and the structure of the cell walls. Recent studies indicate that the influence of environmental conditions like the composition of lake water has to be taken into account as well. We conclude that in situ observations of precipitation processes at picoplankton cells under controlled conditions are needed to improve our understanding of mineral bacteria interaction.
4315574|Eutrophication in the coastal waters of the northern part of the Swedish west coast is causing structural and functional changes to the coastal ecosystems. Large-scale mussel farming is proposed in the Program of Measures, required by the EU Water Framework Directive to reduce the nutrients in the coastal water and improve water quality over a transition period of 10-20 years. Ownership, land parcelling, conflicts of interest, and the protection of coastal water are obstructing accessibility to suitable water areas for the establishment of mussel farming plants. This paper studies the obstacles and possibilities in the relevant laws and legal regulations governing the accessibility to coastal waters for large-scale mussel farming. Alternative ways to solve the problem are shown and discussed, within the framework of the Planning and Building Act, the Environmental Code and the laws concerning land-parceling and property. It is shown that the Planning and Building Act, when used in a proper manner, can provide useful instruments for society to gain access to coastal water for mussel farming plants with the purpose of improving the ecological status of the water.
4315434| Mountainous vegetation in general, and especially in subpolar regions, is sensitive, compared to vegetation in lowland areas, as mountainous vegetation has low resilience and low productivity. Mountainous areas have been perceived as being sensitive to mechanical damage. Quick methods with a high degree of accuracy are needed for the monitoring of mountainous areas and for planning the sustainable use of resources. The aim was i) to investigate if the dry dwarf shrub heath on hummocky moraine in the southern part of the mountains with a maritime climate and in open areas used for summer grazing, is susceptible to change; and ii) to test if high-resolution IKONOS-2 satellite data can, with a high degree of accuracy, be used for detection, and for quantification and mapping of erosion patches in montane vegetation. In which case, these data can substitute color infrared aerial photos for the early detection of changes. For the detection of changes, visual interpretations on high-quality printouts of IKONOS-2 satellite images from 2000 and of color infrared aerial photographs from 1975 were carried out and the results compared. Interpretations were verified in the field. The results show that for the period 1975-2000, erosion was in process on and around wind heaths, indicating that the wind heath and surrounding dry dwarf shrub heath in this landscape type of hummocky moraine are sensitive to mechanical damage by trampling and grazing, and thus susceptible to change. Most of the wind heaths and changes found were small (50-1000 m
4315077|Recent interest in the valuation of ecosystem services has provided tools for assessing the costs of invasive species in natural areas. This study evaluates the economic impacts of tamarisk (Tamarix sp.), an invasive woody shrub, on societally-valued ecosystem services in its naturalized range. Tamarisk, intentionally introduced from Eurasia, has invaded most riparian areas of the arid and semiarid western United States. In its naturalized range, tamarisk consumes more water than native vegetation, with significant economic implications in a region marked by water scarcity. Tamarisk also increases sedimentation in river channels, leading to increased frequency and severity of flood damage. Conservative economic estimates of these impacts indicate that the annual costs of tamarisk to the western United States total USD 280-450 ha
4314684|Sampling in a soil monitoring plot should be representative, unbiased and allow for successive destruction of the plot. Kriging requires large numbers of samples to estimate the variogram and to satisfactorily cover the area. A sampling design that, at least partially, satisfies all these demands was tested in a soil monitoring plot in a coniferous forest in southern Sweden. Supplementary transect and nested samplings were carried out in the surroundings of the monitoring plot. Spatial scales of tree-dependent patterns in the intact forest stand were determined. Variables related to pollution had autocorrelation ranges of 1-3 m and variables related to organic material had ranges of 2.6-8 m. Block kriging was based on grid sampling in the plot at different times. The outcome for mor layer thickness and mercury content was tested by correlations to measured data and validated using independent data sets. Between 1983 and 1996 a large number of windthrows occurred in parts of the soil plot. Kriging on data from 1995-1996 resulted in good prediction for sections unaffected by fallen trees, but not for affected sections. Measured values of mor layer thickness in unaffected sections could be predicted as far back as 1982-1985. The prediction power was regarded as an indicator of change.
24708816|To implement policies about sustainable landscapes and rural development necessitates social learning about states and trends of sustainability indicators, norms that define sustainability, and adaptive multi-level governance. We evaluate the extent to which social learning at multiple governance levels for sustainable landscapes occur in 18 local development initiatives in the network of Sustainable Bergslagen in Sweden. We mapped activities over time, and interviewed key actors in the network about social learning. While activities resulted in exchange of experiences and some local solutions, a major challenge was to secure systematic social learning and make new knowledge explicit at multiple levels. None of the development initiatives used a systematic approach to secure social learning, and sustainability assessments were not made systematically. We discuss how social learning can be improved, and how a learning network of development initiatives could be realized.
24708809|Barriers and bridges to implement policies about sustainable development and sustainability commonly depend on the past development of socialecological systems. Production of metals required integration of use of ore, streams for energy, and wood for bioenergy and construction, as well as of multiple societal actors. Focusing on the Swedish Bergslagen region as a case study we (1) describe the phases of natural resource use triggered by metallurgy, (2) the location and spatial extent of 22 definitions of Bergslagen divided into four zones as a proxy of cumulative pressure on landscapes, and (3) analyze the consequences for natural capital and society. We found clear gradients in industrial activity, stream alteration, and amount of natural forest from the core to the periphery of Bergslagen. Additionally, the legacy of top-down governance is linked to today's poorly diversified business sector and thus municipal vulnerability. Comparing the Bergslagen case study with other similar regions in Russia and Germany, we discuss the usefulness of multiple case studies.
4314223|Over the last decade carbonaceous particles derived from high temperature fossil-fuel combustion have been used to assess the temporal and spatial distribution of industrial atmospheric pollutants in both freshwater and terrestrial environments in Europe and the USA. None of these studies, however, clearly relates the particles found to individual fuel types. Here we use energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) to determine the surface chemistries of particles from fossil-fuel reference material, and use multivariate statistical techniques to derive a coal/oil particle separation with > 92% correct allocation. Particles from peat combustion are also included to show possible extensions of the technique to other fuel types. The results of applying this technique to a sediment core taken from a lake in North London correlate well with known history of coal and oil combustion. The potential exists to apply the technique to other fuel types such as brown coals and lignites.
4313096|Placental transfer rate of 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl was compared with the placental transfer rate of diethylhexylphthalate by means of a placental perfusion technique, using guinea pigs. It was found that the placental transfer rate of the chlorobiphenyl was faster than that of the phthalate. The placental transfer of the chlorobiphenyl was dependent on blood flow on the fetal side while that of the phthalate was independent of fetal blood flow. It was also found that the concentration of the chlorobiphenyl in plasma obtained from the fetal side of the placenta was higher than that in plasma obtained from the maternal side of the placenta.
4312980|Macrofungi producing fruiting bodies in the field and microfungal isolates were studied in a Cu and Zn polluted area around a smelter at Gusum, in southeastern Sweden. The number of macrofungal species decreased from about 35 in non-contaminated soil to less than 15 near the mill. Few species appeared tolerant to the pollution -only Laccaria laccata was found more frequently in areas with high metal content than in control areas. The number of microfungal species isolated was little affected by the pollution. The species composition was, however, drastically altered.
25547938|The Predatory Bird Monitoring Scheme (PBMS) is a long term (>40 y), UK-wide, exposure monitoring scheme that determines the concentration of selected pesticides and pollutants in the livers and eggs of predatory birds. This paper describes how the PBMS works, and in particular highlights some of the key scientific and policy drivers for monitoring contaminants in predatory birds and describes the specific aims, scope, and methods of the PBMS. We also present previously unpublished data that illustrates how the PBMS has been used to demonstrate the success of mitigation measures in reversing chemical-mediated impacts; identify and evaluate chemical threats to species of high conservation value; and finally to inform and refine monitoring methodologies. In addition, we discuss how such schemes can also address wider conservation needs.
4313473|Forests are among the most complex ecosystems in the biosphere and play a significant role in the maintenance of a healthy human environment. The causes of damage in conifers and coniferous forests have been extensively investigated, while studies on a new type of decay found in deciduous trees are still limited. Internationally, a great variety of hypotheses have evolved to explain the causes of forest decay. An ecological approach focuses on identifying the primary effects relating to tolerance signs in the trees themselves. Based on the results of Hungarian studies the author presents the effective factors that are probably involved in the long-term decay of the sessile oak. Soil acidification induced by air pollutants and the disappearance of mycorrhiza fungi, that promotes water and nutrient absorption, have been considered and identified as primary causes of deciduous forest decay.
4314157|A policy for a particular area of society provides a framework for action based on factual information and value judgements. The knowledge base derived from scientific understanding is one important component in this context. It is essential for scientists to recognize and communicate clearly, and as objectively as possible, the limitations of the information provided. In this way a truly broad spectrum of scientists in the field will be represented and a mutual and respectful relation between scientists and decision makers can develop. The scientist serving in a position of science advisor must acquire insight into other aspects of the problem under consideration in order to provide the decision maker with the most essential information. He/she must recognize, not necessarily accept, political or other constraints under which a decision maker is acting. At the international level, it is necessary to understand the different value systems that prevail in different cultures and which markedly influence the views that are being held. These issues are discussed in the context of the political response to advances in our scientific understanding of climate change.
4313415|Health effects of trace elements are being increasingly recognized. For a number of elements, incidences of trace element deficiencies and excesses in human populations are only just emerging. Evidence is accumulating that populations at high altitudes are prone to develop essential-element deficiencies, e.g. iodine and selenium. These problems warrant skilfully conceived multidisciplinary approaches if future investigations are to elucidate the diverse interrelationships between the geochemical environment, anthropogenic pollution and nutritional and metabolic factors (including effects of high altitude physiology) that are related to trace elements and their profound impact on human and animal health. Efforts to identify the environmental pathways and to ensure continuous monitoring of various geographical areas for several chemical elements are of direct relevance to public health problems.
4314053|Conserving biodiversity is regarded one of the major issues for enabling sustainable use of natural resources. This paper, focusing on the Baltic Sea and Sweden's fisheries, emphasizes the value of preserving biodiversity for the maintenance of diverse, resilient and functioning ecological life-support systems. These constitute a fundamental and necessary base for all human activities. The major features of diversity: species diversity, genetic diversity, functional diversity and spatial and temporal diversity and diversity changes in the Baltic Sea ecosystem are described and discussed together with the development of management approaches in Sweden's fisheries. The paper takes a systems perspective, focusing on the linkages between ecological and economic systems. Biodiversity is seen as an interdependent part of a cluster of diversities in the human socitety and in the ecological system. The need for broader integrated approaches enhancing diversity in resource-management systems are emphasized.
4315617|In environmental systems analysis of food production systems, the consumer phase (home transport, cooking, storing, and wastage) is an important contributor to the total life-cycle environmental impact. However, households are the least investigated part of the food chain. Information gathering about households involves difficulties; the number of households is large, and food-related activities are embedded in other household activities. In cooperation between researchers from environmental systems analysis and consumer research, Swedish households were surveyed by questionnaire, diary, and interviews. Data on home transport of food and wastage were collected. The average weekly driving distance was 28 to 63 km per household, depending on how trips made in conjunction with other errands are allocated. The wastage of prepared food ranged between 0 and 34% for different food categories, and wastage from storing between 0 and 164% (more food was discarded, e.g. by cleaning out a cupboard, than consumed). In both cases dairy products scored highest.
4315029|Comparative temporal trend studies of DDT and PCB on the Baltic pollution, using matrices from Baltic biota and dated lamina from sediment cores in anoxic sediment areas of the Baltic (no bioturbation) have been carried out. Chemical analyses of consecutive laminas of the cores representing individual years were compared to long-term temporal trend monitoring of Baltic biota based on annual sampling and analyses. Earlier studies of sediment cores from the Baltic have often indicated increasing concentrations of halogenated organic compounds in recent time whereas monitoring of Baltic biota showed decreasing concentrations from the 1970s and onwards. In the present study two sediment cores from the northwestern Baltic proper indicate a concentration (dry weight basis) peak in the same time period as for biota, but the decrease during recent decades is slower than for biota. In lamina representing the period 1940-1950 remarkably high concentrations of both PCB and DDT were found. Interestingly also a high proportion of nonmetabolized DDT was found in these old lamina, whereas lamina representing 1960-1970 showed a low portion of nonmetabolized DDT and high portions of the metabolites DDE and DDD during the period 1970-1998. The results are discussed in relation to resuspension of sediments, diffusion and interstitial transport of halogenated organic compounds in the sediment cores. The results indicate the importance of resuspension of sediment and that carbon normalized data are inappropriate for interpretation of temporal trends. The results also show that we have no appropriate model to interpret the pollution of the Baltic by halogenated organic compounds, retrospectively, by using lamina from anoxic sediment cores, but that we urgently need more knowledge on the important retention mechanisms in sediment.
4314175|A common strategy to conserve tropical forests and their biological and cultural diversity is increasingly being implemented by environmental and cultural survival organizations. Sustainable commercialization of renewable forest products is becoming a crux of this strategy, as forests must pay for their conservation. Indigenous peoples living in tropical forests have been trading many commodities for centuries, and there is potential for new and increased markets. What are some of these products?
4315665|Surface sediment samples were collected from five stations along the Jordanian coast of the Gulf of Aqaba, Red Sea, during October and November over 2 years, 2000 and 2001. The monthly sedimentation rate also was estimated for the same stations. Collected sediments were analyzed for color, odor, redox potential, grain size, organic carbon, organic nitrogen, calcium carbonate, and total phosphorus. The Hotels area at the northernmost tip of the Gulf of Aqaba, characterized by sandy beaches and sea grass bottom habitat, exhibited the lowest values for redox potential and was associated with a black color. The Phosphate Port area exhibited the highest sedimentation rate, finest grain size, highest organic carbon content, and highest total phosphorus concentration. This is a deposition habitat that receives phosphate particles lost during shipment. The Marine Science Station and the Tourist Camp, typical coral reef habitats, had the highest calcium carbonate and organic nitrogen concentrations. This is directly attributed to the nature of the bottom habitat. Calcium carbonate deposits result from the erosion of hard corals, and organic nitrogen accumulates due to the rapid consumption and recycling of plankton in the coral reef framework. Comparison of the current records with old records from the 1970s and early 1980s indicates significant improvement in the environmental quality at the Phosphate Port. Tracking the coastal management practices over time shows that these improvements in the environmental quality can be attributed both to the zero discharge policy Jordan has followed since 1986 and to improvements in the phosphate handling system by the Ports Corporation
25515840|Agricultural ecosystems produce food, fiber, and non-marketed ecosystem services (ES). Agriculture also typically involves high negative external costs associated with, for example, fossil fuel use. We estimated, via field-scale ecological monitoring and economic value-transfer methods, the market and nonmarket ES value of a combined food and energy (CFE) agro-ecosystem that simultaneously produces food, fodder, and bioenergy. Such novel CFE agro-ecosystems can provide a significantly increased net crop, energy, and nonmarketed ES compared with conventional agriculture, and require markedly less fossil-based inputs. Extrapolated to the European scale, the value of nonmarket ES from the CFE system exceeds current European farm subsidy payments. Such integrated food and bioenergy systems can thus provide environmental value for money for European Union farming and nonfarming communities.
40390251|The effects of clear-cutting on stream-water chemistry in northern Sweden remain largely unexplored. Here we report data collected during a reference period and the first two years after logging in two typical partially harvested northern catchments; the objective was to compare water chemistry along the stream with and without a forest buffer. Two typical uncut reference catchments are included for comparison. Runoff was measured at the outlet of each catchment, and water samples were generally taken every second week and analyzed for 20 constituents. Logging resulted in increased runoff and increased concentrations of sodium, potassium, chloride, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, and suspended material from both catchments. Nitrate ( <tex-math>$No_3 ^ - $</tex-math> ) leaching increased only from the catchment without a forest buffer. It has not yet been possible to evaluate fully the effects of the forest buffer on the <tex-math>$No_3 ^ - $</tex-math> leaching because the uphill clear-cut area leached minimal amounts of <tex-math>$No_3 ^ - $</tex-math> .
25515811|Forestry as an important industry has both direct as well as indirect effects on the Estonian economy. It is therefore essential that it is sustainably managed so that it can continue to contribute to the economy in the future. The first aim of this article is to establish the situation regarding felling and regeneration in Estonia. As the available forestry statistics display discrepancies and lack consistency, it was as a necessary first step to gather information about and analyze the validity and reliability of the prime data to make the data sets useful for comparison over time and establish the current trends in Estonian forestry. However, with the help of interviews we are able to show that economic instability in Estonia brings with it increased logging rates and hinders investments into regeneration and maintenance. The problems are particularly pronounced in private forestry. Second, the article seeks to explain the socioeconomic reasons behind this situation. Economic problems among private owners, a liberal forestry policy, together with rapid land reform and weak enforcement of forestry legislation are some of the reasons that can explain the forestry trends in Estonia.
4313619|Nuclear winter science has progressed significantly since 1982, 1983 when Crutzen and Birks (1) and Turco et al. (TTAPS) (2) identified and warned of potentially severe and long-lasting climatic damage from a global exchange. The report of the Secretary-General to the United Nations General Assembly (3) summarizes the technology advances that today allow a more rigorous appreciation of the totality of consequences of a nuclear war. The progress is impressive, and with further evolution of the science, significant improvement in the assessment capability is on the horizon. Although it is now apparent that the atmosphere can be damaged-and badly for massive attacks-there remain technical issues not yet fully resolved. The consequences may be either more moderate or more severe than now projected. Both progress and unresolved issues are outlined. The smoke quantity depends strongly on the areas targeted, urban geography, building construction and contents, and in the case of wildland fires, on vegetation, season, and weather. Smoke attributes such as emission factors and optical properties vary with burning conditions, which can span a wide range, but they depend largely on the particular fuel or material which can be identified. Smoke injection altitudes depend on the atmospheric structure, which is highly variable, but the injection depends more on the fire behavior and fuel loading, which can be determined. The smoke source function is derived by adding fuel inventory, smoke emissions, and smoke injections for thousands of target areas. Results of such analyses are illustrated for an attack against the United States. The methodology is general and can be applied to construct source functions for other combatant countries.
4313374|Environmental pollution in China is mainly caused by the rapid increase in population growth and by industrial development without simultaneous control measures. Since 1978, overall strategy has been to stimulate resource utilization in coordination with technological reform for industries, control of coal-originated pollution in coordination with energy conservation measures for air pollution, and promotion of water conservation and reuse. Strengthening environmental management has also been acknowledged as a powerful measure for pollution control.
4313133|Examination of forest cover using air photographs and land-use maps indicates that in 1978 only 16 of Haiti's 30 watersheds still had forested areas. With current trends, by 1990 one-half of these basins will be completely denuded of forests; by 2010 only two river basins will have forests within their limits. One direct effect of this ongoing deforestation in the upper catchment areas is apparently lower river flows during the drier periods. This decreases the potential lands that can be irrigated, and hence reduces potential agricultural production.
4314437|In this paper we trace how Gaborone has grown from a very small village to the capital city of Botswana in a period of less than 30 years. Attention has been given to how careful design of master plan concepts has shaped the city and responded to the needs and aspirations of the residents. Through appropriate and enabling urban-development policies, standards and codes, a very amenable environment has been created. The city can boast of adequate and modern civic and commercial centers; modern functional infrastructure including water, electricity, roads and sewage systems; access to land for virtually all people; adequate housing provided by both the public and the private sectors and for the low income, the adoption of a very successful program of squatter upgrading and self-help housing. Through careful management and development control practices, city growth has been contained quite well in spite of rapid development and the future of the city looks quite bright.
4313523| The Arctic and Antarctic are recognized to be vital components in shaping global climate and are likely to respond significantly to future climate change. This paper discusses the impacts, on the polar regions, of contemporary influences on climate including global phenomena such as the greenhouse effect, solar variations and stratospheric aerosols, as well as regional or hemispheric influences such as tropospheric aerosols, alteration of surface characteristics and release of waste heat. The effects that these would have on the physical and biological environments of the Arctic and Antarctic as well as on socioeconomic activities are included. Under an anticipated warming scenario involving a global annual mean surface temperature increase of 1.5 to 4.5C before the middle of the next century, the polar regions are expected to experience a winter warming 2 to 2.4 times greater than the global annual average and a summer warming of 0.5 to 0.7 times that average. Significant changes in sea-ice extent and thickness, in land-ice mass and in the permafrost regime are expected and gradual adjustment of vegetation and wildlife patterns will take place. Present assumptions, methodologies and policies relating to energy, transportation, agriculture, human settlement, air pollution, and security and sovereignty will all require reassessment as a consequence. 
41417385|The EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) demonstrated the ability to design and launch a large-scale trading system in a short period of time. The path from initial reticence about emissions trading to implementation of the world's largest program is an important history. Three issues play a large role in the evaluation of the program to date and its on-going development: allocation plans, cost uncertainty, and leakage of emissions to abroad. Decisions in Phase I and II (20052012) were responsive to questions of political feasibility and implementation, but some of these decisions including allocation in particular will be substantially revised in Phase III (20132020).
4313569|Point source emission from industrial production processes has been the major focus of environmental concern in the past. In this article it is argued that the accumulating amount of goods/products in society should also be focused on in the future. From these goods substances will sooner or later be leached out to the environment. A case study using chromium in Sweden is presented in this paper as one example of a substance that may accumulate in the environment. Total flows of chromium for the 20th century, based on trade statistics, production of goods and persistence of products in the environment are estimated. It was found that yearly consumption emissions are higher than the production emissions, i.e. point source emissions from different industries.
4312388|The toxicity of Rhine water to rainbow trout has been established by long-term experiments. This is related to the several uses of Rhine water, especially for the preparation of drinking water. Specific toxic effects point to pollution of the riverwater by toxic substances. Sources and qualities of a number of toxic substances are given. The authors deal with List I of toxic substances as outlined in the Rhine Chemicals Treaty.
4314745| The pressure on the ecosystems of the mountains of northern Sweden has increased over the last hundred years as a result of, e.g., hydropower and infrastructure development, mining and tourism. This paper discusses the impacts of a road project between Kiruna and Riksgrnsen, in a sensitive mountain area in northernmost Sweden. The study has a holistic and dynamic approach including components from bio-, earth- and social sciences. The project was carried out in three stages; the first covering the construction period between 1978-1984, the second 1985-1989, and the third from 1990-1997 which describes the long-term impact after the opening of the road. The studies include monitoring of the water environment, vegetation changes, air pollution, wear, outdoor recreation, economic development, land-use changes, etc. The main results show that environmental impact decreased rapidly after the period of road construction. On the other hand, human activities were not greatly affected during the construction phase, but after the road was opened the number of visitors to the area increased for a few years. We also observed increased secondary effects, such as land-use changes and new construction stimulated by the opening of the road. 
4315394|In this paper, the processes that affect mercury (Hg) cycling in the Amazonian environment were reviewed, criticized and new directions of research are proposed. The discussion of the origin of the mercury contamination, whether natural or anthropogenic is marked by a lack of fundamented arguments from both sides. Undoubtedly mercury inputs from gold mining have locally increased environmental concentrations, but in the whole Amazon, these loads would be insignificant, considering the high concentrations observed by some authors in remote soils. A reasonable process that should explain these elevated concentrations in soil is that B horizons function as a mercury "sponge" that have been accumulating mercury over a geological time scale, releasing it back to cycling during erosion and forest fires. The environmental degradation of the Amazonian forest due to human activities is probably enhancing the release of that mercury to the cycle. Mercury transformations in reduced, anoxic environments-sediments and waters-are also a key problem for the understanding of the environmental methylation. The studies that have been carried out in the Amazonian environment are too restricted and results permit only circumstantial conclusions. Large efforts must be directed to monitoring programs considering time and space variability.
4315514|After the break-up of the Soviet system, the divergence in forest management among Soviet republics became obvious. While the forest sectors of the Baltic States have been fundamentally changed, Russia has not been able to develop an institutional framework that would fit the prerequisites for social-ecological resilience. It is argued that sustainable development requires institutional frameworks that have the capacity to adapt and learn, and thus to treat policies as experiments that are constantly assessed and readjusted. This, however, requires a participatory approach and in this respect the Baltic States are believed to be on a more promising track. Finally, it is concluded that only to the extent that suitable institutional frameworks will be developed will social-ecological resilience be a significant feature of the natural resources management in the former communist countries.
4315261|Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia, is a prototype of an island economy prone to economic crowding. Average family size is large, the habitable land area is small, economic activity is limited, and household dependence on natural resources for fuel and food is high. We analyze how economic crowding-and its mitigation through trade and migration policies-affects mangrove resource use. A comparison of household survey data from 1996 and 2000 indicates that despite decreases in US aid and public-sector jobs, average household consumption of mangrove resources has not increased. Migration and remittances have allowed the purchase of imported fuel and building materials substituting for mangrove wood. Despite changing preferences and shifts toward import consumption, population growth and further declines in US financial support will likely cause aggregate demand for mangrove and upland wood to rise. Moreover, continued emigration may accelerate the export of mangrove crabs to off-island Kosraeans.
41417268|The spatial and temporal repercussions of climate change are of an extremely complex nature. Coping with climate change is, first and foremost, a challenge to political decision making and, considering the long-term effects of the climate system, to planning. However, there have never been more doubts that the political-administrative system is able to meet these requirements. Although much evidence has been put forward in favor of such skepticism, sometimes, it is dangerous to overstate the existing limits. Drawing on two case studies in the area of flood risk management in Germany, the article illustrates how and why significant path change came about. In both cases, the state proved to still being a pivotal actor, due to a number of functions that cannot be assumed by other actors. However, other actor groupssuch as actors from science, the media, NGOs, and citizen groupsplay a significant role as well by providing relevant expertise and influencing the public discourse, thus mobilizing significant political pressure.
4315593|The last century's environmental pollution has created health problems, acidification of ground and lakes, and serious damage to our cultural heritage. Outdoor monuments suffer from this pollution, but so do buried archaeological remains. However, research on the deterioration of archaeological artifacts underground has so far been limited, and it is important to draw attention to this neglected field. This article presents results obtained at the Swedish National Heritage Board on the degradation of archaeological objects of bronze and iron and of bones from prehistoric graves, materials of which seem to be most affected by pollutants. The investigation methods, which were employed, are described. Other relevant studies are briefly reviewed. It is obvious that the deterioration rate of archaeological artifacts, especially of inorganic materials, has accelerated in recent years, and that this increased deterioration to a large part can be attributed to anthropogenic pollution. Regions that might be endangered are exemplified.
4314447|Reports of tropical deforestation indicate that it occurs in diverse circumstances which obscure underlying patterns of causation. Cross-national statistical analyses do not reveal these patterns because they can not investigate how causal factors interact with each other in specific contexts. Under these circumstances a qualitative comparative study of tropical deforestation might be useful. Drawing on qualitative sources, we classify countries with tropical forests on a series of attributes. Using Boolean algebra, we look for cross-national similarities in processes of deforestation, creating sets of countries with similar processes. This analysis points to the importance of interior locations in Africa and South America for forest preservation, suggests that the retreat of small, remnant forests into rugged topography has not slowed deforestation, and indicates that stronger forest-protection policies may have reduced deforestation. A regional analysis finds distinct patterns of tropical deforestation in Asia, East Africa, West Africa, Central America/Caribbean, and South America. The West African and Central American patterns are quite similar. The policy implications of these findings are briefly considered.
4315385|The author describes present environmental conditions in Azerbaijan in relation to the Soviet legacy and measures taken since independence. Environmental projects have been financed largely by international organizations and foreign companies. The most serious problems are contaminants in the Caspian Sea; air, water, and soil pollution in Sumgait; illegal fishing; poor quality of drinking water; cutting of forests for fuel and pasture; overgrazing; and soil erosion and salinization. Progress in developing an environmental conscience, necessary for sustained protection of the environment, will depend most importantly on environmental education, growth of democratic institutions and attitudes that encourage both governmental and citizen responsibility for the environment, and economic development that produces a substantial middle class. Positive advances include a Constitution and laws that require protection of the environment, and individuals who speak out for environmental care. Negative factors include poverty and the present government's low priority for environmental protection.
4314925|The mountain ecosystems of Kenya include the Mount Kenya, Mount Elgon and Aberdare (Nyandarua) mountain ranges. These mountain areas have been recognized as important ecosystems with high social, spiritual, economic and environmental values. They are used as water catchments, forest reserves, national parks and agricultural land. Increasing population pressure on the natural resources of these ecosystems has led to environment and development challenges such as unsustainable utilization, conversion of forest to cropland, human-wildlife conflicts and highland-lowland resource-use conflicts. Several initiatives are involved in promoting sustainable management and conservation of these important ecosystems. The notable opportunities include changes in government policy to promote integrated and participatory interventions and existing partnerships in resource use and conservation.
4313750|Although the global production-ratio fish to meat approximates 0.6, the role of fish in many developing countries is more important than this ratio suggests. Since it is becoming more and more obvious that capture fishery resources are not unlimited, emphasis has been given to enhancement of aquaculture in order to close the increasing gap between demand for and supply of fish. Total international assistance to the aquacultural sector amounted to some 370 million USD over the period 1978-1984. Such an investment is only justified as "a means to an end" e.g. as a means to ultimately contribute to the autonomous growth of the industry. Against this background the role of aquacultural research is discussed. It is argued that aquacultural research should not only be production oriented, e.g. related to fish, to fish husbandry systems, and to fish-farming systems, but that research also should be resource oriented and take into account the market (purchasing power and consumer behavior), the socioeconomic feasibility and viability, as well as the adequacy of target groups as future producers. The major challenge to the researcher lies in contributing to the development of those aquacultural operations, which are socially acceptable, economically feasible, and which have a high scope for multiplication in the target area.
4312935|The instruments and methodology of an X-ray back-scatter method for non-destructive field measurement of eggshell quality are presented. The method was tested by field measurement of eggs of marsh harrier (Circus aeruginosus) and osprey (Pandion haliaetus). Eggshell quality, expressed as a calcium index, was determined individually for eggs in several clutches at two and three occasions during the breeding season. Variations during incubation are presented and to some extent discussed. The radiation doses are estimated to be harmless and negligible for both the eggs and the staff. The measurements did not hinder a successful breeding result.
4313895|This article applies the theory of resource allocation to rural households in poor countries to see what one may mean by a population problem. It is argued by an appeal to evidence that there is a serious population problem in these parts, and that it is related synergistically to poverty, and possibly also to an erosion of the local environmental resource base. The problem lies in that very high fertility rates are experienced by women bearing risks of death that should now be unacceptable. An argument is sketched to show how the cycle of poverty and high fertility rates can perpetuate within a dynasty. The one general policy conclusion which may be novel is that an integrated population policy in these parts would include standard measures for the alleviation of poverty, such as increased female education and outside-work opportunities, improved credit and savings markets, and a ready availability of basic household needs, such as water and fuel.
23322917|Phosphorus flows in Swedish agriculture and food chain were studied by material flow analysis. The system studied included agriculture, food consumption, related waste and wastewater from private households and municipal wastewater treatment plants. Swedish farmland had net annual phosphorus inputs of  12 600 metric tons (4.1 kg P ha -1 ) in 20082010. The total import of phosphorus in food and feed to Sweden exceed imports of phosphorus in fertilizers. Despite strict animal density regulations relating to manure phosphorus content, phosphorus is accumulating on Swedish animal farms. The total quantity of manure produced greatly exceeds imported mineral phosphorus fertilizer and almost equals total phosphorus inputs to Swedish farmland.
4315715|The permafrost regions occupy about 25% of the Northern Hemisphere's terrestrial surface, and more than 60% of that of Russia. Warming, thawing, and degradation of permafrost have been observed in many locations in recent decades and are likely to accelerate in the future as a result of climatic change. Changes of permafrost have important implications for natural systems, humans, and the economy of the northern lands. Results from mathematical modeling indicate that by the mid-21st century, near-surface permafrost in the Northern Hemisphere may shrink by 15%-30%, leading to complete thawing of the frozen ground in the upper few meters, while elsewhere the depth of seasonal thawing may increase on average by 15%-25%, and by 50% or more in the northernmost locations. Such changes may shift the balance between the uptake and release of carbon in tundra and facilitate emission of greenhouse gases from the carbon-rich Arctic wetlands. Serious public concerns are associated with the effects that thawing permafrost may have on the infrastructure constructed on it. Climate-induced changes of permafrost properties are potentially detrimental to almost all structures in northern lands, and may render many of them unusable. Degradation of permafrost and ground settlement due to thermokarst may lead to dramatic distortions of terrain and to changes in hydrology and vegetation, and may lead ultimately to transformation of existing landforms. Recent studies indicate that nonclimatic factors, such as changes in vegetation and hydrology, may largely govern the response of permafrost to global warming. More studies are needed to better understand and quantify the effects of multiple factors in the changing northern environment.
4314155|The World Climate Research Programme has the dual objectives of determining the extent of climate predictability and the influence of human activities on climate. To meet these objectives, the WCRP has instituted a set of research programs focusing on specific aspects of the physical climate system. Global climate models are at the core of the WCRP. Models provide a structural framework around which to organize research; they are used to identify knowledge gaps and to assimilate data: and they are used for prediction and simulation. Time scales of interest stretch from those of numerical weather prediction, through interannual variability to decadal climate change. As the time scale of interest expands we must include more and more components of the climate system. Physically-based global climate models will also be the framework upon which to build full global change models. Modelling and other research activities internationally coordinated by the WCRP have provided the basis for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) assessment of global warming and the proposed international centre for climate prediction research. A major thrust of the WCRP is to reduce the uncertainties in simulations of climatic response to increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases. There is need for a continuous interaction between the modelling community and those scientists studying the processes and data. Through international coordination and national contributions considerable progress has been made over the past decade and we anticipate similar success in the future.
41805975|In the future, the Baltic Sea ecosystem will be impacted both by climate change and by riverine and atmospheric nutrient inputs. Multi-model ensemble simulations comprising one IPCC scenario (AIB), two global climate models, two regional climate models, and three Baltic Sea ecosystem models were performed to elucidate the combined effect of climate change and changes in nutrient inputs. This study focuses on the occurrence of extreme events in the projected future climate. Results suggest that the number of days favoring cyanobacteria blooms could increase, anoxic events may become more frequent and last longer, and salinity may tend to decrease. Nutrient load reductions following the Baltic Sea Action Plan can reduce the deterioration of oxygen conditions.
41417290|The relationship of forests in water quantity and quality has been debated during the past years. At the same time, focus on climate change has increased interest in ecosystem restoration as a means for adaptation. Climate change might become one of the key drivers pushing integrated approaches for natural resources management into practice. The National Adaptation Programme of Action (NAPA) is an initiative agreed under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. An analysis was done to find out how widely ecosystem restoration and integrated approaches have been incorporated into NAPA priority adaptation projects. The data show that that the NAPAs can be seen as potentially important channel for operationalizing various integrated concepts. Key challenge is to implement the NAPA projects. The amount needed to implement the NAPA projects aiming at ecosystem restoration using integrated approaches presents only 0.7% of the money pledged in Copenhagen for climate change adaptation.
4315497|Northern Botswana and adjacent areas, have the world's largest population of African elephant (Loxodonta africana). However, a 100 years ago elephants were rare following excessive hunting. Simultaneously, ungulate populations were severely reduced by decease. The ecological effects of the reduction in large herbivores must have been substantial, but are little known. Today, however, ecosystem changes following the increase in elephant numbers cause considerable concern in Botswana. This was the background for the "BONIC" project, investigating the interactions between the increasing elephant population and other ecosystem components and processes. Results confirm that the ecosystem is changing following the increase in elephant and ungulate populations, and, presumably, developing towards a situation resembling that before the reduction of large herbivores. We see no ecological reasons to artificially change elephant numbers. There are, however, economic and social reasons to control elephants, and their range in northern Botswana may have to be artificially restricted.
4314248|The UN ECE Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution (LRTAP) has decided on reduction of transboundary air pollution in three protocols; one on sulphur, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), respectively. These protocols are not sufficient to solve the air-pollution problem in Europe. Further reductions and agreements are necessary to achieve sustainable ecosystems. In further negotiations, which should be based on critical loads, it is important to consider that the regional air-pollution problem consists of a complicated matrix of compounds and effects. Thus, control of one problem will influence other problems, and control of one compound will affect the transport and effects of others. This is certainly the case for nitrogen oxides ( NO
4315037|In 1993, a large-scale investigation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in Baltic Sea sediments was performed in cooperation between the Baltic states. sPCB (IUPAC # 52, 101, 118, 105, 153, 138, 180) in surficial sediments increased from north (mean 213 ng g-1 C) to south (mean 382 ng g-1 C), indicating atmospheric influence. In contrast to decreasing PCB trends in pelagic biota, the sPCB in dated sediment cores from the Baltic proper showed increased or constant concentrations during recent decades. Down-core congener patterns showed no changes during the 20th century. After re-calculation of sPCB deposition, assuming interannually variable dry matter deposition, the sPCB sediment deposition trend matches the observed sPCB concentration trend in Baltic biota although the reductions in recent decades are less for the sediments. A calculation of sediment burial of sPCB indicated that laminated Baltic proper sediments are efficient traps, and a mass balance showed that the sPCB retention time in the water mass is less than one year.
25094583|Recent environmental changes are having, and are expected to continue to have, significant impacts in the Arctic as elsewhere in the world. Detecting those changes and determining the mechanisms that cause them are far from trivial problems. The use of multiple methods of observation can increase confidence in individual observations, broaden the scope of information available about environmental change, and contribute to insights concerning mechanisms of change. In this paper, we examine the ways that using traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) together with scientific observations can achieve these objectives. A review of TEK observations in comparison with scientific observations demonstrates the promise of this approach, while also revealing several challenges to putting it into practice on a large scale. Further efforts are suggested, particularly in undertaking collaborative projects designed to produce parallel observations that can be readily compared and analyzed in greater detail than is possible in an opportunistic sample.
4314924|Mass movements are geomorphic processes affecting steeplands all over the world. Mass movement research is comprehensive, but has been concerned mainly with temperate and periglacial areas, while tropical steeplands are still inadequately covered. This paper summarizes research on mass movements carried out since the early 1990s in Nyandarua Range, Kenya and Uluguru Mountains, Tanzania. Research aspects include processes and causes, aspects of scar recovery, and effects on landscape morphology in a long-term perspective. It is argued that mass movement is the most common denuding agent in the highlands and that natural prerequisites for movement are ample, being of overruling importance in comparison to human-induced movement. Landforms imply that mass movement has been paramount in long-term landscape sculpturing. Recovery of landslide scars is surprisingly fast. In Uluguru Mountains, scars are brought back to agricultural production within about 20 years; in Nyandarua Range considerable physical and chemical recovery of scar topsoil has taken place within 10 years. Hence, land degradation by mass movement is of transient character.
4312655|The boreal forest or taiga covers approximately 70 percent of Sweden It has long been a major source of timber and firewood, and during the last 50 years, a source of pulpwood also. But current levels of exploitation may lead to shortages in the next 20 years, especially if the forest is developed as an alterantive source of energy. At the same time, soil fertility may decrease, particularly if acid depositions increase. This project is an integrated ecosystem study designed to provide data on fundamental processes which could be used to improve forest management. The project focuses on the dynamics of the plant biomass in relation to ecosystem cycles of energy, water, and minerals.
4312949|The mainland countries of the Region-Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, and Mozambique-though striving towards the collective goal of development, have approached it from very different paths. They are peopled by a staggering variety of ethnic groups and graced with some of the most spectacular scenery in the world. Despite a common heritage of colonialism and a wealth of human and natural resources, the Region remains politically unstable and economically weak. But through the collective action of the East African Regional Seas Program, these countries are attempting to cope with some of their most severe environmental problems.
25547928|Sixty-four percent of the 56 raptor and owl species that occur in Europe have an unfavorable conservation status. As well as requiring conservation measures in their own right, raptors and owls function as useful sentinels of wider environmental "health," because they are widespread top predators, relatively easy to monitor, and sensitive to environmental changes at a range of geographical scales. At a time of global acknowledgment of an increasing speed of biodiversity loss, and new, forward-looking and related European Union biodiversity policy, there is an urgent need to improve coordination at a pan-European scale of national initiatives that seek to monitor raptor populations. Here we describe current initiatives that make a contribution to this aim, particularly the current "MEROS" program, the results of a questionnaire survey on the current state of national raptor monitoring across 22 BirdLife Partners in Europe, the challenges faced by any enhanced pan-European monitoring scheme for raptors, and some suggested pathways for efficiently tapping expertise to contribute to such an initiative.
4313557|Human activities of many sorts are changing the chemical climate of Europe and North America. Some of these changes are known to increase the productivity of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems; but others induce stress that changes the condition of forest trees or alters the health, productivity, genetic structure, and/or the geographic distribution of forest ecosystems. Recent research to determine the effects of airborne nutrient, acidic, toxic, and growth-altering chemicals is leading to an improved understanding of how forests develop and how they respond to stresses imposed by airborne pollutant chemicals and other environmental perturbations. This paper provides an overview of past and contemporary changes in North America and Europe.
4314003| In order to assess abundance of ringed seals in the Bothnian Bay, strip surveys were carried out in April 1989 and April 1990 using small aircrafts. Total basking population in the Bothnian Bay was 2470  454 and 2497  367 in 1989 and 1990, respectively, and the population appears to have been stable at this level since 1975 despite limited hunting. Accuracies in surveys using system-atically placed transects are predicted at sample fractions of about 2-60%. Ringed-seal distribution varied significantly with type of ice and water depth. Total basking numbers were negatively affected by temperature corrected for wind chill. No diurnal rhythm could be detected between 08.00 hours and 18.00 hours. 
4313818|Using Ethiopia as an example, the present study has demonstrated that it is a combination of socio-economic factors which culminates in episodes of famine in a society dominated by subsistence production. The conditions and processes that have been seen to culminate in episodes of famine include: (a) the precarious condition of subsistence production that arises from its quasinatural foundation; (b) deforestation, over-grazing and other inappropriate land-use practices; (c) the aggravation of these processes by the increasing pressures of population in the face of a stagnant technology; (d) the susceptibility to drought of large areas that have been subjected to intensive exploitation; and (e) the marginalization of large numbers of subsistence producers by exploitative elements in so-called development activities. The main economic consequences of recurrent drought, crop failure and famine were found to be declines in agricultural production that led to increases in food imports, reductions in agriculturally based manufacturing activities and substantial declines in agricultural (and thus in total) exports. These negative impacts on the economy were clearly reflected in low, or even negative, growth rates in the gross domestic product; and also in reduced rates of domestic saving and investment. Moreover, the relief and rehabilitation operations made necessary by the famine conditions were estimated to cost a staggering amount. A great need was recognized for sustainable economic development as the means of dealing on a long-term basis with the underlying causes of famine.
4313556|Current emissions of SO
4312564|Data on concentrations of pollutants in air and precipitation are used to estimate the average rates of input to the Baltic by direct uptake at the surface and in precipitation. In spite of very large uncertainties in these estimates, the results indicate that for several compounds the deposition from the atmosphere can be quite significant. Atmospheric deposition is a major source of nitrogen and lead in the Baltic.
4313744|Papua New Guinea's newly approved Forest Policy has rightfully pointed out that in order to sustain the country's forest resources rational and proper management and utilization of the resource should be implemented. However, what is lacking is the necessary database and information which would be used to support these directives. Such information and database could be generated from research. In this paper the development of forest research activities in the country are reviewed and their future directions and priorities together with their constraints are presented.
4315023|Thailand has been the world's largest exporter of cultured shrimp since 1991. Despite problems with poor environmental conditions and disease outbreaks that led to the failure and abandonment of numerous farms along the coast, Thai shrimp production has remained high. A primary factor has been the establishment of low salinity shrimp farming for black tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) in areas much further inland from the coast than once thought feasible. The rapid development of low salinity culture in freshwater areas that are predominantly used for paddy rice cultivation, however, now represents a major land and water management challenge. The debate over the potential environmental impacts of inland shrimp farming revolves around three key questions: i) the ability of so-called "closed" production systems to minimize environmental impacts, ii) the capacity of the Thai government to enforce environmental protection regulations, and iii) the potential emergence of cumulative environmental impacts. This paper concludes that a ban on inland shrimp farming is a prudent measure, needed to protect soil and water quality in freshwater areas.
4315770|Carbon budgets are frequently used in order to understand the pathways of organic matter in ecosystems, and they also have an important function in the risk assessment of harmful substances. We compared two approaches, mass balance calculations and an ecosystem budget, to describe carbon processing in a shallow, oligotrophic hardwater lake. Both approaches come to the same main conclusion, namely that the lake is a net autotrophic ecosystem, in spite of its high dissolved organic carbon and low total phosphorus concentrations. However, there were several differences between the carbon budgets, e.g. in the rate of sedimentation and the air-water flux of CO
4313727|Implementation of the Montreal Protocol is underway. In the United States, the directive from the Environmental Protection Agency allows the CFC industry flexibility in the way quotas are met. Prices of CFCs have increased. Business response has been positive including work on the development of substitute chemicals, substitute products and recycling technologies. The paper examines the history of CFC regulation in the European Economic Community and the United States in order to derive lessons from business response to alternate types of policy and to apply these lessons to other environmental problems. Policies in the EEC and the US prior to the Montreal Protocol included a production cap in the EEC and a ban on aerosol use of CFCs in the US. These policies were ineffective in reducing total production over time. The production cap in the EEC was set at a level that failed to constrain use. The ban in the US, although successful in forcing the development of substitutes for aerosols and in achieving a short-term reduction, did not discourage CFC growth for other uses. The conclusion is that policies must constrain use through the price mechanism and that policies allowing maximum flexibility and providing industry with economic incentives to benefit from pollution reduction will achieve the least cost and most innovative solutions.
4312817|The Great Barrier Reef is the largest system of coral reefs and associated life forms in the world, covering an area of some 300 000 km
4312405|Concentrations of cadmium (in the kidney) and mercury (in muscles) were determined in PCB-treated minks and in control animals. The cadmium levels tend to be higher in the group treated with PCB. The result might imply that different concentrations of metals in organisms do not always reflect different metal contaminations of the environment.
23322894|Since 2001/2002, the correlation between North Atlantic Oscillation index and biological variables in the North Sea and Baltic Sea fails, which might be addressed to a global climate regime shift. To understand inter-annual and inter-decadal variability in environmental variables, a new multivariate index for the Baltic Sea is developed and presented here. The multivariate Baltic Sea Environmental (BSE) index is defined as the 1st principal component score of four z-transformed time series: the Arctic Oscillation index, the salinity between 120 and 200 m in the Gotland Sea, the integrated river runoff of all rivers draining into the Baltic Sea, and the relative vorticity of geostrophic wind over the Baltic Sea area. A statistical downscaling technique has been applied to project different climate indices to the sea surface temperature in the Gotland, to the Landsort gauge, and the sea ice extent. The new BSE index shows a better performance than all other climate indices and is equivalent to the Chen index for physical properties. An application of the new index to zooplankton time series from the central Baltic Sea (Latvian EEZ) shows an excellent skill in potential predictability of environmental time series.
4314812|Mangrove ecosystems are important coastal habitats in tropical regions, directly or indirectly supporting subsistence and commercial fisheries. However, they are under threat in developing countries, where stands are being felled to accommodate a variety of human activities. An estimated aerial loss of 1% per year is occurring in Asia and the Pacific, with some areas having lost 70% of their original mangrove habitat. Due to continued disturbance, altered soil conditions and limited dispersal, natural recovery may be slow. This paper discusses mangrove restoration as a potential tool for the management of coastal ecosystems. We examine briefly the connections between mangroves and fisheries, and outline an ecosystem approach to evaluate mangrove restoration initiatives. Past mangrove restoration projects in developing countries have focussed only on methods of re-establishing trees, with little attention given to assessing whether ecosystem function is restored. However, the goal of mangrove restoration projects should be to actively promote a return to the natural assemblage structure and function (within the bounds of natural variation) that is self-sustaining. This goal requires: (i) identifying the natural state, including key organisms in maintaining the physical substratum, community structure and food webs maintaining fish stocks; (ii) developing biotechnology for restoring key organisms; and (iii) assessing the long-term success of the project. As restoration promises to be an important tool for maintaining coastal ecosystem health in developing countries, priority should be given to incorporating restoration projects and their evaluation into coastal management plans.
4313474|Measurements of carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, and methane released from Amazonian soils show that tropical deforestation acts on a variety of time scales to exacerbate the atmospheric greenhouse problem. The global importance of tropical forest soils in the atmospheric carbon cycle and its susceptibility to alteration by human land-management practices implies that the solution to the human-induced climate change problem lies in a combination of combustion source controls, conservation of existing tropical rain forests, and large-scale upgrading of productivity on currently degraded tropical soils.
41417413|Electricity generation by photovoltaic conversion of sunlight is a technology in strong growth. The thin film technology is taking market share from the dominant silicon wafer technology. In this article, the market for photovoltaics is reviewed, the concept of photovoltaic solar energy conversion is discussed and more details are given about the present technological limitations of thin film solar cell technology. Special emphasis is given for solar cells which employ Cu(In,Ga)Se and CuZnSn(S,Se) as the sunlight-absorbing layer.
4314429|This article begins with a general description of the city, its location, population, size, climate, etc. It then outlines the city's main growth problems, including the rapid and unpredictable metamorphic state that encompasses every aspect of city life from the economy to the form of city government. The city budget is used as an illustration to show the fiscal situation and the state of uncertainty. The prevailing environmental conditions and main problems are briefly described. The development of strategic and land-use planning for the city is briefly described. A vision statement for the city's future based on the city's draft Master Plan is also presented.
4315591|Despite political efforts, diffuse pollution from agriculture continues to be the single largest source of nitrogen (N) emissions into the aquatic environment in many countries and regions. This fact, and the recent enactment of a new Swedish environmental code, led to the design of a study targeted at the evaluation of new N pollution abatement strategies. An actor game was chosen as the key component of the study, with a focus on four major goals: to test the implementability of legally binding environmental quality standards for nitrate concentration in groundwater and N transport to the sea, to find sets of agriculturally feasible and cost-effective measures to decrease N loads, to investigate the possibilities for collective action through negotiated and institutionalized actor cooperation, and to investigate the role of mathematical modeling in environmental N management. Characteristics from the agriculturally dominated catchment of Genevadsn (224 km2) on the southwest coast of Sweden served as the playing field for the actor game. The most noteworthy result from the study was that it appeared to be possible to meet ambitious environmental N standards with less economically drastic measures than anticipated by most of the participants. The actor game was shown to be a good method for learning about the new Swedish environmental code and its application and for gaining deeper insight into the issues of N management. In addition, the actor game functioned as an arena for gaining a more thorough understanding of the views of different stakeholders.
41417263|Complex socio-environmental risks challenge society. In response to scientific uncertainty and sociopolitical controversies, environmental governance, precaution, and the ecosystem approach to management are held forward as complements to governmental risk-based sector-restricted regulation. We analyze this development for hazardous substances in the Baltic Sea. Based on interviews and policy analysis, we study informal governance and, in particular, four central EU and international policies, and investigate how present governance relates to risks and objectives at hand. While showing emergence of broader governance approaches, we conclude that central objectives will not likely be met. Furthermore, we question the quest for broad environmental governance and emphasize the value of command and control regulation, if it implements precaution. These findings contribute to the theorizing on environmental (risk) governance. Finally, we provide some ideas that could help development and implementation of risk policies for hazardous chemicals in the Baltic Sea as well as other complex risks.
4313132| The importance of long-term monitoring of atmospheric trace substances like CO
4313969|Nepal is located in the central part of the Himalayas. Diverse plants and animals, rich culture, and the poor economy of the country, with its varied physiographic and climatic conditions, need an appropriate conservation technique to balance the development and conservation of nature and natural resources. Current conservation efforts can be effective if they are incorporated with successful indigenous approaches. Local community participation is necessary for the success of long-term projects such as conservation programs.
4315141|The dynamics of marine ecosystems, i.e. the changes of observable chemical-biological quantities in space and time, are driven by biological and physical processes. Predictions of future developments of marine systems need a theoretical framework, i.e. models, solidly based on research and understanding of the different processes involved. The natural way to describe marine systems theoretically seems to be the embedding of chemical-biological models into circulation models. However, while circulation models are relatively advanced the quantitative theoretical description of chemical-biological processes lags behind. This paper discusses some of the approaches and problems in the development of consistent theories and indicates the beneficial potential of the coupling of marine biology and oceanography in models.
4311955|Chemical pollution is world-wide. Many of the myriad chemicals are potentially toxic, carcinogenic, teratogenic, and mutagenic. Since the usual toxicological tests are inadequate to detect chemicals which may produce serious genetic and health risks, a program for mutagenicity testing to precede toxicological testing is outlined. Emphasis is given to the need for new administrative and legislative approaches to implement findings from the biological testing. Certain chemicals, in wide use, should be phased out and need not undergo routine testing. The author examines the related problem of who should test and who should decide on acceptable risk-benefits.
4312722|The Wider Caribbean Region has a population of 168 million and a total annual GNP of about $257 billion. This article examines the historical, cultural, and political differences which characterize this rapidly changing region of the world.
4315204|The NEAT model (Nonenergy use Emission Accounting Tables) has been developed in order to estimate CO
4314960|In many coastal areas, fishing constitutes the dominant anthropogenic impact on coastal ecosystems. That fishing has altered the abundance and size spectra of fish communities is beyond doubt. We use time series of the abundance, in the North Sea, of 8 demersal fish species and data on food consumption rates to reconstruct a time series of benthic predation pressure. The changes in fish biomass that have occurred, primarily due to fishing pressure, have led to a change in the quantity and taxonomic composition of the benthos consumed by fish predators. Such alterations in the flow of material between ecosystem compartments are likely to cause further changes in ecosystem function as an indirect result of fishing.
4313822|The political implications of the presence of Eritrean and Ethiopian refugees in eastern Sudan are examined. The complex interaction of national and international factors has aggravated the impact of the refugees' presence and this paper discusses possible linkages between the refugees and political instability at both interstate and intrastate levels. The refugees are perceived by their Sudanese hosts to pose an enormous strain on the fragile Sudanese economy, infrastructure and environment and are increasingly blamed for growing hardships, thought to have become too many and that they stay too long.
4312161| Sewage sludge and sludge ash produced at 450-1050C in the laboratory or in a multiple hearth incinerator were analyzed by chemical and X-ray diffraction methods. Among the ash components were 23-32 percent calcium and magnesium phosphates and the following percentages of heavy metals: Zn 0.9, Cu 0.2, Pb 0.1, Cr 0.07, Ni 0.02, and Cd 0.006. As shown by EDTA-extraction, the reactivity of heavy metals was higher in ash produced at 450C than in dry sludge, but lower in ash produced above 800C. Phosphate in the 800-900C samples was dissolved in citric acid but not in citrate. 
4312670|This article explores potential applications of economic incentives for the control of air pollutants. Such an examination is timely considering the criticisms directed toward the Clean Air Act Amendments and efforts associated with the formulation of alternative approaches to controlling air pollutants. Added to this is the Reagan Administration's emphasis on greater regulatory program flexibility in seeking to improve administration efficiency while also seeking greater balance between environmental, economic and energy factors. In this article, a description of the existing framework for controlling air pollutants in the US is first provided, and several deficiencies associated with the current approach are described. The use of hybrid approaches involving minor modifications to the existing air quality management program are discussed, and economic incentives are outlined. The utilization of this approach is explored and examples provided with regard to potential applications. Finally, positive and negative aspects associated with economic incentives are summarized and suggestions offered with regard to both their application and areas of further research.
4315688| The Magdalena River, a major fluvial system draining most of the Colombian Andes, is a world-class river, in the top 10 in terms of sediment load (150 MT/yr). In this study, we explore the major natural factors and anthropogenic influences behind the patterns in sediment yield on the Magdalena basin and reconstruct the spatial and temporal pattern of deforestation and agricultural intensification across the basin to test the relationships between land use change and trends in sediment yield. Our results show that sediment yield for the whole Magdalena catchment can be explained by natural variables, including runoff and maximum water discharge. These two estimators explain 58% of variance in sediment yield. Temporal analyses of sediment discharges and land use show that the extent of erosion within the catchment has increased over the last 10 to 20 years. Many anthropogenic influences, including a forest decrease by 40% in a 20-year period, an agriculture and pasture increase by 65%, poor soil conservation and mining practices, and increasing rates of urbanization, may have accounted for the overall increasing trends in sediment yield on a regional scale. 
4314656|Seagrasses are submerged or intertidal angiosperms that form extensive meadows in shallow coastal waters. Tropical as well as temperate seagrass beds are subject to man's interference. Most human activities affect seagrasses either through reductions in light availability or changes in sediment dynamics, the latter often caused by hydrodynamic changes. This paper offers practical ranges within which seagrasses can be expected to occur for these two main environmental factors: light availability and sediment deposition. With a few exceptions, comparatively little variation was found among species in light requirements for photosynthesis. Predicted compensation depths calculated from photosynthesis data correlated well with independently estimated maximum colonization depths. In contrast, considerable differences exist in architectural characteristics. Large shoot size or the capacity to elongate vertical stems enabled several species to raise their leaf canopy closer to the water surface and thus suffer less in turbid water. The latter also allows a response to siltation: sedimentation rates of 2-13 cm yr
4312330|Demographic trends suggest that up to 5000 new cities of half a million in population each may be required between 1975 and 2000. In order to examine the implications of this for demands on resources, a detailed assessment has been made of the patterns of flow and the end-use of energy and of some selected materials in the city-state of Hong Kong. This assessment is used as a basis for extrapolating the future resource requirements of other urban development along similar lines. The calculations indicate that the capital and recurrent energy costs of the predicted urbanization would amount to more than five times the 1973 world consumption of energy.
4312965|This article describes how reefs are formed and destroyed, and gives a comprehensive account of reef evolution. The many benefits that reefs provide are discussed: as fish nurseries, land protectors, re-positories of a wealth of marine life, providers of useful medicines and as tourist attractions. The destructive forces at work against the reefs of the Western Indian Ocean are detailed and recommendations given for corrective action.
4313768|Saudi Arabia is an arid country with limited water supplies. About 80-85% of water supplies come from groundwater which is essentially classified as nonrenewable water resources. The annual extraction of groundwater is far in excess of natural replenishment. This groundwater mining can not continue indefinitely. Excessive use of groundwater has created major problems such as depletion of aquifers and deterioration of groundwater quality. Some of these problems are already occuring and others are expected to occur. The result may be adverse economic consequences coupled with negative environmental and social effects. Therefore immediate public action is imperative to prevent or minimize the impacts of the depletion of groundwater resources. This paper provides a brief overview of groundwater use; identifies and highlights major problems resulting from the excessive use of groundwater; discusses some possible economic impacts of groundwater depletion; and suggests some policy options to protect and prolong the life of groundwater resources.
4312099|The hazards of noise exposure both to hearing and to other body functions in occupational exposure to noise are reviewed. The author explains the physiological basis of hearing impairment from noise and describes models developed to quantify hazards. Individual susceptibility, age, drugs and other interactional factors are emphasized. The damage risk criteria for noise are given special attention and criticism toward them is taken up. It is concluded that these criteria serve solely as a statistical estimate of the probability of acquiring less than a certain hearing loss when exposed to a certain noise level. Ultra- and infrasound are treated briefly.
4314533|The Caribbean region is potentially one of the largest oil-producing areas in the world, and contamination by petroleum is threatening the marine environment. Vanadium (V), an abundant element in crude oils, was used as proxy tracer of oil pollution along the Caribbean coast of Panama. We develop a century chronology based on the concentration of vanadium (using ICP-MS) incorporated into annual growth bands of coral skeletons. The chronology for vanadium showed a relatively clear pattern where background seawater concentrations were observed in the early history of the corals followed by an increase after 1962, the initiation of a refinery operation. The vanadium chronology suggests that a major degradation process in the coastal zone could have started around the 1960s, but we were unable to confirm such an assumption due to the lack of long-term ecological and pollution data. The gradual increase of vanadium into the marine environment might be used as a pointer to oil pollution.
4313257|Two chronological series of antler from roe deer (Capreolus capreolus L) were analyzed for contents of cadmium, lead and zinc. The most important conclusion of the study is that the roe deer antler probably is a suitable substance for biomonitoring studies. One good indication of this was the high correlation coefficient (r = 0.95) found between the lead reduction in roe deer antler and the reduction in lead emissions from Swedish traffic over the study period.
4313770|In this study the prevalence of onchocerciasis is reviewed for some of the isolated villages of Kwara State, Nigeria. Human ecological factors including farming, search for water, participation in religious, recreational activities, and mode of dress were said to expose people to the bites of Simulium flies. The construction of dams and roads in isolated villages and water-resource development without attendant health-care services were said to facilitate the spread of onchocerciasis. It was recommended that primary health-care workers assist in the control of onchocerciasis by providing health education to affected communities, referring patients to tertiary health centers and alerting local, state and federal governments about rural communities in which onchocerciasis is endemic.
41418334|We provide an introduction to the volume The Arctic in the Earth System perspective: the role of tipping points. The terms tipping point and tipping element are described and their role in current science, general debates, and the Arctic are elucidated. From a wider perspective, the volume focuses upon the role of humans in the Arctic component of the Earth system and in particular the envelope for human existence, the Arctic ecosystems. The Arctic climate tipping elements, the tipping elements in Arctic ecosystems and societies, and the challenges of governance and anticipation are illuminated through short summaries of eight publications that derive from the Arctic Frontiers conference in 2011 and the EU FP7 project Arctic Tipping Points. Then some ideas based upon resilience thinking are developed to show how wise system management could ease pressures on Arctic systems in order to keep them away from tipping points.
4313236|The United Nations Environment Programme and the Food and Agriculture Organization have developed a joint plan of action aimed at coordinating international efforts to save marine mammals from overexploitation. It is suggested that research on the status of marine mammals stocks and the impact of man, among other measures, should be given priority. The components of the plan which are outlined in the article should be implemented by 1990. Much work has already been done.
40390420|Substantial impacts of near-ambient ozone concentrations on agricultural crops, trees, and seminatural vegetation are demonstrated for southern Sweden. Impacts of ambient ozone levels (2-15 L L hr annual accumulated ozone exposure over a threshold of 40 nL L [AOT40]) range from a 2%-10% reduction for trees (e. g., leaf chlorophyll, tree growth) up to a 15% reduction for crops (e. g., yield, wheat/potato). Visible leaf injury on bioindicator plants caused by ambient ozone levels has been clearly demonstrated. The humid climatic conditions in Sweden promote high rates of leaf ozone uptake at a certain ozone concentration. This likely explains the comparatively large ozone impacts found for vegetation in southern Sweden at relatively low ozone concentrations in the air. It is important that the future methods used for the representation of ozone impacts on vegetation across Europe are based on the leaf ozone uptake concept and not on concentration-based exposure indices, such as AOT40.
4315198| Pelagic fish population biology was studied in the large Swedish lakes Vnern, Vttern, Mlaren and Hjlmaren. It is crucial for fish fry in temperate regions to hatch early in the growth season to survive, and achieve large size before winter and it is suggested that the key factors are to match the spring development of phyto- and zooplankton, but to avoid predation. This is more easily accomplished by the studied spring spawners smelt (Osmerus eperlanus) and pike-perch (Stizostedion lucioperca) than autumn spawners, such as vendace (Coregonus albula). It is shown that hatching of vendace fry shortly after ice-break-up is beneficial for year-class strength. In oligotrophic large lakes with few predatory species a rapid increase in water temperature after ice-break is also promoting recruitment, whereas this is not the case in eutrophic lakes where predation pressure from other species may become too high. The results indicate that autumn spawners will have difficulties in adapting to global warming and it is also suggested that the life history can explain the large variations observed in year-class strength between years. 
4315836|Natural wetlands, occupying 3.8% of China's land and providing 54.9% of ecosystem services, are unevenly distributed among eight wetland regions. Natural wetlands in China suffered great loss and degradation (e.g., 23.0% freshwater swamps, 51.2% costal wetlands) because of the wetland reclamation during China's long history of civilization, and the population pressure and the misguided policies over the last 50 years. Recently, with an improved understanding that healthy wetland ecosystems play a vital role in her sustainable economic development, China started major efforts in wetland conservation, as signified by the policy to return reclaimed croplands to wetlands, the funding of billions of dollars to restore degraded wetlands, and the national plan to place 90% of natural wetlands under protection by 2030. This paper describes the current status of the natural wetlands in China, reviews past problems, and discusses current efforts and future challenges in protecting China's natural wetlands.
4314551| Results are presented from a recent high resolution transient climate change experiment carried out at the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology, Hamburg. The experiment is discussed in the light of the greenhouse warming experiment by Arrhenius. The transient calculation started in January 1860 and continued until the end of the 21st century. The effect of individual greenhouse gases has been incorporated using observed data until 1990 and thereafter assumed emissions according to (IPCC) scenario IS92a. Validation of the coupled model shows a realistic simulation of observed coupled modes such as El Nio-Southern Oscillation. The simulated low frequency variability at middle and high latitudes resembles, by and large, the observed one. A detailed evaluation over Scandinavia shows that the model reproduces the typical very strong interannual variability of this region. The result shows a small warming until present in broad agreement with observations. There is a strong positive feedback with water vapor but a negative feedback with clouds. The evaluation is concentrated at the time the concentration of the greenhouse gases has doubled compared to the starting time. Such a doubling is expected to take place in 2030-2040. The energy cycle is slowly changing and a gradual increase in the absorption of short-wave radiation in the atmosphere and an increase in the net long-wave radiation at the ground are noted. The latent heat flux from the surface of the earth increases while the sensible heat flux decreases. The hydrological cycle increases very slowly and mainly over land. After 1990, a rapid warming is starting which goes on with superimposed minor multidecadal variations until the end of the run. Overall global warming amounts to some 3.5C for the period 1990 to 2100. At the time of greenhouse gas doubling, the global warming amounts to 1.9C. The typical feedback pattern for the early p0art of the run continues with increasing amplitude and so do the changes in the hydrological cycle. The warming pattern shows a strong amplitude in the Arctic associated with a marked retreat of Arctic sea ice. The overall warming over the Scandinavian area is one to two degrees higher than the global average superimposed upon a similar high interannual variability as in the present climate. 
4313077|The Pacific island states are beginning to adopt relevant environmental legislation designed to protect their limited resources. However, to date, only Papua New Guinea and the Cook Islands have actually introduced specific and comprehensive environmental legislation. Much remains to be done.
4315115|Solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR, 280-400 nm) is known to cause a number of detrimental effects in aquatic organisms. The area of Patagonia, which is sometimes under the influence of the Antarctic ozone "hole", occasionally receives enhanced levels of ultraviolet B radiation (UV-B, 280-315 nm). Great efforts have been put into creating a database for UVR climatology by installing a variety of instruments in several localities in the region. However, no comparable effort has been made to determine the impact of normal and enhanced levels of solar UVR upon organisms. Most of the photobiological research in aquatic systems of Patagonia has focused on determining the effects of solar UVR in phytoplankton photosynthesis, DNA damage, and mortality, fecundity and repair mechanisms in zooplanktonic species. Some work has also been done with fish larvae and interactions between species at low trophic levels of the aquatic food web. The results of these studies indicate that in order to assess the overall impact of UVR in a certain waterbody, it is also necessary to consider other variables, such as changes in cloudiness, ozone concentrations, differential sensitivity of organisms, and depth of the upper mixed layer/epilimnion. All factors that can preclude or benefit the acclimation of species to solar radiation.
4315501|Excessive nitrogen (N) fertilization and decreasing N recovery rates by crops have caused dramatic increases in nonpoint source pollution from agriculture in China. The rate of N fertilization across the country varies widely among regions and crops, depending on the stage of economic development. For example, N application rates in the eastern regions and on cash crops are far higher than in western regions of the country and on cereal crops. Moreover, N application rates in wealthier regions are higher than recommended by the Chinese Academy of Sciences. To successfully achieve environmental protection as well as high crop yields, China must formulate relevant agricultural policies to encourage farmers in economically developed areas to reduce their N fertilization rate while also issuing conventional fertilization recommendations for small-scale farming systems and the expanding cultivation of cash crops.
40928400|Since China has the largest population in the world, the available water resources per capita in China are very limited. With the rapid economic development that is currently occurring, the shortage of water resources at the national level has become extremely critical. How to solve the problems due to water scarcity and water pollution has received increasing attention from the Chinese government and various communities. In order to provide a sustainable development environment for 1.6 billion people in the future, the whole country has started to reform urban water resources management systems in terms of related policies, regulations, methodologies, and technologies focusing on improving the efficiency and effectiveness in water use. Urban water quota management has now become a core strategy in developing a water resources governance model for water demand management aiming at establishing a water-saving society. This paper introduces the main stages and the processes of implementing water quota management in China, analyzes the basic principles, and expounds the elements, information foundation, core module and operational model of the urban water quota management system. It has been demonstrated that urban water quota management has made some remarkable contribution not only in transforming the pattern of water mode and strengthening water management enforcement but also in integrating various management methods in saving water and preventing pollution.
41417315|Polar and alpine environments are changing rapidly due to increases in temperature, which are amplified in the Arctic, as well as changes in many local factors. The impacts on ecosystems and their function have potential consequences for local residents and the global community. Tundra areas are vast and diverse, and the knowledge of geographical variation in environmental and ecosystem change is limited to relatively few locations, or to remote sensing approaches that are limited mostly to the past few decades. The International Polar Year, IPY, provided a context, stimulus and timely opportunities for re-visiting old research sites and data sets to collate data on past changes, to pass knowledge from old to new generations of researchers and to document environmental characteristics of sites to facilitate detection and attribution of future changes. Consequently, the project "Retrospective and Prospective Vegetation Change in the Polar Regions: Back to the Future," BTF, was proposed and endorsed as an IPY activity (project #512). With national funding support, teams of researchers re-visited former sites and data sets throughout the Arctic and some alpine regions. These efforts have amounted to a gamut of "BTF" studies that are collectively geographically expansive and disciplinary diverse. A selection of these studies are introduced and presented in the current issue together with a brief synthesis of their findings.
4312587|Over the past two years the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED) in London has conducted a series of studies on how the international aid agencies have responded to environmental considerations in their policies. In general, IIEDs conclusion is that, with the exception of the USA, the countries surveyed have contributed inadequate resources to conservation and rehabilitation projects. The author reviews the IIED report in its entirety and gives recommendations for change.
4314738|The climate in northwestern Europe in the last 50 years appears to have undergone periods of marked extreme events such as windstorms, snowstorms and events of heavy rainfall, causing floods and erosion. In particular, the summers in the 1990s had Mediterranean-like fluctuations with warm spells, rainstorms of "double" intensity, flooding, and landslides in the mountains. If and how these extremes are connected with global warming due to an increasing greenhouse effect is an open question. However, we feel justified, both for theoretical and practical reasons, in making the following recommendations for future research: Continued observation and information on extreme erosional events and natural hazards are important in order to clarify their climatic links and for safer environmental management for the benefit of people who work or are tourists in the mountains and downstream areas. It is also necessary to improve our knowledge of the connections between local weather extremes and regional climatic trends, e.g. through reconstruction of the former frequency of events during periods of rising temperatures. Two kinds of erosional processes and natural hazards, which may increase in frequency during a climatic warming, are discussed: i) snowmelt-triggered floods and slushflows in spring; and ii) rainstorm-triggered floods and debris flows in summer and autumn.
4312915|Ouro Preto, a town in Minas Gerais, Brazil, that was inscribed on the World Heritage List in 1980, is a living open air museum of the nation's economic, social and artistic history. Emerging during the turn of the 17th to the 18th Centuries, the town, then called Vila Rica, was a catalyst for new creative thought in all facets of the arts and humanities reflecting the spirit of the "man of the mines", since the town was also the heart of Brazil's gold rush. Preserved entirely in its original state, Ouro Preto today faces a challenge that means reconciling the need to preserve the historical site with the fact that it is at the same time a living city in the throes of active urban development.
4315631|We assessed the influence of environmental variables (elevation, stream order, distance from source, catchment area, slope, stream width, and fish species richness) on the co-occurrence patterns of the minnow, the stone loach, and the gudgeon at the stream system scale. A total of 474 sites were classified according to the seven variables using the Self-Organizing Map (neural network), and three clusters were detected (k-means algorithm). The frequency of the various fish co-occurrence patterns was calculated for each cluster, and general linear modeling was used to specify the conditions that predict the occurrence of each species. Piedmont streams were more likely to support coexisting gudgeon and minnow populations because of higher probabilities of occurrence for both species. The higher co-occurrence frequency for the three species together in headwater streams resulted from lower occurrence frequencies in gudgeon and minnow. Focusing on areas that favor the co-occurrence of species may enhance the effectiveness of conservation projects.
4312650|Ecological monitoring is defined here as measurements of biotic and abiotic parameters, with the purpose of understanding how ecosystems function. Highlights from 100 years of ecological monitoring in the Luquillo Experimental Forest Biosphere Reserve are given to show how the ecosystems in the reserve are organized and how they function in response to external factors. The management implications of these results and the role of periodic disturbances are discussed. The authors also examine briefly the role of tropical forests as a carbon sink in the earth's carbon cycle.
4314325| Reductions of stratospheric ozone and the concomitant increases of UV-B radiation penetrating to the lower atmosphere result in higher photodissociation rates of key trace gases that control the chemical reactivity of the troposphere. This can increase both production and destruction of tropospheric ozone ( O
41417317|A unique long term, 49-year record (divided into three time periods 1961-1976, 1977-1992, and 1993-2009) of snow profile stratigraphy from the Swedish sub Arctic, was analyzed with a focus on changes in snow characteristics. The data set contained grain size, snow layer hardness, grain compactness, and snow layer dryness, observed every second week during the winter season. The results showed an increase in very hard snow layers, with harder snow in early winter and more moist snow during spring. There was a striking increase in the number of observations with very hard snow at ground level over time. More than twice as many occasions with hard snow at ground level were observed between 1993 and 2009 compared to previous years, which may have a significant effect on plants and animals. The changes in snow characteristics are most likely a result of the increasing temperatures during the start and the end of the snow season.
25547863|Community-based management (CBM) has been recognized as an appropriate approach to conservation, assuming that local communities have higher stakes than the state in their natural resources and have better knowledge of local resources and, therefore, can manage them more efficiently. However, the implementation of CBM has not always been successful. The objective of this research was to assess the potential for the implementation of a governmental proposal for community-based management of peccaries (Tayassuidae) in the Impenetrable northern Argentine, through the examination of the reasons why arrangements to avoid overexploitation have not evolved in this region. I used the theory of common pool resources (CPRs) as a framework for this analysis. CPRs theory explains the conditions under which appropriators of a resource are likely to engage in devising and altering governing arrangements and the conditions under which such arrangements are likely to succeed. Fieldwork was conducted between June 2000 and August 2003 using a mixed methods approach. It was found that most of the condition of the resource and users identified by the CPR theory as associated with an increased likelihood of successful management of natural resources are absent or scarcely developed in the Impenetrable. Thus, the situation in the Impenetrable does not seem appropriate for the implementation of CBM of peccaries. It is first necessary to invest in training and development of local institutions' capacities and social capital. It is also important to increase the flow of relevant information, which will enable institutions to be effective, responsible, and accountable to the community. For the moment, a more appropriate approach will have to include a mixture of protectionism and comanagement of collared peccaries while the propitious conditions for a complete local management of the resource are developed.
4312128|In order to compare the behavior of As in soils to that of P, the inorganic forms were fractionated; for acid soils the As and P fractions bound to Al (r = 0.525*) and to Fe (r = 0.436*) correlated significantly. In a solubility diagram it is shown that the Al-arsenate solubility is under-saturated with regard to the arsenic acid potential and corresponds to that of Al-phosphate. It is therefore assumed that arsenic coprecipitates as As-P complexes in soils.
4315493|Direct measurements of the potential induced by motion of electrically conducting seawater through the earth's magnetic field may be used to estimate ocean transports. For the purpose of evaluating the feasibility of monitoring the Baltic climate, a number of temporary observational systems based on this principle have been established around the Swedish coast. Some results from these investigations are presented, and the study is concluded by an outlook towards the prospects for future work along these lines.
4314279|With the lowest per capita arable land base in Africa, and with a rapidly increasing population, sustainability of agriculture in Egypt has now become a critical issue. This paper discusses the critical sustainability issues that need to be considered, and the important policy-related issues in the areas of land and water-resource management that merit urgent attention, if the sustainability of Egyptian agriculture in the 21st century is to be assured.
4312797| In order to find a proper vehicle for injection of lipophilic substances into the yolk of eggs, several different vehicles containing a fat soluble dye were injected into embryonated hens' eggs on day four of incubation. The distribution of the dye was studied. On the basis of these studies an emulsion of lecithin, peanut oil and water was chosen. To test the uptake to the embryos of a lipophilic substance injected in this vehicle, [
4315327|Indigenous knowledge of edible fungi and their utilization by local populations were investigated in southern Cameroon from 1996 to 1999. Some 100 participants from the major ethnic groups, comprising Bantu farmers and Bagyeli (Pygmy) hunter-gatherers, were interviewed. Mushroom usage by 30 families, (319 persons), was monitored daily for over a year. Mushroom knowledge among both groups was extensive. Over 50 vernacular names were provided by respondents. In Bantu households, women and children, and to some extent hunters, harvest mushrooms. In contrast, the whole Bagyeli household participates. Bantu harvest mushrooms preferentially in secondary forests while Bagyeli collect them predominantly in primary forests. Mushroom consumption is low for both groups, 1.1 and 1.4 kg of fresh mushrooms per person per year, respectively, a rate that is much lower than in central and eastern Africa. The apparent discrepancy between extensive mushroom knowledge and rather infrequent mushroom consumption probably relates to the social valuation of mushrooms.
25066567|Data collected by the Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS-1) over the New York Bight are examined. Sewage sludge, acid waste, suspended solids and major water mass boundaries were detected. The data demonstrate the potential of satellite remote sensing for monitoring large-scale events such as ocean dumping.
25547916|Aerial surveys of Caspian seals on the winter ice field in Kazakhstan territorial waters were carried out in February 2005 and 2006 to assess the annual pup production for the species and natural predation on newborn pups. Estimated pup production was 21 063 in 2005 and 16 905 in 2006 (including an estimated figure for pups born in Russian territory in each year). The breeding population size of approximately 20 000 females is much less than published estimates from the late 1980s. Eagles were the principal natural predators of pups. Commercial icebreaker routes passed through areas of dense pup concentrations in 2006, although not in 2005. Our findings have important implications for the development of conservation strategies for the species. Natural mortality, loss to predators, and, more important, the current hunting quota substantially exceed the recruitment of the Caspian seal population. Anthropogenic sources of mortality should be managed to avoid further declines in the species.
41510593|Geoengineering methods are intended to reduce climate change, which is already having demonstrable effects on ecosystem structure and functioning in some regions. Two types of geoengineering activities that have been proposed are: carbon dioxide (CO) removal (CDR), which removes CO from the atmosphere, and solar radiation management (SRM, or sunlight reflection methods), which reflects a small percentage of sunlight back into space to offset warming from greenhouse gases (GHGs). Current research suggests that SRM or CDR might diminish the impacts of climate change on ecosystems by reducing changes in temperature and precipitation. However, sudden cessation of SRM would exacerbate the climate effects on ecosystems, and some CDR might interfere with oceanic and terrestrial ecosystem processes. The many risks and uncertainties associated with these new kinds of purposeful perturbations to the Earth system are not well understood and require cautious and comprehensive research.
4312588|About 1 000 million liters of berriers and 3 600 million liters of mushrooms are produced on Swedish forestland every year. Only a fraction of this is actually harvested. Nevertheless, large segments of the forest-loving public are convinced that modern forestry practices are reducing the amounts of edible berries and mushrooms. In this article the author points out that clear cutting and the use of chemical sprays does cut down on mushroom and berry production. However, he concludes that since only ten percent of the total yield is actually harvested, there is no reason to belive that present forestry methods will radically reduce the amounts of these resources for future generations. Problems of this kind go beyond scientific research; they require political solutions reflecting both humanistic and scientific understanding of the problems.
4312110|Two main theories of organizational design are presented: the machine principle, in which there is redundancy of human parts, and the life principle, in which people hold several functions. The conditions for changing the work environment are different, depending on the actual organizational design. This is true both for the starting of processes of change and for support of them once they are under way. Values stressing the right of individuals and groups to have influence over their own work situation point clearly in the direction of the life principle. Individuals and groups should have the right and the possibility to influence their situation and be able to learn from it.
24708975|In safety assessments of underground radioactive waste repositories, understanding radionuclide fate in ecosystems is necessary to determine the impacts of potential releases. Here, the reliability of two mechanistic models (the compartmental K-model and the 3D dynamic D-model) in describing the fate of radionuclides released into a Baltic Sea bay is tested. Both are based on ecosystem models that simulate the cycling of organic matter (carbon). Radionuclide transfer is linked to adsorption and flows of carbon in food chains. Accumulation of Th-230, Cs-135, and Ni-59 in biological compartments was comparable between the models and site measurements despite differences in temporal resolution, biological state variables, and partition coefficients. Both models provided confidence limits for their modeled concentration ratios, an improvement over models that only estimate means. The D-model enables estimates at high spatio-temporal resolution. The K-model, being coarser but faster, allows estimates centuries ahead. Future developments could integrate the two models to take advantage of their respective strengths.
4313693|Tropical deforestation has been responsible, in part, for the increasing concentrations of CO
4315611|The concentrations of avenanthramides (AVAs), hydroxycinnamic acids (HCAs), a sucrose-linked truxinic acid (TASE), and certain agronomic parameters were analyzed in organically and conventionally grown oats. Three cultivars of oats (i.e. Freja, Sang, and Matilda) were grown according to standards for both conventional and organic farming in Sweden, from 1998 to 2000. Two levels of nitrogen (N) and three replicates were included. Overall, there were significant differences between years, cultivars, and N rate for AVA concentration in the grains, but there were no differences in concentration as a consequence of the conventional or organic cropping system used. The AVA content was higher in the samples grown in 2000, particularly in the cultivar Matilda, and was negatively affected by higher N rates. The HCAs showed cultivar and year differences, but were not influenced by N rates or the cropping system. The HCA content was highest in Matilda, and was significantly lower in samples grown in 1999. The concentration of TASE differed only between years, and was about 100% higher in samples from 1999, compared with samples from 1998 and 2000. The AVA and HCA concentrations were negatively correlated to the yield and specific weight of the grains and positively correlated to the protein content. Conversely, the concentration of TASE was positively correlated to the yield. The specific parameters responsible for the variation in the phenolic compounds are not known, but it seems that factors affecting the yield and/or the specific weight also affect the concentrations of AVAs, HCAs, and TASE in oat grains.
4313312|The metallic lead of shotgun pellets falling on three Danish shotgun-shooting-range areas was rapidly transformed into lead compounds in the soil environment. Transformation products were hydrocerussite
4313158|A number of developing countries have substantial coal reserves but have had difficulties with restructuring energy consumption patterns, transportation, and supply bottlenecks. Consequently, these governments have allowed multinational corporations to exploit their reserves for export. The host countries must have a detailed understanding of cost and revenue sharing arrangements. Environmental, social, and health impacts may effectively externalize costs and must be taken into consideration when planning for the development of coal reserves.
25547808|Projected warming in Sweden and other Fennoscandian countries will probably increase growth rates of forest trees near their northern limits, increase the probability of new pest outbreaks, and foster northerly migration of both native and exotic species. The greatest challenges for sustainable forestry are to restore and enhance the ecological and socioeconomic diversity of intensively managed forested landscapes. With appropriate management, climate warming may facilitate the regeneration of this diversity. Experimental transplant gardens along latitudinal or altitudinal gradients and high-resolution maps of expected future climate could provide a scientific basis for predicting the climate response of potential migrant species. Management of corridors and assisted migration could speed the movement of appropriate species.
40730879|Freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii) farming in Bangladesh has, to a large extent, been dependent on the supply of wild larvae. Although there are 81 freshwater prawn hatcheries in the country, a lack of technical knowledge, inadequate skilled manpower, and an insufficient supply of wild broods have limited hatchery production. Many thousands of coastal poor people, including women, are engaged in fishing for wild prawn larvae along the coastline during a few months each year.On average, 40% of the total yearly income for these people comes from prawn larvae fishing activity. However, indiscriminate fishing of wild larvae, with high levels of bycatch of juvenile fish and crustaceans, may impact negatively on production and biodiversity in coastal ecosystems. This concern has provoked the imposition of restrictions on larvae collection. The ban has, however, not been firmly enforced because of the limited availability of hatchery-raised larvae, the lack of aalternative livelihood for people involved in larvae fishing, and weak enforcement power. This article discusses the environmental and social consequences of prawn larvae fishing and concludes that, by increasing awareness among fry fishers, improving fishing techniques (reducing bycatch mortality), and improving the survival of fry in the market chain, a temporal ban may be a prudent measure when considering the potential negative impacts of bycatch. However, it alsosuggests that more research is needed to find out about the impact of larvae fishing on nontarget organisms and on the populations of targeted species.
4314370|We review current understanding of the long-term increase of carbon dioxide ( CO
4312265|Experiments are presented where the internal nitrogen status of birch seedlings is kept constant during an appreciable length of time at suboptimal, optimal, and supraoptimal levels. Frequent, exact, and exponentially increasing nitrogen additions were made, giving results essentially contradictory to accepted principles. This is explained by the fact that traditional experimental techniques generally do not produce a constant nitrogen status within the plants. Conclusions drawn from such experiments are therefore based upon plants with a continuously changing nutrient status, which can have no consistent relationship either to seedling size or to current production rate. The results point to a development of new ecological models where nitrogen nutrition of plants under natural conditions is better understood, as well as to development of more efficient fertilization practices in which nitrogen losses can be minimized.
4314643|The aim of the article is to describe Finnish agricultural structure and the state of the environment, as well as the environmental impacts of agriculture to surface and groundwaters; atmospheric emissions; rural landscape; and biodiversity; with special attention to fertilization, erosion and pesticides. Previous activities deal with Baltic Sea protection, national action programs and economic instruments. The objectives and structure of the Finnish Agri-Environmental Programme 1995-1999 are explained, and the implementation of the program is viewed through environmental goals and environmental impacts. Transition to sustainable agriculture in Finland is also discussed, followed by an assessment of sustainability and environmental risk analyses. A proposal to launch an international scientific project to establish a common standardized system for assessing the present and future sustainability of agriculture for Baltic Sea Region is presented.
40801536|Skier numbers, and revenues for the multi-billion-dollar ski industry, are highly sensitive to snow cover. Previous research projected that under climate change, natural snow cover will become inadequate at 65% of sites in the Australian ski resorts by 2020. Resorts plan to compensate for reduced snowfall through additional snowmaking. For the six main resorts, however, this would require over 700 additional snow guns by 2020, requiring ~ US $100 million in capital investment, and 2,500- 3,300 ML of water per month, as well as increased energy consumption. This is not practically feasible, especially as less water will be available. Therefore, low altitude ski resorts such as these may not be able to rely on snowmaking even for short-term adaptation to climate change. Instead, they are likely to seek conversion to summer activities and increased property development.
4314211|Batu Apoi, a dipterocarp forest in Brunei Darussalam is being developed into the country's first National Park. Universiti Brunei Darussalam-Royal Geographical Society ran a rainforest expedition at the site in order to document the great biological diversity of the reserve, beginning in 1991. This 14-month project and subsequent research have resulted in the collection of many species of plants and animals, indicating that Batu Apoi is richer in species than might be expected from its size. New species of virtually every group of plants and animals have been identified. Many of the plant and animal species are used by the Iban tribesmen, who, thanks to an enactment that prohibits guns in Brunei, hunt employing traditional methods such as traps, snares and spears. A variety of plants are purported to possess pharmaceutical properties, according to local beliefs, many of which do not have botanical names. With revenue generated from overseas investments, besides oil and gas production at home, Brunei Darussalam is in an enviable position in being perhaps one of few countries that has relatively large areas under rainforest cover, but does not need to exploit its forest for timber export. However, immense opportunities that remain in studying and eventually utilizing these forest resources sustainably will be a challenge for the country in the years to come.
4312077| The problem of possible future changes of the climate of the earth is attracting an increasing interest as an important part of the global environmental problem. The complex nature of the problem necessitates a major scientific effort to make possible assessments of likely future climatic changes, regardless of whether these may be natural or man-made. The development of climate models for the atmosphere-ocean-land-ice system may permit reasonably reliable assessments, which hopefully will replace qualitative statements being made today, which often are not scientifically well founded. The approach to the problem recommended by the joint WMO-ICSU-UN conference on the Physical Basis of Climate and Climate Modelling in Liding, Sweden, in the summer of 1974, is outlined and the specific recommendations for an action program are summarized. 
4312748| The pH history of three lakes in the province of Bohusln in southwestern Sweden has been studied. Earlier pH values were estimated, using an improved method, from the subfossil diatom remains present in core samples of the sediments. Since the creation of the lakes about 12 500 years ago, the pH has decreased from around 7 to around 6 due to natural causes. During the past few decades, because of acid precipitation, pH has further decreased to 4.5 or below. The reverse pH changes in one of the lakes during the 1970's, following liming, could also be followed from the "diatom pH record". 
4315648| The dynamic catchment model HBV-N has been further developed by adding routines for phosphorus transport and is now called the HBV-NP model. The model was shown to satisfactorily simulate nutrient dynamics in the Rnne catchment (1 900 km
4313090|The high dry and wet deposition of ammonia/ammonium, nitrous oxides and nitrate that appears over large areas in Europe today is higher than what can be considered useful for the forests. The different sources for ammonia/ammonium and nitrous oxides are overviewed, as are the most important nitrogen processes of the forest. On this basis and from plant physiological indications an ammonium hypothesis is put forward to explain some of the forest dieback symptoms appearing today. It is suggested that nitrogen saturation of the forest might appear and that leaf uptake of ammonia/ammonium and nitrous oxides contributes to the forest dieback in many different ways: - decreased frost hardiness - disturbed mycorrhiza functions and reduced root growth - increased damage by animals, fungi, bacteria and viruses - strengthening the deficiency symptoms of magnesium, potassium, phosphorus, molybdenum and boron. - due to high volume growth and reduced root growth a strengthening of the storm damage - during dry periods a leaf poisoning from nonprotein nitrogen might take place. The nitrogen saturation effects also show up through high nitrogen content of needles and by failing production increase at forest fertilization with nitrogen.
41417308|Repeated fertilization of forests to increase biomass production is an environmentally controversial proposal, the effects of which we assessed on breeding birds in stands of young Norway spruce (Picea abies), in an intensively managed forest area in southern Sweden. Our results show that fertilized stands had 38% more species and 21% more individuals than unfertilized stands. Compared with stands under traditional management, the further intensification of forestry by repeated applications of fertilizers thus seemed to enhance species richness and abundance of forest birds. We cannot conclude at this stage whether the response in the bird community was caused by changes in food resources or increased structural complexity in the forest canopy due to the skid roads used for the application of the fertilizers. Future studies should focus on structural and compositional effects of fertilization processes during the entire rotation period and at assessing its effects in a landscape context.
4312019|Nitrifying autotrophic bacteria have been studied in a water body polluted with ammonium. Attention was devoted to their abundance and activity, in the search for possible reasons for previously-recorded high concentrations of nitrite in the water. In water and in sediment surface, nitrite-formers were found to occur in much greater abundance than nitrite-oxidizers. The latter group also showed depressed activity, indicating a disturbance of the normal recycling of nitrogen.
4312045|The deleterious effects of the use of increased amounts of fertilizers on the environment and food products have attracted increasing attention. There have been many reports of eutrophication of water-courses, degredation of soils, and the toxic effects of nitrates and heavy metals in food products. The use of artificial fertilizers is necessary, however, for maintenance and increase of crop production. The conflict calls for intensified research, particularly on the minimum nutrient requirements of plants, and on those properties of crop species which are of importance in anabling the crop to fill the requirements with low nutrient concentrations in the root medium and with minimum addition of fertilizers. Recent results indicate that the internal requirements of some very different plant species vary relatively little. On the other hand, the conditions required in the surrounding root medium vary greatly. An understanding of the fundamental mechanisms in plant nutrition is a prerequisite for the proper breeding of crops that are more efficient in utilizing the added fertilizers and for the development of fertilizers and fertilizing practices that do not have adverse effects on the environment.
4312605|Microbial biodegradation of Amoco Cadiz oil was evidenced by increases in the number and activity of hydrocarbon-utilizing bacteria, and by changes in the chemical composition of oil exposed to weathering in various marine environments. Because of the complexity of the oil and the contrasting nature of microbial responses in the aerobic and anaerobic environments polluted in this oil spill, the effectiveness of microbial oil degradation is varied and does not result in rapid removal of all oil pollutants.
25547846|A high-resolution chemical transport model, driven by meteorology representing current and future climate, was used to investigate the effects of possible future changes in climate on nitrogen deposition in northwestern Europe. The model system was able to resolve the climatology of precipitation and chemical properties observed in northern Europe during the 1980s, albeit with some underestimation of the temporal and spatial variability of meteorological parameters and chemical components. The results point toward a substantial increase (30% or more) in nitrogen deposition over western Norway as a consequence of increasing precipitation but more moderate changes for other areas. Deposition of oxidized nitrogen will increase more than the deposition of reduced nitrogen. Over Sweden, oxidized nitrogen will increase only marginally and reduced nitrogen will decrease, although annual precipitation is expected to increase here as well. This is probably because more reduced nitrogen will be removed further west in Scandinavia because of the strong increase in precipitation along the Norwegian coast. The total deposition of oxidized nitrogen over Norway is expected to increase from 96 Gg N y during the current climate to 107 Gg N y by 2100 due only to changes in climate. The corresponding values for Sweden are more modest, from 137 Gg N y to 139 Gg N y.
4314385|The coastal waters of Sri Lanka have well-developed reefs; the majority are made up of sandstone and rocky habitats that form extensive reefs around the island. The greatest extent of true coral reefs is located in the Gulf of Mannar region off the northwestern coast of the island. For centuries coastal people have been dependent on the harvest of reef fish and other resources. Corals have been utilized in the production of lime that is used in the construction industry. The exports of spiny lobsters, sea cucumber and ornamental reef fish contribute significantly to the foreign-exchange earnings of the country. Tourism has also benefited from the aesthetic value of coral reefs. However, due to unmanaged resource utilization, reef habitats are being depleted at an alarming rate. Research has revealed that the status of coastal reefs is declining steadily due to various human activities such as destructive fishing, coral mining, overharvesting, unplanned development, and sedimentation due to land-use patterns. Although laws have been introduced to protect reefs, few have been implemented due to inadequate institutional cooperation and political considerations. There is also a lack of awareness and concern among the general public. This paper reviews the status of coastal reefs in Sri Lanka; major disturbance factors are described and management issues are discussed. Research conducted on coral reefs in Sri Lanka is also reviewed.
4314788|The boreal forest is the largest forest region in Canada, occupying approximately 315 mill. ha. Within this forest region long-term average annual area burned is 1.3 mill. ha, with extreme fire years being common, covering up to 7 million ha in a single fire season. Only 2% to 3% of those fires that cover more than 200 ha eventually contribute about 98% of the total area burned annually. Careful examination of fire statistics seems to indicate that fire occurrence is increasing in the boreal forest. Boreal forest tree species and ecosystems are adapted to the periodic passage of fire and some would disappear as natural components of the landscape in the absence of fire. Use of fire as a management tool recognizes the natural role of fire and is applied judiciously for ecosystem maintenance and restoration in selected areas. Implications of possible anthropogenically generated climate change are examined within the context of sustainability of the boreal forest biome and the anticipated impact on fire regime and fire management.
4311995|Sulfurous pollutants strongly affect the physiological activities in plants before visible damage can be observed. The effects of accumulated sulfur compounds on the cell metabolism are discussed, especially the harmful interaction of sulfur compounds on photosynthesis. In lichens the sulfurous pollutants are easily accumulated all during the year. As lichens are extremely susceptible to sulfurous pollution, they are recommended as test organisms. It is proposed that the photosynthetic rate of sensitive lichens be used as a biotest to indicate air pollution.
4315305|This paper reviews the experience and status of coastal aquaculture of seaweeds, mollusks, fish and crustaceans in eastern Africa and the islands of the western Indian Ocean. In many respects, coastal aquaculture is still in its infancy in the region, and there is a pressing need to formulate development strategies aimed at improving the income and assuring the availability of affordable protein to coastal communities. This paper also draws from positive and negative experiences in other parts of the world. The requirements of feed and fry, and the conversion of mangroves are used to illustrate how some aquaculture activities constitute a net loss to global seafood production. The paper presents both general and specific sustainability guidelines based on the acknowledgement of aquaculture as an ecological process. It is concluded that without clear recognition of its dependence on natural ecosystems, the aquaculture industry is unlikely to develop to its full potential in the region.
41417390|At the international level, India is emerging as a key actor in climate negotiations, while at the national and sub-national levels, the climate policy landscape is becoming more active and more ambitious. It is essential to unravel this complex landscape if we are to understand why policy looks the way it does, and the extent to which India might contribute to a future international framework for tackling climate change as well as how international parties might cooperate with and support India's domestic efforts. Drawing on both primary and secondary data, this paper analyzes the material and ideational drivers that are most strongly influencing policy choices at different levels, from international negotiations down to individual states. We argue that at each level of decision making in India, climate policy is embedded in wider policy concerns. In the international realm, it is being woven into broader foreign policy strategy, while domestically, it is being shaped to serve national and sub-national development interests. While our analysis highlights some common drivers at all levels, it also finds that their influences over policy are not uniform across the different arenas, and in some cases, they work in different ways at different levels of policy. We also indicate what this may mean for the likely acceptability within India of various climate policies being pushed at the international level.
4315152|This study provides an overview on the phyto- and zooplankton studies made of the Neva Bay and of the changes that have taken place in the plankton community during the 20th century. It is known that plankton respond to changes in water quality, especially to changes in the content of organic matter. Comparisons of the literature data reveal the value of species as indicators of different conditions. Many plankton species in the Neva Bay show great year-to-year fluctuations due to varying environmental conditions. According to the results of studies conducted in 1911-1990, freshwater plankton species have dominated in the Neva Bay. The plankton community has essentially consisted of species transported from Lake Ladoga. Brackish-water species occasionally occurred in the plankton samples of the Neva Bay. High turbidity and rapid throughflow of water limit algal production in the bay and, due to the high outflow, the europhication effects of the catchment area are mainly conducted into the Gulf of Finland.
4315480|The Swedish Regional Climate Modelling Programme, SWECLIM, was a 6.5-year national research network for regional climate modeling, regional climate change projections and hydrological impact assessment and information to a wide range of stakeholders. Most of the program activities focussed on the regional climate system of Northern Europe. This led to the establishment of an advanced, coupled atmosphere-ocean-hydrology regional climate model system, a suite of regional climate change projections and progress on relevant data and process studies. These were, in turn, used for information and educational purposes, as a starting point for impact analyses on different societal sectors and provided contributions also to international climate research.
4314590|In this study we analyze the scope and potential impact of reservoir construction on the world's river systems. Water storage behind the global population of large dams represents a 700% increase in the standing stock of natural river water, with residence times for individual impoundments spanning less than one day to several years. The imprint of such storage persists downstream. The mouths of several large rivers show a reservoir-induced aging of continental runoff that exceeds three months. Globally, the mean age of river water has likely tripled to well over one month. From both case studies and global synthesis, we find that this aging can lead to significant changes in net water balance, flow regime, reoxygenation of surface waters, and sediment transport. The pandemic construction of large reservoirs represents an important component of the terrestrial water cycle and one that merits due consideration in future global change studies.
4314389|Measurements of sea levels, velocities and temperatures, are used to study water exchange and heat flux in Chwaka Bay, a shallow tidal marsh on the East African coast. The bay has an area, ranging from 50 km<sup>2</sup> at high water (HWS) to 20 km<sup>2</sup> at low water (LWS). It is characterized by vast muddy sand flats, partly covered by sea grass. The tide is semidiurnal with a spring tidal range of 3.2 m. The southwestern creek, surrounded by mangrove vegetation, shows a tidal asymmetry with a combination of long ebb periods and high ebb velocities. The water and heat exchange with the ocean is calculated from simultaneous sea level and temperature data. Although the average temperature within the bay is higher than oceanic temperature, there is an average import of heat from the ocean of approx. 50 W m<sup>-2</sup>. Thus, the sum of longwave back radiation, evaporation and sensible heat flux exceeds the net incoming shortwave solar radiation. This negative heat balance is interpreted as a result of reflexion of shortwave radiation at the bottom. The result is supported by a set of figures, featuring the temperature as a function of time of day and time after high tide, which can be used as a guideline for comfortable bathing. Although the bay is almost drained during low tide, and the average residence time is estimated to between -1 day, the residence times for the waters in the inner parts of the bay are substantially longer.
4315063|The factors and plant processes that have been proposed to control treeline location are evaluated for European and North American treelines. While often presented as alternative determinants of treeline, the ideas of the increased environmental hazard coefficient and the idea of tree material limitation are considered to be complementary. This is because plant damage, rather than outright death, coupled with difficult conditions for material acquisition and small available material pools, eventually makes accretion of biomass untenable. The location where this balance is achieved varies with climate, but catastrophic events and human activities make correlation with climate tenuous and future predictions difficult. Field manipulation of conditions for many tree species in many geographic locations at and below the treeline are needed to develop generalizations that are both explanatory and predictive.
4315482|Extreme daily precipitation in Sweden for the years 1961-2000 is analyzed with respect to spatial scale, regional variations and associated weather types. Correlograms based on a lag distance of 30 km estimated the spatial scale of variation of the annual mean precipitation, the 99th percentile of daily precipitation and the average of annual maximum daily precipitation to 100 km, 60-100 km and 40-70 km, respectively. Regions of correlation with respect to precipitation at 82 stations during days of extreme events are identified through Maximum-Likelihood Factor Analysis. Eleven factors are found to provide the optimum factor solution. Weather types for the days of extreme events are determined by an objective classification scheme, based on daily sea level pressure, which is modified by subjective inclusion of fronts. In total, 63% of the extreme events occurred during cyclonic weather types, 32% during frontal, 3% during directional and 2% during anticyclonic types. The frequency of the weather types during extreme events varied between the regions however.
4312779|The impact of ionizing radiation on marine ecosystems following a nuclear war will be relatively less than upon terrestrial ecosystems. The impact from the reduction in the transmission of solar radiation by light-absorbing particles in the atmosphere or from the increased flux of ultraviolet light has been predicted by others to have the potential for large-scale reductions of marine populations at the bottom of the food web. The areas of the ocean most vulnerable to nuclear war are the inshore and coastal regions.
4314945|The rapid economic growth in China has been accompanied by a corresponding increase in pollution. In this paper the extent and effects of acid precipitation and precursors are discussed based on field observations and literature studies. Sulfur dioxide emissions are at present the major cause of acid precipitation, but emissions of nitrogen oxides are increasing. The deposition of sulfur compounds in the most polluted areas in China is higher than in those parts of Eastern and Central Europe which are experiencing severe pollution. Soils and soil waters seem to be acidified in many areas in southern China. Pollution has affected the vitality of forests and other vegetation particularly in and close to urban areas. Surface water acidification is not likely to become a major regional problem in the near future, but streams in some areas, which currently receive little acid deposition, appear to be sensitive to acidification.
4312138| During a period of 15 months the concentration of polychlorinated biphenyls in the Gta River was investigated. On-site, continuous solvent extraction was used to isolate PCB from large water samples. The PCB concentrations were determined by electron capture gas chromatography and were found to be in the range of 0.3-1.2 ng/l. The low concentrations and their small variation support the view that no source of heavy pollution was present along the river. 
24708996|Invasive species, range-expanding species, genetically modified organisms (GMOs), synthetic organisms, and emerging pathogens increasingly affect the human environment. We propose a framework that allows comparison of consecutive stages that such novel organisms go through. The framework provides a common terminology for novel organisms, facilitating knowledge exchange among researchers, managers, and policy makers that work on, or have to make effective decisions about, novel organisms. The framework also indicates that knowledge about the causes and consequences of stage transitions for the better studied novel organisms, such as invasive species, can be transferred to more poorly studied ones, such as GMOs and emerging pathogens. Finally, the framework advances understanding of how climate change can affect the establishment, spread, and impacts of novel organisms, and how biodiversity affects, and is affected by, novel organisms.
4312385|Although the human toxicology of lead has probably been more extensively studied than that of any other toxic element, until the last few years attention has been focused on 1) the effects of industrial exposure of adult males at levels sufficient to produce obvious clinical symptoms and signs, and 2) the effects of clinical lead poisoning in children, generally from chewing painted objects. The convenient concept of supposedly safe threshold levels has been increasingly challenged in recent years. Evidence for children suggests that a continuum of "sub-clinical" toxic effects on brain function extends down to body lead levels previously regarded as normal. This review is largely concerned with adverse effects on behavior and intelligence in nominally asymptomatic children which appear to be associated with disturbances of brain maturation and function resulting from pre and post-natal exposure to lead at "normal" environmental levels. The relative importance of dietary and airborne lead is discussed in this context.
40730867|For more than a decade, anthropogenic sulfur (S) and nitrogen (N) deposition has been identified as a key pollutant in the Arctic. In this study new critical loads of acidity (S and N) were estimated for terrestrial ecosystems north of 60  latitude by applying the Simple Mass Balance (SMB) model using two critical chemical criteria (Al/Bc = 1 and ANC le = 0). Critical loads were exceeded in large areas of northern Europe and the Norilsk region in western Siberia during the 1990s, with the more stringent criterion (ANC le = 0) showing the larger area of exceedance. However, modeled deposition estimates indicate that mean concentrations of sulfur oxides and total S deposition within the Arctic almost halved between 1990 and 2000. The modeled exceeded area is much reduced when currently agreed emission reductions are applied, and almost disappears under the implementation of maximum technically feasible reductions by 2020. In northern North America there was no exceedance under any of the deposition scenarios applied. Modeled N deposition was less than 5 kg ha y almost across the entire study area for all scenarios; and therefore empirical critical loads for the eutrophying impact of nitrogen are unlikely to be exceeded. The reduction in critical load exceedances is supported by observed improvements in surface water quality, whereas the observed extensive damage of terrestrial vegetation around the mining and smelter complexes in the area is mainly caused by direct impacts of air pollution and metals.
24708848|The REDD+ scheme of the United Nations intends to offer developing countries financial incentives to reduce the rates of deforestation and forest degradation for reducing global CO2 emissions. This is combined with building carbon stocks in existing wooded ecosystems and fostering other soil, biodiversity and water conservation objectives. Successful application of REDD+ to the Xylophone Triangle of West Africa faces substantial challenges and risks to both meeting REDD+ objectives and to the local people's rights and livelihoods. The transnationality of the culturally coherent area requires collaboration of three national governments. The opportunities, however, are great to capitalize on the region's biodiversity, the well-developed traditional ecological knowledge and the use of local medicinal plants as an integral part of the agro-ecosystem. Possibilities open to, not only sequester carbon, but also to increase the resilience of the ecosystem and of independent rural livelihoods in the face of climate change and globalization.
4313315|Approaches to avoid the problems associated with traditional federal water construction projects in the United States are discussed. A variety of nontraditional and nonstructural alternatives are described, including long-term leasing of water across state borders to alleviate future water shortages in the Colorado River Basin. Non-structural alternatives should be very attractive to both developed and developing countries because they involve less capital investment, environmental damage, and social disruption.
24708987|Climate change is projected to have a strongly negative effect on water supplies in the arid mountains of South America, significantly impacting millions of people. As one of the poorest countries in the region, Bolivia is particularly vulnerable to such changes due to its limited capacity to adapt. Water security is threatened further by glacial recession with Bolivian glaciers losing nearly half their ice mass over the past 50 years raising serious water management concerns. This review examines current trends in water availability and glacier melt in the Bolivian Andes, assesses the driving factors of reduced water availability and identifies key gaps in our knowledge of the Andean cryosphere. The lack of research regarding permafrost water sources in the Bolivian Andes is addressed, with focus on the potential contribution to mountain water supplies provided by rock glaciers.
4313616|The 5 May 1988 United Nations report clearly states that the nuclear winter theory is supported by current scientific evidence and that a major nuclear war would result in an unprecedented holocaust for the people of combatant and noncombatant nations alike. Nevertheless, nations of the world continue to produce nuclear weapons and make plans for their use. The number of nations with nuclear weapons continues to grow. Although the recent Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) agreement and Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) talks demonstrate the political will to work on this problem, they would still not prevent nuclear winter when fully implemented. The principal political implication of nuclear winter is that nuclear weapons cannot be used as an instrument of war or policy. Even a "first strike" or a "limited nuclear war" would be likely to result in nuclear winter for the aggressor as well as for the rest of humanity. The only solution is to resolve conflicts in nonviolent ways. Star Wars is not the answer. Plans for first use of nuclear weapons exacerbate the problem. Obstacles on the road to solving the problem of nuclear weapons include the military-industrial-scientific-technical complex and regional conflicts.
4312074|Air pollution produces not only local effects, but also effects which extend on a worldwide basis. Some of these effects may cause changes in the biosphere, eg climatic changes as a result of changes in the radiation properties of the atmosphere. The fate of some of the main pollutants and natural gases in the atmosphere is reviewed.
4314693|Mercury (Hg) emissions from informal gold mining operations represent a serious environmental problem in developing countries. In Amazonia, from 70 to 170 tonnes (t) of Hg are discharged annually. The extent of biota contamination is also widespread. Mercury must be rendered soluble and then converted into methylmercury in order to accumulate in the food-chain. Generally, it is regarded that Hg must be oxidized to produce significant dissolution. In this work, we examine the stability of mercury as the unoxidized aqueous elemental Hg o (aq.) in aquatic environments. In contact with organic acids, evidence of Hg-organic complex formation has been found from both thermodynamic analysis and electrochemical experiments. Although methylation of these soluble species is not fully understood, formation of such complexes in darkwater rivers must contribute to increased bioavailability.
4312373|One source of the increasing cadmium pollution of our environment may be the cadmium pigments used in plastics and the cadmium added to polyvinylchloride as a stabilizer. To provide data on whether cadmium can migrate from the plastic into the soil and become available for plant uptake, samples of plastics were added to test soils on which spring wheat was grown annually for four years. Yield was measured, and cadmium contents were determined in the harvested grain and straw by use of atomic absorption spectroscopy. The results showed that plastic-bound Cd can migrate into the soil and become available for plants.
4313073|Investigations of natural regeneration following clear-fell logging operations in the Gogol Valley, Papua New Guinea, were initiated in 1983 on a 0.2 hectare plot near the Sapi River. Six months after logging, the site was almost covered by regrowth dominated by small fast growing secondary trees. The regrowth comprised 51 genera with 60 species and a total density of
4315677|Tropical forest people often suffer from the same processes that threaten biodiversity. An improved knowledge of what is important to local people could improve decision making. This article examines the usefulness of explicitly asking what is important to local people. Our examples draw on biodiversity surveys in East Kalimantan (Indonesian Borneo). With local communities we characterized locally valued habitats, species, and sites, and their significance. This process clarified various priorities and threats, suggested refinements and limits to management options, and indicated issues requiring specific actions, further investigation, or both. It also shows how biological evaluations are more efficient with local guidance, and reveals potential for collaborations between local communities and those concerned with conservation. Such evaluations are a first step in facilitating the incorporation of local concerns into higher-level decision making. Conservationists who engage with local views can benefit from an expanded constituency, and from new opportunities for pursuing effective conservation.
4314698|The article examines the history of forest declines, and presents a concise account of the European forest monitoring and research programs of the last 15 years. The critical loads approach is identified as a key mechanism for taking scientific evidence through to policy formulation. For forest ecosystems the approach is of particular importance because is provides a quantification of the link between pollutant inputs and biological sustainability.
4312743|Energy resource development in the most arid of the United States' western coal regions, the Chaco area of New Mexico's San Juan Basin, may accelerate desertification, deplete already scarce water supplies, undermine the Navajo Indian way of life, dramatically degrade air quality, and compromise fossil and archeological resources of world importance. The Chaco region, part of the energy-rich Four Corners Area, is already impacted by the world's largest coal mine and power generating complex, plus the little-understood health hazards from mining and milling about 30 percent of the uranium produced in the United States.
41417400|A re-survey of acid-sensitive lakes in Ireland (initial survey 1997) was carried out during spring 2007 (n = 60). Since 1997, atmospheric emissions of sulfur dioxide and deposition of non-marine sulfate (SO00B207B;) in Ireland have decreased by ~63 and 36%, respectively. Comparison of water chemistry between surveys showed significant decreases in the concentration of SO00B207B;, nonmarine SO00B, and non-marine base cations. In concert, alkalinity increased significantly; however, no change was observed in surface water pH and total aluminum. High inter-annual variability in sea salt inputs and increasing (albeit non-significant) dissolved organic carbon may have influenced the response of pH and total aluminum (as ~ 70% is organic aluminum). Despite their location on the western periphery of Europe, and dominant influence from Atlantic air masses, the repeat survey suggests that the chemistry of small Irish lakes has shown a significant response to reductions in air pollution driven primarily by the implementation of the Gothenburg Protocol under the UNECE Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution.
4314515|The golden apple snail (Pomacea canaliculata) was introduced intentionally into Asia in 1980 with the expectation that it could be cultivated as a high-protein food source for local consumption and as an export commodity for high-income countries. It has since invaded Asian rice systems, where it is dispersed through extensive irrigation networks and feeds voraciously on young rice seedlings. This paper analyzes the economics of the golden apple snail invasion in Asia. The Philippines is used as a case study to quantify the direct, on-farm costs associated with yield loss, replanting, and snail control. The analysis shows that the cumulative (present-value) costs of the snail invasion to Philippine rice agriculture in 1990 were between USD 425 and USD 1200 mill., even without taking into account the nonmarket damages to human health and ecosystems. If this amount were invested in an effective quarantine and inspection program for nonindigenous species, similar exotic pest problems in agriculture could be avoided in the future.
4314624|In China, major agroforestry systems are estimated to cover 45 million ha. Agrosilviculture is a dominant practice. Aquasilvicultures, e.g. tree-fish-arable crop and tree-fish-livestock systems, are alternatives for land use in the wetlands. Silvopastoral systems are popular in the northern and western regions. Compared to a monoculture, well-managed systems have many benefits. The recycling of residues is expected to increase the efficient use of natural resources. The C sink in the vegetation of major agroforestry systems in China was 179 Tg yr
41417387|Stabilizing global greenhouse gas concentrations at levels to avoid significant climate risks will require massive "decarbonization" of all the major economies over the next few decades, in addition to the reduced emissions from other GHGs and carbon sequestration. Achieving the necessary scale of emissions reductions will require a multifaceted policy effort to support a broad array of technological and behavioral changes. Change on this scale will require sound, well-thought-out strategies. In this article, we outline some core principles, drawn from recent social science research, for guiding the design of clean technology policies, with a focus on energy. The market should be encouraged to make good choices: pricing carbon emissions and other environmental damage, removing distorting subsidies and barriers to competition, and supporting RD&D broadly. More specific policies are required to address particular market failures and barriers. For those technologies identified as being particularly desirable, some narrower RD&D policies are available.
4315206|Over the past three decades, with a combination of new technology, rising female literacy rates, and strengthened family planning programs, the world has seen dramatic increases in the use of contraception, with corresponding declines in fertility and population growth rates. At the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo in 1994, parties pledged a tripling of funding for reproductive health programs in developing countries. Many demographers believe that making such programs more widely available to women would extend the decline in birth rates and shift the world towards the low scenario of United Nations population projections over the next century and a half, By examining the costs and impacts of such programs, in view of the links between population and carbon emissions, this paper shows that extension of voluntary family planning could make a large and cost-effective contribution to the greenhouse gas limitation goals of the Kyoto Protocol that was negotiated in 1997.
4315377|Aquaculture has been seen as a solution to food/protein availability in rural populations of poor countries. It is mainly based on exotic species, that produce changes in host system dynamics once introduced. Aquaculture not only changes the ecology of freshwater systems, but can also lead to modification of social relations. Until now, aquaculture programs have not been adequately analyzed no questioned enough. We evaluate both ecological effects and local social benefits of common carp aquaculture programs in shallow ponds of rural areas, using a municipality in Central Mexico as a case study. Using an "environmental entitlements" approach, our findings suggest that: i) carp aquaculture increases water turbidity and depletes native species reducing the poor people's access to them; ii) aquaculture mainly benefits pond owners rather than poor peasants. This mainly results from changes in fishing rights. We conclude that aquaculture policy goals and assumptions of benefits should be reviewed, if the negative ecological effects are to be decreased and conditions for people in rural areas are to be improved.
4314488|This paper describes the impacts on the future availability of water in Egypt of driving forces operating at three different scales in the Nile Basin: global (climate change), regional (land-use change) and river basin (water-resources management). Global and regional driving forces are taken from an integrated model for the assessment of climate change (IMAGE 2.0) and from the results of Global Climate Model experiments. Regional hydrologic models of the largest Nile tributaries are used to calculate the impacts on Main Nile discharge. River-basin driving forces are considered through a set of future water-resource management strategies in Egypt. The combined effects of all three driving forces on future water availability in Egypt range from a large water surplus to a large water deficit by the year 2050. This range of results arises from uncertainties in the integrated modelling approach used and from the different ways Egypt may approach population growth, agricultural policy and human aspirations for greater water use in the future.
4315481| Recent mild and wet years in Sweden were compared with long observation series of temperature, precipitation and runoff. Spatial average series for northern and southern Sweden were constructed and analyzed for the period 1901-2002. Precipitation increased considerably during the period, whereas temperature and runoff increases were weaker. On average, for the whole country, the differences between the period 1991-2002 and 1901-1990 were + 0.7C for temperature, + 11% in precipitation and + 7% in runoff. The differences in temperature and precipitation, but not runoff, were significant at the 5% level. However, the 1930s were equally mild, and the runoff was almost as high in the 1920s. The characteristic feature of the past decade is the combination of high temperature, precipitation and runoff. The deviation between the most recent decade and the preceding years is consistent with climate scenario projections for Sweden, but there are also differences in the seasonal pattern. 
4314307|The ecotoxicological implications of persistent contaminants in the Baltic became clear during the 1950s and 1960s when mercury, DDT, and PCB were identified in Baltic organisms at different trophic levels. However, new chemicals are still produced and used for various applications without proper knowledge about their potential environmental impact. Bis(4-chlorophenyl) sulfone (BCPS) is used in the production of high-temperature polymers, it may also be used in reactive dyes, it is a byproduct in pesticide production, and a potential pesticide. This paper shows that BCPS has also been identified as a contaminant in perch (Perca fluviatilis) muscle from three different locations in the Latvian coastal area. BCPS was also found in grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) blubber and in an egg from white-tailed sea eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla) from the Swedish Bothnian Sea and Baltic proper coasts. The concentration of BCPS in the perch samples (40 to 100 ng g
24708779|The study shows extensive oil contamination of rivers, creeks, and ground waters in Ogoniland, Nigeria. The levels found in the more contaminated sites are high enough to cause severe impacts on the ecosystem and human health: extractable petroleum hydrocarbons (EPHs) (>10-C40) in surface waters up to 7420 g L1, drinking water wells show up to 42 200 g L1, and benzene up to 9000 g L1, more than 900 times the WHO guidelines. EPH concentrations in sediments were up to 17 900 mg kg1. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons concentrations reached 8.0 mg kg1, in the most contaminated sites. The contamination has killed large areas of mangroves. Although the natural conditions for degradation of petroleum hydrocarbons are favorable with high temperatures and relatively high rainfall, the recovery of contaminated areas is prevented due to the chronic character of the contamination. Oil spills of varying magnitude originates from facilities and pipelines; leaks from aging, dilapidated, and abandoned infrastructure; and from spills during transport and artisanal refining of stolen oil under very primitive conditions.
4312476|Conifer seedlings were treated with DDT and lindane before being planted in a reforestation area. Samples were taken at intervals from the planted seedlings and the surrounding soil and analyzed for DDT components and lindane. The loss of the insecticides from the seedlings as well as their occurrence and distribution in the soil was determined.
25094546|Many of the problems coupled to large local discharges of contaminants to the Gulf of Bothnia are now decreasing, although the concentrations of pollutants in sediments and biota will remain high for a long time. The long-term development of the pollution situation in the Gulf of Bothnia will essentially be governed by conditions outside the area. Many contaminants are widely spread and may accumulate far from the sources. Therefore, differences in vulnerability will be crucial for where environmental effects occur. The ecosystems of the Gulf of Bothnia are particularly vulnerable because of almost oligotrophic conditions and a climate that may favor accumulation of persistent organic pollutants.
4315331| Total mercury content was evaluated in water and suspended sediment samples of the Moji-Guau river and in water and bottom sediment of its 3 marginal lagoons (Catingueiro, Barrinha, and Rio das Pedras), located downstream of the sampling point in the main channel. In all situations, low Hg concentrations were found in suspended and bottom sediments. Aluminum was used as a geochemical tracer to normalize the Hg concentrations in the sediment cores from the Rio das Pedras lagoon (r = 0.92). It was estimated that the Moji-Guau river transports up to 19 kg Hg yr
4312649|The author describes the biosphere reserve system in the USSR and underscores the significance of these areas as sites for long-term ecological monitoring. They also provide a vehicle for international collaboration in scientific and technological development activities, to improve our understanding of the inter-relationship between human activities and the environment. The potential value of bisophere reserves in conducting studies of the structure and functions of ecosystems is also discussed. The need for long-term ecological research in a wide variety of areas using methods that give accurate and comparable sets of data is stressed.
25547946|Fire-dependent pine forests in the Caribbean Basin cover extensive areas in the coastal plain of the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico and on several islands in the Bahamas Archipelago, Cuba, Hispaniola, and the Honduran Bay islands. These forests are high in conservation value but, unfortunately, remain mostly unprotected. Moreover, even though they are fire dependent, the use of fire for forest management often suffers from poor public perception and is prohibited by law in several countries. In this paper, we describe the fundamental links among fire, forest regeneration, and forest persistence in these ecosystems. We identify two general strategies based on the presence or absence of pine seedling adaptations for fire survival and describe management implications of these two strategies. We also introduce conceptual models describing fire, forest structure, and regeneration strategy linkages.
4313877|The role of population growth in past history and present and future economic growth and development is still not well understood. The spectacular growth of world population in the past has been closely associated with economic progress and growing prosperity, and the evidence of its harmful effect on development is weaker than often thought. Poverty and famine in developing countries should usually not be ascribed to population growth but to natural disasters and disastrous policies. The demographic transition adjusts birth rates to death rates but only with a lag, and world population will rise considerably well into the next century no matter what governments in developing countries do to encourage family planning. Population is not a policy variable that governments can turn on or off at will. Policy attention should be directed not only to restraining population, but to ways to accommodate the inevitable and to promote and develop technologies that will make this possible with minimal environmental destruction.
4313835|Recent reports have suggested that the fixed nitrogen which deposits from the atmosphere onto the watershed is a significant fraction of total anthropogenic loading of nitrogen to the Chesapeake Bay. A different approach was used here to estimate the atmospheric contribution of nitrogen to Narragansett Bay, the New York Bight, Ochlockonee Bay, Laholm Bay, and Chesapeake Bay. There is probably at least a factor of four uncertainty in loading estimates. The large uncertainty results primarily from fundamental inadequacies in determining the magnitude of a variety of process which control nitrogen behavior in terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems. Using best estimate assumptions, deposition can, in some cases, represent a significant fraction of total anthropogenic nitrogen loading. The best estimates of the contribution of nitrogen reaching these ecosystems via emissions and deposition, relative to the total anthropogenic inputs of nitrogen, ranged from 11% to essentially 100%.
4314637|A large, densely populated catchment area dominating water quality of land runoff, stratification of the brackish water, a residence time of 25 years, intermittent renewal of oxygenated bottom water from the North Sea, few plant and animal species already stressed by low salinity, make the Baltic Sea vulnerable to changes in external forcings such as increased inputs of nutrients and toxic substances. A severalfold increase of nutrient inputs and primary production since the beginning of the century has increased the area of anoxic bottoms, decreased the transparency of the water by 2.5-3 m, favored filamentous annual algae at the expense of coarse, perennial ones-like the important bladderwrack (Fucus vesiculosus)-changed the fish community from cod, salmon, pike and perch toward herring, sprat, bream, and roach. Because they are a major source of external nitrogen, a shift in current agricultural practices has to be made including: tree curtains to increase patchiness, biodiversity and natural pest control; catch crops along rivers; matching animal density and crop types to achieve optimal recycling of nutrients. So far, integrated land use, based on operative ecological-socioeconomic models, is the most powerful policy instrument for a sustainable agriculture.
4311950| The boron content of a large number of Swedish and Norwegian fresh waters was studied in 1970. Twenty stations from the Swedish water sampling network were selected to follow the variation during one year. A synoptic study was performed in the summer of 1970. A modified curcumin method was used for the determination of total boron in fresh waters. The median value of the boron content in 355 water samples was estimated at 12 g B/l. The yield ranged from about 20 to 115 g B/hayr. 
4314549|Following the pioneering contributions of Arrhenius, Callendar and others, climate models emerged as a very promising tool for the study of greenhouse warming. In the early 1960s, a one-dimensional, radiative-convective equilibrium model was developed as the first step towards the development of a three-dimensional model of climate. Incorporating not only the radiative but also the convective heat exchange between the earth's surface and the atmosphere, the model overcame the difficulty encountered by the earlier approach of surface radiative heat balance in estimating the magnitude of greenhouse warming. By the 1970s, a three-dimensional, general circulation model (GCM) of the atmosphere, coupled to a very idealized ocean of swamp-like wet surface, had been used for studies of greenhouse warming. Despite many drastic simplifications, the GCM was very effective for elucidating the physical mechanisms that control global warming and served as a stepping stone towards the use of more comprehensive, coupled ocean-atmosphere GCMs for the study of this problem.
41417326|This study was conducted in the Swedish sub-Arctic, near Abisko, in order to assess the direction and scale of possible vegetation changes in the alpine-birch forest ecotone. We have re-surveyed shrub, tree and vegetation data at 549 plots grouped into 61 clusters. The plots were originally surveyed in 1997 and re-surveyed in 2010. Our study is unique for the area as we have quantitatively estimated a 19% increase in tree biomass mainly within the existing birch forest. We also found significant increases in the cover of two vegetation types "birch forest-heath with mosses" and "meadow with low herbs", while the cover of snowbed vegetation decreased significantly. The vegetation changes might be caused by climate, herbivory and past human impact but irrespective of the causes, the observed transition of the vegetation will have substantial effects on the mountain ecosystems.
4312726|The Wider Caribbean Region is in the process of rapid development. Some countries are developing energy-intensive heavy industries; others have been attracting equally hazardous non-resource-based "enclave" industries. Most countries are heavily dependent on imports of food, and are attempting to increase their own food production by devoting more land to agriculture-often by clearing forests-and by increasing the use of agricultural chemicals. Coastal tourism plays an important economic role and may be reaching the saturation point. The region is characterized by a high population growth rate and a high rate of urbanization. All of these factors cause significant disruption of the natural environment, and the region's resource base is threatened. An important first step to prevent environmental damage has been the adoption of an action plan for environmental management by the governments of the region.
40390241|Recent research in northern Europe has revised many long-held conceptions of the complexity of forest ecosystems and their natural structure and dynamics. The unveiling of the picture of natural characteristics of forest ecosystem structure and dynamics reveals much more diversity than its traditional complement, highlighting the importance of non-stand-replacing disturbances and the associated heterogeneous and dynamic stand and landscape structures. This increasing detail is a reflection of a fundamental change in the ecological understanding of forests as complex ecosystems. In particular, the generalization that the boreal forest is regulated by fierce stand-replacing disturbances, leading to the dominance of even-aged stand successions, has been disproved. However, this misconception has, until now, been repeated and used to legitimize the dominant practice of clear-cutting as a nature-based way to manage the forest. The practical conclusion of this review paper is that the dominating forest management model in North European boreal forests, which is based on the clear-cut harvesting of timber and growing of even-aged stands, is in contradiction with the variable and complex characteristics of the disturbance-succession cycle observed in naturally dynamic forests with negligible human impact. As a consequence, the structural variation of the boreal forest under management has been grossly truncated compared with its natural range. Because of this, and due to the scarcity of protection areas in many regions of northern Europe, it is not likely that the conservation of native biodiversity and ecological sustainability will be attained, assuming that the model of forest management remains unchanged. Thus, there is a strong incentive for change in the prevailing forest management model toward one that is based on natural ecosystem dynamics and an understanding of forests as complex systems.
4313600|While many will agree to the desirability of conserving biodiversity, governments still have difficulty in finding sufficient financial resources for addressing the problems of conservation in a way that is commensurate with the needs of society. Innovative funding mechanisms are required.
25515828|Land degradation is a global development and environment issue that afflicts China more than most countries in terms of the extent, economic impact, and number of people affected. Up-to-date, quantitative information is needed to support policy and action for food and water security, economic development, and environmental integrity. Data for a defined, recent period enable us to distinguish the legacy of historical land degradation from what is happening now. We define land degradation as long-term decline in ecosystem function and productivity and measure it by remote sensing of the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), the greenness index. NDVI may be translated to net primary productivity (NPP). Deviation from the norm serves as a proxy assessment of land degradation and improvement-if other factors that may be responsible are taken into account. These other factors include climate, which may be assessed by rain-use efficiency and energy-use efficiency. Analysis of the 23-year Global Inventory Modeling and Mapping Studies (GIMMS) NDVI data reveals that, in China over the period 1981-2003, NPP increased overall, but areas of declining climate-adjusted NPP comprise 23% of the country, mainly in south China. About 35% of China's population (457 million out of 1 317 million) depend on the degrading land. Degrading areas suffered a loss of NPP of 12 kgC ha y, amounting to almost 60 million tC not fixed from the atmosphere; loss of soil organic carbon from these areas is likely to be orders of magnitude greater. There is no correlation between land degradation and dry lands; it is more of an issue in cropland and forest: 21% of degrading land is cropland and 40% is forest, 24% of the arable and 44% of the forest, respectively. There is no simple statistical relationship between land degradation and rural population density or poverty. Most identified land degradation is in the south and east, driven by unprecedented land-use change.
4312051|A longitudinal study of persistent pesticides and pollutants in Swedish foods over the past ten years reveals decreasing levels in many instances. This can be attributed to administrative measures and restricted use patterns. Mercury in foods of animal origin (meat, eggs, liver) has decreased to 1/3-1/6 of levels present before the ban of methylmercury as a seed dressing agent. Mercury levels in fish have decreased in eg several water areas earlier exposed to phenylmercury emission from wood pulp and paper pulp factories, but no decrease has been observed in the vicinity of chlorine-alkali industries. DDT has decreased in human breast milk, mainly due to replacement of DDT in home formulations in the midsixties. In contrast, DDE and PCB have not diminished in human milk-the main alimentary source of these compounds is fish with high fat content.
4313455|Mangroves and seagrasses show similar global patterns of generic richness, characterized by a maximum variety in the Indo-West Pacific where the countries of East Asia are situated. Unfortunately, these ecosystems are being destroyed by both natural and human-induced stresses. Natural stresses to the vegetation take the form of tropical cyclones, typhoons, tidal waves, volcanic activity, pests and diseases, and population interactions. On the other hand, man-induced stresses comprise the uncontrolled exploitation by traditional users and destructive activities unrelated to sustainable uses of the resources. Mangrove and seagrass coastal ecosystems are intricately linked by physical and nutrient interactions, animal migrations, and human impact. These habitat interconnections remain a key factor in the management of mangrove and seagrass resources in the East Asian region.
4314616|Indonesia's coral reefs are currently undergoing rapid destruction from human activities including: poison fishing; blast fishing; coral mining; sedimentation; pollution and overfishing. In this paper, these destructive activities are described and the private gains from these activities accruing to individuals are compared with the associated costs to society. It is shown that the social costs by far outweigh the short-term private gains. Yet, powerful forces have a clear interest in maintaining the status quo of destruction. These forces vary from high risk, high payoff poison fishing to poverty-trap activities such as coral mining. The paper concludes with a discussion on designing appropriate policy responses such as: local threat-based approach; national threat-based approach; integrated coastal zone management; and the use of marine protected areas.
4313164|India and China, both heavy consumers of biomass, have devoted considerable resources to the development of viable biogas programs. The Chinese have emphasized a grassroots approach that ensures profitable investment by individual households, collectives and the state. The Indian program has been characterized by a top-down approach that has been less cost-efficient. Nevertheless, the institutional system for implementing biogas programs in both countries seems to be evolving towards a similar framework.
4314094|In this article we discuss the hypothesis that atmospheric deposition of acidifying substances to terrestrial ecosystems increase the leaching of trace metals from soils and thereby can alter the balance between phytoplankton species in coastal waters. The hypothesis is based on the following arguments: i) pH has a strong influence on the sorption of metals in soils and sediments and thus on the concentrations of metals in water; ii) Acidification has been shown to increase the mobility of several trace metals in soils and in lake sediments; iii) Trace metals can both enhance and inhibit the growth of marine phytoplankton, in a species-specific way; and iv) Several trace metals essential for phytoplankton growth are found in growth-limiting concentrations in seawater whereas concentrations are high in acidified river water. It is shown for acidified running waters draining to the Kattegat on the Swedish west coast that the concentrations of cobalt, one of the essential trace metals for phytoplankton growth, are inversely related to the pH of the water. It is also shown that the effects of cobalt on the growth of coastal phytoplankton is species-specific, and that concentrations of cobalt in the open Kattegat are in the range where limitation or inhibition of phytoplankton growth could be expected.
4315422|The invasion of Salvinia molesta in the Lower Senegal River Delta in Mauritania and Senegal in 1999 posed a serious threat to the socioeconomic conditions of the local people as well as to wetland biodiversity. Eventually, an effective biological control of S. molesta was obtained by means of the weevil Cyrtobagous salviniae, which was introduced in the river in Senegal and Mauritania in May 2000 and in Senegal in April 2001. In October 2001, it became apparent that the weevils were doing a magnificent job. The color of the plants was turning from green to dark-brown or black, and subsequently the plants started to sink to the bottom. Detailed monitoring of the dispersal of C. salviniae in November-December 2001 confirmed the visual observations of the outcome of biological control. In April 2002, it could be concluded that S. molesta was no longer a problem in the Senegal River.
4315774|To evaluate the radiological impact of potential releases to the biosphere from a geological repository for spent nuclear fuel, it is necessary to assess the long-term dynamics of the distribution of radionuclides in the environment. In this paper, we propose an approach for making prognoses of the distribution and fluxes of radionuclides released from the geosphere, in discharges of contaminated groundwater, to an evolving landscape. The biosphere changes during the temperate part (spanning approximately 20 000 years) of an interglacial period are handled by building biosphere models for the projected succession of situations. Radionuclide transport in the landscape is modeled dynamically with a series of interconnected radioecological models of those ecosystem types (sea, lake, running water, mire, agricultural land and forest) that occur at present, and are projected to occur in the future, in a candidate area for a geological repository in Sweden. The transformation between ecosystems is modeled as discrete events occurring every thousand years by substituting one model by another. Examples of predictions of the radionuclide distribution in the landscape are presented for several scenarios with discharge locations varying in time and space. The article also outlines an approach for estimating the exposure of man resulting from all possible reasonable uses of a potentially contaminated landscape, which was used for derivation of Landscape Dose Factors.
4313138|Fish livers are frequently the tissue samples analyzed when monitoring heavy metal concentrations in fish from the marine environment. In this study, fat concentrations and levels of Cu, Zn, Cd and Pb were determined in six sets of cod liver samples. The content of fat in the livers was found to be an important factor in explaining the observed variations in heavy metal concentrations. It was concluded that: -if the results of monitoring tests are to be comparable, the fat content must be considered when determining the residue levels of heavy metals in cod liver. -to improve the comparability of measurements of heavy metals in fish liver, the chemistry leading to the observed variations should be known.
4314594|Bottlenose dolphins resident in the Moray Firth, NE Scotland, display a variety of skin lesions and physical deformities which appear to be signs of disease, the cause of which is unknown. The population is isolated and small (around 130 individuals) and it is important to determine the severity of this problem to establish if there is cause for concern. Assessing the health of free-ranging marine mammals is difficult. We used photographs of individuals, taken over a four year period, to provide a full and systematic description of the types of lesions and deformities present and to document the prevalence of each type. Overall, 95% of dolphins sampled showed one or more types of lesion on the back or dorsal fin; 61% had three or more types and 5% had six or seven types. Six percent of animals displayed deformities. Lesions on adult females and calves covered significantly greater areas of skin than on adult males or sub-adults. The results show that visible disease is a prominent feature of this population and is, therefore, a cause for concern. The next step is to establish whether this is a natural feature or is anthropogenically induced and the findings are discussed in this context.
4313651|The chlorine bound to identified pollutants normally contribute to less than 10-15% of the extractable, organically bound chlorine (EOCI) in fish and about 5% in sediments. Recent findings indicate that some of the unidentified EOCI is in the form of compounds with molecular weights similar to those of lipids. The objective of this study was, therefore, to hydrolyze EOCI from fish and sediment samples and to characterize the hydrolysis products. Before hydrolysis, the EOCI compounds are neutral. Between 60 and 80% of EOCI was hydrolyzed by lipase, and 30% of cod liver EOCI was recovered as acidic material. The findings showed that a considerable portion of the unidentified, chlorinated substances is bound in esters.
4315443| Long-term trends in the Secchi depth of the Baltic Sea have been interpreted in terms of eutrophication (1, 2). The spectral attenuation coefficient K
41417415|The primary targets of our project are to drastically improve the photovoltaic conversion efficiency and to develop new energy storage and delivery technologies. Our approach to obtain an efficiency over 40% starts from the improvement of III-V multi-junction solar cells by introducing a novel material for each cell realizing an ideal combination of bandgaps and lattice-matching. Further improvement incorporates quantum structures such as stacked quantum wells and quantum dots, which allow higher degree of freedom in the design of the bandgap and the lattice strain. Highly controlled arrangement of either quantum dots or quantum wells permits the coupling of the wavefunctions, and thus forms intermediate bands in the bandgap of a host material, which allows multiple photon absorption theoretically leading to a conversion efficiency exceeding 50%. In addition to such improvements, microfabrication technology for the integrated high-efficiency cells and the development of novel material systems that realizes high efficiency and low cost at the same time are investigated.
24708978|Assessments of radiological impacts on humans and other biota from potential releases to the biosphere from a deep geologic repository for spent nuclear fuel are associated with several challenges. Releases, if any, will likely occur in a far future and to an environment that will have experienced substantial transformations. Such releases would occur over very long periods during which environmental conditions will vary continuously due to climate change and ecosystem succession. Assessments of radiological impacts must therefore be based on simulations using models that can describe the transport and accumulation of radionuclides for a large variety of environmental conditions. In this paper we describe such a model and show examples of its application in a safety assessment, taking into account results from sensitivity and uncertainty analyses of the model predictions.
4314699|The article presents two contrasting views of deforestation and groundwater recharge/dry season flow. Seven variables causing the dichotomy are identified and analyzed. These include the comparative importance of various hydrological processes, research methodological aspects, people's perception of change, and unclear definitions. A simple model indicating the most likely catchment response to deforestation is presented. Recharge through macropores is argued to be the key mechanism for conveying rainwater to groundwater in the dry tropics. Management aspects of forests and water are discussed.
4313149|Increased energy efficiency and an aggregate demand kept to moderate levels till allow bioenergy to play a role in satisfying future energy needs. Biomass-based electricity generation and liquid-fuels production are two areas on which research and development efforts should concentrate. Financial incentives to encourage conversion of biomass into fuel are needed.
4315487|Climate change resulting from the enhanced greenhouse effect is expected to give rise to changes in hydrological systems. This hydrological change, as with the change in climate variables, will vary regionally around the globe. Impact studies at local and regional scales are needed to assess how different regions will be affected. This study focuses on assessment of hydrological impacts of climate change over a wide range of Swedish basins. Different methods of transferring the signal of climate change from climate models to hydrological models were used. Several hydrological model simulations using regional climate model scenarios from Swedish Regional Climate Modelling Programme (SWECLIM) are presented. A principal conclusion is that subregional impacts to river flow vary considerably according to whether a basin is in northern or southern Sweden. Furthermore, projected hydrological change is just as dependent on the choice of the global climate model used for regional climate model boundary conditions as the choice of anthropogenic emissions scenario.
25547926|This paper outlines the importance of the policy context for monitoring with and for raptors, and, conversely, of the importance of such monitoring for policy. It then outlines two key areas of European Union (EU) environmental policy most relevant to monitoring for and with raptors, namely biodiversity policy and pollution policy. For each of the policy areas, the pertinent objectives and actions of the current EU policy are identified, and their relevance for raptor monitoring is discussed. The potential contribution of raptor monitoring to the further development of these policy areas is also addressed.
4314818|Coral reefs are an important resource base for many coastal communities throughout the Western Indian Ocean region (WIO). With the continued growth of coastal populations and the concomitant increase in the need for marine resources, coral reefs stand at the face of overexploitation in many countries, and are being subjected to widespread degradation due to destructive fishing practices and pollution. Within this setting, the islands of Zanzibar exhibit almost all of the problems seen throughout the WIO, and so serve to exemplify some of the issues involved. Zanzibar has extensive coral reefs, which are actively used as a resource base by an increasing coastal population. At the same time, the expansion of urban areas and the development of coastal tourist facilities means that the coral reefs are coming under increasing pressure to provide even more resources than they have historically been required to deliver. At the same time, they are recipients of increasing levels of pollutants from expanding human populations, and they are subject to a range of physically destructive activities. In general terms, the reefs of Zanzibar are in comparatively good condition although there are clear areas of significant perturbation adjacent to certain urban areas and areas of high visitation. The main anthropogenic threats to the coral reefs of Zanzibar include overexploitation, destructive activities (fishing and anchor damage), and pollution. There are indications that overfishing of key species may be leading to a decline in certain economic species as well as ecological shifts in the benthic communities of some reef areas. As is often the case regionally, the lack of historical data limits attempts to resolve the true impact of some of these factors. In line with perceived local problems, a number of activities have been undertaken in Zanzibar to address specific coral-reef related issues, and these are discussed here in the light of the larger regional setting. Some discussion is also centered around the basic issues that undermine the sustainable management of coral reefs in Zanzibar, and how these problems are being dealt with in other parts of the WIO.
4314243|This article presents results from a survey of woody biomass on farmland in Kenya. The survey covered the 10 mill. ha of high-potential land where 80% of the country's population lives. Contrary to prevailing beliefs, a rapid increase of planted woody biomass between years 1986-1992 was discovered. The annual increase was estimated at 4.7%. The survey also revealed that wood on farmlands can become a major source of raw materials for the wood industry, since the standing volume is larger than that found in conventional forests. Previous conclusions, i.e. that population density is positively correlated with the volume of planted woody biomass, were confirmed by the survey finding of a high ( r
4315766|The water exchange of the Baltic coastal zone is characterized by its seasonally varying regimes. In the safety assessment of a potential repository for spent nuclear fuel, it is important to assess the consequences of a hypothetical leak of radionuclides through the seabed into a waterborne transport phase. In particular, estimates of the associated residence times in the near-shore coastal zone are of interest. There are several methods to quantify such measures, of which three are presented here. Using the coastal location of Forsmark (Sweden) as an example, methods based on passive tracers, particle trajectories, and the average age distribution of exogeneous water parcels are compared for a representative one-year cycle. Tracer-based methods can simulate diffusivity more realistically than the other methods. Trajectory-based methods can handle Lagrangian dispersion processes due to advection but neglect diffusion on the sub-grid scale. The method based on the concept of average age (AvA) of exogeneous water can include all such sources simultaneously not only boundary water bodies but also various (fresh)-water discharges. Due to the inclusion of sub-grid diffusion this method gives a smoother measure of the water renewal. It is shown that backward in time trajectories and AvA-times are basically equipollent methods, yielding correlated results within the limits set by the diffusivity.
4315622|To study future, sustainable production systems, a step-wise method was used to create three future scenarios for pig production based on different sustainability goals. The first scenario focused on animal welfare and the natural behavior of the animals. The second targeted low impacts on the environment and the efficient use of natural resources. The third scenario aimed at product quality and safety. Each scenario fulfilled different aspects of sustainability, but there were goal conflicts because no scenario fulfilled all sustainability goals. The scenarios were then parameterized. The environmental impact was calculated using the life-cycle assessment (LCA) methodology, and the economic cost was calculated from the same data set. The cost per kilo of pork was highest for the animal welfare scenario and similar for the other two scenarios. The environmental scenario had the lowest environmental impact, and the product-quality scenario the highest. The results are discussed based on different future priorities.
4313931|Biodiversity, the vast array of non-human organisms of our planet, should be valued for four general reasons. First, we (and many others) believe that, as the dominant species on Earth, Homo sapiens has an ethical, stewardship responsibility towards humanity's only known living companions in the universe. Second, as attested to by activities as diverse as gardening, making of nature films, and ecotourism, biodiversity has esthetic values. Third, humanity has derived many direct economic values from biodiversity, including all of its food and many of its medicines and industrial products. The potential of nature's genetic library for providing more of these benefits is enormous. Fourth, and most important from an anthropocentric perspective, plants, animals, and microorganisms help to supply human beings with an array of free ecosystem services, without which civilization could not persist. These include such things as controlling the gaseous mix of the atmosphere, generating and maintaining soils, controlling pests, and running biogeochemical cycles. The present extinction episode caused by human activity seriously jeopardizes the ethical, aesthetic, direct economic and life-support values of biodiversity; it may be the single most important externality associated with human economic activity.
4312244|Quoting figures from the global mid-decade survey of the World Health Organization, the author suggests that the community water supply and sanitary disposal of excreta goals recommended by HABITAT, the UN 1976 Conference on Human Settlement, will require reordering of priorities in the developing countries in favor of these sectors, particularly in the rural areas. He outlines strategies for consideration of the developing countries, the rich countries and the international agencies.
4313032| Acting on a recommendation of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and the World Meteorological Organization carried out a Pilot Project to study the occurrence and distribution of oil pollution in the world's oceans. Between 1975 and 1978, almost 100 000 visual observations of oil slicks, 5000 samples of tar from the sea surface, 3000 samples of water for the determination of dissolved/dispersed petroleum residues, and 3500 samples of tar stranded on beaches were investigated. The results show that surface contamination in the form of slicks and floating tar was most prevalent near the major tanker lanes and shipping routes, that concentrations of dissolved/dispersed petroleum residues in the g/l range were present almost everywhere at 1 meter depth in the water column, and that the stranding of tar on the beaches of Japan was a highly seasonal phenomenon. Thus, as a result of this project, a preliminary understanding of the global distribution of oil pollution has emerged. 
4314815|Chwaka Bay is a shallow lagoon on the east coast of Unguja Island, Zanzibar, Tanzania. During low-water spring more than 50% of the bay area is dry land. Studies on tides, velocities and seabed morphology in Chwaka Bay have formed a point of departure for the interdisciplinary study presented here. The focus is on Chwaka village which is one of the 7 Swahili communities in the bay area. Through interviews and observations carried out in August 1997 and March-June 1998, data have been collected on the use and management of marine and coastal resources by men and women in Chwaka. The study shows that Chwaka inhabitants have a wealth of knowledge about the different tidal cycles, semidiurnal, diurnal and fortnightly; seasonal changes in winds and precipitation; and seabed morphology. It also shows how they apply this knowledge to make optimal use of the bay and its resources. Chwaka people have their own terms and categories for describing the relationships between the revolution of the moon and the tidal cycles which, in substance, correspond, basically, to scientific terminology. Moreover, their mental maps of the seabed morphology, together with their knowledge about the operation of currents in the bay, mean that they are able to navigate successfully even under extreme low-water spring. The study demonstrates that natural conditions and cycles at the same time provide constraints on as well as opportunities for production. Illustrations are provided of the strength and weaknesses of local institutional arrangements for the use and management of marine resources under conditions of external influence. The example of Chwaka points to the importance of dialogue and collaboration between local communities, researchers, and policy-makers, in research as well as in practical development work.
4313130|Forest recreation has developed into a main land-use from in Sweden's suburban forests. This has caused serious problems for the forestry industry as the public demands an unchanged forest landscape. At the same time society requires a very effective forestry, as this is a major source of national income. An intensive debate about the best way to utilize Sweden's forests has been going on for the past 20 years between forest visitors and forest owners and officials. Results from 15 years of studies concerning forest recreation show, among other things, that if forest recreation is to be a democratic possibility for all urban dwellers, the forests must be situated not too far away. In the ideal situation they should be located within walking distance. It is shown that 0.5-1.0 percent of the total forest area is required for forest recreation. This area must be given a new silviculture concept. Further, "urbanization" of the recreation forests must be prevented. Setting aside 500 m
4314232| Nitrogen retention in a small stream, River Rn in southern Sweden was studied by mass-balance calculations along a 7-km reach with running water and in a small pond. In addition denitrification activity and limiting factors for the denitrification were analyzed with the acetylene blockage method in different types of sediments from the stream and the pond at different times of the year. The total annual nitrogen retention was less than 3% of the total nitrogen transport in the stream. The retention in the pond was greater than in the rest of the river. Significant nitrogen retention (20-50%) occurs only during low flow periods in the summer. On such occasions, the denitrification losses correspond to more than half of the total nitrogen retention. On an annual basis denitrification was responsible for 30-40% of the total retention in Rn. The discharge was by far the most critical factor determining nitrogen retention both in running water and the pond. 
4314740|A high arctic polar semidesert and a subarctic dwarf-shrub heath were subjected to increases in the concentration of nutrients, elevated temperatures and greater summer precipitation over five growing seasons. The aim of the study was to determine the sensitivity and resilience of the two contrasting European arctic ecosystems to components of projected global environmental change. Both ecosystems were sensitive to environmental change, with nutrient eliciting the greatest responses, followed by temperature, and then water, which exerted little measurable influence. The direction, magnitude and timing of responses differed markedly between ecosystems and species responded individualistically. Some of the observed responses were similar to those from parallel studies in Alaskan wet tussock tundra and other European subarctic communities, but underlying mechanisms may not always be the same. Community level changes at the subarctic dwarf-shrub heath were mediated through the responses of a few key species which were already present in the community, whilst at the high Arctic polar semidesert, responses were determined by both existing and invading species. Responses of arctic plants and communities to nutrient enrichment and temperature are greater than those reported in response to elevated CO
4313637|It is universally agreed that biological diversity must be preserved, but the practical responsibility seems to have been left to the countries involved, and to nongovernmental conservation organizations, neither of which are able to cope entirely with this formidable task. The question is, whether conservation of biological diversity in Third World countries is possible at all, as long as these countries are caught in the viscious circle of growing poverty, rapidly growing populations, and environmental degradation. Is it naive to believe, that we can tackle the last of these problems in isolation and with quite inadequate means?
4314427|The fast development of a modern economy in Changzhou City is speeding up urbanization. However, in the process, certain problems are unavoidable. This paper analyzes three of the main problems for Changzhou: the unsuitable infrastructure; the decrease in cultivated land; and declining environmental quality. The authors suggest better ways to solve these problems, and the article presents several reasonable strategies such as integrated planning for the city as a whole; developing the urban infrastructure; controlling the decrease in cultivated land by restricting built-up areas; and raising the quality of the environment by paying attention to pollution treatment.
4312371|During the last decade, human activity has considerably increased in the area of Lake Balaton. Agricultural production has grown and tourism has increased threefold. At present, much more nitrogen and phosphorous is discharged into the lake than formerly. Consequently, eutrophication has accelerated. Important investments are being made to protect the lake; here the efforts of scientific research are concentrated as well. The Council for Coordinating Environmental Research on Lake Balaton has been founded, and a program of research projects has been decided upon.
4314184|Disease outbreaks with high mortality rates among seals and dolphins have recently attracted considerable public and scientific interest. Although in most cases morbilli-virus infections were shown to be the primary cause of the disease outbreaks, it was speculated that pollution-induced immunosuppression had played a contributory role. Here we present results of a prospective study under semifield conditions, in which two groups of harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) were fed herring from marine regions with different contamination levels; the highly polluted Baltic Sea and the relatively unpolluted Atlantic Ocean. During a period of 93 weeks, parameters related to immune function were monitored and compared between the two groups. We found that natural killer-cell activity and mitogen-induced proliferative T-cell responses from the seals feeding on herring from the Baltic Sea were significantly lower. In addition, we observed higher levels of circulating polymorphonuclear granulocytes in these animals, which may indicate an increase in the occurrence of bacterial infections. This is the first demonstration of impaired immunological functions in mammals associated with chronic exposure to environmental contaminants accumulated through the marine food chain.
4315588|Extractive reserves constitute an innovative approach to match conservation and development objectives, which were originally envisaged as part of a land struggle by forest dwellers in Brazil. In spite of the idea's popularity and the attempts to apply the concept to different tropical regions, there has been little analysis of the combined conservation and development performance of extractive reserve programs. We present a detailed analysis of deforestation and demographic and socioeconomic changes in Alto Juru, the first extractive reserve created in Brazil in 1990. Forest cover has remained fairly stable. Population has declined slightly, with some internal displacements. The cash economy base has shifted from the original rubber production to a diversified portfolio of agriculture and livestock, and there has been a dramatic rise in nonagrarian income. We conclude that the Reserve represents a very dynamic setting with positive conservation and development outcomes during its first decade.
4312216|A brief description of the general approach used to study the long-range transport of air pollutants in Europe is given. The large-scale picture of emission, dispersion and deposition of sulfur compounds is discussed with particular reference to precipitation scavenging. The importance of air pollution monitoring for assessing the environmental impact of large-scale changes and developments in a region is pointed out.
4315289|This paper presents the main findings of a study on health effects of environmental cadmium pollution in China, performed in 1998, i.e. approximately 25 years after the first warnings of such effects were published in Ambio. Forearm bone mineral density (BMD) and renal dysfunction were assessed in population groups exposed to cadmium via rice. Decreased BMD was found in postmenopausal women with elevated urinary cadmium (CdU) or cadmium in blood (CdB) and among men with elevated CdB. Also, clear and statistically significant dose-effect and dose-response relationships were found between CdB or CdU and renal dysfunction (increased excretion of retinol-binding protein). This is the first report of bone effects among Cd-exposed population groups in Asia outside Japan. The report is also of interest since it demonstrates that bone effects, a comparatively severe adverse health effect of Cd, in combination with renal dysfunction, still occurs in environmentally exposed population groups in Asia. Recent reports on bone effects in Cd-exposed population groups in Europe are discussed.
4313544|The construction of a small dam at the outlet of Lake Buhi in the Bicol province of the Philippines created a number of problems that threatened the livelihood and well being of the local inhabitants. To try and resolve these problems a workshop was held in the area using the technique of Agroecosystem Analysis. Participants comprised representives of the donor and government agencies, officials of the municipality of Buhi and local farmers and fishermen. The technique proved to be an efficient and economic way of achieving a consensus of priorities for further action.
4315755|Climate change is projected to cause significant alterations to aquatic biogeochemical processes, (including carbon dynamics), aquatic food web structure, dynamics and biodiversity, primary and secondary production; and, affect the range, distribution and habitat quality/quantity of aquatic mammals and waterfowl. Projected enhanced permafrost thawing is very likely to increase nutrient, sediment, and carbon loadings to aquatic systems, resulting in both positive and negative effects on freshwater chemistry. Nutrient and carbon enrichment will enhance nutrient cycling and productivity, and alter the generation and consumption of carbon-based trace gases. Consequently, the status of aquatic ecosystems as carbon sinks or sources is very likely to change. Climate change will also very likely affect the biodiversity of freshwater ecosystems across most of the Arctic. The magnitude, extent, and duration of the impacts and responses will be system- and location-dependent. Projected effects on aquatic mammals and waterfowl include altered migration routes and timing; a possible increase in the incidence of mortality and decreased growth and productivity from disease and/or parasites; and, probable changes in habitat suitability and timing of availability.
4315718| In a warming climate, permafrost is likely to be significantly reduced and eventually disappear from the sub-Arctic region. This will affect people at a range of scales, from locally by slumping of buildings and roads, to globally as melting of permafrost will most likely increase the emissions of the powerful greenhouse gas methane, which will further enhance global warming. In order to predict future changes in permafrost, it is crucial to understand what determines the presence or absence of permafrost under current climate conditions, to assess where permafrost is particularly vulnerable to climate change, and to identify where changes are already occurring. The Tornetrsk region of northern sub-Arctic Sweden is one area where changes in permafrost have been recorded and where permafrost could be particularly vulnerable to any future climate changes. This paper therefore reviews the various physical, biological, and anthropogenic parameters that determine the presence or absence of permafrost in the Tornetrsk region under current climate conditions, so that we can gain an understanding of its current vulnerability and potential future responses to climate change. A patchy permafrost distribution as found in the Tornetrsk region is not random, but a consequence of site-specific factors that control the microclimate and hence the surface and subsurface temperature. It is also a product of past as well as current processes. In sub-Arctic areas such as northern Sweden, it is mainly the physical parameters, e.g., topography, soil type, and climate (in particular snow depth), that determine permafrost distribution. Even though humans have been present in the study area for centuries, their impacts on permafrost distribution can more or less be neglected at the catchment level. Because ongoing climate warming is projected to continue and lead to an increased snow cover, the permafrost in the region will most likely disappear within decades, at least at lower elevations. 
4315273|This paper examines the problem of the development of models capable of predicting the capacity of the global food production system. In particular, it identifies the various factors influencing the food production, and estimates their relative influence and predictability. The paper discusses also the problems connected with coupling of models representing the "driving" forces, the Earth system consisting of the atmosphere, the ocean and land surface, and food production. The overall conclusions drawn are: i) The time is not yet ripe for designing a comprehensive coupled model for predicting the global food production that takes into account all the factors having a significant influence; ii) the main difficulties are the modelling of the driving forces, e.g. socioeconomic and political factors, and iii) despite these problems, it is judged that results obtained with existing models are capable of providing concrete information for implementation of adaptation and mitigation measures.
25094553|Comparing the economic value of edible mushrooms and timber requires many assumptions. We use chanterelle (Chantharellus sp.) mushrooms collected from productive Douglas-fir (Pseudo-tsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) forests on the Olympic Peninsula as an example. Discounted present net worth in perpetuity is estimated for both mushrooms and timber using two timber harvest regimes and three levels of chanterelle productivity. Given these assumptions, timber is 1-2 orders of magnitude more valuable than mushrooms, yet while timber grows, harvesting mushrooms can provide annual income to harvesters once fruiting is established.
4315005|Neda Farahbakhshazad, Gregory M. Morrison and Eneas Salati Filho This paper reviews the knowledge on crowberry (Empetrum nigrum ssp. nigrum and ssp. hermaphroditum) dominated ecosystems in the Nordic region. Empetrum leaves and litter have high phenolic content resulting in slow decomposition, and with the formation of an organic top soil, nutrients are kept in an organic nutrient bank in the soil mainly available for plants with ericoid mycorrhiza. Empetrum nigrum ssp. hermaphroditum is a strong nutrient competitor and outcompetes most plants in late successional stages. This is due to chemical interference (allelopathy) and resource competition. Crowberry as an organism is resistant to atmospheric pollution and may even increase in vigor by high atmospheric N deposition in nemoral coastal heaths, but is very sensitive to mechanical disturbances and fire. However, there are indications that the closed nutrient cycle established when Empetrum is dominant may be disturbed after airborne inputs of inorganic N.
4313205|Technical development and commercial evaluation have made feasible the mining of metalliferous muds from the Atlantis II Deep in the central Red Sea. However, this may create ocean-wide environmental risks. Industrial exploration has been accompanied by oceanographic research and by the development and application of numerical models for risk assessment of the daily discharge of about 100,000 tons of mined muds back into the sea. Results of environmental research indicate unsolved problems and suggest that only large-scale mining and discharge experiments will provide the opportunity for an appropriate final risk evaluation.
4312998|Ozone is a natural constituent in the troposphere, with downward transport of ozone-rich stratospheric air and in situ photochemical oxidation of methane and carbon monoxide as the main sources, and photochemical destruction and ground removal as the main sinks. Emission from the burning of fossil fuels may cause enhanced ozone concentrations under the action of sunlight. Increased ozone concentrations can be found downwind of industrial and urban pollution sources (at distances of the order of 10-100 km), in air masses transported over long distances (of the order of 1000 km), and in layers in the free troposphere. There is more ozone in the northern hemisphere troposphere than in the southern, with anthropogenic activities as an important contributor. Exposure to enhanced ozone concentrations may pose a risk to public health, and significant yield reductions have been observed in many crops. Increased ozone concentrations indicate significant photochemical activity with efficient production of sulfate, nitrate and other pollutants of environmental concern. Tropospheric ozone is important for the infrared radiation budget of the atmosphere. It has been calculated that the northern hemisphere could be warmer than the southern by 0.2C due to the larger abundance of ozone. A doubling of tropospheric ozone could raise the surface temperatures by nearly 1C, compared to the estimated 2-3C increase following a doubling of CO2.
4314900|Mercury contamination caused by the amalgamation of gold in small-scale gold mining is an environmental problem of increasing concern, particularly in tropical regions like the Amazon, where a new boom of such gold mining started in the 1970s. In Brazil, research into these problems has been carried out for many years, but there is no available data for Bolivia. The present paper surveys mercury contamination of a Bolivian river system in the Amazon drainage basin, measured in water, fish, and human hair. High concentrations in fish and human hair from consumers of carnivorous fish species are reported. The potential health risk from fish consumption was evident in people living downstream of gold-mining activities, but not in the mining population itself.
4314262|Using data from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) on the NOAA series of satellites, an increase in the area covered by cyanobacteria blooms in the Baltic Sea was detected. The time series of satellite data covers a period of 12 years from 1982 to 1993. The total area covered by surface-floating cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) has increased in the 1990s, reaching over 62 000 km in 1992. From 1992, visible accumulations appeared for the first time in the Gulf of Riga and reappeared, in the western Gulf of Finland, after being absent from 1984. Conspicuous surface blooms were also present in the early 1980s, coincident with a period of sunny and calm summers. However, when the influence of variable sunshine duration is taken into account, the increase in 1991-1993 is still distinct, indicating significant changes in the Baltic environment. The causal factors for the increased cyanobacteria blooms are still not clear.
40390426|We studied long-range transport patterns and related weather types in relation to high-ozone events in southern Sweden. The aim was to deepen the understanding of the relationship between Lamb-Jenkinson weather types and surface ozone concentration variation, thus widening the application of the weather type analysis of air quality at 4 sites in this region. The long-range transport patterns associated with high-ozone events were classified into trajectories from Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and in the vicinity of southern Sweden (VIC). The VIC type, characterized by short and whirling curves, represented more than 40% of the high-ozone events at the studied rural sites. More than half of the high-ozone events occurred under high-pressure conditions, belonging to weather type A (anticyclones). The high correlation coefficient between annual counts of weather type A and those of long-range transport pattern VIC confirmed the strong link between stagnant weather conditions and high-ozone events, especially during the summer. Furthermore, a strong linear anticorrelation was detected between high-ozone events and annual counts of weather type C (cyclones) during the summer. This relationship implies that the frequency of weather type C is a useful indicator for low risk of summertime highozone events in southern Sweden. Moreover, the relationship between the weather type and high ozone risk may be useful in examining the potential effect of climate change on the regional air quality.
25515797|This paper describes the process of urbanization and land use change in the urban ecosystems of the National Capital Region (NCR) of Delhi, India. Two types of land use change are considered-from natural to urban and from agricultural to urban. Both types are explained in terms of economic variables known to be drivers of change. A panel data method was used, and economic variables were combined with GIS-based information on land use change during 1986-2004 for 11 administrative units of the NCR. The results suggest that investment in the construction sector plays a major role in converting the land from natural to urban areas, while differences in land productivity seems to be the major driver for change from agricultural to urban uses.
4315405|One hundred and sixty four plastic particles (mean length 4.1 mm) recovered from the scats of fur seals (Arctocephalus spp.) on Macquarie Island were examined. Electron micrographs of 41 of the plastic particles showed that none could be identified as plastic pellet feedstock from their shapes. Commonly, such pellets are cylindrical and spherical. Instead, all the 164 plastic particles from the seal scats were angular particles of 7 colors (feedstock particles are normally opaque or white) and could be classified into 2 categories: i) fragmented along crystal lines and likely to be the result of UV breakdown; and ii) worn by abrasion (where striations were clearly visible) into irregular shapes with rounded corners. White, brown, green, yellow and blue were the most common colors. In composition, they came from 5 polymer groups; polyethylene 93%, polypropylene 4%, poly(1-Cl-1-butenylene) polychloroprene 2%, melamine-urea (phenol) (formaldehyde) resin 0.5%, and cellulose (rope fiber) 0.5%. The larger groups are buoyant with a specific gravity less than that of seawater. These small plastic particles are formed from the breakdown of larger particles (fragments). Their origin seems to be from the breakdown of user plastics washed ashore and ground down on cobbled beaches. Certainly most particles (70%) had attained their final form by active abrasion. It is hypothesized that the plastic particles were washed out to sea and then selected by size and consumed by individuals of a pelagic fish species, Electrona subaspera, who in turn were consumed by the fur seals. Thus, the particles were accumulated both by the fish and the seals in the usual process of their feeding.
40928385|Boreal forests in Sweden are exploited in a number of ways, including forestry and reindeer husbandry. In the winter, reindeer feed mainly on lichens, and lichen-rich forests are a key resource in the herding system. Commercial forestry has mainly negative effects on reindeer husbandry, and conflicts between these two industries have escalated over the last century. This article reviews the effects of modern forest management practices on the winter resources available for reindeer husbandry. Forestry affects reindeer husbandry at both the stand level and the landscape level and over various time scales. Clear-cutting, site preparation, fertilization, short rotation times, and forest fragmentation have largely resulted in a reduced amount of ground growing and arboreal lichens and restricted access to resource. This article also discusses alternative forestry practices and approaches that could reduce the impacts of forestry on reindeer husbandry, both in the short and long term.
40730884|Protected areas represent the major method for conserving biodiversity. However, visitor use can threaten their conservation value. Based on a review of recent research, I have categorized factors that affect the severity of environmental impacts of visitor use. These factors need to be considered or evaluated when assessing visitor use of sites in protected areas. They are: (i) the conservation value of the site, (ii) its resistance to use, (iii) its recovery from use, (iv) its susceptibility to erosion, (v) the severity of direct impacts associated with specific activities, (vi) the severity of indirect impacts, (vii) the amount of use, (viii) the social and (ix) ecological dimensions to the timing of use, and (x) the total area affected. Although the factors may not be of equal importance or necessarily assessed on an equal scale, they allow people to make more informed assessments of potential impacts, assist in identifying where monitoring may be required, and indicate where additional site-or activity-specific research may be appropriate.
25094569|The tundra-taiga boundary stretches for more than 13 400 km around the Northern Hemisphere and is probably the Earth's greatest vegetation transition. The trees that define the boundary have been sensitive to climate changes in the past and models of future vegetation distribution suggest a rapid and dramatic invasion of the tundra by the taiga. Such changes would generate both positive and negative feedbacks to the climate system and the balance could result in a net warming effect. However, the boundary is becoming increasingly affected by human activities that remove trees and degrade forest-tundra into tundra-like areas. Because of the vastness and remoteness of the tundra-taiga boundary, and of methodological problems such as problematic definitions and lack of standardized methods to record the location and characteristics of the ecotone, a project group has been established under the auspices of the International Arctic Science Committee (IASC). This paper summarizes the initial output of the group and focuses on our uncertainties in understanding the current processes at the tundra-taiga boundary and the conflicts between model predictions of changes in the location of the boundary and contrasting recently observed changes due to human activities. Finally, we present recommendations for a coordinated international approach to the problem and invite the international community to join us in reducing the uncertainties about the dynamics of the ecotone and their consequences.
4314121|A crucial means of curbing the outflow of carbonaceous materials, nutrients and pollutants to coastal waters is to minimize the rural exodus into coastal cities. This is an issue of increasing ecological security in the dry-climate tropics and subtropics, now hosting most of the poor countries. A diagnostic diagram is presented to clarify fundamental differences in terms of environmental preconditions for human activity, in particular the drought-proofing of crop yields. Attention is drawn to the possibility of transforming presently huge nonproductive evaporation losses into productive evapotranspiration. It is stated that the potential biomass production in drylands is preconditioned by the water availability, which in turn determines the potential of these regions to function as macro-scale carbon sources and sinks. Introduction of new agricultural techniques, in order to respond to increased biomass needs of growing populations, influence the actual capacity of carbon storage in agricultural lands. The article discusses the linkages between biomass productivity, capacity of carbon storage and choice of agricultural techniques. Rainwater partitioning over a catchment is discussed as partitioning between two complementary types of water-dependent production. On the one hand, biomass production in agriculture and forestry returns huge amounts of water to the atmosphere, while on the other hand economic production has to be based on the remaining water surplus recharging local aquifers and rivers.
41417349|The aim was to describe spatiotemporal patterns of colonization of spruce branches by algae and lichens and the relationship with decreasing deposition of N and S. Coverage was estimated annually over 10 years for four Swedish Integrated Monitoring catchments with varying deposition levels. Initial hypotheses were that algal coverage would be positively correlated with deposition and that lichen coverage would be negatively correlated with S and positively with N deposition. Data were analyzed using regression, ANOVA, and partial least square regression. The results showed a temporal decrease in the coverage of algae but an increase in colonization rates, while lichens showed less uniform patterns. Within catchments, algae and lichen coverages were positively correlated with mainly S deposition. Across catchments, coverage of algae increased, while the coverage of lichens decreased with increasing N and S deposition. Colonization rates of both algae and lichens showed weak correlations with both spatial and temporal trends in N and S deposition. Thus, while N and S deposition had an effect on the colonization and coverage of algae and lichens, other factors are also important.
4314425|The planet and the regions inhabited by mankind are an integrated system consisting of many interacting factors including the natural environment, society, economy, culture, etc. It is a priority for both the developed and the developing countries to achieve sustainable development of these factors. The City of Changzhou has placed great importance on coordinating economic and social development in the course of its rapid economic growth. The city has become a model district of development in China. In order for Changzhou to attain the level of the developed countries by the year 2010, it is imperative to promote overall social development by putting into perspective both the short-term and long-term goals. Coordinated economic, social and environmental development must be the aim, while maintaining economic growth. This article summaries the past 15-year development of Changzhou City urban and rural coordinated development, environmental protection, housing construction, and development of the social resources.
4313013|With a burgeoning population in the Third World anticipated for the next century, immense pressures will be placed on the world's dwindling resource base. If present trends continue, by the year 2000, 65 of the world's least developed countries could have in excess of 441 million people they would be unable to feed with domestic food supplies. Furthermore, deserts, now consuming 792 million hectares might conceivably double in size. Management of increasingly scarce resources must start now.
4312403|Some of the problems and uncertainties in evaluating the probability of a significant fission reactor accident, and the damage that could follow such an accident, are discussed, using as a basis recent American and Scandinavian studies. Also the interpretation of risk evaluations is assessed, and it is concluded that the upper risk limit implied by present knowledge is disturbingly high. As a result, societies having or building nuclear reactors must include the possibility of catastrophic accidents very directly in their planning, and they must obtain social acceptance of the associated risk interval.
4314494|Environmental and/or occupational exposure to cadmium give rise to a tubular kidney dysfunction which may proceed to more generalized renal damage and bone disease if exposure has been high and prolonged. Recent scientific work shows that early renal effects develop at lower levels of exposure than previously anticipated. Previous risk assessments for cadmium were mainly based on studies on healthy male workers. The general population, however, also include particularly susceptible groups such as elderly and individuals with illnesses (e.g. diabetes) that may predispose to cadmium-induced health effects. A significant proportion of the general population displays early signs of toxicity already at urinary cadmium concentrations around 3 nmol
4312783|The death of millions of humans and animals would simultaneously lower both the need for food and the production of animal products. The threats to crop yields are many, and production would fall sharply in the major target countries. Trade in food and food-producing inputs would come to an abrupt halt. Stocks of fuel, fertilizer and agricultural chemicals would soon be exhausted. The food system would move from modern to traditional.
4312061|The population factor cannot be regarded in isolation from distribution of resources or, for that matter, of existing technology. Lower fertility rates in the developing countries can never make up for an unequitable distribution of the world's resources, nor can they be a substitute for social reforms in the developing countries themselves. The Bucharest Conference, however important, should be regarded as only a first move in a continuous intergovernmental process. In part, the United Nations' ability to come to grips with the population issue will depend on what institutional provisions can be found for such a political process.
4313242|A brief outline of earlier research on the large, commercially important species of cetaceans is followed by an account of the information required for the management of cetaceans. The distribution of species and stocks, their vital parameters and estimation of stock sizes and the determination of catch limits is discussed. A brief account of marine pollution in relation to cetaceans is provided.
25066564|A short review of the basic principles of remote sensing and the status of the methods used to sense the surface and resources of the Earth from altitude platforms. Included are descriptions of the electromagnetic radiation spectrum, atmospheric influence on the radiation, radiation properties, instrumentation, platforms, multispectral techniques and a summary of the future possibilities of remote sensing technology.
4315126|High-elevation sites in the tropics may be particularly sensitive to rapid climate change. By sampling treeline populations, I have developed the first extensive (> 300 years) tree-ring chronology in tropical North America. The site is Nevado de Colima, at the western end of the Mexican Neovolcanic Belt, and the species studied is Mexican mountain pine (Pinus hartwegii). Despite past logging in the area, 300 to 500-year old pines were found at 3600-3700 m elevation, about 300 m below the present treeline. The Nevado de Colima tree-ring chronology is well replicated from 1600 to 1997. Calibration with Colima climatic records points to summer monsoon precipitation as the strongest dendroclimatic signal. Most trees also exhibit extremely low growth in 1913 and 1914, following the January 1913 Plinian eruption of the Volcan de Colima. Because P. hartwegii is found on top of high mountains from Mexico to Guatemala, there is potential for developing a network of tropical treeline chronologies.
4312162|The effects of Venezuelan crude oil on the reproduction of a Baltic stock of the amphipod Gammarus oceanicus have been studied. Sub-lethal levels of the oil were found to decrease the brood numbers if the female was exposed to oil during the incubation period. No effect on the length of the incubation time was observed. The frequency with which the male and the female enter the precopulation stage, which is necessary for successful fertilization, was found to decrease in the presence of low concentrations of oil in the water.
4314148|An interdisciplinary perspective on the 19th and 20th century landscape tranformation from heathland to woodland in Halland, southern Sweden, is presented. The physical conditions and actions behind this drastic change in land use, emphasize the need for studies which combine causal connections with human intentions. The reafforesters in Halland can be seen as representatives of the early nature conservationist movement that was guided by a perception focused on production which aimed to conserve for man. They reconstucted what was once extensive forest. However, new forests in Halland are coniferous and not deciduous as they once were. What is considered natural and what unnatural is a matter of human values, but the precise values associated with nature's landscape are not apparent. Following the historical flow of ideas it is possible to reveal when and why the idea of reafforestation was born and how it gained force as a movement across the County of Halland. Today, we experience distrust and disputes between foresters and conservationists, and nature conservationists are often guided by a philosophical perception of nature, wishing to conserve from man.
4314638|This paper discusses the issues of internationalization in the Baltic Region. Incorporation of the Baltic region in the international trading system involves two issues: market opportunities-future development of agricultural prices-and trading rules for agricultural products (WTO). Still more important will be the integration of the countries of the Baltic region in the European Union, this issue is also addressed. Economic issues are discussed from the international perspective and the environmental perspective is addressed asking the question about implications of free trade for the environment and food security.
4315286|Acid rain has caused extensive surface water acidification in Sweden since the mid-20th century. Sulfur emissions from fossil-fuel burning and metal production were the main sources of acid deposition. In the public consciousness, acid deposition is strongly associated with the industrial period, in particular the last 50 years. However, studies of lake-water pH development and atmospheric pollution, based on analyses of lake sediment deposits, have shown the importance of a long-term perspective. Here, we present a conceptual argument, using the sediment record, that large-scale atmospheric acid deposition has impacted the environment since at least Medieval times. Sulfur sources were the pre-industrial mining and metal industries that produced silver, lead and other metals from sulfide ores. This early excess sulfur deposition in southern Sweden did not cause surface water acidification; on the contrary, it contributed to alkalization, i.e. increased pH and productivity of the lakes. Suggested mechanisms are that the excess sulfur caused enhanced cation exchange in catchment soils, and that it altered iron-phosphorus cycling in the lakes, which released phosphorus and increased lake productivity.
4314866|On the political stage the climate change debate used to center primarily around intergenerational issues, particularly whether aggressive abatement action was even warranted-on the basis of uncertain scientific projections. In recent years, influenced by both improved scientific knowledge and greater emphasis on the precautionary principle, within policy circles, climate change has become more widely accepted as a significant threat to ecological sustainability. Accordingly, the focus of debate has gradually shifted to intragenerational concerns, with the issue of equitable burden sharing in terms of greenhouse gas emission abatement emerging as a point of primary contention. This paper integrates scientific and political analyses to explore a number of questions which have been raised during the debate. In particular, we draw on carbon cycle modelling to investigate effective and equitable strategies of emission reduction consistent with stabilization of atmospheric CO
4315730|Introduction of alien species is a major threat to biological diversity. Although public attention typically focuses on the species level, guidelines from the Convention of Biological Diversity Process define alien species to include entities below species level. This inclusion recognizes that release of nonlocal populations of native species may also result in negative effects on biodiversity. In practice, little is known about the extent, degree of establishment, or the effects on natural gene pools of such releases. Existing information on the releases in Sweden shows that alien populations are spread to a great extent. The most commonly released species include brown trout, Atlantic salmon, Arctic char, common whitefish, Scots pine, Norway spruce, mallard duck, gray partridge, and pheasant. Although millions of forest trees, fish, and birds are released annually, poor documentation makes the geographic and genetic origin of these populations, as well as the sites where they have been released, largely unclear. We provide recommendations for urgently needed first steps relating to the risks and problems associated with release of alien populations.
40730877|Tilapia, a tropical freshwater fish native to Africa, is an increasingly important global food commodity.The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), a major environmental nongovernmental organization, has established stakeholder dialogues to formulate farm certification standards that promote "responsible" culture practices. As a preface to its "tilapia aquaculture dialogue," the WWF for Nature commissioned a review of potential certification issues, later published as a peer-reviewed article. This article contends that both the review and the draft certification standards subsequently developed fail to adequately integrate critical factors governing the relative sustainability of tilapia production and thereby miss more significant issues related to resource-use efficiency and the appropriation of ecosystem space and services. This raises a distinct possibility that subsequent certification will promote intensive systems of tilapia production that are far less ecologically benign than existing widely practiced semiintensive alternatives. Given the likely future significanceof this emergent standard, it is contended that a more holistic approach to certification is essential.
4312472|The forests of Asia, which include the greatest tropical rain forests in the world after those of South America, are not only one of the greatest repositories of world genetic resources and one of the greatest economic resources of the developing countries of Asia, but have a significance uniquely their own. In no part of the world are so many people so dependent upon forests for their existence as are the peoples of Asia. Increasing population on the one hand and economic development on the other has made increasing demands on forests and forest lands. To ensure economic development and socio-economic wellbeing for millions, the existing forests of Asia must be saved. They must be given an opportunity for qualitative recuperation, and extended by re-forestation of cleared areas and afforestation of available lands close to human habitations.
40928404|In this study an attempt is made to estimate nitrogen and phosphorus discharged to the environment from the striped catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus) farming sector in the Mekong Delta (833'-1055'N, 10430'-10650'E), South Vietnam. The sector accounted for 687,000 t production in 2007 and 1,094,879 t in 2008, with over 95% of the produce destined for export to over 100 countries. Commercial and farm-made feeds are used in catfish farming, currently the former being more predominant. Nitrogen discharge levels were similar for commercial feeds (median 46.0 kg/t fish) and farm-made feeds (median 46.8 kg/t fish); whilst, phosphorus discharge levels for commercial feeds (median 14.4 kg/t fish) were considerably lower than for farmmade feeds (median 18.4 kg/t fish). Based on the median nutrient discharge levels for commercial feeds, striped catfish production in the Mekong Delta discharged 31,602 t N and 9,893 t P, and 50,364 t N and 15,766 t P in 2007 and 2008, respectively. However, the amount of nutrients returned directly to the Mekong River may be substantially less than this as a significant proportion of the water used for catfish farming as well as the sludge is diverted to other agricultural farming systems. Striped catfish farming in the Mekong Delta compared favourably with other cultured species, irrespective of the type of feed used, when the total amounts of N and P discharged in the production of a tonne of production was estimated.
4313254|Water erosion and sedimentation often cause severe environmental and social problems in many tropical and sub-tropical areas. The authors draw attention to the intimate relationships among sedimentation processes in different parts of river basins, the interfluvial area delivering the material, the river channels transporting the sediment load and the depositional environment where particles come to final rest. Cases are presented of hill slopes, small catchments and big river systems. The need for general strategies of river basin development is stressed and proposals are presented for future research.
4312952|The countries of East Africa and the Western Indian Ocean have generally not been intensively developed in agriculture or other sectors. Valuable marine resources in the region are nevertheless threatened by the aggregate effects of decentralized and subsistence agricultural and pastoral activities and brush and forest clearing. The effects of massive upland soil loss are felt in coastal river plains and at the mouths of major rivers. In certain areas, unplanned coastal development has also created specific environmental problems. Economic values of coastal resources have not been fully realized through special development programs. Improved land-use planning and terrestrial resource management are needed throughout the region to help protect its marine resources and to optimize coastal development.
4315393|The scientific and policy worlds have different goals, which can lead to different standards for what constitutes "proof" of a change or phenomena, and different approaches for characterizing and conveying uncertainty and risk. These differences can compromise effective communication among scientists, policymakers, and the public, and constrain the types of socially compelling questions scientists are willing to address. In this paper, we review a set of approaches for dealing with uncertainty, and illustrate some of the errors that arise when science and policy fail to coordinate correctly. We offer a set of recommendations, including restructuring of science curricula and establishment of science-policy forums populated by leaders in both arenas, and specifically constituted to address problems of uncertainty.
4314671|All freshwater eventually passes through or over sedimentary habitats on the way to oceanic or atmospheric domains. These zones of freshwater sediments contain an enormous variety of species that produce and process organic carbon. Some species perform specific functions such as fixing or recycling nitrogen. Others break down contaminants or mix sediments so as to alter the rates of ecosystem processes Approximately 175 000 species have already been described and yet still, new species continue to be discovered. Their diversity and distributions range greatly along gradients of depth, dissolved oxygen, latitude, and altitude in wetlands, lakes, rivers, and groundwaters. Deep, isolated habitats contain unique, endemic species especially among those organisms with limited dispersal ability. Competent scientists must be trained in many parts of the globe to accelerate studies of this species-rich biota and essential ecosystem relationships.
4312394|Current principles for limitation of releases of radioactive contaminants into the environment involve concepts and methods which are not common in the control of non-radioactive pollutants. The article gives a review of these concepts and methods with special attention to the commitment concept and source-related rather than individual-related assessments. The concept of dose commitment per unit practice is of value in the three basic assessments of source justification, optimization of protection and limitation of present and future doses to individuals. In principle, the same methods and concepts should be useful also in the assessment of non-radioactive pollutants in cases where the main risk is that of cancer or hereditary effects.
4315238| Concentrations of p,p-DDE, polychlorinated biphenyl congeners (PCBs), polychlorinated-dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), -dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and - naphthalenes (PCNs) were measured in bluefin tuna, swordfish, common cormorants, and barn swallows collected from Italy. Average concentrations of PCBs in livers of tuna, swordfish, cormorant, and swallows were 930, 745, 1420 and 1230 ng PCBs g
4315460|Aspects of transboundary, water shortage, and fisheries issues are discussed in the context of the recently completed Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA) for the Pacific Islands. The region encompasses some 30 million km
4312026|Energy technologies, both current and future, are reviewed with special emphasis on environmental and social effects. The conclusions are that we find ourselves unprepared to meet energy needs in environmentally or socially acceptable ways using the remaining fossil fuels, unable to demonstrate that nuclear fission can ever be an acceptable energy source, and having little understanding of solar, geothermal, wind, fusion and other alternative energy sources. Although the need for new technology is pressing, the support for development of such technologies-for energy supply and also to enable more efficient use of energy-and the degree of public awareness of the options before us, are entirely inadequate. The problem facing us is thus largely political, rather than scientific or technological.
4315008|The coexistence of hurricanes, coral reefs, and rainforests in the Caribbean demonstrates that highly structured ecosystems with great diversity can flourish in spite of recurring exposure to intense destructive energy. Coral reefs develop in response to wave energy and resist hurricanes largely by virtue of their structural strength. Limited fetch also protects some reefs from fully developed hurricane waves. While storms may produce dramatic local reef damage, they appear to have little impact on the ability of coral reefs to provide food or habitat for fish and other animals. Rainforests experience an enormous increase in wind energy during hurricanes with dramatic structural changes in the vegetation. The resulting changes in forest microclimate are larger than those on reefs and the loss of fruit, leaves, cover, and microclimate has a great impact on animal populations. Recovery of many aspects of rainforest structure and function is rapid, though there may be long-term changes in species composition. While resistance and repair have maintained reefs and rainforests in the past, human impacts may threaten theirability to survive.
4314810|The decline of the world's coral reefs threatens to deprive people in the coastal areas of many tropical countries of their livelihood. Experiments on rehabilitation of coral reefs through transplantation of corals have often been based on methods that are too expensive for a wider application in developing countries. The present study was aimed at developing simple methods for transplantation of corals to rehabilitate degraded coral reefs. The staghorn coral Acropora formosa was transplanted using different methods in shallow areas of sand and rubble near Mafia Island, Tanzania. After 23 months, the cover of the transplanted corals had increased by 51%. The colonization of other species of hard and soft corals was also promoted by the transplantation of corals. The method of tying corals together with strings before placement on the seabed was effective and could be applied for rehabilitation of degraded coral reefs that are moderately exposed to water movements.
4315572|Bivalves are ancient animals that feed by filtering large volumes of water. In this way, phytoplankton, bacteria and viruses from the water column are greatly concentrated in the mussels. The hazards associated with the consumption of mussels are thus dependent on the occurrence and composition of toxic algae and human microbial pathogens in the areas where shellfish are grown. Diarrheic shellfish toxins have occurred regularly in Sweden during the past 27 years. Peaks of toxins in mussels are mostly recorded from October to December, but the pattern can differ significantly due to location and year, making it hard to predict toxin levels in mussels. With an expansion of aquaculture and a subsequent increase in seafood consumption, better risk management is needed to minimize the effects on humans of algal toxins and human pathogens. New control strategies that have to be implemented are: i) proper site selection of culture installations; ii) regular and cost-efficient monitoring of algae, bacteria and viruses; iii) new indicators for fecal contamination, suitable for the specific locations where shellfish grow; iv) rapid dissemination of information to the industry and public, including risk assessment and advice on how to cope with the situation.
4313767|The benefits of intensive farming of the giant tiger prawn Penaeus monodon in the Philippines are discussed in relation to the environmental costs. Ecological effects include mangrove conversion into ponds; use of antibiotics and chemicals leading to drug resistance; dumping of pond effluents which affect neighboring ecosystems; and pumping of groundwater that causes saltwater intrusion and vulnerability to floods. In addition, these effects lead to social costs in the form of reduction in domestic and agricultural water supplies; decreases in the production of foodfish and other food crops; further marginalization of coastal fishermen; displacement of labor; and credit monopoly by big businessmen. Comparative economic analyses of three prawn-farming systems showed that, compared to extensive and intensive culture, semi-intensive farms give the best performance using undiscounted (payback period, return on investment) and discounted (net present value, internal rate of return) economic indicators. With a 20% fluctuation in inputs or selling price intensive farming will no longer be profitable because of the high variable cost. The paper concludes with recommendations for strict enforcement of existing government guidelines (e.g. ban on mangrove conversion); institution of new policies on the use of groundwater, seawater and public credit; diversification of cultured species; and emphasis on semi-intensive farming parallel with brakes on further intensification of prawn farming (1).
4314644|This paper deals with the question of whether the main changes currently taking place in German agriculture are compatible with the requirements of economic, social, environmental and political sustainability. The first issues discussed are structural adjustment processes and income problems in West German agriculture. This leads to the conclusion that the social hardships farm families have to cope with, economic disruptions caused by policy changes, and serious ecological problems resulting from agricultural practice are obviously not in accordance with the criteria of sustainable development. The second issue the paper addresses is transformation of East German agriculture focusing on two main areas of change: restructuring of collectivized farms and privatization of nationalized land. The institutional arrangements and organizational forms of agriculture resulting from these developments are not likely to be always sustainable in the long run, because of the huge economic transaction costs of the transformation process itself and the political rent seeking activities it provokes with the interest groups and political networks involved. Present and coming changes of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) are the third subject of the paper, particularly referring to the present discussion on a "reform of the CAP reform". Also this area faces serious sustainability problems. The subsidies paid per ha or livestock unit cause considerable allocative distortions reducing economic efficiency. They can also only be justified as temporary support measures facilitating adjustment processes induced by price reductions. Furthermore, only a very small proportion of the financial means spent for the reform measures are used for environmental programs. Finally, the ecological situation in German agriculture is outlined by indicating some crucial issues.
4314608|In the acidified areas of southern Norway, sulfate deposition has decreased by about 40% since 1980, while nitrogen deposition has been constant during the same period. The wet deposition of nitrogen today is about twice that of sulfur. Consequently, the relative importance of nitrogen for the acidification of surface waters and soils has increased. In the Bjerkreim river catchment (southwestern Norway), nitrogen is an important acidifying component. In the upper part of the catchment, deposition of S and N must be reduced substantially in order to reach nonexceedance of critical loads in the runoff waters. After the 1994 Sulphur Protocol is implemented, nitrogen will represent the major part of the exceedance, and substantial reductions of N depositions will be necessary. In the most sensitive subcatchment both N and S deposition must be reduced by more than 80% of present deposition in order to achieve nonexceedance in runoff. Since this catchment is representative of large parts of the acidified areas in Norway, further decreases in acidification of surface waters could be more effectively accomplished by reductions of N rather than of S. The concentrations of P in lakes and rivers in the Bjerkreim catchment are extremely low and are frequently below analytical detection limits
4313935|An international convention is essential for the conservation of global biological diversity. The incentives facing any one country, with regard to the diverse biological resources that it hosts, often point to the conversion of these to more specialized resources, such as agricultural crops and domesticated animals. From a global perspective, however, these conversions are not desirable on account of the consequent losses of two important global services that biodiversity provides: insurance and information. This divergence between the interests of local development and those of global security exists on account of the "public good" nature of the services, which allow consumers to free ride on the producers of these services. The end result is the continued depletion of global biodiversity. This is yet another example of the "tragedy of the commons", at the global level. An international convention can remedy this dilemma through the facilitation of joint action by the global community. The nature of the necessary cooperation is the compensation of those countries which provide the services of biodiversity. Therefore, a biodiversity convention should be directed to the creation of international mechanisms that compensate a country for the benefits generated by its biological resources. An international convention of this nature is the only means available for the conservation of a truly global resource, such as biodiversity and the services it generates.
4312819|The dramatic increase in tourist trekking in the Himalayan regions of Nepal has created serious impacts on the natural and cultural environment of the Sagarmatha National Park area. Direct field involvement and an alternative approach to park planning and management were key elements of what was a very broadbased but small scale effort by the New Zealand Government in cooperating with the Government of Nepal in setting up a national park in the Sagarmatha region of the Himalayas.
4314578|An important subset of the vast number of issues associated with the conservation of tropical forests are the costs and benefits incurred by local peoples. This paper presents the results of a study of the costs borne by households living near the Mantadia National Park, a protected area in eastern Madagascar. The villages in this region are subsistence economies that are based on swidden agriculture and forest product collection. Village communities have lost access to more than 800 ha of agricultural lands and to a significant amount of forest products as a result of the park. The net present value of costs to the average household because of protection is USD 419. The analysis undertaken also provides useful information about geographic variations in the costs borne.
41417295|Phosphorus recovery from wastewater has become a necessity for sustainable development because phosphorus is a non-renewable essential resource, and its discharge into the environment causes serious negative impacts. There are no economic incentives for the implementation of phosphorus recovery technologies because the selling price of rock phosphate is lower than phosphorus recovered from sewage. The methodologies used to determine the feasibility of such projects are usually focused on internal costs without considering environmental externalities. This article shows a methodology to assess the economic feasibility of wastewater phosphorus recovery projects that takes into account internal and external impacts. The shadow price of phosphorus is estimated using the directional distance function to measure the environmental benefits obtained by preventing the discharge of phosphorus into the environment. The economic feasibility analysis taking into account the environmental benefits shows that the phosphorus recovery is viable not only from sustainable development but also from an economic point of view.
40730904|Protecting the climate is not costly but profitable (even if avoided climate change is worth zero), mainly because saving fuel costs less than buying fuel. The two biggest opportunities, both sufficiently fast, are oil and electricity. The US, for example, can eliminate its oil use by the 2040s at an average cost of $15 per barrel (2000$), half by redoubled efficiency and half by alternative supplies, and can save three-fourths of its electricity more cheaply than operating a thermal power station. Integrative design permits this by making big energy savings cheaper than small ones, turning traditionally assumed diminishing returns into empirically observed expanding returns. Such efficiency choices accelerate climate-safe, inexhaustible, and resilient energy supply notably the "micropower" now delivering about a sixth of the world's electricity and 90% of its new electricity. These cheap, fast, market-financeable, globally applicable options offer the most effective, yet most underestimated and overlooked, solutions for climate, proliferation, and poverty.
4312223|Soil properties are functions of the environmental factors for which airborne transport is of importance. Several studies support the assumption that the observed acidification of the precipitation will result in a decrease in the pH of the soil and in base saturation as well as in an increase in the leaching. Problems remain unsolved in relation to the time required and the intensities of these effects. The adverse effects may be compensated through an increase in weathering. The variation in susceptibility between soils provides another unsolved problem of great ecological and economic significance. The synergistic effects of acid precipitation and other airborne pollutants must be recognized.
4314394|This article outlines the development of commercial open-water algae farming in Zanzibar in a historic context, with special reference to actual events at the corporate level from the initiation of algae farming to its present state. These events, which contain policies and intentions of implementation at the producer level, have an array of social implications for the algae-farming communities. The three aspects of these implications are delineated; (i) a changing mode of tenure rights of the farmed lagoon areas; (ii) a changing role for algae farmers, i.e. women; (iii) a qualitative change within the composition of indigenous productive activities, the latter being illustrated by a declining activity in agriculture. The article demonstrates the importance of the encounter between an indigenous livelihood system and infused incentives pertaining to divergent rationales of livelihood in socioeconomic development processes.
4314575| The extent and rate of deforestation from 1972 to 1989, including some spatial properties in the heavily polluted mountains of Kruvn Hory, on the border between the Czech Republic and Germany were studied. Deforestation was assessed using satellite remote sensing integrated with digital elevation data. The results show that over 50% of the coniferous forest disappeared during this period. Especially affected areas were between 600 and 1000 m a. s. l. and slopes facing south and southeast. The sector downwind of a large point source of SO
4313602| The potential temperature increase associated with the greenhouse effect means that the urgent conservation issue is biological adaptation to extreme environmental stresses. Extinction and replacement of rare tropical rain-forest species of the insect Drosophila is likely if temperature increases by as little as 2C. Laboratory work indicates that a substantial increase in temperature tolerance is difficult to achieve by directional selection. This is not surprising since the basic physiology of organisms will become rapidly restrictive as tolerance limits are increased. This limited scope for adaptation by genetical procedures emphasizes that a relatively small climatic shift will be associated with species extinctions, especially as recent habitat destruction largely precludes the possibility of refuge by geological shifts. Adaptation to substantial changes in desiccation stress has been demonstrated in the laboratory and in the wild in insects and plants. Experimental work in Drosophila melanogaster indicated that the cost is a reduction in available metabolic energy in desiccation tolerant strains. Since resistance to many stresses depends upon metabolic rate, combinations of stresses including high temperatures will be expected to be cumulative. It follows that the potential for adaptation to temperature change will be reduced at a time when the stress from environmental pollutants and/or desiccation is simultaneously increasing, especially if synergistic effects regularly occur. 
25547881|Rapid development in the upper reaches of the Mekong River, in the form of construction of large hydropower dams and reservoirs, large irrigation schemes, and rapid urban development, is putting water resources under stress. Recent studies have concluded that these developments will lead to flow alterations in the Mekong River. These flow alterations would threaten the sensitive ecosystems downstream, particularly Tonle Sap River, Tonle Sap Lake, its floodplain, and its gallery forest and protected areas, by changing the flood-pulse system of the lake. This article estimates the changes in parameters of the Tonle Sap flood pulse due to the aforementioned flow alterations. The impacts on the flooded area and loss of gallery forest and protected areas were analyzed using geographic information system-based methods. Relatively small rises in the dry-season lake water level would permanently inundate disproportionately large areas of floodplain, rendering it inaccessible to floodplain vegetation and eroding the productivity basis of the ecosystem. It is highly important to maintain the natural hydrological pattern of the Mekong River, particularly the dry-season water levels, to preserve Tonle Sap Lake's ecosystem productivity.
24708976|Scenarios of barrier failure and radionuclide release to the near-surface environment are important to consider within performance and safety assessments of repositories for nuclear waste. A geological repository for spent nuclear fuel is planned at Forsmark, Sweden. Conceptual and numerical reactive transport models were developed in order to assess the retention capacity of the Quaternary till and clay deposits for selected radionuclides, in the event of an activity release from the repository. The elements considered were carbon (C), chlorine (Cl), cesium (Cs), iodine (I), molybdenum (Mo), niobium (Nb), nickel (Ni), radium (Ra), selenium (Se), strontium (Sr), technetium (Tc), thorium (Th), and uranium (U). According to the numerical predictions, the repository-derived nuclides that would be most significantly retained are Th, Ni, and Cs, mainly through sorption onto clays, followed by U, C, Sr, and Ra, trapped by sorption and/or incorporation into mineral phases.
4312324|An interdisciplinary research project concerning range management in the arid zones of Tunisia is described. The research technique is based on ecological studies of physical and human environments. The population of the study area was in ancient times fully nomadic, but now lives in almost settled communities. Desertification is increasing due chiefly to erosion following overgrazing and periodic cereal farming. Proposed management schemes emphasize the production of additional foodstuffs in irrigated areas to make up shortfalls. The steppe dweller must feel involved in socioeconomic development and must participate in the action being undertaken. This project is a Tunisian contribution to UNESCO's intergovernmental program on Man and the Biosphere (MAB). It is a specific example of the collaboration of FAO and UNESCO regarding research on and management of rangelands in arid and semi-arid regions.
4312909| The outstanding scientific value of the Galpagos Islands' biotic communities became fully evident for the first time when they inspired Charles Darwin to speculate about organic evolution and the origin of species. After Darwin's visit it took about 130 years until this knowledge was translated into conservation action. In spite of a few real success stories, like the saving of the surviving giant tortoises and land iguanas, most conservation problems remain unsolved. Many of them ultimately are financial and political. 
4314143|To evaluate whether metal concentrations in crustaceans from the Antarctic Ocean may be suitable as indicators of background levels, the elements Cd, Pb, Cu and Zn were analyzed in 17 species. Samples were taken from RV Polarstem in the Weddell Sea (Author give month/year) and during the first German Underwater Expedition to the Antarctic Peninsula (Author give month/year). Metal concentrations found show considerable interspecific heterogeneity without consistent dependence on higher taxa. They are not low compared to other areas with the exceptation of Pb. In contrast, observed Cd levels in caridean decapods (Chorismus antarcticus and Notocrangon antarcticus) were among the highest Cd concentrations observed in marine crustaceans (13 mg kg
4314299|Many semiarid regions are characterized by scarcity of trees due to both natural and human impact; e.g. many countries around the Mediterranean. Thus, afforestation is often a prime objective of many forestry departments in these countries. In Israel, the term "savanization" has been introduced to describe projects which aim to establish small-scale patches of trees in the desert. Rather than using water transported hundreds of kilometers from Lake Kinnereth, Israel's foremost water supply, to irrigate the trees, researchers have been investigating the possibility of using runoff water generated on the spot. The geohydrological conditions on hillslopes in the semiarid northern Negev Highlands, provide the basis of a runoff harvesting system for trees. "Minicatchments", situated on the lower slopes, collect surface runoff and store sufficient water to support tree growth.
4312562|Shipping in the Baltic is seen in historical perspective. There have been rapid changes in size, speed and specialization of ships. More sophisticated vessels carry larger tonnages, and there is more door-to-door transport of general cargo and private cars. This has meant a decline in traditional liner shipping and an increase in ferry traffic. With the modern tonnage, littoral states should not find it difficult to enforce the Baltic Convention.
40730863|A database of global agricultural primary production has been constructed and used to estimate its energy content. The portion of crops available for food and biofuel after postharvest losses was evaluated. The basic conditions for agriculture and plant growth were studied, to ensure sustainable scenarios regarding use of residues. The available energy contents for the world and EU27 was found to be 7,200-9,300 and 430 TWh, respectively, to be compared with food requirements of 7,100 and 530 TWh.Clearly, very little, or nothing, remains for biofuel from agricultural primary crops. However, by using residues and bioorganic waste, it was found that biofuel production could theoretically replace one-fourth of the global consumption of fossil fuels for transport. The expansion potential for global agriculture is limited by availability of land, water, and energy. A future decrease in supply of fossil energy and ongoing land degradation will thus cause difficulties for increased biofuel production from agriculture.
4313880|This paper presents trends of population, fertility, mortality and age-structure over a range starting in the middle of the 20th century and extending through the 21st century. The paper gives due emphasis to the demographic situation in the currently developing countries. The data are derived from the estimates and projections prepared by the United Nations Population Division. The 21st century is not ony knocking on the door, but also many of today's children, even those in the Third World, will live through its middle and beyond. It is therefore imperative to assess the prospects during that period. The projections constitute a basic outline of the demographic perspective and, even more important, provide material that is essential for studying the interactions between population, resources and environment.
4315100|In many countries where the economy has shifted from mainly agricultural to industrial, abandoned agricultural lands are lost to urbanization. For more than 4 centuries the Puerto Rican economy depended almost entirely on agriculture, but sociopolitical changes early in the 20th century resulted in a shift to industry. This shift in the economy, and an increase in population, has resulted in an increase in urban areas. This study describes the rate and distribution of urban growth on the island of Puerto Rico from 1977 to 1994 and the resulting influence on potential agricultural lands. Urban extent and growth were determined by interpreting aerial photographs and satellite imagery. The 1994 urban coverage was combined with a soil coverage based on agricultural potential to determine the distribution of urban areas relative to potential farmlands. Analyses showed that in 1977, 11.3% of Puerto Rico was classified as urban. After 17 years, urban areas had increased by 27.4% and urban growth on soils suitable for agriculture had increased by 41.6%. This represents a loss of 6% of potential agricultural lands. If this pattern of encroachment by urban growth into potential farmlands continues, Puerto Rico's potential for food production in the future could be greatly limited.
4314268|Coral reefs provide a major impetus for tourist development throughout the tropics. Their increased popularity has led to extremely rapid growth of many resorts. Using the Red Sea as a case history we examine the impacts that expanding coastal tourism has had on coral reefs. Present development is restricted almost entirely to Egypt, Israel and Jordan. The short coastlines of the latter two countries mean that most of their reefs are already, or soon will be, affected by tourism (developed or used recreationally). Approximately 19% of Egypt's reefs are currently affected, but this figure is expected to rise to over 30% by the year 2000. However, the intensity of use of reefs is likely to increase much more during this period. Israel plans a further 43% increase in coastal tourism, Jordan 100% and Egypt a massive 11-fold expansion. Of the planned expansion in Egypt, 55% will occur around the established resorts of Hurghada and Sharm-el-Sheikh. Tourist development has already caused substantial damage to inshore reefs near Hurghada from infilling, sedimentation and over-fishing for marine curios. Elsewhere, new constructions are also beginning to modify reef habitats. Until now, damage to Sharm-el-Sheikh's reefs has been mainly caused by the direct effects of diving and snorkelling. Although, current levels of recreational use appear to be sustainable, the massive expansion planned throughout the region will place the long-term future of reefs in doubt. Unless the pace of tourist development in the northern Red Sea is significantly reduced soon the carrying capacity of coral reefs seems sure to be exceeded with widespread reef degradation the likely result.
41417323|Greening of the Arctic due to climate warming may provide herbivores with richer food supplies, resulting in higher herbivore densities. In turn, this may cause changes in vegetation composition and ecosystem function. In 1982-1984, we studied the ecology of non-breeding moulting geese in Jameson Land, low Arctic East Greenland. By then, geese consumed most of the graminoid production in available moss fens, and it appeared that the geese had filled up the available habitat. In 2008, we revisited the area and found that the number of moulting geese and the temperature sum for June-July had tripled, while the above-ground biomass in a moss fen ungrazed by geese had more than doubled. In a goose-grazed fen, the overall plant composition was unchanged, but the frequency of graminoids had decreased and the area with dead vegetation and open spots had increased. We suggest that climate warming has lead to increased productivity, allowing for higher numbers of moulting geese. However, the reduction of vegetation cover by grazing may have longer term negative consequences for the number of geese the habitat can sustain.
4313800|Termites are abundant and widely distributed throughout tropical and sub-tropical regions of Ethiopia. Some species cause serious damage to certain crops, young forestry plantations and wooden buildings. Most species are not pests but are significant detritivores and important components of the ecosystem. Human perceptions of their pest status has led to expensive campaigns to control mound-building species, Macrotermes, on denuded and eroded rangeland where the primary problem is overgrazing.
25515798|The Tapajos River Basin in the Brazilian Amazon is the location of one of the largest concentrations of artisanal and small-scale miners in the world. Today, 40 000 miners produce 8 t of gold annum and at least double this amount of mercury is released into the environment. This region was selected under the Global Mercury Project, a United Nations program that aims to reduce the environmental and health impacts caused by mercury through the application of cleaner technologies and increased awareness. A group of educators provided support to miners, training 4200 people in 141 mining locations. The effectiveness of this training was evaluated based on 20 performance indicators. After 120 days of training, an absolute improvement of approximately 29% had been achieved. As a result of this training, it is estimated that annual mercury emissions in Tapajos have been reduced by 1762 kg or around 10% of the total mercury released in the region.
4311973| Lake restoration projects are being carried out in Sweden in order to obtain methods for restoring irreversibly damaged lakes, to train limnologists and to contribute knowledge to theoretical ecology. Lake Trummen was a shallow, over-exploited recipient, and the black sediment from the lake's receiver period was pumped up into settling ponds on land. In Jrla Lake, a deep recipient, the oxygen deficiency in the hypolimnion was remedied by aeration without disturbing the thermal stratification. Hornborga Lake became overgrown with macrophytes after the water level was lowered. Methods for directing the development from emergent to underwater vegetation have been worked out in order to reestablish the environmental conditions of a waterfowl lake. Methods and experience gained in the Swedish projects are being applied in the planning of the restoration of the Lake of Tunis in Tunisia. 
4315155|Local Agenda 21 (LA21) processes have 2 central goals. i) On the basis of some of the empirical evidence in this study, the primary goal is to improve democratic (environmental) policy-making processes in such a manner that a larger share of the population will be able to participate in planning and decision making and will also be able to understand the consequences of these decisions. ii) The LA21 processes seek to improve (at least indirectly) the broadly defined environmental situation locally in a manner that takes into account both the local and the global contexts. The first part of this article discusses the concept and methods of LA21 and sheds light on the different action areas that are central to the Baltic LA21 processes. In addition, the study will describe and display the LA21 situation within one network of cities, the Union of the Baltic Cities (UBC). Networking, including transfer of information, models and ideas, has been among the main tools for the diffusion of LA21 ideas especially into newly democratized societies. Finally, the article will conclude with an overall assessment of the LA21 situation on the Baltic rim.
4314542|This paper is an introduction to the special issue of Ambio (Ambio Vol. 26 No 1, February 1997) commemorating the 100-year anniversary of the publication of Svante Arrhenius' landmark paper on the greenhouse effect. Arrhenius' most significant achievements in this particular field of science are briefly summarized and an attempt is made to provide a realistic explanation of the fundamental physical processes contributing to the greenhouse effect
24708997|Sustainable development in Africa is dependent on increasing use of the continent's water resources without significantly degrading ecosystem services that are also fundamental to human wellbeing. This is particularly challenging in Africa because of high spatial and temporal variability in the availability of water resources and limited amounts of total water availability across expansive semiarid portions of the continent. The challenge is compounded by ambitious targets for increased water use and a rush of international funding to finance development activities. Balancing development with environmental sustainability requires (i) understanding the boundary conditions imposed by the continent's climate and hydrology today and into the future, (ii) estimating the magnitude and spatial distribution of water use needed to meet development goals, and (iii) understanding the environmental water requirements of affected ecosystems, their current status and potential consequences of increased water use. This article reviews recent advancements in each of these topics and highlights innovative approaches and tools available to support sustainable development. While much remains to be learned, scientific understanding and technology should not be viewed as impediments to sustainable development on the continent.
4314940|Paleolimnological analyses of sediment cores from Lake Oloidien in Kenya's central Rift Valley produced a detailed chronology of climate-driven environmental change since the early 1800s. During much of the 19th century and between about 1940 and 1998, Lake Oloidien was shallow and inhabited by algal and invertebrate communities typical of moderately saline lakes. Confluence with Lake Naivasha between about 1890 and the late 1930s flushed dissolved salts out of Lake Oloidien and created a temporary freshwater phase with papyrus swamp, well-developed submerged macrophyte beds, and reduced algal production. The timing and magnitude of ecological change in Lake Oloidien implies that early agricultural development of the Rift Valley by British colonial settlers coincided with an unusually favorable water-resource availability, out of balance with long-term trends in rainfall and evaporation. Recent lake-level decline and rising salinity are in part a natural consequence of the lake's hydrological response to interannual and decade-scale climatic variability. However, ongoing diversion of Rift Valley river inflows for cropland irrigation and industry, accelerates the salinization of Lake Oloidien, and may result in deterioration of precious freshwater resources throughout the region.
4312496|The grounding of the Soviet tanker Tsesis in the archipelago south of Stockholm in October 1977 resulted in a spill of over 1000 tons of medium grade fuel oil. The environmental impact of the spill was studied by an international research team. Severe but not catastrophic initial effects were found in pelagic, littoral and benthic ecosystems. The effects proved to be of short duration in the pelagic system and after about one year the littoral zone had also recovered considerably, whereas in the soft bottom communities not even the beginning of a recovery was found. The results from the first year of study presented here illustrate the recovery rates of a coastal ecosystem in a cold brackish sea, following an oil spill.
4313163|Recent improvements in the energy efficiency of fuelwood cook-stoves have resulted from the application of principles of combustion and heat transfer, standardized testing, advanced production engineering techniques and the systematic analysis of user feedback. Issues of quality control in large-scale production, stove durability and lifetime, health and safety impacts, and the effectiveness of different dissemination strategies require additional research and analysis.
4313680|In the Baltic Sea area, including the Kattegat, the external N/P loading ratios are generally well above the 16:1 Redfield ratio for all subareas (the Bothnian Bay, the Bothnian Sea, the Baltic proper and the Kattegat). During winter, the inorganic N/P ratio in surface waters varies. Appreciably higher values than the loading ratio are found for the northernmost basin, the low-saline Bothnian Bay, while lower values than the loading ratio are found for the Baltic proper and the Kattegat. Nutrient enrichment tests indicate general N limitation in the Baltic proper and the Kattegat, although stimulation of algal growth after P enrichment has been found in the Baltic proper during summer blooms of blue-green algae. Blooms of blue-green algae are common in the Baltic proper but hardly ever occur in the Bothnian Bay and the Kattegat. This has been the case for the last century, indicating natural summer N limitation. Full-scale experimental manipulation of the external N/P loading ratio has been carried out in the Himmerfjrd basin, south of Stockholm. Results suggest nitrogen as the most limiting nutrient in coastal areas of the Baltic proper, uninfluenced by direct nutrient discharges. The knowledge of the effects of altered external nutrient supplies for nutrient limitation in the Baltic Sea system as a whole is too limited to allow for reliable predictions. However, the Baltic Sea may have developed towards a more pronounced N limitation due to a twofold historic increase in P supply relative to N supply. At present, the situation may be reversed as N supply is probably increasing more rapidly than P supply. Management of the Baltic Sea area cannot be based on removal of either N or P in sewage, but must take both elements into consideration, as well as differences between sub-basins and between polluted coastal and offshore areas.
4314781| Previous atmospheric and precipitation sampling on Ellesmere Island in the Canadian High Arctic (76 to 83N) detected the presence of trace contaminants originating from both mid-latitudinal and transpolar sources. Plant samples (Saxifraga oppositofolia) were collected along a latitudinal transect from 10 remote sites on Ellesmere Island in order to determine the influx pathway of lead pollution to this region. Unlike contemporaneous measurements of cesium-137 activities and organo-chlorine concentrations, the bioaccumulation of lead was greater in northern compared to southern Ellesmere Island. Stable isotopic measurements of lead suggested that Eurasian sources contributed over half of the lead burden in the most northern-sampled plants. These data support stable isotopic measurements of aerosols from northern Ellesmere Island in suggesting that Eurasian sources of lead pollution may now predominate in this region of the North American High Arctic. 
4312611|Peat is a rich and versatile energy reserve in countries like Canada, Finland, Ireland, Sweden, the USA and the USSR. Peat deserves utmost attention as a fuel and as a raw material for the chemical process industries in these countries. In Sweden, moderate efforts to make use of peat-moderate compared to the size of the Swedish energy problem-may make Sweden independent from oil before the turn of the century. Peat can be produced as milled peat, sod peat or hydraulic peat, a method now under development. Peat is also suitable for production of low and intermediate Btu gas as well as hydrogen, ethylene, SNG (substitute natural gas) and synthesis gas for production of methanol, Fisher Tropsch gasoline etc. Methods are also being worked out that will allow exploited peatland to be converted to energy plantations. Peat may also be converted in its wet condition directly to oil in a liquefaction process. The major use for peat during the next decade will however be as a fuel for production of heat and/or electricity in state-of-art as well as advanced combustion processes including cold combustion of hydrogen produced from peat in fuel cells.
4314563|The use of improved fallows has been proposed as a management alternative to shifting cultivation in the tropics. Managed fallows are quite widespread in the Americas, producing biological and economic benefits, however, cases in which both advantages are realized are scarce. In this article we evaluate the economic viability of forest fallows managed with planted timber tree species to replenish soils and provide economically valuable timber. At a 5% real interest rate, the enriched fallow-subsistence agriculture system yields land values from USD 5000-12 000 ha
4315039|PCBs associate with organic matter in the aquatic environment. Sediment of different bottom types at different water depths may have organic matter with different properties. Also the different bottoms can be either oxic/bioturbated or anoxic/laminated, depending on water depth. To investigate if these circumstances would influence the distribution of PCBs in sediment, samples were collected from different bottom types at different water depths in two areas in the Stockholm Archipelago in the Baltic Sea. The bottom types were classified according to their water content. It was concluded that the concentration of PCBs on an organic carbon basis is the same for the different bottom types and the two areas. The possible differences in properties of the organic matter in different sediments is of minor importance, as are the influences of bioturbation and redox conditions. Instead, it is the properties of the PCB congeners which determine their distribution in the sediments.
4315228|A core goal of both US and European pollution control policies has been to establish rules and regulations pertaining to the movement of reactive-nitrogen (Nr) through the environment. This is manifest in US federal legislation such as the Clean Air Act Amendments and the Clean Water Act Amendments and in various protocols of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and its Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution (CLRTAP). In this paper, we begin by reviewing these two U.S. laws and their effectiveness and make some comparisons with the approaches used mainly in Europe by the UNECE and CLRTAP. Next we use the Mississippi drainage/Gulf of Mexico hypoxia case study to highlight the importance of applying a "systems approach" to address the reactive nitrogen problem at the regional scale. After briefly posing a number of unanswered questions related to nitrogen control policies, we conclude by sketching a blueprint for future actions related to the development of improved policies to regulate reactive nitrogen.
4312278|Solar energy could make a major contribution to Australia's primary energy supply by the year 2000 by providing some of the heat used in homes and industrial processes. Half the country's energy usage is in the form of heat, which is the most cost effective way of utilizing solar energy. There is also a possibility of providing a renewable liquid fuel from the cellulose which is produced by photosynthesis in trees and plants. Solar electric power generation is likely to be restricted to small installations since Australia's large coal reserves can supply power stations for the foreseeable future.
4314280| Regulation of some lead-containing products (e.g., gasoline additives, paint, solder) has reduced some emissions of lead to the environment. This is reflected in reduced aerosol lead concentrations and fallout in both urban and remote regions. It is also evidenced by recent declines in median blood lead (PbB) levels in the US and several European countries. However, those declines in PbB levels are small relative to the estimated natural PbB level in humans (0.016 g
4313314|The atmospheric transport to Sweden and the deposition of radioactive material following the Chernobyl accident have been described on the basis of radiological and meteorological data and theoretical calculations of dispersion. The radioactive cloud created by the explosion at 01.23 local time on April 26, 1986, was transported northwest and north over the Baltic Sea, with the first radionuclides probably reaching southeast Sweden early on April 27. In Svealand (eastern central Sweden), high concentrations of radionuclides began to appear on the evening of the same day. Sweden was affected by dry deposition, including fairly large hot particles and also by wet deposition. Wet deposition occurred via precipitation over eastern Sweden on April 28 and over parts of northern Sweden until April 30. The deposition of radionuclides over the country was mapped in detail, by extensive measurements of gamma radiation using aircraft and by in situ spectroscopy on the ground. Deposition of cesium mainly occurred through wet deposition. In the case of other nuclides, for example,
41417278|Conservation policies are increasing in response to human-induced ecosystem degradation, but little is known about their interplay with natural disasters. Through an analysis of satellite imagery and field data we evaluated the impacts of a devastating earthquake on forest recovery and avoided forest loss estimated to have been obtained by two of the largest conservation programs in the world. Results show that more than 10% of the forests in Wenchuan County, Sichuan province, China were immediately affected by the 2008 earthquake, offsetting some gains in forest cover observed since the enactment of the conservation programs. But without the enactment of these conservation programs, the combined effects of human disturbance and earthquake-induced landslides could have severely reduced the region's forest cover. The continuationand enhancementof incentives for participation in conservation programs will be important for reducing the environmental impacts of the combined effects of human disturbance and natural hazards not only in the study area but also in many disaster-prone regions around the world.
4315348|The paper presents an overview of the present situation of the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). The analysis indicates an urgent need to radically improve the current water supply and wastewater management practices, to become sustainable. The MCMA is one of the most rapidly growing urban centers of the world, with a population of about 21 million people, a very high rate of immigration and numerous illegal settlements. In order to meet the increasing water demand, successive governments have focused almost exclusively on supply management and engineering solutions, which have resulted in investments of hundreds of millions of USD and the construction of major infrastructure projects for interbasin water transfer. Environmental, economic and social policies associated with water management are mostly inadequate and insufficient, which is resulting in increasing deterioration in the environment, health and socioeconomic conditions of a population living in one of the largest urban agglomerations of the world. Surprisingly, however, no long-term strategies on demand-management, reuse, conservation, and improved water-management practices have been developed so far.
4314695|Major subsystems of the terrestrial phosphorus cycle on the densely populated, 142 ha motu of Fogafale, are: carbonate substrate ($\sim 10^{3}\ {\rm g}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm t}^{-1}$), groundwater ($\sim 0.4\ {\rm g}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm t}^{-1}$), terrestrial flora ($\sim 0.22\ {\rm t}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$) and fauna ($\sim 18\ {\rm kg}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$). Freshwater provides the principal medium for terrestrial geochemical atoll processes and is the central recycling plant for phosphorus from atmospheric fallout and decomposition of biotic waste. Present data cannot determine precise fluxes within and between all subsystems, but perturbations, resulting from increasing human populations and changing land use, may be estimated. Changes in Fogafale's biotic phosphorus capitals and increasing phosphorus-containing imports have skewed fluxes and transfer routes of biogenic waste. Atolls are dynamic systems, able to recover from environmental disruptions, but the sustainability and effectiveness of underlying biogeochemical cycles require quantification, monitoring and nurturing. In particular, the integrity of Fogafale's essential fresh groundwater needs to be ascertained and protected.
4312742|Chemical eradication of tsetse flies could alter vast tropical African areas to different land uses. Application of modern technologies, however, will impoverish the poor by alienating their land and destroying or diverting their food supplies, while endangering the whole environment. The process will ensure future dependency on Western technology and food surpluses. It could also destroy Africa's remaining forests, cause further desertification of the Sahel, and wipe out meat production for export there.
4314465|Asian emissions of carbon dioxide from the use of fossil fuels now exceed those from North America or Europe. It is thus essential that the countries of Asia be full and active partners in any global agreement to limit the emissions of greenhouse gases. This paper presents estimated emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuel use in each of the countries and geographical entities of Asia. The two favored approaches for reducing future emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuel use are: (i) improving the efficiency of energy use; and (ii) making greater use of less carbon-intensive sources of energy. With respect to energy efficiency, the higher Energy/GNP ratio of developing countries when compared to industrialized countries is frequently cited as evidence of the inefficient use of energy in developing countries. However, this comparison is made using a GNP figure that is calculated using market exchange rates. In contrast, when GNP is based on purchasing power parity, the Energy/GNP ratios for developing countries are similar to the ratios for industrialized countries. Data for some of the larger developing countries of Asia are presented to illustrate this point. The potential for increasing the use of natural gas is also discussed and the proven reserves of natural gas in a number of countries are provided.
4313560| This paper reviews some results from comparative investigations on effects of acid deposition on forest ecosystems, initiated by Odn in 1968 or started as a consequence of his ideas. While these studies marked the opening of a new problem area in applied ecology, it is concluded that there are many difficulties involved in the interpretation of descriptive data when working with so extremely complex systems as natural ecosystems. The paper also discusses results from two of the Swedish long-term experiments in forest stands, where well-defined nutrient and acid regimes have been maintained since 1971 and resulted in significant changes in soil acidity, tree growth, and vegetation composition. It is concluded that such experiments, if located to representative sites and well designed, may provide not only results pertinent to the current discussion on "critical loads" of sulfur and nitrogen, but also insight into how basic ecosystem processes are affected by deposition of acid and nitrogen. On the other hand, large-scale field experiments are expensive, time-consuming, and limited in the possibilities to manipulate some of the relevant factors. In addition to long-term field experiments a variety of approaches is needed to generate prognoses and testable new hypotheses: comparative studies for generation of hypotheses and definition of the magnitude of the problem; experimental process studies; mathematical modelling linking comparative and experimental results together. 
4314203| Long-term daily means, minimum and maximum temperatures, precipitation, evaporation and windspeed were calculated from standard meteorological data for a semiarid, sandy rangeland in Naiman, Inner Mongolia, China. Soil temperature and soil moisture were measured at an experimental site, where nylon mesh litter-bags with barley straw were buried 10 cm deep on 19 August 1988. On five occasions during the following year litter-bags were sampled, dried, weighed and analyzed to determine their nutrient contents. A decomposition model assuming exponential decay and no activity below 0C was fitted to the data. The predicted mass loss rate was 0.33% per frost-free day, corresponding to a first-year mass loss of 54%, which is similar to that of barley in central Sweden. The model explained 84% of the variance in organic-matter mass loss, and it was concluded that the remaining error could be reduced by including soil water dynamics in the model. 
4313856|After three sessions of the UN-sponsored Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for a Framework Convention on Climate Change, global warming negotiations appear to have polarized around two key issues. Countries are divided over how strictly the treaty should control greenhouse gas emissions and how to share the hardship of emission controls in the most fair and equitable manner. The United States' "go slow" position has frustrated European efforts to create a convention with binding targets and timetables for reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs). Developing nations fear that the United States' refusal to control CO2 emissions signals a lack of commitment toward halting global warming and foreshadows future equity conflicts over financial and technical assistance to help them adopt "climate friendly" development paths. Nevertheless, early negotiating positions can be deceptive. The existence of many significant, low cost energy reforms indicates the existence of untapped bargaining space for overcoming these immediate deadlocks. However, these "no regrets" energy reforms are only the easy, first steps toward arresting climate disruption. Powerful and deeply entrenched social forces will resist an increasingly desperate need to dramatically reduce the global combustion of fossil fuels.
4313572|This paper discusses the basis for cage culturing of salmonids and mussel long-line rearing in Scandinavian marine aquaculture, it also includes a discussion on the support that is required from the marine environment to sustain production; how aquaculture fits into the marine ecosystem; and what side-effects and changes it may cause. Local as well as regional environmental effects are evaluated and related to the growth and economic development of the aquaculture industry. While mussel-rearing represents a more or less self-regulated extensive aquaculture system that is, to a large extent, integrated with the natural marine ecosystem, cage-farming of fish has a processing structure which resembles modern intensive meat production. Cage-farming adds to eutrophication due to nutrient input through the supplied feed, while mussel culturing counteracts eutrophication since no feed is added and nutrients are removed when the mussels are harvested. The production of 1 ton of harvested farmed salmon is indirectly (via food pellets mainly made from fish) dependent on solar fixation by marine plankton from a water area of about 1 km
4315153|The Lithuanian water-management system developed on the basis of Soviet regulations in 1950-1990. Surface-water quality monitoring started in the 1950s, and the system was improved in the 1960s. Today, 48 rivers are being monitored using up to 70 parameters. Statutory monitoring of discharges started in 1962, wastewater standards were issued in 1957 and 1966, and then revised in 1996. Wastewater-treatment plants were built first in rural areas, in factories since the 1950s, and later in towns. Since 1991, large capacity municipal plants have been constructed with foreign assistance. Water quality has improved in some rivers since 1970, but Lithuania's main river, Nemunas, remains moderately polluted. The lower Nemunas is especially affected by discharges of municipal and industrial wastewater from Sovietsk and Neman (Russia), which account for half of the total loading. Hydrobiological data of 1994-1998 indicated the eutrophication of the Curonian Lagoon, and bacteriological pollution and blue-green algae blooms in the Baltic Sea north of Klaipeda.
4311967|The pollution gradients reflected in the snow around an industrial center in southern Norway indicate that the heaviest deposition of excess acid occurs in the rural district. The largest deposits of Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, K, Na, and SO
4313333|Rapid deforestation in the Third World is rooted in development patterns, rapid population growth, concentration of landholdings, and slow employment growth. Investment incentives, tax and credit subsidies, farm pricing policies, and logging concession terms often intensify forest exploitation. Data from case studies of Malaysia, Ghana, Indonesia, the Philippines, the Ivory Coast, and Brazil illustrate the huge economic losses that such policies create. These policies are not only unsuccessful as a means to promote economic development, but also result in severe environmental losses. Both development and environmental goals can be served by policy improvements to promote more sustainable forest development.
24708988|The Tonle Sap is the largest wetland in Southeast Asia and one of the world's most productive inland fisheries. The Mekong River inundates the Tonle Sap every year, shaping a mosaic of natural and agricultural habitats. Ongoing hydropower development, however, will dampen the flood pulse that maintains the Tonle Sap. This study established the current underlying relationship among hydrology, vegetation, and human use. We found that vegetation is strongly influenced by flood duration; however, this relationship was heavily distorted by fire, grazing, and rice cultivation. The expected flood pulse alteration will result in higher water levels during the dry season, permanently inundating existing forests. The reduction of the maximum flood extent will facilitate agricultural expansion into natural habitats. This study is the most comprehensive field survey of the Tonle Sap to date, and it provides fundamental knowledge needed to understand the underlying processes that maintain this important wetland.
4313906|There is concern that some populations of small cetaceans have declined as a result of increases in pollution and other human activities in coastal areas. Pollution and other environmental stresses may directly or indirectly increase the susceptibility of dolphins and porpoises to disease. However, few opportunities exist to monitor the health status of cetacean populations. This paper describes skin lesions which were observed on bottlenose dolphins from Scottish waters and suggests that conventional photo-identification studies could be extended to assess the prevalence of demal disease symptoms in cetacean populations.
4313353|Israel is a semiarid country that has fully developed all of its conventional water resources in a carefully planned program designed to achieve maximum development of the country's agricultural potential. Today the main source for developing additional water resources for agriculture is the recycling of wastewater for irrigation. This paper traces the development of the Israeli wastewater-reuse program, which has now been declared a national policy, with some 35 percent of Israel's total wastewater flow recycled for agricultural and industrial use in 1986. The goal is to achieve 80 percent reuse by the year 2000. Agronomic, engineering, sociopolitical and health aspects of the development of wastewater reuse in Israel are analyzed.
4315678|There exists a negative externality of livestock breeding due to the difference between private and social breeding cost in Xilingol Biosphere Reserve (XBR), Inner Mongolia, that has caused extensive ecological degradation of the grassland. The property rights regime, the household production responsibility system (HPRS), was adopted in the 1980s to increase livestock production in XBR. Although HPRS has successfully increased production by promoting private economic interests and leads to inefficient enforcement of stock rate, it has led to grassland degradation due to. Through interviews conducted with government representatives and herding families in all management units of XBR, we elucidate the shortfalls of the current management regime and the Fencing Grassland and Moving Users policy initiated in 2002 to restore grassland. We propose an alternative property rights regime, small-scale co-management, to concurrently promote both individual economic interests and grassland conservation by improving the enforcement of stock rate.
4313908|Year to year variations of shrimp abundance in the ocean adjacent to the Zambezi River mouth are found to be strongly correlated with the wet season runoff. Since the river is regulated by the Cahora Bassa Dam, the author argues that it is possible to tune the runoff to match the life cycle of the shrimp such that the fishing potential is enhanced.
41417304|The tilapiine cichlids Oreochromis leucostictus and Tilapia zillii were introduced into Lake Naivasha, Kenya, in 1956. Previous studies on data collected to 1987 revealed they were persistent following establishment, despite environmental variability and exploitation. Recent data, however, suggest this persistence is under threat as data indicate some significant declines in aspects of their abundance since 1999. The influence of changes in lake level, allodiversity and fishing effort on this decline was tested and showed that a decline in lake level was a significant causal factor. The recent change in allodiversity, with the establishment and dominance of Cyprinus carpio in the fishery, was not significant on the catch per unit effort of O. leucostictus but was on T. zillii. Since 1999, catches of tilapiines in the fishery have been independent of fishing effort, contrary to between 1975 and 1987, suggesting their management through application of fishery models may no longer be applicable. As it was anthropogenic-mediated lake level changes that were mainly responsible for their decline, then lake management should focus on sustainable water utilization that maximizes lake levels in accordance with the basin-wide water balance.
4315536| We investigated unhatched eggs (n = 57) of Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) from the period 1988-2002 and compared them with eggs (n = 134) from 1971-1978. Mean concentrations of PCBs, DDT and HCB in the earlier period were (mg kg
4313865|Natural and social scientists are cooperating in a major research program focused on environmental change in semiarid North Central Tanzania. The aim is to contribute to an empirical and theoretical basis for assessing interrelations between man and land in a semiarid environment, and also to support ongoing development projects in the area. Physical processes are recorded and analyzed. Indigenous conservation practices are documented. The relationships between land degradation and factors such as land tenure, ethnic and social stratification, and degree of market involvement are studied. The effect of a large-scale environmental intervention, the removal of all livestock from the so-called Kondoa Eroded Area, is analyzed in a comparatively long-term perspective. The research program allows for close cooperation between Tanzanian and Swedish researchers. Both senior researchers and Ph.D. students are participating. Research cooperation, training and tutorial responsibilities flow in both directions between the two countries.
25547796|This review provides a summary of methods for treating soils contaminated with polychlorinated aromatic compounds, especially polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs). Unlike many other soil pollutants, PCDD/Fs bind tightly to the soil, which severely reduces the efficiency of most aqueous treatment procedures and leaves few realistic alternatives besides the traditional containment techniques (landfill, solidification/stabilization, and in situ vitrification). Incineration has long been, and still is, the most efficient destruction technique, with a removal efficiency of >99.9999%. However, supercritical water oxidation, base-catalyzed decomposition, steam distillation, and various extraction techniques, such as solvent and liquefied gas and subcritical water extraction, may provide removal efficiencies of >95%. Many of the alternative techniques are expected to be cheaper than incineration and may therefore be attractive for moderately polluted soils. However, some of them are at an early stage of development and need to be further tested before their true potential can be assessed.
4314737|Palsas are peat-covered mounds up to a few meters high, and with permafrost cores developed either in peat or mineral soil. Due to the good insulating effect of the peat, this kind of permafrost landform can survive in a climate where the mean annual temperature is just below the freezing point. In marginal areas of palsa distribution, like in the Dovrefjell mountains, the occurrences of palsas are sensitive to climate fluctuations. In Dovrefjell, southern Norway, the main tendency is declining palsas due to melting of permafrost. Further climatic warming will probably result in melting of most palsas within a few decades. Palsa bogs are sensitive to all human impacts that can destroy the peat cover or otherwise change the insulating effect of the surface layer. Haukskardsmyra, the biggest palsa bog in the Dovrefjell mountains, is a protected area.
40730865|Interest in long time series of organic matter data has recently increased due to concerns about the effects of global climate change on aquatic ecosystems. This study presents and evaluates unique time series of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and water color from Lake Malaren, Sweden, stretching almost seven decades (1935-2004). A negative linear trend was found in COD, but not in water color. The decrease was mainly due to installation of sewage works around 1970. Time series of COD and water color had cyclic pattern. It was strongest for COD, with 23 years periodicity. Similar periodicity observed in air temperature and precipitation in Sweden has been attributed to the North Atlantic Oscillation index and solar system orbit, suggesting that COD in Lake Malaren is partly derived from algae. Discharge influenced water color more than COD, possibly because water color consists of colored substances brought into the lake from surrounding soils.
4314735|Ozone in the atmosphere, mainly in the stratosphere, absorbs most of the ultraviolet-B (wavelength 280-315 nm) radiation from the sun, which can destroy DNA and other biologically important molecules and, thereby, damage living organisms. Due to the pollution of the atmosphere by humans, the ozone layer is presently being depleted, more rapidly at higher latitudes than at lower, and more rapidly over Scandinavia than over most geographical regions at corresponding latitudes. Ultraviolet-B radiation is generally more intense in mountain regions than at sea level. We have experiments in progress in which we simulate the effects of further ozone depletion on terrestrial ecosystems (mountain heaths, bogs, tundra) by irradiating them with artificial ultraviolet-B radiation. Effects on the growth of dwarf-shrubs and mosses and on plant litter decomposition are described.
4313706|Commercial logging is theoretically a relatively benign form of exploitation for tropical forests, but in actuality has not been practiced on a sustainable basis. This article begins with a brief historical overview of natural forest-management systems, showing that several have been sustainable from a silvicultural viewpoint. However, these have never been carried out on a large scale because of economic and social limitations. To overcome these obstacles will require: improved economic analysis methods that recognize the long-term and external benefits of forest maintenance; elimination of incentives for forest conversion, redesign of concession agreements and royalty and tax systems to provide incentives for long-term management; and involvement of local populations in forest management, both in terms of planning and receipt of benefits.
4314641|During the Lithuanian economic crisis of the 1990s, a decline in agricultural production was accompanied by decreases in water and environmental pollution. If no efforts are made for the reconstruction of agriculture toward sustainable and biological farming, the ongoing recovery of the economy will in all likelihood result in increases in the levels of pollution. For that reason an important state pilot program was developed and the Tatula Fund (Karst Region Fund Tatula) was established to implement it. The program and the fund are designed to support and encourage the transition from traditional to sustainable and biological agriculture. The Tatula Fund allocates its members free interest credits and grants, and subsidies for the construction of waste treatment facilities, for educational activities, ecological monitoring and other activities, on a competitive basis. In the ecologically sensitive karst region of northern Lithuania, it is necessary to protect groundwater, while at the same time it is important to solve the current marketing problems of agricultural production as well as unemployment issues. According to the statement of the government's strategies on environmental protection and climate changes, as the national economy continues to grow, the pilot program developed in the karst region will be expanded throughout Lithuania. So far, the programs that have been developed for the karst zone, on education and certification of biological production, are being implemented in all regions of Lithuania.
4314348|Monitoring of forest health status over the last few years has reported a small but significant decline in crown vigor in Norwegian conifer forests. Such a concise statement about the development on a national level may conceal important regional differences. In this article, probability mapping and median polish is used to examine the geographical distribution of changes in crown vigor. The results reveal a geographical trend, with systematic differences along a north-south gradient in southern and central Norway.
4315783|In the past, human activities often resulted in mercury releases to the biosphere with little consideration of undesirable consequences for the health of humans and wildlife. This paper outlines the pathways through which humans and wildlife are exposed to mercury. Fish consumption is the major route of exposure to methylmercury. Humans can also receive toxic doses of mercury through inhalation of elevated concentrations of gaseous elemental mercury. We propose that any effective strategy for reducing mercury exposures requires an examination of the complete life cycle of mercury. This paper examines the life cycle of mercury from a global perspective and then identifies several approaches to measuring the benefits of reducing mercury exposure, policy options for reducing Hg emissions, possible exposure reduction mechanisms, and issues associated with mercury risk assessment and communication for different populations.
41417398|Successful implementation of an international nutrient abatement agreement, such as the Baltic Sea Action Plan (BSAP), requires consistent understanding of the baseline nutrient loads, and a perception of acceptable costs and fairness in targeted reductions of these base line loads. This article presents a general framework for identifying the implications of divergence between different nutrient load quantification approaches, with regard to both cost and fairness criteria outcomes, for the international agreement to decrease nutrient loads into the Baltic Sea as presented in the BSAP. The results indicate that even relatively small divergence in the nutrient load quantification translates into relatively large differences in abatement cost for different Baltic Sea countries. A robust result, irrespective of differences in nutrient load assessments, is a conflict between abatement cost effectiveness and fairness, with relatively poor countries facing heavy abatement cost burdens for cost-effective international load abatement.
40928388|This study examines the bleaching responses of scleractinian corals at four sites in Kenya (Kanamai, Vipingo, Mombasa and Nyali) representing two distinct lagoon habitats (relatively shallow and relatively deep). Bleaching incidence was monitored for the whole coral community, while zooxanthellae densities and chlorophyll levels were monitored for target species (Pocillopora damicornis, Pontes lutea, and Pontes cylindrica) during a non-bleaching year (2006) and a year of mild-bleaching (2007). Differences in bleaching responses between habitats were observed, with shallower sites Kanamai and Vipingo exhibiting lower bleaching incidence than deeper sites Nyali and Mombasa. These shallower lagoons display more fluctuating thermal and light environments than the deeper sites, suggesting that corals in the shallower lagoons have acclimatized and/or adapted to the fluctuating environmental conditions they endure on a daily basis and have become more resistant to bleaching stress. In deeper sites that did exhibit higher bleaching (Mombasa and Nyali), it was found that coral recovery occurred more quickly in the protected area than in the non-protected area.
4314849| Since 1974, sea-run Baltic salmon populations have been afflicted by an early life-stage mortality known as the M74 syndrome. The syndrome has been shown to be associated with a thiamine (vitamin B
4314793|China is a country with a long history of civilization. Its civilization centers re-located from the plains of the lower and middle reaches of the Yellow River to the basin of the lower watershed of the Yangtze River. This paper analyzes the ecological environmental background of the changes of the civilization centers established in the main dynasties and regimes in ancient China, in which the dynamics of population, farmland, forest, and natural disasters for each period are emphasized. The relationship between environmental degradation, wars, and social development cycles, are also discussed. The results show that anthropogenic environmental impact was one of the decisive contributing factors leading to the relocation of the centers of civilization in ancient China. It is suggested that the rise and fall of ancient civilizations in China and other countries provide modern societies with important lessons for environmental protection.
4312999|The forests of the Central Himalaya are suffering serious losses due to population growth and expansion of agriculture. Although utilization of forest products is a necessary component of the Central Himalayan agroeconomy it is prohibitively inefficient. More than seven units of energy must be taken from the forest in order to produce a single unit of agricultural energy. Consequently, the carrying capacity of the forest has been exceeded. Further destruction of the forest must be prevented and positive steps such as reforestation and tree farming should be taken to ensure the future of the region's ecology and economy.
4315082|Drainage and peat harvesting may induce considerable changes in the fluxes to the atmosphere of the greenhouse gases CH
4314321|The increase in UV-B associated with stratospheric ozone depletion is likely to have a substantial impact on human health. Potential risks include increases in the incidence of, and morbidity from, eye diseases, skin cancer, and infectious diseases. Quantitative estimates of risk are available for some effects (e.g. skin cancer), while for others (e.g., infectious diseases), quantitative estimates are not possible, due to a lack of sufficient data. UV radiation has been shown in experimental systems to damage the cornea and lens of the eye. Chronic exposure to UV-B, resulting in a high, cumulative, lifetime dose, is one of several factors clearly associated with the risk of cataract of the cortical and posterior subcapsular forms. Estimates of the effect of ozone depletion on cataract have been made, but are still highly uncertain. These estimates predict an approximately 0.5% increase in cataract for each 1% sustained decrease in ozone. Some components of the immune system are present in the skin, which makes the immune system accessible to UV radiation. Experiments in animals show that UV exposure decreases the immune response to skin cancers, infectious agents, and other antigens and can lead to unresponsiveness upon repeated challenges. Suppressed immunity may occur either locally in sun-exposed skin or systematically, at nonexposed sites. Studies in human subjects also indicate that exposure to UV-B radiation can suppress the induction of some immune responses and may cause systemic alterations in immune function. The importance of these immune effects for infectious diseases in humans is unknown. However, in areas of the world where infectious diseases already pose a significant challenge to human health, and in persons with impaired immune function, the added insult of UV-B-induced immune suppression could be significant. In susceptible (light-skinned) populations, the cumulative lifetime exposure to UV-B radiation is the key risk factor for development of nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC). This knowledge has permitted the development of quantitative risk estimates for increases in the incidence of NMSC resulting from ozone depletion. Using information derived from animal experiments and human epidemiology, it is estimated that a sustained 1% decrease in stratospheric ozone will result in an increase of NMSC incidence of approximately 2%. The relationship between UV-B exposure and melanoma skin cancer is less well understood and appears to differ fundamentally from that of NMSC in that it is not apparently a function of cumulative lifetime dose, but may be related to the accumulation impact of multiple high-dose exposures such as those received in sunburns. Epidemiologic data indicate that the risk of melanoma increases with an increase in episodes of intense sunlight exposure, (i.e. sunburn) especially during childhood. There is, however, uncertainty about how the relationship between these exposures and melanoma should be modeled so that the estimates of the increase in melanoma that would result from ozone depletion are much less certain.
40928394|The past decade has seen increased international recognition of the importance of the services provided by natural ecosystems. It is unclear however whether such international awareness will lead to improved environmental management in many regions. We explore this issue by examining the specific case of fish migration and dams on the Mekong river. We determine that dams on the Mekong mainstem and major tributaries will have a major impact on the basin's fisheries and the people who depend upon them for food and income. We find no evidence that current moves towards dam construction will stop, and consider two scenarios for the future of the fisheries and other ecosystems of the basin. We conclude that major investment is required in innovative technology to reduce the loss of ecosystem services, and alternative livelihood strategies to cope with the losses that do occur.
4314782|This paper compares transient carbon fluxes to and from forests during climatic change in a pure natural model of ecosystem adjustment and also in a model that captures the human response to these changes. Both models incorporate forest dieback and regeneration, forest redistribution, and changes in ecosystem production during climatic change. The natural model predicts that forested ecosystems in the United States will release 2.5 to 6.3 Pg carbon during the next 7 decades under climatic change. The model including human response shows that markets will mitigate, and even reverse, these fluxes by managing some forests for timber and storing carbon in wood products.
4314722|The problems of limited water resources are discussed in an historical perspective and in terms of the near future. Tunisia has a long history of human influence, man's impact on nature and natural resources having been strong since Roman times. Recent land use, or rather abuse, has caused soil degradation, in the form of soil erosion, decreases in soil organic matter, nitrogen and phosphorus, as well as salinization of arable soil and soil desiccation through the overexploitation of groundwater. Future development must build on a far more efficient use of water. Improvement of water management is, therefore, a priority, for groundwater as well as surface water. Detailed knowledge of the water balance, and of various types of water resources, is a prerequisite for future planning of land allocation for agriculture, arboriculture, horticulture, as well as for pasturing, reforestation, and for nature reserves for biotopes and biota. The future of the rural population requires a change toward increased productivity in as sustainable a system as possible, which also entails simultaneous urban development.
4313505|One central problem in current ecotoxicological research is to identify, within the natural ecosystem, such species or subsystems that may have a key function for the integrity of the whole system or may be particularly sensitive to pollutants. In the Baltic Sea, the bladder-wrack, (Fucus vesiculosus L.) is the dominant structural element in the shallow, hard-bottom ecosystem, and as such it plays an important role for the function of this subsystem as well as of adjacent subsystems. Laboratory experiments, in model ecosystem studies and in the field, have shown that bladder-wrack is extremely sensitive to long-term exposure to the chlorate contained in effluents from pulp mills. It is argued that the chlorate-induced structural changes in the bladder-wrack subsystem within a restricted area may have consequences in time and space far beyond the area and period of observation, e.g. on invertebrate macrofauna production and on fish reproduction. Thus, although the chlorate effect on the bladder-wrack is restricted in time and space, the secondary effects might extend to the offshore waters in the form of decreased recruitment of pelagic fish populations. This example might promote an increased awareness of what consequences large-scale changes, for example eutrophication, might have on the Baltic ecosystem and on its role as a fish-producing area.
4314049|An economy can be both efficient and sustainable, but efficiency does not guarantee sustainability. The safe minimum standard (SMS) for biological diversity illustrates the practical steps that could be taken to increase the likelihood that the economy is sustainable. Extinction threatens sustainability because it may affect the stability of economically important ecosystems and it may entail losses of plants, animals, and microorganisms that would otherwise have become important resources in the future. Wherever preservation is biologically feasible, extinction of species would be avoided unless the costs of avoidance are excessive or other social goals must receive a higher priority. The stated policies of the US and many other countries are consistent with the SMS. However, in the US at least, lack of funding has been a major impediment to implementation. A tax on natural resource use would be a possible source of funding for programs to improve prospects for economic sustainability.
4313113|Freshwater fisheries in China are well-established, long-standing traditions. A great diversity of aquacultural practices occupy a highly significant place in the overall food production strategy. These practices exemplify the country's ecological approach toward use of available resources to sustain her enormous population. Annual fish production exceeds one million metric tons. The majority is derived from fish-farm ponds, natural lakes and reservoirs. The key to China's capacity to sustain her population centers lies in the traditional design of her agricultural landscape and, where ample freshwater resources exist, the role of aquaculture within it. In recent years, a number of newly devised methodologies and socio-economic incentives have been implemented. Some of these innovations are efficient while others require further evaluation.
4314559|Primary or tail feathers were collected from 92 wading birds in Florida from Lake Okeechobee and wetlands farther south, from 1987 to 1990. Mean concentrations detected in feathers of nestlings were 2.0 ppm Hg in roseate spoonbills (Ajaia ajaja), 3.5 ppm Hg in great blue herons (Ardea herodias), 4.7 ppm Hg in great white herons (Ardea herodias occidentalis), and 7.1 ppm Hg in great egrets (Casmerodius albus). Concentrations in feathers of great white herons increased with the age of the bird, from 4.7 ppm Hg in nestlings, to 6.7 ppm Hg in juveniles, and 8.2 ppm Hg in adults. Mercury concentrations were greatest in species consuming large fish. Feathers collected from wood storks (Mycteria americana) contained an average of 3.3 ppm Hg. Mercury concentrations in feathers of wading birds from southern Florida were greater than those reported in feathers of wading birds from Asia. Both liver and feather Hg concentrations were known for 25 wading birds. The regression of liver (wet weight) Hg concentrations (Y) on feather Hg concentrations (X) was: log(Y) = 1.52 log(X)-0.722. The correlation coefficient was 0.84. If reproductive disorders are expected when concentrations in feathers of adult birds average 9 ppm Hg, as might be inferred from a published laboratory study on mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), then Hg in southern Florida may be high enough to reduce productivity of wading bird populations. However, additional controlled studies are needed before a minimum toxic concentration in feathers can be designated with confidence.
41418339|It seems inevitable that the ongoing and rapid changes in the physical environment of the marine Arctic will push components of the region's existing social-ecological systemssmall and largebeyond tipping points and into new regimes. Ongoing changes include warming, freshening, acidification, and alterations to food web structure. In anticipation we pose three distinct but interrelated challenges: (1) to explore existing connectivities within components of the marine system; (2) to seek indicators (if they exist) of approaching regime change through observation and modeling; and (3) to build functional resilience into existing systems through adaptation-oriented policy and to have in hand transformative options when tipping points are crossed and new development trajectories are required. Each of the above challenges is scale dependent, and each requires a much deeper understanding than we currently have of connectivity within existing systems and their response to external forcing. Here, we argue from a global perspective the need to understand the Arctic's role in an increasingly nonlinear world; then describe emerging evidence from new observations on the connectivity of processes and system components from the Canada Basin and subarctic seas surrounding northern North America; and finally posit an approach founded in "resilience thinking" to allow northern residents living in small coastal communities to participate in the observation, adaption andif necessarytransformation of the social-ecological system with which they live.
4314869|The problem of child-lifting by wolves in Hazaribagh West, Koderma and Latehar forest divisions of Bihar State, India, has been evaluated, based on records of the Forest Department, interviews, and a survey. Five wolf packs have created problems in 63 villages. 80 child casualties occurred from April 1993 to April 1995 and only 20 victims were rescued. All the children were taken from settlements primarily during March to August between 17.00 and 19.00 hrs. There were more female victims (58%) than males and 89% were 3-11-yrs old. Recommendations for the mitigation of human-wolf conflicts, and a conservation strategy for wolves might include: surveying wolf habitats for identification of dens and rendezvous sites, and estimating wolf populations; capture of problem wolves; improving compensation to victims' families; research on wolf behavior, rabies, wolf/dog hybrids, and the prey-base; possibilities for introducing natural prey, and regulation of wolf populations.
4315661| The main source of human exposure to persistent organic pollutants (POPs) is, in general, food. In this study, 64 butter samples from 37 countries were analyzed to assess the global contamination of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), dibenzofurans (PCDFs), biphenyls (PCBs), hexachlorobenzene (HCB), and 2,2-bis (4-chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane (DDT) together with its major metabolites. The objectives of the study were to assess the presence of major organohalogen contaminants in butter, to trace geographical differences, and to determine toxic equivalents (TEQs) of PCDDs/Fs and dioxin-like PCBs in butter. The highest PCDD/F concentrations were found in butter from Korea with an average of 1.4 pg TEQ g
4313904|The manufacture of the greater part of most conventional building materials used today is based on use of fossil fuels, thereby contributing sizeable amounts of carbon from combustion and chemical reactions in the raw material to the atmosphere. Alternative building materials and systems have to be developed in order to balance atmospheric carbon dioxide. Using electricity from renewable sources, limestone storing carbon can be precipitated from seawater with simultaneous production of hydrogen, oxygen, and chlorine gas. Existing resources for the operation of the mineral accretion process are surveyed and similarities in biogenic calcium carbonate deposition discussed. Electrolytically precipitated limestone and material consisting of artificial limestone and hard coral skeletons are proposed as a sink for carbon and for use as building materials. To assess the potential role of these materials in the carbon cycle, experimental measurements are needed.
25515809|Control of plant invasions requires regional knowledge of invasive species' distribution and the factors that promote their spread. We studied the distribution of invasive alien plants in Denmark at 2 spatial scales ("site" and "municipality") based on habitat descriptions and species lists from 2343 sites recorded within environmental assessments for planned infrastructure projects and conservation management. We created a Geographic Information System database of the sites and supplemented the field data with information on traffic routes, water courses, and socioeconomic indicators from the respective municipalities. The percentage of invaded sites within a municipality decreased with increasing tax percentage and it increased with (sub-)urbanity. The number of invasive species at the sites was positively correlated with resident plant diversity, disturbance, and proximity to traffic routes. We conclude that current plant invasions in Denmark are mainly an anthropogenic (sub-)urban phenomenon. The results are discussed with respect to the utility of environmental assessment data for studying plant invasions and improving control of invasive species.
4314784|Five environmental problems have been identified, which should see significant improvement in the United Kingdom, if action is taken within the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN ECE) Second NO
4315427|Our ecological footprint analyses of coral reef fish fisheries and, in particular, the live reef fish food trade (FT), indicate many countries' current consumption exceeds estimated sustainable per capita global, regional and local coral reef production levels. Hong Kong appropriates 25% of SE Asia's annual reef fish production of 135 260-286 560 tonnes (t) through its FT demand, exceeding regional biocapacity by 8.3 times; reef fish fisheries demand outpaces sustainable production in the Indo-Pacific and SE Asia by 2.5 and 6 times. In contrast, most Pacific islands live within their own reef fisheries means with local demand at < 20% of total capacity in Oceania. The FT annually requisitions up to 40% of SE Asia's estimated reef fish and virtually all of its estimated grouper yields. Our results underscore the unsustainable nature of the FT and the urgent need for regional management and conservation of coral reef fisheries in the Indo-Pacific.
4314820|A 12-month study was conducted on recruitment patterns in two locations on Taa Reef, northern Tanzania. Since one of the sites had been severely damaged by dynamite fishing, the central aim was to examine any impact that this might have had on coral recruitment. Results showed a strong seasonality in recruitment with peak recruitment occurring in April at both sites. The peak in recruitment coincided with the peak in water temperature, and low sedimentation rate. A significant difference was observed between sites experiencing different degrees of coral damage, with higher recruitment occurring at the least disturbed site suggesting that recruitment rate was influenced by coral cover. Significant differences were also observed in the distribution of recruits between the upper and lower surfaces of the settling tiles used in the study, with coral larvae preferring to settle on the lower surfaces. Overall, dynamite fishing at Taa Reef appears to have had a major impact due to the removal of viable seed populations of corals. This has decreased the supply of recruits for recolonization of the damaged areas. In addition to recruitment levels, other factors such as sedimentation rates and competition for space with other organisms were also examined, but these did not appear to play a major role in determining recruitment levels at the study sites.
4314267|The impacts of aquaculture on biodiversity are rarely positive, sometimes neutral, but usually negative to some degree. Impacts arise from the consumption of resources, such as land (or space), water, seed and feed, their transformation into products valued by society and the production of wastes (uneaten food, faecal and urinary products, chemotheraputants, microorganisms and parasites and feral farmed organisms). Negative impacts may be direct, through the introduction of exotic genetic material into the environment for example, or indirect through loss of habitat and niche space. It is concluded that the key issues in deciding the acceptability of this method of food production are scale, intensity of resource use, and net production of wastes. It is also argued that protection of biodiversity is essential from the aquaculturist's point of view.
4311951|This three-year-old project is part of a larger investigation of chemical changes in the Baltic Sea. A new in situ measuring method is used. Various types of environments are simulated in aquatic microcosms under controlled conditions. Quantitative data have been obtained for the production of hydrogen sulphides in reduced environments and for the associated release of phosphate and ammonia from the sediments.
4315408|On the basis of a Solomon Islands case study, we report that tropical rainforests hitherto perceived as untouched, pristine, virgin, etc., are actually sites of former settlement, extensive forest clearance, and irrigated/swideen agriculture. An unusually wide range of sources-rainforest ecology, forest classification and mapping, ethnobotany, land-use history, oral traditions, ethnographic and archaeological observations-supports our conclusions. These observations have bearings for contemporary perspectives on scenarios for rainforest regeneration after logging. They also force a revision of certain assumptions concerning Melanesian prehistory and historical demography, and indicate that interdisciplinary links between botany, archaeology and social anthropology are needed to achieve a better appreciation of rainforest dynamics.
25515851|There is significant evidence that northern Canada's climate has already undergone substantial change. These changes have meant significant impacts for physical, natural and human systems in Canada's North. Climate models suggest that such trends will continue into the future, and therefore shifts in Arctic systems are expected for some time to come. This introductory paper is the first in a series published in two issues of Ambio presenting work conducted for northern chapters of two recent Canadian national climate science assessment initiatives, From Impacts to Adaptation: Canada in a Changing Climate 2007 and Human Health in a Changing Climate: A Canadian Assessment of Vulnerabilities and Adaptive Capacity. Collectively, these assessments involved the work of 24 scientists with expertise in a variety of disciplines and regions in the Canadian North. These assessment processes adopted aspects of a vulnerability approach to climate assessment, primarily through a review of existing and projected exposures and elements of adaptive capacity based on existing literature. In so doing, they have contributed towards a more comprehensive understanding of climate impacts and adaptations across the northern regions of the country. This paper provides an overview and introduction to the series of papers contained in the two issues of Ambio.
4312108|The relationship between internal, 24-hour rhythms (so-called biological clocks) and external work schedules is now attracting increased attention. The article gives a brief survey of the field. Lowered performance and other difficulties for the individual occur when the internal rhythms, normally synchronized to the rhythms of the society, experience a change of the external working conditions. Such a change is imposed on persons who should work after a jet flight across time zones or on shift workers. These changing working conditions and their effects on body and mental functions are surveyed. Some fields which urgently need to be investigated are listed.
4314164|Large advances have been made in linking terrestrial biospheric and atmospheric processes in real time. Further, it is now possible to model the potential response of the Earth's primary productivity to the changing climate and to changes in atmospheric CO
4313114|In contrast with much of the Himalayas, where deforestation and erosion pose drastic problems, large tracts of primary forest remain in Bhutan, although the closed nature of this Buddhist kingdom has meant that little is known of the character or extent of the resource. During 1983, a preliminary study was made in which ground-survey data were collected and related to LANDSAT 2 imagery. In this article, major forest types are described, and their extent and the pressures to which they are subjected are discussed. With developing technology and frontiers that are beginning to open, these pressures are increasing and it is considered vitally important that more exhaustive studies be undertaken and published so that informed decisions may be made about future use and management. The Bhutanese forests are a unique and locally untouched wilderness whose maintenance should be the concern of the entire developed world.
4314102|The problem of nitrogen pollution in European surface- and groundwaters has become a focus of recent European and Scandinavian directives, with legislation calling for a 50% reduction of N losses by the years 1995 and 2000, respectively. This paper provides a conceptual framework upon which management strategies to reduce losses of diffuse nitrogen pollution to surface waters may be based. The control of nitrogen pollution may take place through an increase in the complexity of the landscape, not throughout the catchment area, but rather in specific zones, the river corridor in particular. Within river corridors, riparian areas have been recognized globally for their value as nutrient removal "buffer systems". Studies have identified vegetation uptake and microbial denitrification as the primary mechanisms responsible for N removal in these systems. For these processes to function optimally on an annual basis, both vegetation and water regime must be managed. The establishment and management of riparian buffer zones in suitable places within river corridors, will provide a stable and sustainable water-protection function. This will complement future nitrogen input control strategies, needed for both the long-term protection of groundwater and surface waters in Europe as a whole, and for the proposed 50% reduction in nitrogen loading to the Baltic and North Sea coastal waters by the turn of the century.
4314330|Malaria, according to the World Health Organization, is one of the most serious and complex health problems facing humanity in the 20th century. In the past, climatic changes have greatly affected its geography. Its seriousness and complexity are therefore likely to be compounded by an anthropogenic greenhouse effect. The Malaria Potential Occurrence Zone (MOZ) model was designed to calculate first-order estimates of climate change impacts on malaria. MOZ focuses on the climatic determinants of the life cycles of malaria parasites and vectors. It does not take epidemiology into account. MOZ predicts receptivity, or potential transmission, rather than actual occurrence. MOZ indicates that the intensity and the extent of malaria potential transmission significantly change under the climate change scenarios generated by five atmospheric general circulation models. All five simulations reveal an increase in seasonal malaria at the expense of perennial malaria. This is cause for great concern. Indeed, seasonal malaria is most likely to lead to epidemics among unprepared or nonimmune populations. Moreover, climate change may trigger massive migrations of environmental refugees. Such population movements would likely put national and international health infrastructures under severe stress. Today, malaria is a developing country issue but could spread to higher latitudes. The results obtained with MOZ suggest that malaria could become a public-health problem for developed countries within decades.
24708796|Tourism is a financing mechanism considered by many donor-funded marine conservation initiatives. Here we assess the potential role of visitor entry fees, in generating the necessary revenue to manage a marine protected area (MPA), established through a Global Environmental Facility Grant, in a temperate region of Chile. We assess tourists' willingness to pay (WTP) for an entry fee associated to management and protection of the MPA. Results show 97 % of respondents were willing to pay an entrance fee. WTP predictors included the type of tourist, tourists' sensitivity to crowding, education, and understanding of ecological benefits of the MPA. Nature-based tourists state median WTP values of US$ 4.38 and Sun-sea-sand tourists US$ 3.77. Overall, entry fees could account for 1013 % of MPA running costs. In Chile, where funding for conservation runs among the weakest in the world, visitor entry fees are no panacea in the short term and other mechanisms, including direct state/government support, should be considered.
40928401|We assessed the blue mussel Mytilus edulis fishery management scheme introduced in 1994 in the Danish Wadden Sea that regulate fishing vessels, fishery quota, set-aside for mussel-eating birds and established zones closed to mussel fishery. The results showed (i) a reduction in the blue mussel biomass and mussel bed areas in zones closed to fishery, (ii) decrease in eiders Somateria mollissima numbers and increase or stable numbers for oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus and herring gull Larus argentatus and (iii) that energy estimations based on ecological food requirements for the mussel-eating birds should be at least three times larger, than the amount setaside in the mussel management scheme. It is concluded that the mussel management scheme had been unable to stabilize or increase the blue mussel stocks and to secure stable or increasing numbers for all target bird species. Thus, it is recommended to revise the present blue mussel management scheme in the Danish Wadden Sea, to continue and improve mussel stock and bird surveys, and to consider novel studies of the mussel-eating birds' energetics for improved set-aside estimates and future assessments.
4314646|This paper attempts to summarize cooperation activities within the agricultural sector from the point of view of the Eastern countries of the Baltic region. Attention is paid to the objectives to formulate and create a sustainable agriculture model, taking into account similarities and differences in the countries located around the Baltic Sea including experience of cooperation within the last 5-year period; relevant examples; and evaluation; key issues for future opportunities; strategies and developments.
25547943|The Amazon is being rapidly transformed by fire. Logging and forest fragmentation sharply elevate fire incidence by increasing forest desiccation and fuel loads, and forests that have experienced a low-intensity surface fire are vulnerable to far more catastrophic fires. Satellites typically detect thermal signatures from 40 000 to 50 000 separate fires in the Amazon each year, and this number could increase as new highways and infrastructure expand across the basin. Many are concerned that large-scale deforestation, by reducing regional evapotranspiration and creating moisture-trapping smoke plumes, will make the basin increasingly vulnerable to fire. The Amazon may also be affected by future global warming and atmospheric changes, although much remains uncertain. Most models suggest the basin will become warmer throughout this century, although there is no consensus about how precipitation will be affected. The most alarming scenarios project a permanent disruption of the El Nio-Southern Oscillation, leading to greatly increased drought or destructive synergisms between regional and global climate change in the Amazon.
4315609| Animal behavior is a central part of animal welfare, a keystone in sustainable animal breeding. During domestication, animals have adapted with respect to behavior and an array of other traits. We compared the behavior of junglefowl and White Leghorn layers, selected for egg production (and indirectly for growth). Junglefowl had a more active behavior in social, exploratory, anti-predatory and feeding tests. A genome scan for Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs) in a junglefowl  White Leghom intercross revealed several significant or suggestive QTLs for different traits. Some production QTLs coincided with QTLs for behaviour, suggesting that pleiotropic effects may be important for the development of domestication phenotypes. One gene has been located, which has a strong effect on the risk of being a victim of feather pecking, a detrimental behavior disorder. Modern genomics paired with analysis of behavior may help in designing more sustainable and robust breeding in the future. 
4311946|According to present knowledge, a significant decrease in the stratospheric ozone can take place in the future due to the action of nitrogen oxides emitted in the exhaust of supersonic commercial aircraft. This may have biological consequences. Although some estimates are given of the possible consequences of such air traffic, it is also shown that reliable predictions cannot be made before better knowledge about the stratosphere is obtained. A minimum requirement is that no large-scale supersonic operations be started at this time.
4314785|Results from an assessment of greenhouse gas emissions during the life-cycle of the carrots and tomatoes consumed in Sweden are presented and discussed. The life-cycle was divided into storage, transportation from producer to retailer, farm production, and the production and transportation of fertilizers. Emissions from carrots were lowest when produced within or close to Sweden, whilst contrary results were obtained for tomatoes. For carrots, emissions during storage and transportation dominated. In the life-cycle of tomatoes, emissions were dominated by those from the combustion of the fuel required for heating greenhouses. The total emissions of greenhouse gases from present consumption patterns for fresh vegetables, in Sweden, were estimated and compared to an assumed Permissible Environmental Space for food consumption. The conclusion drawn is that present patterns of consumption and production for fresh vegetables are unlikely to be sustainable.
4314982|This paper forecasts major trends behind the conversion of arable land to nonagricultural uses by the year 2030, as well as food production capacities in China. It was found that agricultural structure adjustment, urbanization and industrialization will play an equally important role in reducing the gross quantity of arable land. In order to conserve high-quality farmland it is necessary to increase the intensity of nonagricultural land uses through both economic incentives and administrative measures. The findings show that strengthening protection measures for arable land, including land reorganization, land reclamation, and land restoration, will significantly contribute to maintaining the acreage of arable land and enhancing food production capacities.
4315068|The rate at which deforestation of montane cloud forests of the Tropical Andes is documented, and the extent of different productive land uses in those areas, make it difficult to forecast appropriate conservation scenarios for countries that occupy the crescent of the Northern Andes abode of one of the richest biological and cultural diversity of the world. Because of ancient human impacts on soils and wildlife, as well as current intensive land-use practices, Tropandean landscapes are being depleted not only of nutrients and organic matter in cultivated soils, but also water catchment and other resources, including fisheries, forestry, mining, agriculture, and livestock that mountain peoples are producing as a result of the governmental policies of subsidized capital inputs. The exodus of young people to the cities in the Andean world exacerbates the deterioration of the rural quality of life and brings issues of marginality, poverty, and neglect into the cultural landscape. In view of this critical situation, novel conservation approaches are suggested, reflecting needed changes to contemporary paradigms of mountain studies; with the use of case examples from Andean countries, mainly Ecuador, are questioned axioms of tropical ecology. These are less clear in the field than in the scanty literature on tropical mountains, offering a holistic view of the Tropandean landscape. Hence, verticality, marginality, centrality, power and violence, expansion, religion and myth, ethnic pride and inspiration, are seen as conventional paradigms of montology that have to be re-examined in light of modern environmental thought in the Andes.
4315779|The paper builds on existing literature, highlighting current understanding and identifying unresolved issues about MeHg exposure, health effects, and risk assessment, and concludes with a consensus statement. Methylmercury is a potent toxin, bioaccumulated and concentrated through the aquatic food chain, placing at risk people, throughout the globe and across the socioeconomic spectrum, who consume predatory fish or for whom fish is a dietary mainstay. Methylmercury developmental neurotoxicity has constituted the basis for risk assessments and public health policies. Despite gaps in our knowledge on new bioindicators of exposure, factors that influence MeHg uptake and toxicity, toxicokinetics, neurologic and cardiovascular effects in adult populations, and the nutritional benefits and risks from the large number of marine and freshwater fish and fish-eating species, the panel concluded that to preserve human health, all efforts need to be made to reduce and eliminate sources of exposure.
4313166|Cotton, a major crop in Nicaragua, generates cotton stalks as a residue of its harvest. The stalks, after being harvested and stored in chip form, can be compacted into pellets or briquettes. The fuel can then be used by individuals, commerce and industry, and appears to be an economically feasible energy alternative for Nicaragua.
41510595|Environmental change in the Sudan-Sahel region of West Africa (SSWA) has been much debated since the droughts of the 1970s. In this article we assess climate variability and environmental stress in the region. Households in Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, and Nigeria were asked about climatic changes and their perceptions were compared across north-south and west-east rainfall gradients. More than 80% of all households found that rainfall had decreased, especially in the wettest areas. Increases in wind speeds and temperature were perceived by an overall 60-80% of households. Contrary to household perceptions, observed rainfall patterns showed an increasing trend over the past 20 years. However, August rainfall declined, and could therefore potentially explain the contrasting negative household perceptions of rainfall trends. Most households reported degradation of soils, water resources, vegetation, and fauna, but more so in the 500-900 mm zones. Adaptation measures to counter environmental degradation included use of manure, reforestation, soil and water conservation, and protection of fauna and vegetation. The results raise concerns for future environmental management in the region, especially in the 500-900 mm zones and the western part of SSWA.
4314154|Biological systems are intimately involved in the transfers of energy and materials around our planet, affecting the geochemistry and other physical properties of the atmosphere, the land surface, and the oceans and their sediments. Fossil-fuel combustion, land use and other human activities are, increasingly, disrupting these natural biogeochemical cycles and processes, with the potential for far-reaching consequences; for example, changes in atmospheric composition affecting the global heat balance. The carbon, nitrogen and sulfur cycles are of particular importance to the functioning of the biosphere, and are also closely linked to the physical climate system. Within IGBP, the global-scale modelling effort is initially focussed on the carbon cycle: this is poorly understood-yet is critical to estimating future levels of CO
4314888|This paper provides an overview of data and results obtained through a number of studies of actual and potential trace gas exchanges in northern Eurasia, made possible through the Swedish-Russian Tundra Ecology -94 expedition. It was found that: i) long-term accumulation rates of carbon in organic tundra soils, i.e. net uptake of atmospheric CO
25515845|This paper puts forward a model for managing eutrophication that integrates the salient ecological and economic characteristics of a coastal area suffering from severe nutrient enrichment. The model links the development of phosphorus concentration over time to nutrient emissions from agriculture and habitation. It accounts for differences in agricultural and municipal abatement options and their costs, as well as the need to undertake irreversible investments to set up wastewater treatment facilities. Furthermore, it considers sediment release of phosphorus as a function of annual nutrient loads. The model is parameterized for a 30-km-wide area off the Finnish coast of the Gulf of Finland. The socially optimal policy, which minimizes the sum of monetary damage caused by eutrophication and the costs of nutrient abatement over time, is determined using a dynamic programming approach. The results suggest that considerable investments are warranted to bring wastewater treatment facilities up to date. Continued efforts to reduce agricultural nutrient loading are nevertheless also called for. The analysis provided is a first step toward an integrated analysis of eutrophication that accounts for complexities inherent in the problem, such as sediment release of phosphorus and irreversible investments in abatement technology. The results are sensitive in particular to ecological assumptions and parameterization, and further research is needed in these areas.
4312233|Man is completely dependent on water supplied by the natural water cycle. At the same time, he modifies this cycle by innumerable manipulations. In the planning process, all interactions between man and water have to be seen in an integrated way. Three main interactions are identified in a generalized scheme that is based on the river basin as the basic water module in nature: direct water-based manipulations (withdrawal, instream structures), indirect land-based manipulations (land-use changes in the river basin) and water-related nuisances. Water-related problems in a society vary both geographically and in time; a few dominating problem profiles can be identified. A discussion of some main water issues ends the paper.
4312219|Gaseous sulfur dioxide affects vegetation in the environs of sources, in industrial areas or on orographic exposed sites even at a distance. Cells, plant organisms and ecosystems react in similar ways. Small quantities of the gas can be absorbed without harm and assimilated into organic compounds. Increasing concentrations result in reversible changes and later in irreversible ones, until a break-down of the system occurs. Various functions of ecosystems, eg crop production and erosion control, are affected at different concentrations. Maximum concentrations of 0.05, 0.08, and 0.12 mg SO
4315020|Night-time satellite imagery acquired between October 1994 and March 1995 is here exploited to derive economic and energy-related global maps. By considering the lit area of a city, and combining this with ancillary statistical information, an analysis was performed designed to investigate the potential of night-time imagery for quantitative estimation of global socioeconomic parameters. An attempt to estimate global urban population using correlations of lit area and urban populations to derive country-level relationships accounted for over 90% of the quoted total. Furthermore, the total lit area of a country has a statistically significant high correlation value with other parameters, specifically Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and total carbon dioxide ( CO
4314380|The article describes the results of a study of the environment and the use of natural resources in a coastal area in the Northwestern Province, Sri Lanka. The economy in the area is based mainly on fisheries and agriculture. The study shows that there is significant overuse of the natural resources in the area. Fishing in Puttalam Lagoon has exceeded the carrying capacity of the ecosystem and a number of habitats of critical importance to the productivity of the ecosystem are also under severe pressure. Wetlands with mangroves and other vegetation are being transformed into prawn farms at a rapid rate, coral reefs are being degraded due to the use of destructive fishing techniques. Based on these finding the article recommends several management alternatives.
4312316|The three-stage "Blue Plan" for the Mediterranean area proposes a concerted approach to socioeconomic problems, and its aim is to evaluate different development possibilities and select those designed to safeguard the marine environment and the Mediterranean sea-board for present and future generations. It takes fresh initiatives for a multinational cooperation favorable to the transfer of knowledge and technology. The Blue Plan might be an indication of a new solidarity and an emerging Mediterranean consciousness.
4314350|The picture of continent areas that meteorological satellites provide daily is interpreted in terms of chlorophyll activity thanks to an ecological model adapted to global studies. This model simulates the monthly phenological rhythm of the vast and complex vegetation systems of the African continent; results are shown as digitized maps. The paper aims to provide a better understanding and interpretation of satellite measurements. Partial validations through correlations between simulated maps and satellite images can ease the monitoring of the intertropical belt and lead to greater understanding of the global ecological changes that are taking place as a result of growing human impact.
4314119|The papers presented in the special issue of Ambio No. 7, 1993 were discussed at the Royal Colloquium 1993 on Tropical and Subtropical Coastal Zone Management: A Question of Carbon Flow in a Sectoral Society. This paper presents a summary of the highlights of the discussion and the consensus achieved. The issue of the linear flow of carbon through society which must be closed to form circular flows within and between sectors was discussed per se. These linear flows constitute threats not only to coastal zones, but also to tropical agriculture and urban subsistence. The issue was discussed also as an indicator for a more general development process. The constraints in efficient use of scientific and technological information for implementation of appropriate development goals were seen as a major development problem. Issues such as coastal zone management, agricultural practices and rural- urban configuration must be considered in terms of flows of matter and energy. Social practices were seen as the core issue for implementing the closure of linear flows. Several tools for managing these problems, at various organization levels, were discussed.
4315438|About 55% of the land area in Sweden is covered by forest. Presently, there is no uniform and geographically explict description of the forest cover for Sweden. Independent data sources already existing are satellite data from Landsat TM and SPOT HRV, map masks and forest inventory plots. Together, they provide the possibility of computing estimates of forest variables such as stem volume and stand age. The accuracy for these estimations will be low on the pixel level, but higher on a stand level. This type of raster-based forest data is useful for authorities when planning how timber resources should be utilized or for monitoring purposes. The production line that was developed to create a countrywide database of forest variable estimates in a cost-efficient way is described. Accuracy of forest variable estimates for an area in southwestern Sweden was assessed at stand level. Results showed 33% overall root mean square error for the estimates of total wood volume, and 23% for the age estimates.
4312275|The complex architectural and floristic structure of the tropical moist evergreen forest, popularly also called rain forest, varies according to site conditions. Interpretation of field studies in Bornean and Amazonian rain forest indicate that natural forest structure maximizes site utilization. Man's interference with this structure may temporarily increase economic productivity but almost always causes degradation of the site. Regional and global atmospheric conditions may also be irreversibly changed if man's destruction of the forest continues.
4312268|Indonesia faces a serious food problem. The protein needs of an expanding population and the shift of agriculture from better lands to marginal ones demand an increasing nitrogen supply. However, commercial N-fertilizers have virtually eliminated compost and green manures contributed to eutrophication, and possibly decreased biological nitrogen fixation. Modernization of agricultural production may result only in changing the life style of the villagers, without improving their health status.
4314545| The agenda of global carbon cycle research features two fundamental problems. The first concerns the direct response of the carbon system to the anthropogenic perturbation, i.e. how is the excess carbon dioxide emitted by fossil fuel burning and from changes in land use (i.e. deforestation) distributed between atmosphere, land and the ocean, and how is this distribution changing as a function of time? The second problem adresses the feedbacks, i.e. how do changes in climate feedback on the natural carbon cycle and may thus lead to variations in the atmospheric CO
4315453|This article is based on the findings of the Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA) Subregion 53, Bay of Bengal. It introduces the Subregion. The wide disparity in development indicators in the Bay of Bengal Subregion (BOBSR) is presented. The large population of poor people living in South Asia is presented as a factor that needs special attention. The article focuses on the 3 geographic sites selected for detailed analysis: i) the Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna river systems; ii) the Merbok Estuary mangroves, Malaysia; and iii) the Sunderbans mangroves, Bangladesh. Integrated water management based upon regional cooperation among Bangladesh, India and Nepal holds opportunities for mutual benefit. Policy options are proposed. For mangrove ecosystems, the impacts of urbanization in Malaysia and the unmanaged expansion of shrimp farming in Bangladesh are analyzed. Improved governance was seen to hold promise for enhancing economic benefits from shrimp farming while safeguarding the natural ecological system. However, these measures need to be a part of national efforts to achieve the UN Millennium Development Goals.
4314464|The Regional Workshop on Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory and Mitigation Strategies held 25-28 September 1995 in Seoul, Korea had the following objectives: (i) present preliminary results of inventory and mitigation assessment; (ii) discuss methodologies and data issues; (iii) facilitate exchange of knowledge among experts; and (iv) build consensus for efforts among Asian and Pacific countries. Seventy-two participants representing national governments, academic and research institutions, and nongovernmental organizations from 15 countries and international bodies attended the workshop. This paper summarizes workshop presentations and working group discussions on greenhouse gas inventories and the results of mitigation strategies in three areas: energy, forestry, and methane.
4313449|Cooperative work on heavy metals and other non-oil pollutants in Southeast Asia began systematically in 1981 on adoption of the UNEP East Asian Seas Action Plan. The five countries taking part in the action plan are Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. The parameters agreed upon at a 1983 Workshop included general water quality, nutrients, chlorinated hydrocarbons, and heavy metals in water, sediments and biota. So far, there has been no report on real problem areas in regard to chlorinated hydrocarbons or heavy metals. In most cases, pollution was caused by untreated domestic-waste runoff from cities. There is an obvious need to create a co-ordinated analytical capacity between national laboratories in the region.
4315652|The response of a biogeochemical lake model (BIOLA) to different eutrophication management actions has been studied in a eutrophic lake. Management actions included in the study were nutrient load reduction, sediment manipulation, biomanipulation, and herbicide application. The model was used to simulate nutrient and biomass concentrations in the lake during the 1990s. During the same period, management scenarios were also simulated. Several ecological parameters were calibrated to better simulate the behavior of the chosen lake, but there were still some difficulties with phosphate. This indicated that further model development is necessary. The most favorable development within the lake was found for scenarios with nutrient load reduction and biomanipulation through planktivorous fish reduction. Reducing both the nitrogen and phosphorus loads had a greater effect on the lake's water quality than simply reducing just one of the nutrients.
4314344|The significance of terrestrial ecosystems to global climate change will not be fully recognized until all components which contribute to their flux are accurately quantified. The absence of a common approach to quantify terrestrial carbon has resulted in substantial discrepancies in regional, national, and global estimates of carbon. One of the most dramatic cases is represented by the flux estimates for Russian forests which differ both in character and by two orders of magnitude. A system of accounting which provides a comprehensive estimate of the carbon flux between Russian forests and the atmosphere is presented herein. All significant components of the carbon cycle in forest ecosystems are considered. The sequestration of carbon in Russian forests is substantial. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Russian forests were accumulating 0.68 Pg C yr
4315818|The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area signed in 1974 in Helsinki is probably the most important environmental agreement consummated in the Baltic Sea region. This article is the first study that explores the history of this agreement, also known as the Helsinki Convention, by using primary archival sources. The principal sources are the archives of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland. We examine the role of Finland in the process that led to the signing of the Helsinki Convention from the perspective of international politics. The study focuses primarily on Finnish, Swedish, and Soviet state-level parties from the end of the 1960s to 1974. We show that Cold War politics affected in several ways negotiations and contents of the Helsinki Convention. We also argue that the Soviet Union used the emerging international environmental issues as a new tool of power politics.
4315567|The participation of fishermen in fisheries management is discussed with varying ideas under the notions of "co-management", "participatory management" or "local management". Empirical studies within Swedish fishery have thrown new light on the preconditions for fishermen's participation in fisheries management. Among the important factors influencing failure or success are the two which we discuss here: the question of articulation, organization and representation of interests of fishermen and the question of trust between the groups that are usually cooperating in resource management, fishermen, governmental administrators and researchers. The research summarized has addressed the interests of fishermen with regard to resource management, local fisheries management, and participation of fishermen. The overarching question connecting the three themes is: How can the interests of fishermen be represented better within fisheries management? Interests and trust, "soft facts", can be as important for the success or failure of fisheries management and participation as can "hard facts" such as ownership rights, quantity and quality of resources or monetary value of resources.
4314486|Compared to the temperate zone, carbon sequestration by trees is much faster in the tropical belt due to favorable climatic conditions. However net sequestration in tropics is much less than actual CO
23257417|The northern reef of Yongxing Island, the largest reef island of the Xisha Islands in the South China Sea, was in good condition with significant cover of scleractinian corals until 2002. Surveys in 2008 and 2010, however, found that coral coverage had declined rapidly and severely, implying that catastrophic coral mortality occurred during the past 8 years. A blackish mat was observed covering live and dead corals in both 2008 and 2010 that was identified as an encrusting sponge, Terpios hoshinota, by special surface morphology and spicule structure. In addition, spicule residues were found on the surface of long-dead corals, indicating a previous invasion of T. hosinota. T. hoshinota is referred to as the "black disease" because it rapidly overgrows and kills corals. Our evidence indicates that outbreaks of black disease are at least partially responsible for the massive coral mortality at the northern reef of Yongxing Island over the past 8 years, although human activities and heat-related coral bleaching cannot be discounted as minor causes for this coral decline.
4314841|Research within the Swedish FiRe project Reproductive Disturbances in Baltic Fish has focused mainly on the M74 syndrome, which has caused high mortality in fry of sea-run Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) from the Baltic Sea. At the end of the 4-year project, the cause of M74 is still not known, but the symptoms have been well described and treatment with thiamine (vitamin B
4314872|Nonenergy use is the consumption of fossil fuels as feedstocks for the manufacture of synthetic materials, e.g. plastics. Nonenergy partly leads to short-term carbon dioxide emissions and partly, it is stored in products for longer periods of time. The IPCC guidelines (Reference Approach) offer a top-down method to estimate the amount of stored carbon. An alternative method is material flow analysis, a bottom-up calculation method. A prerequisite for the application of both methods is that nonenergy use data published in national energy balances comply with a common definition. We found that this is not always the case and that the resulting errors can be considerable, i.e. approx. 10% for Germany and 30% for Italy. Therefore, we performed a harmonization step for nonenergy data. We then applied the IPCC method and material flow analysis to Germany. One result is that the material-flow analysis confirms the outcome according to the IPCC Reference Approach. Another result is that total carbon losses equal about 10% of nonenergy use.
4315256|Common property systems are a critical institution mediating the relationship between population change and environmental outcomes, especially in coastal and marine ecosystems. Evidence from El Salvador; Goa, India; and the Solomon Islands demonstrates how the social structures and institutions stemming from patterns of human migration variably influence environmental out-comes through their effects on common property resource institutions. In each of the case studies, the demographic phenomenon is not population growth or a change in numbers, but an underlying process that affects population size and growth rates: i.e. migration and associated social relations that result from or cause more migration. The following 3 case studies provide the respective historical and cultural context to show that there is a nonlinear link between population and environment, which when explored reveals the importance of understanding how individuals and communities are embedded in sets of social relations that must be considered when evaluating environmental policies or when determining the causes of environmental degradation.
4312369|The common reed (Phragmites australis) can be harvested in dry condition during the winter, ground into a powder, and used as a fuel for heating houses. One kg of dry matter will yield 5 kWh of energy. Technically rational harvest methods already exist. Cultivation on wetlands could greatly increase the amount of reed available for energy production. A harvest of 10 tons of dry matter per ha (50 MWh/ha/year) should be achievable. Cultivation of reed and fabrication of reed powder would yield about ten times more energy than would be used for soil preparation, harvesting, grinding, transportation etc. Estimated costs for reed powder from natural reed stands are competitive with present consumer oil prices in Sweden. Reeds can be harvested in such a way that wetland ecosystems are managed without major disturbances, and a cultivation of reed would make it possible to preserve or even increase the area of wetlands now threatened by extensive ditching. This would improve water balance, waterfowl production and wildlife management, and the land would become economically productive.
4315139|Human-induced environmental changes, especially eutrophication, and fluctuations of natural environmental conditions under the changes in climate and solar activity affect the reproduction and growth of various fish species and communities in the Baltic Sea. The importance of human impacts has increased considerably during the last decades, overshadowing in many cases natural factors. High exploitation rates have depressed some valuable fish species and affected the species dominance hierarchy. Oxygen depletion in deeper layers progressively deteriorates the living conditions of certain marine species. Mass immigration of nonindigenous species with ballast waters can seriously affect ecosystems and fish stocks. The summary effect of these variables upon marine, relict and freshwater species can yield unexpected results. Fish resources should be properly assessed and managed by their natural units (populations). Based on cyclic fluctuations of global climatic processes, composition of long-term forecasts on changes in the structure and abundance of fish fauna should be started.
4312195|Some effects on the ontogenic development of the Baltic spring-spawning herring (Clupea harengus membras L) of a Venezuelan crude oil, either alone or mixed with oil-spill dispersants, were studied. Eggs were exposed to different concentrations of additives in the test media. Three different oil-spill dispersants were used. One (Finasol SC) is highly toxic, the other two (Finasol OSR-2 and BP 1100 X) are "non-toxic" dispersants developed after the Torrey Canyon disaster. The results show that the toxicity of the crude oil increases several hundred-fold if the the oil is dispersed by Finasol OSR-2 or BP 1100 X, and by an additional factor of ten if Finasol SC is used. The sublethal effects on several physiological functions were studied: embryonic activity, rate of embryonic heart beat, morphological aberrations, and growth of the larvae. It was found that these functions were severely affected and that disturbances of the functions may appear at concentrations of dispersants much lower than those used in the present study.
41417248|We compared the European and eastern Chinese waterbird assemblages and checked whether the effects of human disturbance could be detected in the assemblages' composition. For the different Chinese provinces, we expected to find a negative effect of economic development on the mean bird species mass and on the proportion of bentivorous, piscivorous and insectivorous bird species. We also expected to find relatively fewer large species in the Chinese assemblage. Species rankabundance curves were relatively similar, but China had significantly more species with smaller body masses. The China assemblage was characterized by relatively higher abundance of heavy-bodied species, contrary to our expectations. Mean bird body mass decreased in China with increasing disturbance and increasing gross domestic product (GDP). For coastal provinces in China the percentage of bentivorous, piscivorous and insectivorous bird species declined with increasing GDP, maybe through the increased use of pesticides or fertilizer.
25547882|The Mekong River Basin is facing rapid changes, including intensive plans for water development. While the different development projects are considered to be important for economic development, the negative impacts that they are likely to cause for ecosystems and livelihoods are estimated to be remarkable. Yet, existing impact assessment processes seem in many cases to be inadequate to capture even the actual magnitude of the impacts at different levels. This article looks at the different impact assessment processes and their challenges in the basin. It is argued that impact assessment in this kind of dynamic and complex setting requires better coordination between assessments at different levels. Basinwide impact assessment would benefit from a more adaptive, multilevel approach that makes better use of assessments from local levels up to the regional level and builds on more participatory and interdisciplinary methods. Successful impact assessment also requires the recognition of the highly political nature of water development and related planning processes.
4315096|Acidification represents a growing threat to certain developing country ecosystems in tropical and subtropical climates. A methodology investigating the extent of acidification risks from sulfur emissions on a global scale is presented. Atmospheric transfer models have been used to calculate transfer and deposition of sulfur (using emissions for 1990 and a projection for 2050) and alkaline soil dust. A method to derive the relative sensitivity of terrestrial ecosystems is explained and preliminary critical load values are assigned. A range of values for critical loads and base cation deposition have been used to investigate uncertainty in maps depicting the excess of deposition above critical loads. These show an increasing risk of acidification in 2050 in extended regions of southem and eastern Asia, as well as parts of southern Africa, in comparison to 1990. Certain areas, especially in Asia, are shown at risk even when high values of critical load and base cation deposition are used.
4314098|Acidification, liming and other anthropogenic effects alter the amounts and character of the humic material and its manifold roles. Although the transfer of DOC from soils to surface waters is an incidental feature of terrestrial ecology, the reactive chemistry of DOC makes it of great importance in the ecology of the aquatic ecosystem. It is, therefore, important to identify the complex nature of the humic material in order to understand its biological role in aquatic ecosystems. Humic substances may buffer against acidification, but may also add acidity to surface waters. This may be an important factor in the northern part of Sweden, whereas further south pH is primarily attributed to anthropogenic sources. There is large spatial and temporal variation in the transport of DOC from the terrestrial environment, which varies the ecosystem effects mediated by the humic material on the ecosystem. The humic material can affect biological processes through several different mechanisms, either directly through interfering with metabolic processes or indirectly by altering the bioavailability of nutrients or toxicants.
25547918|In the 20th century, much research was done on desertification. Desertification developed into a complex and vague construct that means land degradation under specific conditions. Projects focusing on land degradation in semiarid East Africa have met with limited success because farmers prioritize drought as the major productivity-reducing problem. Yet studies on long-term rainfall trends have not confirmed that droughts are more frequent. In this article, we combine drought and land degradation effects into an Agricultural Drought Framework, which departs from the farmers' prioritization of drought and accommodates scientists' concern for land degradation. It includes meteorological drought, soil water drought, and soil nutrient drought. The framework increases insight into how different land degradation processes influence the vulnerability of land and farmers to drought. A focus on increased rainwater use efficiency will address both problems of land degradation and drought, thereby improving productivity and food security in semiarid East Africa.
4314746| The example of the Massif Central, which is the largest mountain area of France, illustrates a widespread type of European mountains: those located at middle altitudes (less than 2000 m), with a past economy based almost exclusively on agriculture and which today offer restricted touristic potentials. Such mountains are severely affected by depopulation which primarily controls contemporary landscape change, much more than climate fluctuations. The growing extension of forests and fallowlands induces feedback effects which combine with current economical trends to marginalize such mountain areas, which return to "mediaeval wilderness". This is especially the case in the central granitic highlands where islands of human life and activities appear more and more restricted. In contrast, some peri-urban and more scenic areas such as the volcanic mountains of the Cantal Massif and the Chane des Puys, promote tourism activities in natural parks in attempts to limit and halt depopulation. However, the maintenance of attractive landscapes faces two problems: the decreasing number of farmers and the cost of agri-environmental measures. 
4312238|Rainfall fluctuation, partly expressed in terms of rainfall variability, is described with regard to its distribution in time as well as in space around the globe. The concept "normal precipitation" is discussed and is claimed to be misleading, as no single time period can be considered "normal" in this context. As regards the time distribution, fluctuations are treated both on a year-to-year basis and as long-term trends. The probability of periods of droughts is discussed in this connection.
4315070|Andean cloud forests play an important role in watershed hydrology and protection against erosion. Even though most cloud forests fall under officially protected areas, a good deal of the cloud forests are being deforested and replaced by pastures for grazing cattle, which is the most important land use in Venezuelan cloud forest environments. The water dynamics of the natural forest as well as the impact of replacement by pastures are poorly understood. We have been conducting a research project since 1996, in order to study some of the water fluxes of the forest and to evaluate the hydrological impact of replacement by pasture. The study site is located at La Mucuy (2300 m with 3124 mm rainfall), Merida State, in the Venezuelan Andes. The results show that, in the forest, 91% of total incoming water was from rainfall and 9% was from cloudwater. Total foliage interception was 51%, which is a high value for a tropical montane forest. About 49% of the total incoming water reaches the ground as throughfall, whereas litter intercepts 6% of the water and a final 1.4% was lost by surface runoff. Therefore, infiltration must be about 42%. Approximately 16% was lost by transpiration leaving about 26% for drainage. Results from pastureland studies show 7% interception, while surface runoff (2%) and transpiration (about 66%) were higher than in the forest. Our first results on soil water status suggest that the forest soil (upper horizon) has a significantly higher % moisture than the pasture soil.
4313603|The impact of Man on the Baltic ecosystem in the 20th century is summarized by estimating changes in major energy flows, expressed as organic carbon. Recent eutrophication has increased pelagic primary production by an estimated 30-70%, and sedimentation of organic carbon by 70-190%. Above the primary halocline, biomass and production of benthos have increased, while in the deep waters of the Baltic proper, oxygen deficiency has led to the loss of formerly important food chains over nearly
4314475|Research on country-level carbon budgets provides a quantitative basis for national policy decisions on greenhouse gas mitigation strategies. For many countries, including Russia, the carbon pools and flux associated with the forest sector are important components of the national carbon budget. Russia has 884 mill. ha of forest storing an estimated 42.1 PgC in live biomass, 29.5 PgC in detritus, and 2.9 PgC in forest products. Between 1988 and 1993, carbon stores in live biomass were reduced by 0.5 Pg as a result of the timber harvest (which exceeded carbon accumulation in growing trees), fires, and other natural disturbances. Only a small portion of the disturbed forest carbon pool is instantly released into the atmosphere: the greater part of it is transferred into the detrital pool while some is accumulated in forest products. The lack of data on these key components leads to large uncertainties in carbon flux estimates. Russian forests have significant potential to be managed for the purposes of carbon sequestration. The analysis indicates that forest management measures can increase the future level of carbon storage in Russian forests on a sustainable basis by 2.0 PgC, approximately 2.8%.
4315031|Concentrations of PCBs in water (dissolved), suspended particles (SPM), sediment trap material, and sediments in the Baltic Sea are discussed in relation to the dynamics of organic carbon and lipids as the sorbing matrices. Both carbon- and lipid-normalized concentrations of PCBs in SPM increase during the sedimentation giving rise to an increase in observed log ${\rm K}_{{\rm oc}}$ with more that one order of magnitude for most of the studied PCBs. It appears that hydrophobic organic compounds (HOCs) are retained within the settling particles while the organic carbon and the lipids are degraded, rather than there being a continuous uptake of PCBs during settling. However, the explanation for the high concentration maintained in the sediments over long time periods, must be an increasing capability of the organic matrix to sorb HOCs during the ageing process. The results are of importance for current models of the fate of HOCs in the environment and imply that the use of a single equation to estimate equilibrium concentrations of HOCs in SPM may significantly underestimate concentrations in settling particles.
4315132|Long-term information on possible changes in cyanobacterial blooms in the Baltic Sea, formed mainly by Nodularia spurnigena and Aphanizomenon sp., was sought in published records in historical (years 1887-1938) and modern (years 1974-1998) phytoplankton data sets. Old and new sampling methods and fixatives were tested to improve the comparison of data that had been collected and analyzed in different ways. A hundred years ago, plankton was mainly of interest as a source of fish food; eutrophication problems were only locally reported from the coast, mainly in southern haffs and the receiving waters of larger cities. There were few recordings of open-sea blooms before World War II. Abundances of Nodularia spumigena and Aphanizomenon sp. were low in the old material, and 137 summer samples from 1887-1938 showed no peak abundance. High abundances are common in the new material, and the range of the numbers of both taxa has increased markedly relative to the old material. Since the 1960s, cyanobacterial blooms have been common in the open sea in both the Baltic proper and the Gulf of Finland, indicating high availability of nutrients.
4313351|Stream management throughout the world requires a holistic, ecosystem approach that is partly centered on stream riparian zones, but also involves fisheries management and factors exogenous to the stream. The importance of the riparian zone as a buffer between the stream and watershed is illustrated by examples from Denmark and The Netherlands where agricultural use of the watershed threatens surface-water quality. Additional examples from western Jamaica, Zimbabwe and the United States illustrate the ecological value as well as historical mismanagement of streams. The economic value of riparian zones as nutrient filters is discussed, with examples from agricultural lands in Sweden. The importance of a holistic approach is illustrated by the oncho (river blindness disease) program in western Africa where disease control may threaten riparian zones and the worldwide introduction of exotic fishes which threatens indigenous species. The holistic approach is extended to a global perspective where factors wholly outside the watershed may affect streams. Examples are deforestation in western Africa that causes desertification in Zimbabwe and long-range transport of air pollutants that causes acidification of running waters in Scandinavia.
4315395|Controlling deforestation in Brazil's Amazon region has long been illusive despite repeated efforts of government authorities to slow the process. From 1997 to 2000, deforestation rates in Brazil's 9-state "Legal Amazon" region continually crept upward. Now, a licensing and enforcement program for clearing by large farmers and ranchers in the state of Mato Grosso appears to be having an effect. The deforestation rate in Mato Grosso was already beginning to slacken before initiation of the program in 1999, but examination of county-level data suggests that deforestation in already heavily cleared areas was falling due to lack of suitable uncleared land, while little-cleared areas were experiencing rapid deforestation. Following initiation of the program, the clearing rates declined in the recent frontiers. Areas with greater enforcement effort also appear to have experienced greater declines. Demonstration of government ability to enforce regulations and influence trends is important to domestic and international debates regarding use of avoided deforestation to mitigate global warming.
4315034|The expanding occurrence of laminated surficial sediments in the Baltic proper has increased the possibilities to assess interannual variation in sediment accumulation over the past four decades. During the same period of time, wind speeds and wind directions in the area have been recorded continuously on Gotska Sandn. When studying the fine structure in three distinctly laminated sediment cores, selected from 55 cores collected within a 39 km2 area, annual dry matter accumulation was found to correlate positively with the frequency of high wind speeds, reaching an optimum at gale force  14 m s-1. This confirms that resuspended sediments contribute significantly to the sediment accumulation, with a mean rate of 2 mm yr-1 for 25 surficially laminated cores collected at depths of 115-145 m. Decadal changes in both storm frequency and sediment deposition were observed, which may have implications not only for the turnover of sediments and associated nutrients and contaminants, but also for interpretations using sediment cores as historical archives. Horizontal comparison of dated sediment layers in all cores revealed a record of substantial changes in deep-water conditions. Recent recolonization of large areas by benthic fauna, within the depth of 102-125 m, suggests that storm events in the early 1990s are responsible for substantially improved oxygen conditions. Although, bioturbation of laminated sediments, with a depth range of 0.5-5.5 cm in our samples, creates a false picture of an earlier improvement.
4312997|High ozone concentrations frequently occur over extensive areas in western Europe and ozone seems to be a mounting problem for farming and forestry in these countries. Ozone must be taken into account in any effort to assess the economic consequences of damage to crops and forests caused by air pollution. Recent scientific results are presented regarding effects of ozone on crops and trees in the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Denmark, Sweden and the United States.
4315334|Based on 1997-1998 field investigations in the Changjiang river mouth, rain sampling from the river's upper reaches to the mouth, historical data, and relevant literature, the various sources of Total Nitrogen (TN) and Dissolved Inorganic Nitrogen (DIN) in the Changjiang river catchment and N transport in the Changjiang river mouth were estimated. The export fluxes of various form of N were mainly controlled by the river runoff, and the export fluxes of NO
4314019| The urinary excretion of cortisol and oestrone sulfate were determined in pregnant mink fed PCB and fractions of PCB. Data from trials undertaken in 1988 (70 animals) and 1989 (20 animals) are included. Mink were fed PCB daily starting about 35 days before mating and continuing for another 50 days thereafter, i.e. until expected time of delivery. At the time of implantation PCB-treated mink from 1988 tended to have a higher urinary cortisol excretion than control animals (2.32 vs 1.14 mol per mol creatinine, 0.05 < p < 0.10). During the same period PCB-treated mink from 1989 had significantly (p < 0.05) higher urinary cortisol excretion compared to control animals (5.22 vs 289 mol per mol creatinine). The increase in urinary excretion of oestrone sulfate after mating began approximately 10 days later in PCB-treated than in control mink. In contrast, when approaching the time of parturition oestrone sulfate excretion was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in the PCB-treated than in the control group. The exact mechanism by which alterations in the secretion of cortisol could influence the observed high incidence of fetal resorption in PCB fed mink is not known. Furthermore, the results indicate ovary/corpus luteum to be the most probable source of U-oestrone sulfate in the pregnant mink. 
4312904|Kakadu National Park, one of the first areas in Australia to be accepted for entry on the World Heritage List, was nominated because of its outstanding natural and cultural values. It is largely Aboriginal land leased to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. Special Aboriginal training programs have been introduced and the Aboriginal people are involved in all aspects of Park management.
4315682| Salix fragilis is the most common willow species grown extensively under the indigenous agroforestry system in the cold desert of Lahaul valley located in the northwestern Himalayas, India. Presently, this tree is under severe pest attack, and other infections have made its survival in the area questionable. This deciduous multipurpose tree species provides vegetation cover to the barren landscape of Lahaul and is a significant contributor of fuel and fodder to the region. This study is a detailed profile of the plant in three villages within this region: Khoksar, Jahlma, and Hinsa. The willow provided 69.5%, 29%, and 42% of the total fuelwood requirements of Jahlma, Khoksar, and Hinsa respectively. A striking observation was that only 30.0  20.1% trees were healthy: 55.2  16.1% of the willows have dried up and 14.8  6.1% were in drying condition due to a combination of pest infestation and infection. To sustain this cultivation of willow under the existing agroforestry system in the region, we recommend that locally available wild species and other established varieties of willow growing in similar regions of the Himalayas be introduced on a trial basis. 
4314474|In order to fulfill their commitments to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the industrialized countries started searching for cost-effective alternatives for reducing their greenhouse gas emissions. This has led to a rising interest in forestry-based carbon (C) offsets. Tree planting or silvicultural treatments can be used to actively remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Alternatively, conservation practices or improved forest management can be used to prevent or reduce current trends of carbon release from existing forests. In this paper, we describe a series of carbon offset projects that have been initiated using these approaches. A project involving planting of degraded forests in Sabah, Malaysia, is described in more detail. It is estimated that this project will offset 183 Mg C ha
4313945|This paper discusses increases in trace metals (Cu, Cd, Zn, Pb, Mn, and Co) in the soft tissues and shells of an Indian estuarine bivalve Villorita cyprinoides var. cochinensis (Hanley). Concentrations of metals in the shells have been plotted against shell weights, which can be regarded as an index of the age of the bivalve. Metals like Cu, Zn, and Cd were found to be more abundant in the soft tissues while Pb, Mn, and Co were preferentially concentrated in the shells. This preferential enrichment of metals in the shells is discussed in the light of the mineralogical characteristics of the shells.
25547797|In this paper we show that oxygenated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (oxy-PAHs) are important cocontaminants that should be taken into account during risk assessment and remediation of sites with high levels of PAHs. The presented data, which have been collected both from our own research and the published literature, demonstrate that oxy-PAHs are abundant but neglected contaminants at these sites. The oxy-PAHs show relatively high persistency and because they are formed through transformation of PAHs, their concentrations in the environment may even increase as the sites are remediated by methods that promote PAH degradation. Furthermore, we show that oxy-PAHs are toxic to both humans and the environment, although the toxicity seems to be manifested through other effects than those known to be important for polycyclic aromatic compounds in general, that is, mutagenicity and carcinogenicity. Finally, we present data that support the hypothesis that oxy-PAHs are more mobile in the environment than PAHs, due to their polarity, and thus have a higher tendency to spread from contaminated sites via surface water and groundwater. We believe that oxy-PAHs should be included in monitoring programs at PAH-contaminated sites, even if a number of other toxicologically relevant compounds that may also be present, such as nitro-PAHs and azaarenes, are not monitored. This is because oxy-PAH levels are difficult to predict from the PAH levels, because their environmental behavior differs substantially from that of PAHs, and oxy-PAHs may be formed as PAHs are degraded.
4314909|This paper focusses on the widespread but false belief that water is very simple and can be handled within a "water sector". Water's mutifunctionality is discussed in terms of its manifold appearances in relation to a simple mental image of the interaction between human society and the physical landscape hosting its life-support system. Fundamental regional differences in the challenges are highlighted in terms of both vapor flow of "green" water, involved in biomass production, and liquid flow of "blue" water available in aquifers and rivers for societal use. The author shows that the developing world is at present experiencing a threefold escalation: of water stress; of dispute proneness; and of pollution load. Analysis suggests that water availability constraints will increasingly disturb global food security. The increasing food needs make it particularly important to find ways of reconciling upstream/downstream conflicts of interest, especially as intensified upstream biomass production (agriculture, forestry) easily leads to downstream river depletion. Such depletion will generate increasingly severe problems for water-dependent societal activities and aquatic ecological services downstream. The paper presents a simplified holistic view of humanity's present environmental predicament by benefitting from a freshwater perspective. Like the doctor bases much of his diagnosis of a patient on the blood system, its circulation and quality, the author bases her diagnosis of the world ecosystem on the bloodstream of the biosphere, i.e. the water cycle. The aim is to indentify the most crucial actions in future-oriented decision-making.
4315045|The World Heritage Convention has been ratified by 158 countries and provides an international legal regime for the conservation of sites of global cultural or natural value. There are 33 tropical forest sites listed under the convention, mainly for their global biodiversity value. They constitute an elite set of biodiversity sites covering approximately 2.5% of the world's closed tropical forests and making a significant contribution to the conservation of the world's terrestrial biodiversity. A range of international initiatives will eventually provide a framework for better conservation and sustainable management of forests worldwide, but the World Heritage Convention provides an existing mechanism which could quickly be mobilized to safeguard the most important forests. In the past sites were selected for listing under the convention if they were perceived to have minimal human impact. However, all forests are modified by humans and we contend that modification need not be inconsistent with the maintenance of global biodiversity values. The convention could have greater impact if it addressed more directly the reality of the ubiquitous human modification of forests. This could be achieved through use of more adaptive forms of management based on objective criteria and indicators to define tolerance of change and trigger management responses to achieve desired biodiversity outcomes. We conclude that an optimal list of world heritage tropical forest sites might include up to 100 sites or clusters of sites and that such a network of sites could effectively protect a high proportion of the world's forest biodiversity. The present rate of attrition of the world's tropical forests suggests the need for urgent international action to focus on a set of priority sites and the World Heritage Conservation could provide the best international framework for such action.
4313888|For the first time in 4000 million years of life on Earth a single species, Homo sapiens is causing progressive ecological disturbances. These changes are the outcome of the human aptitude for culture, especially as this aptitude has recently found expression in the Western World. They are associated with the fact that humans are using about 12 000 times as much energy, mainly in the form of fossil fuels, as they were 400 generations ago when farming was first introduced. Nearly 80% of this energy use and technological waste production is taking place in the industrialized nations, which make up around 25% of the total human population. If the biosphere is to survive as a system capable of supporting humankind, humans must apply their aptitude for culture to working out new societal arrangements which are sensitive to the health needs both of the ecosystems of the biosphere and of human populations.
25547812|This paper focuses on appropriation of natural capital through construction of buildings. The ecological footprint and the Costanza natural capital concepts are applied. The environmental consequences of human settlement are currently of great concern, and a need is felt to reduce the impact of building on the environment. The embodied energy of building materials and the "land area" required to sustain their production are considered to evaluate the demand on nature of this activity. The ecological footprints of 2 typical Italian buildings are compared. The paper also focuses on how to reduce the natural capital appropriation of building construction by means of environmentally inexpensive materials, renewable energy resources, and optimization of the use of bioproductive land by construction of multistoried buildings. Finally, to allocate an environmental load of buildings, an economic evaluation of natural capital appropriation through building construction is proposed.
4315629|We investigated the potential role of Antarctic tourism in the introduction of human-associated pathogens into Antarctic wildlife. We collected and analyzed 233 fecal samples from eight bird species. The samples were collected at six localities on the Antarctic Peninsula, which often is visited by tourists. Every sample was investigated for pathogens of potential human origin: Campylobacter jejuni, Salmonella spp., and Yersina spp. None of these bacteria was found. Our data suggest that the tourism industry so far has achieved its goal of not introducing pathogens into the Antarctic region. There is, however, an urgent need to further investigate the situation in areas closer to permanent Antarctic settlements.
4315455|This paper presents results of the research under the program Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA) for the Aral Sea basin (Subregion 24 of the GIWA program). These results show that the determining factor for the region is freshwater shortage and the main issue is modification of stream flow. According to GIWA assessment estimations, freshwater shortage is responsible for about 70% of the developmental problems in the region. The current economy is developing under conditions of increasing water deficiency. In spite of increasing efforts by the governments of the countries in the region, and by the international community, the situation in regard to water supply and economic objectives in the countries of central Asia remains tense and shows clear tendencies towards aggravation and conflict. The main causes for this sharpening of ecological and socioeconomic conditions in the region are analyzed, and measures to mitigate stress in transboundary water-resources use are presented.
41510596|We report observations of disappearance of Erica tetralix in wet heathland, which is unlikely to be caused by competition, as E. tetralix is dying before its place is taken up by other species. To investigate the causes, we used both old and new data. Results showed that presence of Molinia caerulea and Calluna vulgaris were substantial in the former E. tetralix dominated areas. Measurements of the C/N ratio in the morlayer were between 21 and 26 under the E. tetralix stands. As the expected C/N ratio in a healthy nutrient poor ecosystem like the E. tetralix wet heathland is around 30, this indicates that the ratio is probably decreasing and, correspondingly, the probability of nitrogen leaching from the ecosystem is increasing. The morlayer pH was extremely lowbetween 3.03 and 3.78. This represents a pH decline since the 1960s, where pH values generally were above 4. This supports the hypothesis that the decrease in morlayer pH is the major factor explaining the disappearance of E. tetralix and that measures to increase pH should be considered as part of the recommendations for relevant future management.
4315030|Several studies show that there are interactive processes between eutrophication and uptake of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in aquatic biota. The main concept is that the increased biomass and production in aquatic ecosystems, due to excess discharge of nutrients, causes a chain event that results in reduced uptake of POPs in primary producers (phytoplankton). This effect is then transferred to consumers at different trophic levels. The chain event may work in an indirect way by increasing the sedimentation of organic matter and, thereby, increasing the downward flux of pollutants to the bottoms, where they are caught in the organic sediment matrix. The chain event may also work in a direct way; the uptake of POPs in the fast growing phytoplankton is decreased as a result of "growth-dilution", and lower amounts of pollutants are transported in the food-web. The effect seen may also be a result of changed food-web structures that differ considerably from nutrient-poor to nutrient-rich ecosystems. In this paper, we use the existing knowledge of POPs behavior in aquatic systems of different nutrient status, to discuss possible interactive processes of eutrophication and contaminants in the Baltic Sea. The Baltic is known to be highly contaminated with POPs and exposed to ongoing eutrophication. Results from investigations in lakes are compared to laboratory and field studies of the Baltic Sea.
4314848|During recent decades several Baltic fish species have been affected by poor reproductive success. The sea-run Baltic salmon populations are affected by the M74 syndrome, an early life-stage mortality associated with low thiamine (vitamin B
4313337|As natural forests diminish in parts of the developing world, rural communities widely establish local stocks of trees for soil conservation and to maintain needed goods and services, such as fuelwood. Growing pressures on the resource base of rural communities are making it increasingly difficult to develop appropriate independent tree management practices not requiring external support. Such support needs to be accurately matched to the particular needs and possibilities of each case. Three community forestry strategies are reviewed-communal forestry, farm forestry for the household, and farm forestry for the market.
4313737|While recognizing that the relations between science, technology and development are far more complex than we thought 30 years ago and that neither science nor technology is a shortcut to development, it is argued that the building up of a national research capacity should be considered as a priority for every nation in the world. After a brief historical review of the development of science in the developing world this article discusses the professional and social status of scientists, the conditions under which research is conducted and characterizes the scientific production in developing countries (DCs). Recent changes of the foreign aid policies and institutions are also reviewed. In the conclusion, it is stressed that better concerted cooperation between foreign aid managers and national policy-makers is needed to find innovative ways to back the emergence and the reproduction of endogenous scientific communities in the developing world. More and more problems, e.g. environmental deterioration, are becoming a growing concern for all nations of the world. The solution to these problems will require mobilization of the world around reinforced collaborative efforts.
41417266|Environmental change challenges local and global survival of populations and species. In a speciespoor environment like the Baltic Sea this is particularly critical as major ecosystem functions may be upheld by single species. A complex interplay between demographic and genetic characteristics of species and populations determines risks of local extinction, chances of re-establishment of lost populations, and tolerance to environmental changes by evolution of new adaptations. Recent studies show that Baltic populations of dominant marine species are locally adapted, have lost genetic variation and are relatively isolated. In addition, some have evolved unusually high degrees of clonality and others are representatives of endemic (unique) evolutionary lineages. We here suggest that a consequence of local adaptation, isolation and genetic endemism is an increased risk of failure in restoring extinct Baltic populations. Additionally, restricted availability of genetic variation owing to lost variation and isolation may negatively impact the potential for evolutionary rescue following environmental change.
4315502|The Small Sanjiang Plain (SSP), was formerly the largest wetland complex in China, located in the Northeastern part of Heilongjiang Province, China. Home to vast numbers of waterfowls, fish, and plants, the SSP is globally significant for biodiversity conservation. The loss and fragmentation of wetlands as a result agricultural development over 50 years has impacted wetland communities and their biodiversity. We used GIS to inventory large-scale land-use changes from 1950 to 2000, together with other statistical data. We found that 73.6% of the wetlands were lost due to agricultural development. Consequences of these land-use changes included: i) a rapid decline in waterfowl and plant species with the loss and fragmentation of natural wetlands and wetland ecosystem degradation; ii) greater variation in wetland water levels as the result of land-use changes over the years; iii) disruption of the dynamic river-floodplain connection by construction of drainage ditches and levees; and iv) a decrease in floodplain area that caused increased flooding peak flows and runoff. Here we show how these changes affect wetland biodiversity and impact important wetland species.
4314526|Accelerating land degradation constitutes a risk for sustaining the environment as well as the livelihood of man. A holistic approach to the planning, development and management of land resources is required to meet the human and environmental needs and to combat degradation. It is essential to facilitate the dialogue in the planning process and to further cooperation between people and institutions by inviting all stakeholders to a participatory decision-making process. It is stated that action-oriented research, e.g. on the development of indicators of soil and land quality as well as of adapted technology packages, shall be enhanced. Approaches to promote sustainable land management and progress in soil and water conservation technologies were extensively discussed at the 9th ISCO Conference entitled "Towards sustainable land use-furthering cooperation between people and institutions", held in Bonn from 26-30 August 1996.
4315805| Estuaries have been suggested to have an important role in reducing the nitrogen load transported to the sea. We measured denitrification rates in six estuaries of the northern Baltic Sea. Four of them were river mouths in the Bothnian Bay (northern Gulf of Bothnia), and two were estuary bays, one in the Archipelago Sea (southern Gulf of Bothnia) and the other in the Gulf of Finland. Denitrification rates in the four river mouths varied between 330 and 905 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. The estuary bays at the Archipelago Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia had denitrification rates from 90 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> to 910 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> and from 230 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> to 320 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Denitrification removed 3.6-9.0% of the total nitrogen loading in the river mouths and in the estuary bay in the Gulf of Finland, where the residence times were short. In the estuary bay with a long residence time, in the Archipelago Sea, up to 4.5% of nitrate loading and 19% of nitrogen loading were removed before entering the sea. According to our results, the sediments of the fast-flowing rivers and the estuary areas with short residence times have a limited capacity to reduce the nitrogen load to the Baltic Sea. 
4314107|Radioactive debris released from Chernobyl reactor No. 4 was deposited over Sweden in late April and early May 1986, creating a primary contamination landscape dominated by cesium-137. Two alternative approaches to characterizing the impacts of this contamination are examined. The first approach employs predictive models in formulating hypotheses concerning possible cancer induction; hypotheses that are untestable. An alternative approach is sketched here, using empirical studies, to outline a comprehensive view of the human environmental impacts of Chernobyl on Sweden. The impacts discussed here are changes experienced by the Saami reindeer herders, by people living in the north for whom fishing, hunting, and use of forest resources are important, and by those who experienced change in previously held attitudes. This review demonstrates that human environmental impacts are strongly dependent on the information, recommendations, and mandated actions originating from radiation experts. The finding leads to recommendations concerning fundamental changes in the way that problems arising from life in the contamination landscape are examined. The most fundamental change would be the institution of close cooperation between natural scientists and social scientists in institutional settings where this can be brought about.
4314428|Water shortage and pollution are universal problems that are especially acute in the developing countries. They are becoming so serious as to pose a threat to human existence. How to solve these problems is of major concern to both scientists and governments. This article introduces the general conditions of water resources, the main water-related problems, and strategic measures for sustainable development, protection and utilization of water resources in Changzhou, a city in the Yangtze River Delta, China. Water-resources protection areas, particularly the sources, are defined through legislation. Various measures are taken to control water pollution and overexploitation of groundwater. Both water-supply projects and sewage-treatment projects have begun to be implemented. Solutions to the problem of solid waste are also discussed. Prices of the products and services provided by these public services must be increased because lower prices have led to excessive demand, a deteriorating water Environment, and insufficient funds to cover efficient, environmentally-sound disposal methods.
25547806|Understanding the history of how humans have interacted with the rest of nature can help clarify the options for managing our increasingly interconnected global system. Simple, deterministic relationships between environmental stress and social change are inadequate. Extreme drought, for instance, triggered both social collapse and ingenious management of water through irrigation. Human responses to change, in turn, feed into climate and ecological systems, producing a complex web of multidirectional connections in time and space. Integrated records of the co-evolving human-environment system over millennia are needed to provide a basis for a deeper understanding of the present and for forecasting the future. This requires the major task of assembling and integrating regional and global historical, archaeological, and paleoenvironmental records. Humans cannot predict the future. But, if we can adequately understand the past, we can use that understanding to influence our decisions and to create a better, more sustainable and desirable future.
4313202|For more than 100 years botanical gardens have served as retreats for rare and threatened plant species. The botanical garden in Tokyo has elaborated on this idea by cultivating Melastoma tetramerum, a tree endemic to the Bonin Islands. There are only two specimens remaining in the natural environment. Seeds and grafts were taken from one of these trees and were reproduced in the Tokyo gardens. From there the plants were returned to the Bonin Islands, where efforts are being made to find a suitable method for the plants to become securely established in their natural environment.
41417396|Aquatic macrophytes play an important role in the structural and functional aspects of aquatic ecosystems by altering water movement regimes, providing shelter to fish and aquatic invertebrates, serving as a food source, and altering water quality by regulating oxygen balance, nutrient cycles, and accumulating heavy metals. The ability to hyperaccumulate heavy metals makes them interesting research candidates, especially for the treatment of industrial effluents and sewage waste water. The use of aquatic macrophytes, such as Azolla with hyper accumulating ability is known to be an environmentally friendly option to restore polluted aquatic resources. The present review highlights the phytoaccumulation potential of macrophytes with emphasis on utilization of Azolla as a promising candidate for phytoremediation. The impact of uptake of heavy metals on morphology and metabolic processes of Azolla has also been discussed for a better understanding and utilization of this symbiotic association in the field of phytoremediation.
4315359|Surface water acidity is decreasing in large areas of Europe and North America in response to reductions in atmospheric S deposition, but the ecological responses to these water-quality improvements are uncertain. Biota are recovering in some lakes and rivers, as water quality improves, but they are not yet recovering in others. To make sense of these different responses, and to foster effective management of the acid rain problem, we need to understand 2 things: i) the sequence of ecological steps needed for biotic communities to recover; and ii) where and how to intervene in this process should recovery stall. Here our purpose is to develop conceptual frameworks to serve these 2 needs. In the first framework, the primarily ecological one, a decision tree highlights the sequence of processes necessary for ecological recovery, linking them with management tools and responses to bottlenecks in the process. These bottlenecks are inadequate water quality, an inadequate supply of colonists to permit estab-lishment, and community-level impediments to recovery dynamics. A second, more management-oriented framework identifies where we can intervene to overcome these bottlenecks, and what research is needed to build the models to operationalize the framework. Our ability to assess the benefits of S emission reduction would be simplified if we had models to predict the rate and extent of ecological recovery from acidification. To build such models we must identify the ecological steps in the recovery process. The frameworks we present will advance us towards this goal.
4314270|The importance of attitudes has been little discussed in relation to conservation biology. The author claims that mobilization of attitudes is crucial, if we are to have a chance to preserve biodiversity and pristine nature, i.e. the main elements in natural heritage. Attitudes must be based on broad knowledge and conscious evaluation. This paper discusses the value of biodiversity and pristine/almost pristine nature. Then presents a suggestion for systematic thinking, with four levels of insight: (i) descriptive knowledge; (ii) values; (iii) attitudes; and (iv) action. Each level is viewed along a time scale including: (i) contact with prehistoric times; (ii) today's situation; and (iii) perspectives for the future. Through this process, the author arrives at the following attitude: "Respect for the planet's natural heritage, for future generations, and for future evolution".
4312249|Considerable similarities exist in the water situation facing the two countries. However, differences in ideology, political system and of course natural characteristics have given rise to considerable differences in policy with regard to the management of national water resources. This has apparently contributed to a higher cropping index, a more labor-intensive agricultural development and a higher degree of mobilization of rural areas in China than in India. The article focuses on irrigation and flood control, navigation, hydropower and inland fisheries.
4314692|In the autumn of 1995, Finland, Norway and Sweden initiated a joint Nordic Lake Survey using standard protocols for lake selection criteria and analytical procedures. Subsequently, the project was expanded to include Denmark, Russian Kola, Russian Karelia, Scotland and Wales. The survey covers a geographic area of ca. 1 300 000 km<sup>2</sup>; this is about 13% of Europe's total area and 28% of Europe excluding European Russia. The total number of lakes (> 0.04 km<sup>2</sup>) in the study area is about 155 000 and of these 5690 lakes (3.7%) were sampled in this survey. This is 3.7% of the total lake population (> 0.04 km<sup>2</sup>). The lake density is about 1 lake per 9 km<sup>2</sup>, and the sampling density is 1 lake per 244 km<sup>2</sup>. The first common evaluation of lake chemistry in northern Europe showed that the chemistry of these lakes, except those in Denmark, are characterized by low ionic strength (dilute) waters, with low concentrations of the nutrients nitrogen and phosphorus. There are general differences in the lake water chemistry between the countries, due to differences in hydrology, precipitation chemistry, hydrology, soil cover and vegetation. From western Norway, Scotland and Wales to eastern Finland and Karelia, there is a gradient from high to low precipitation (5000 to 300 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>) and from mountain areas with thin and patchy soils to forested areas with thick soils. These two factors are reflected in lake water chemistry with low concentrations of base cations (Ca, Mg, Na, K), alkalinity ( HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>) and total organic carbon (TOC) in the western areas to higher concentrations in the eastern areas. An exception is high TOC levels in lakes in Scotland and Wales. Median values for base cation concentrations are three times higher in Sweden, Finland, Scotland, and Wales than in Norway, and TOC concentrations vary even more. The lakes in Denmark are influenced by a different bedrock mineralogy than in the other countries, and agricultural activities are much more intensive in their catchments. The Danish lakes generally have much higher ion concentrations and high concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus. In Finland, Norway, Sweden, Russian Kola and Karelia, more than 50% of the lakes have low critical load (CL) values for sulfur acidity (CL < 60 meq m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) while Scotland, Wales, and Denmark have very few lakes with low CL. The highest percentage (27%) of lakes with exceedance of critical loads for sulfur acidity (at present S-loading) is found in Norway. In Russian Kola, Sweden and Finland 17%, and 9%, respectively, of the lakes are exceeded. In Scotland, critical loads for sulfur acidity are exceeded in only 1% of the total lake population, while 24% of Welsh lakes are exceeded. In total, this adds up to approximately 22 000 lakes, corresponding to 14% of the total lake population in northern Europe, where CL for sulfur acidity is exceeded.
4312007|A comprehensive picture of the degree of eutrophication and pollution in a lake may be obtained by analyzing the occurrence of only a few different midges of the family Chironomidae, the larvae of which are commonly found in profundal lake sediments. The application of this simple indicator system is demonstrated with examples from the three largest lakes in Sweden. Also, the content of phosphorus and nitrogen in the lakes is compared.
4312589|Much of the impact of acidification on the biotic components of a lake ecosystem can be explained by altered predator-prey relations. Toxic effects on some key organisms, such as fish, cause the predation pattern to shift toward invertebrate predators, which earlier were suppressed by fish predation.
4312776|The acute and long-term effects of ionizing radiation are described, and estimates are given of the early and late casualties, including deaths from cancer and probable hereditary damage, likely to result from ionizing radiation in the nuclear war described in the Reference Scenario. By the most conservative estimates, the survivors of this nuclear war would suffer from 5.4 to 12.8 million fatal cancers; from 17 to 31 million would be rendered sterile; and between 6.4 and 16.3 million children are likely to be born with birth defects in the subsequent 100 years.
4313867|Valley bottomland wetlands are of major importance in agricultural and pastoral systems in savanna Africa. They act as key resources for cultivators and pastoralists, providing a source of arable land or grazing during droughts or the dry season. As well as sustaining rural livelihoods and increasing food security, wetland patches allow the opportunity for diversification of crop production and the provision of a wide range of direct and indirect benefits. Wetlands are central to resource-management strategies that make use of catenal variations and seasonal and interannual changes in resource availability. Such wetland patches are also of major importance in land-tenure regimes and resource-access conflicts. With increasing resource pressure in Africa's drylands, wetlands are becoming even more valuable components of agroecosystems. Land-management policy needs to take account of wetland-area significance and develop effective economic techniques to assess their value, appropriate technologies for their sustainable use and land use and tenure policies that recognize the importance of wetlands in dryland areas.
4313377|The Australian continent is unusually susceptible to erosion and salinization problems. Historically the removal of trees on a vast scale has significantly altered runoff patterns. The implementation of land-use plans and conservation farming forms the basis of a national soil-conservation program and is complemented by a national awareness campaign to control Australia's prime environmental problem.
4312188| A Series of articles on the nuclear power situation in various countries. In this issue: Nuclear Views, p 117; Uranium: Supply and Demand, pp 117-118; The Status of Nuclear Power: A Perspective from the United States by I C Bupp, Jr, pp 119-123; Nuclear Energy in the Soviet Union by R Grnbaum pp 124-126; Canada's Nuclear Power Program by W Peden, pp 127-128; The Nuclear Power Situation in Finland by J K Miettinen, pp 129-131. 
4314075|In Japan, little quantitative data has been developed on the sensitivity of soils to acidic deposition. Thus, the rapid acid-neutralizing capacity (ANC), derived from carbonates, exchangeable base cations and sulfate adsorption, was determined for 500 surface soils (0-20 cm) collected from all over the Japanese archipelago. The rapid ANC is a pool of bases with relatively rapid kinetics, and the contribution of mineral weathering is not included. Exchangeable base cations are the primary contributor to ANC for 423 soils (85%), whereas sulfate adsorption plays an important role in Ando soils. The 500 values of ANC were classified into three categories, low, medium and high, using the estimated median (7.6 meq 100 g
4315752|Large variations exist in the size, abundance and biota of the two principal categories of freshwater ecosystems, lotic (flowing water; e.g., rivers, streams, deltas and estuaries) and lentic (standing water; lakes, ponds and wetlands) found across the cirumpolar Arctic. Arctic climate, many components of which exhibit strong variations along latitudinal gradients, directly affects a range of physical, chemical and biological processes in these aquatic systems. Furthermore, arctic climate creates additional indirect ecological effects through the control of terrestrial hydrologic systems and processes, particularly those associated with cryospheric components such as permafrost, freshwater ice and snow accumulation/ablation. The ecological structure and function of arctic freshwater systems are also controlled by external processes and conditions, particularly those in the headwaters of the major arctic rivers and in the adjacent marine environment. The movement of physical, chemical and biotic components through the interlinked lentic and lotic freshwater systems are major determinants of arctic freshwater ecology.
41418341|Interacting forces of climate change and globalization are transforming the Arctic. Triggered by a non-linear shift in sea ice, this transformation has unleashed mounting interest in opportunities to exploit the region's natural resources as well as growing concern about environmental, economic, and political issues associated with such efforts. This article addresses the implications of this transformation for governance, identifies limitations of existing arrangements, and explores changes needed to meet new demands. It advocates the development of an Arctic regime complex featuring flexibility across issues and adaptability over time along with an enhanced role for the Arctic Council both in conducting policy-relevant assessments and in promoting synergy in interactions among the elements of the emerging Arctic regime complex. The emphasis throughout is on maximizing the fit between the socioecological features of the Arctic and the character of the governance arrangements needed to steer the Arctic toward a sustainable future.
4315553|The critical load concept is used to establish the deposition levels which ecosystems can tolerate without significant harmful effects. Here we summarize work within the Swedish research program Abatement Strategies for Transboundary Air Pollution (ASTA) assessing the critical load of N for boreal forests. Results from both field experiments in an area with low background N deposition in northern Sweden, and from a large-scale monitoring study, show that important vegetational changes start to take place when adding low N doses and that recovery of the vegetation after ceasing N input is a very slow process. The data presented indicate that changes in key ecosystem components occur even at a lower rate of N input than the present recommended empirical critical load for boreal forest understorey vegetation of 10-15 kg N ha
4315067| Mass balance has been continuously monitored on Chacaltaya Glacier (16S, Cordillera Real, Bolivia) since 1991, and on the Antizana Glacier 15 (0, Ecuador) since 1995. In ablation areas, mass balance has been surveyed on a monthly scale, providing interesting details about the seasonal pattern in 2 contrasting tropical environments. Intermittent information about ice recession exists in both regions for the last 4 decades. The data point to a clear acceleration during glacier decline during this decade; ablation rates have been 3-5 times higher than during the former decades. Fluctuations measured before on 3 glaciers in northern Peru, allow the assumption that the rate at which the glaciers retreated in the tropical Andes increased in the late 1970s. The present situation is particularly dramatic for the small-sized glaciers (< 1 km
4313748|Leptospirosis is recognized by the World Health Organization as a disease of worldwide significance. It is one of the important zoonoses that affects most mammals and can therefore be transmitted from domestic or wild animals to man. In livestock, the disease causes economic losses due to abortion, still-birth, weak neonates, neonatal death, retained placenta, infertility and decreased milk production. All pathogenic leptospires are classified into one species. Leptospira interrogans. Twenty-three serogroups containing numerous serotypes have been isolated and recognized especially in Europe, South East Asia, the Americas and Australia. Relatively little is known of leptospires infecting African livestock. This paper presents results of recent serological and bacteriological studies to determine the prevalence of leptospirosis in cattle in Zimbabwe.
4315833|Marine protected areas increasingly are challenged to maintain or increase tourism benefits while adequately protecting resources. Although carrying capacity strategies can be used to cope with use-related impacts, there is little understanding of divers themselves, their management preferences, and how preferences relate to conservation goals. By using a stated preference choice modeling approach, we investigated the choices divers make in selecting diving trips to marine protected areas as defined by use level, access, level of supervision, fees, conservation education, and diving expectations. Logit models showed that divers preferred a more restrictive management scenario over the status quo. Divers favored reductions in the level of site use and increased levels of conservation education. Divers did not favor fees to access protected areas, having less access to the resource, or extensive supervision. Finally, divers were much more willing to accept increasingly restrictive management scenarios when they could expect to see increased marine life.
4314962|Satellite data and ground rainfall measurements have been used to study variations in the size of the Sahara Desert from 1980 to 1997. Through a combination of the satellite and ground data, the 200 mm yr
41418325|Freshwater ice dominates the Arctic terrestrial environment and significantly impacts bio-physical and socio-economic systems. Unlike other major cryospheric components that either blanket large expanses (e.g., snow, permafrost, sea ice) or are concentrated in specific locations, lake and river ice are interwoven into the terrestrial landscape through major flow and storage networks. For instance, the headwaters of large ice-covered rivers extend well beyond the Arctic while many northern lakes owe their genesis to broader cryospheric changes. The effects of freshwater ice on climate mostly occur at the local/regional scale, with the degree of influence dependent on the magnitude, timing, location, and duration of ice cover, and the size of the water body. Freshwater-ice formation, growth, decay, and break-up are influenced by climatic variables that control surface heat fluxes, but these differ markedly between lakes and rivers. Despite the importance of freshwater ice, there has been a recent reduction in observational recordings.
4314766|An integrated GIS was developed as the core of a research project which provided the foundation for regional economic planning in a semiarid area in northern China. The GIS was composed of a regional geographical database and a collection of spatial models. The regional geographical database contained data sets from terrestrial-based sources including thematic maps and statistical records, and remotely sensed data. A series of spatial models has been developed by experts in various disciplines such as soil erosion, economics, rural development and arid-land management. These models were then implemented into the GIS and a series of thematic maps was produced. The results provided useful assistance for regional planning that aimed to balance demands from different land-use interest groups with the aim of achieving an optimum, environmentally sound economic development plan.
4313762|An improved assessment of the riverine input of Cd, Cu, Hg, Pb, and Zn to the Mediterranean is presented. This estimate is derived from original data and the literature for the rivers Rhone, Ebro, Po, Arno, Krka, Nile and the Tiber. Nonconservative estuarine processes were accounted for by applying a correction factor to river trace-metal fluxes. The results obtained indicate that river inputs of trace metals to the Mediterranean are lower than previously published reports suggest. Comparison with other sources (inputs through the straits, atmospheric inputs) show that dissolved net river inputs are relatively small.
4312426|Development strategies require some promise of an improved standard of living for acceptance. Sophisticated technology can offer both a symbolic and a substantive means to effect development. As normally used, however, such technology tends to undermine the independence, traditions and environment of a rural community while leaving its basic needs unprovided for. Selectively chosen and carefully implemented, some sophisticated technologies can be of great benefit to a rural community. They can help to provide not only for a community's basic needs, but also for quality finished products for trade-without destroying the rural culture and environment. Biotechnology, solar energy and electronic solid state devices are examples of technologies, which are intrinsically suited to local use and resistant to monopolization. The best development plan is one which uses a balance of simple and sophisticated technologies designed to make optimal use of resources for the community's own benefit.
25547952|In this study, we set up a wood decomposition experiment to i) quantify the percent of mass remaining, decay constant and performance strength of aspen stakes (Populus tremuloides) in dry and moist boreal (Alaska and Minnesota, USA), temperate (Washington and Idaho, USA), and tropical (Puerto Rico) forest types, and ii) determine the effects of fragmentation on wood decomposition rates as related to fragment size, forest age (and/or structure) and climate at the macro- and meso-scales. Fragment sizes represented the landscape variability within a climatic region. Overall, the mean small fragments area ranged from 10-14 ha, medium-sized fragments 33 to 60 ha, and large fragments 100-240 ha. We found that: i) aspen stakes decayed fastest in the tropical sites, and the slowest in the temperate forest fragments, ii) the percent of mass remaining was significantly greater in dry than in moist forests in boreal and temperate fragments, while the opposite was true for the tropical forest fragments, iii) no effect of fragment size on the percent of mass remaining of aspen stakes in the boreal sites, temperate dry, and tropical moist forests, and iv) no significant differences of aspen wood decay between forest edges and interior forest in boreal, temperate and tropical fragments. We conclude that: i) moisture condition is an important control over wood decomposition over broad climate gradients; and that such relationship can be non linear, and ii) the presence of a particular group of organism (termites) can significantly alter the decay rates of wood more than what might be predicted based on climatic factors alone. Biotic controls on wood decay might be more important predictors of wood decay in tropical regions, while abiotic constraints seems to be important determinants of decay in cold forested fragments.
4312252|The importance of the international rivers and river basins is growing in regard to their geographical extent, the complexity of their utilization, and the form and legislation of the cooperation among the basin countries, during socioeconomic growth and development. This cooperation should be based on a long-range planning of the international river basin development, the character of which is discussed in this article. The traditional and basic form of joint utilization generally is navigation, the practice of which is mainly discussed in a study of the Danube. International navigation is regulated by the Danube Commission along this river. New problems and possibilities have arisen with the advent of the Danube-Main-Rhine canal. The agreement on the conditions for the joint utilization of this canal is an important test of international cooperation.
25094585|Mountains as "Water Towers" play an important role for the surrounding lowlands. This is particularly true of the world's semiarid and arid zones, where the contributions of mountains to total discharge are 50-90%. Taking into account the increasing water scarcity in these regions, especially for irrigation and food production, then today's state of knowledge in mountain hydrology makes sustainable water management and an assessment of vulnerability quite difficult. Following the IPCC report, the zone of maximum temperature increase in a 2 
4315471|European otters declined dramatically from the 1950s, disappearing from many rivers. We report here on long-term monitoring (from 1977) in 3 catchments in western Britain that were recolonized naturally and in 2 catchments in eastern England that were reinforced by captive-bred otters. A minimum of 16-years data was collected on each river until 2002. At a series of sites in each study river, the percentages which were positive for otters and the number of spraints per sprainting site were recorded and combined to produce an annual index of population. One western river, naturally recolonized, showed rapid early population growth for 5 years, followed by slower growth, while growth was steadier in 2 catchments which already held some otters at the beginning of the study. Colonization on the eastern rivers was slower, with greater fluctuations over time. Annual population growth rates were estimated at 1-7%, higher in the earlier years. A strategy for annual monitoring of otters is recommended.
4312235|The earth's hydrologic cycle sets the hydrosphere in motion and continuously renews freshwater reserves. In compiling maps of different water resources, the six-component method (equation) of water balance, suggested by the author, is used instead of the three-component one. Water resources transformation carried out on a large scale with the help of different methods, assists in preserving these reserves for the future. On the basis of an analysis of the present state of world water resources and alternative forecasts for the year 2000, the author concludes that it is of primary importance to reduce and eventually to cease the dumping of wastewaters into rivers and bodies of water and to isolate polluted water from the naturel hydrologic cycle.
4315120|The purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential toxic effects of chronic sublethal polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) exposure on feral fish, using histopathology as an endpoint. Histopathological study of bream (Abramis brama) and asp (Aspius aspius) living in a PCB-polluted freshwater lake revealed abnormal cellular changes in the renal corpuscle of both species. Dilation of glomerular capillaries (DGC), mesangial edema (ME), an adhesion between visceral and parietal layers of Bowman's capsule (ABC), and filling of Bowman's space (FBS), were highly prevalent features in lake fish. The prevalence of each of these lesions was significantly lower, or totally absent in fish caught from reference locations. Cellular alterations in liver, gill, gonads, spleen, and intestine were all linked to seasonal changes. The results suggest that some of the observed histopathological changes in renal glomeruli, particularly DGC and ME, could possibly indicate a prolonged chemical stress caused by PCBs and related compounds. It is also possible that chronic PCB exposure may have suppressed and weakened the immuno systems of exposed fish making them more vulnerable to secondary parasitic infections.
4314664|Environmental managers manage without prices. In resolving day to day conflicts decisions are normally made without appeal to monetary values or any other single common measure. However, this is not how the neoclassical economic theory says it should be. A gap exists between the actual practice of management and the ideal practice offered by economists. Hence, the development of methods for placing monetary values on biodiversity and other environmental goods. This paper examines three arguments for monetary valuation: that it provides a way of arriving at a decision that maximizes well being; that it provides a way of trading off objectives; that it is effective since it speaks in the economic language to which policy makers listen. It shows that none of these arguments is satisfactory. While there may be problems in existing procedures for environmental decision making, these do not include the failure to use monetary values.
4313837| Cladophora glomerata (L.) Ktz is a useful bioindicator for heavy-metals and is the most abundant species of periphyton (Aufwuchs) in the meso- and eutrophic waters at the Hungarian reach of the River Danube. A floating artificial substrate was used to obtain quantitative samples for heavy-metal analysis. Long-term surveys, not only the final tips but whole plants, were used to study accumulation of Ag, Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Hg, K, Mg, Mn, Na, Ni, Pb, Zn. The structure of the artificial substrate allowed simulation of the vertical differentation of periphyton. The upper layer represented the part of periphyton that was situated near to the water surface ("supratidal zone") and the lower layer represented the part of periphyton permanently covered by water ("permanent in-water zone"). There were significant differences in accumulation and levels of heavy-metals in Cladophora between the two layers of periphyton. The biomass of Cladophora in the upper layer was twice as high as biomasses in the lower layer, while higher metal concentrations and slighter changes over time were observed in the lower layer. The enrichment factor was calculated from the values of the dissolved phase because this more adequately characterizes the biologically available fraction than the total amount of a metal. 
25547861|High-resolution digital photography and graphical image analyses systems have been used to define external morphometric characters of shell deformations in four populations of the Baltic clam Macoma balthica from the Gulf of Gdansk (southern Baltic Sea). The proposed shell deformation indices (SDI), which were based on the relationship of selected dimensions in the posterior and the anterior part of the shell, showed at least three morphological features that provide a distinctive diagnosis of "regular" and "deformed" clams: the presence of flexure on the posterior side (SDI1), elongated posterior region (SDI2), and shell growth (SDI3). The degree and prevalence of deformed clams varied locally over space. Increase in percentage contribution of aberrated shells with depth, corresponding to oxygen depletion profile in the Gulf, suggests low oxygen concentrations as the main agent exerting a deforming influence. The observed morphological aberrations developed with age (size) of a bivalve, suggesting a long-term effect of causal factors, and were accompanied by lightening shell weight, possibly due to decalcification of previously deposited calcareous material during anaerobic metabolism. It is hypothesized that hypoxic/anoxic conditions and a subsequent presence of hydrogen sulfide on a deep organic-rich sea bottom induce shell form alterations that enable the pumping of oxygenated water from above the anoxic layer. Such a morphological modification highlights the functional significance of shell deformations in protective response to the ambient low-oxygen concentrations. Sediment organotin concentrations fall within moderate to high contamination range and, therefore, may also have an adverse impact on the shell form. DNA analyses of the fragment of mitochondrial gene cytochrome oxidase I (COI, 393 base pairs) showed homogenous genetic structure of regular and deformed clams, indicating that shell deformations in M. balthica are primarily driven by acclimatization to the ambient environmental conditions.
4315285| In 1997, as part of a national program to determine and map critical loads, a lake survey was carried out in the Republic of Ireland. In total 200 lakes were sampled, which represents approximately 3.3% of the total lake population. The majority of lakes were situated in remote, high-altitude, acid-sensitive areas along the coastal margins of the country. Lake chemistry was dominated by marine inputs. Approximately 50% of the lakes had DOC > 5 mg L
4315675|Manifold linkages exist between climate change and sustainable development. Although these are starting to receive attention in the climate exchange literature, the focus has typically been on examining sustainable development through a climate change lens, rather than vice versa. And there has been little systematic examination of how these linkages may be fostered in practice. This paper examines climate change through a sustainable development lens. To illustrate how this might change the approach to climate change issues, it reports on the findings of a panel of business, local government, and academic representatives in British Columbia, Canada, who were appointed to advise the provincial government on climate change policy. The panel found that sustainable development may offer a significantly more fruitful way to pursue climate policy goals than climate policy itself. The paper discusses subsequent climate change developments in the province and makes suggestions as how best to pursue such a sustainability approach in British Columbia and other jurisdictions.
4315207|This study addresses the difficulties surrounding effective implementation of the Montreal Protocol in Botswana and provides a general under-standing of how best we might advise policy makers when implementing international agreements in the developing world. A questionnaire survey administered to both the formal and informal users of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODSs) revealed that disseminated information on ODSs has little effect on choices that users make about refrigerant gases and this information is skewed in favour of the conventional users of ODSs. As a result, annual statistics of ODS use are probably underestimated. Difficulties exist in changing from old to new technologies in the short term due to high costs associated with the change over. The infrastructure to recover gases and to dispose of unusable hardware is absent or inadequate. Solutions to these difficulties include a comprehensive policy that caters for all users of ODSs and the integration of economic and environmental aspirations.
4313663|Apart from the need to develop cost-effective energy supply strategies, the rapidly growing energy demand in Turkey results in increasing importance of the control of air pollution. Turkey's request for admission into the European Community (EC) in 1987 makes the present activities to harmonize air pollution control strategies within the EC of major interest. For the development of an optimal future energy supply for Turkey, with respect to both cost-efficiency and air pollution control, the energy and environment optimization model EFOM is being applied as a methodological decision support tool in close collaboration with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Gazi University, Ankara. The project is supported by the Foundation Volkswagenwerk, Hannover. This paper presents the results of an analysis of the actual energy and environmental situation in Turkey and the methodology and first results of the model application.
41417419|The efficiency of electron injection ( inj ) in dye-sensitized nanocrystalline films was studied through transient absorption (TA) and time-resolved microwave conductivity (TRMC) measurements. Here, I show the absolute value of  inj for several dye-sensitized nanocrystalline films and discuss the relationship between  inj and the free energy change (G inj ) for the injection process. Some systems exhibited lower  inj values even whenG inj was sufficiently large to promote electron injection. Recent experimental findings are used to propose possible explanations for this phenomenon. Quantitative evaluation of  inj using TA and TRMC will give us new insights for developing high-performance solar cell devices.
4315379|This paper describes a project in northern Chile aimed to promote the development of appropriate green areas and gardens for arid regions under prevalent conditions of shortage of water and high salt content in soil and water. Field studies were conducted to test the suitability of selected salt-tolerant native and introduced plants for ornamental use. Plant growth, water and soil quality, marine spray, climate, wastewater treatment and irrigation operating problems were the subject of specific studies and discussion.
4315209| Three years after most corals died on the central Indian Ocean reefs of Chagos, erosion and recovery were studied to 30 m depth. Mortality was near-total to 15 m deep in northern atolls, and to > 35 m in central and southern atolls. Some reef surfaces have 'dropped' 1.5 m due to the loss of dense coral thickets. Coral bioerosion is substantial, reducing 3-D reef 'structure' and forming unconsolidated rubble. Juvenile corals are abundant, though mostly on eroding or unstable substrates, and are of less robust species. Reef fish abundance and diversity at 15 m depth remains high; species dependent on corals have diminished, while some herbivores and detritivores have increased. A new-sea surface temperature (SST) data set shows that mean SST has risen 0.65C since 1950. The critical SST causing the mortality in Chagos was 29.9C. 
4313184|Freshwater fish, Tilapia mossambica (Peters), were acclimated to sublethal acidic (pH 5.0) and alkaline (pH 9.0) waters and the changes in the white muscle protein metabolism were studied. Tissue acidic proteases were activated in acidic water, while alkaline proteases were activated in alkaline water. Soluble and structural protein fractions were depleted in acidic water; in alkaline water the soluble protein fractions were elevated. The activities of aminotransferases were inhibited in both media. Glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) activity was elevated in the acidic water but inhibited in the alkaline water. Evidently the acidic stress induced amino acid catabolism, while the alkaline stress inhibited it. The responses of fish muscle tissue to acidic and alkaline media were correlated with the buffering mechanisms in the tissue.
25547834|Statistical and spatial analyses of both historical time series and remotely sensed data show a link between the spatial distribution and growth of gold production across the Guiana Shield in northeast Amazonia. Results indicate that an exponential rise in production across an expanding area is primarily a delayed response to the 1971-1978 market flotation of international gold prices. The subsequent 10-fold (2-fold) average nominal (real) price increase has provided a compelling economic incentive to mass exploitation of lower-grade gold deposits. The ground-based and remotely sensed distributions of mining activity are strongly attached to these deposits that dominate the region's gold geology. The presence of these gold-bearing formations in conservation and sustainable timber zones has sparked social conflict and environmental degradation across the region. Left unmanaged, more than a quarter-million square-kilometer area of tropical forest zoned for protection and sustainable management could ultimately be compromised by the price-driven boom in gold mining through poorly integrated resource use planning, lack of reclamation effort, and control of illegal operations. Serious public health issues propagated through the unregulated mining environment further erode the financial benefits achieved through gold extraction. This study demonstrates in part how international economic policies successfully stabilizing more conspicuous centers of the global economy can have unintended but profound environmental and social impacts on remote commodity frontiers.
4314484|This article presents data on the destruction of the montane forests on Mount Kenya. The material was obtained during fieldwork for a phytosociological study in 1992-1994. Special emphasis was given to the observation of regeneration patterns and succession cycles within the different forest communities, with regard to the impact of humans and big game. Although private tree planting is reducing the fuelwood deficit in Kenya, large parts of the 200 000 ha of Mount Kenya's forests-the largest natural-forest area in the country-are heavily impacted by among other things illegal activities. The wet camphor forests of the south and southeast mountain slopes are being destroyed at an alarming speed, by large-scale selective logging of Ocotea usambarensis and marihuana cultivation. The drier Juniperus procera forests are also logged, but are even more endangered by the new settlement schemes. The large elephant population does not affect forest regeneration; whereas browsing and chafing by buffaloes inhibits regeneration of the dry forests, and damages many trees. Suggestions are presented for better management of the forest resources.
4313747|Present day systems of livestock production in both industrialized and Third World countries are subjected to political, economic and environmental pressures that infer the need to introduce new production technologies which are more sustainable. Foreign exchange shortages present an opportunity for developing new production systems using local resources which are less dependent on fossil-fuel derived inputs. Environmental pressures will force a decreasing role for fossil fuel and an increasing reliance on renewable biomass. Concern for animal welfare and natural food quality is leading to deintensification of production systems and incentives for organic agriculture. Tropical regions are in a strong position to take advantage of these changes, being richly endowed with natural resources in the form of solar energy, soil and water, and biological diversity. Correctly harnessed, these resources can form the basis of production systems which will confer a real competitive advantage to livestock production in these regions. An example of this latter approach is presented, designed specifically for tropical zones, the widespread adoption of which will help to close the production-utilization gap for carbon dioxide with a more than tenfold reduction in emission of methane per unit meat production, compared with traditional tropical systems based exclusively on cattle ranching. Such technologies are sustainable and especially appropriate for use on small-scale family farms in tropical regions. They create innovative research possibilities for use of nonconventional feed and animal resources.
4313072|In 1973, large-scale clear-felling of lowland tropical rainforest for woodchips and saw logs began in the Gogol Valley in Papua New Guinea. This was the first time that a lowland rainforest was logged on such a scale anywhere in the tropics. After many difficulties, small-scale agricultural developments are taking place on cleared land, but reforestation is unlikely to be commercially viable Environmental costs are high, and the central government has had to carry substantial redevelopment costs, but there have also been significant returns in royalties, port facilities, roads, better communications and services. Social benefits and costs are both high.
4312207|A fluorometric method was used to determine lignin sulfonates and to follow the dispersion and flow of sulfite wastewater in Idefjord and its vicinity. The influence of the pollution from the paper and pulp mills in the town of Halden, Norway, was estimated. The wastewater could be traced far out into the Skagerrak. The distribution pattern of lignin products was complicated by the additional inflow from the Glomma River north of the area under study.
25094581|High-mountain areas suffer from increasing environmental threats. The causes are often global in dimension but lead to specific impacts under conditions of steep and/or high-altitude terrain with strong effects from snow and ice. This paper presents a global perspective, focussing primarily on observed and projected changes in climate and then goes on to discuss key messages of greatest relevance to the highest belts of mountain regions. The paper finishes with a brief discussion of mitigation strategies
4315386|The traditional agricultural landscape of Japan, known as satoyama, consists of a mixture of forests, wet rice paddy fields, grasslands, and villages. This landscape supports a great diversity of plant and animal species, many of which are significant to the Japanese culture. The satoyama landscape is currently being rapidly converted to residential and industrial uses in Japan's expanding metropolitan areas, with the local loss of many species. Only 7% of the land in the Yokohama area remains as satoyama. City residents and older farmers have become key participants in programs to protect examples of satoyama. Many urban residents value the experience of participating in agricultural and conservation activities once they are made aware of the threat faced by the satoyama landscape. In one particularly successful program, conservation efforts and fund-raising are linked to "Totoro", an imaginary forest animal featured in a popular animated film.
23322916|Mercury levels in sediment and predatory fish were measured for 53 localities in Suriname. The average mercury level in bottom sediment surpassed the Canadian standard for sediment in most localities, except the coastal plains. Of the predatory fish, 41 % had a mercury level above the European Union standard for human consumption of 0.5 g g -1 . Highest mercury levels were found in fish from the Brokopondo Reservoir and from the Upper Coppename River. High levels of mercury in fish in pristine areas are explained by atmospheric transportation of mercury with the northeastern trade winds followed by wet deposition. Contrary to gold mining areas, where mercury is bound to drifting sediments, in "pristine" areas the mercury is freely available for bio-accumulation and uptake. Impacts on piscivorous reptiles, birds, and mammals are unknown, but likely to be negative.
4315066|Although they may have been studied less extensively than those in developing nations, mature mountain tourism communities such as Banff, Canada, potentially have useful insights to offer the international community regarding principles and practices for developing sustainable, community-based mountain tourism. Toward that end, this paper focuses on the Banff Community Plan in order to highlight 'made-in-Banff' solutions to issues of governance in sustainable mountain tourism. Banff's approach to balancing tourism development and environmental protection may be unique, given its complex 115-year history of association with Banff National Park. Nevertheless, the town now employs innovative principles such as 'no net negative environmental impact' and 'appropriate development and use' in its efforts to become a balanced and sustainable national park community. Such principles may contribute to implementation of Chapter 13 (the Mountain Agenda) of Agenda 21 and to resolution of governance issues in achieving sustainable mountain communities.
41417279|Payments for Environmental Services (PES) can encourage projects that enhance restoration, production, and rural development. When projects promote differentiated systems by paying farmers for the provision of services, the application of PES requires evaluation of the environmental services provided by each system. We present evaluations of carbon stocks and biodiversity in pure and mixed native tree plantations in Costa Rica. To illustrate how monetary values can be assigned, we discuss a project that awarded PES to silvopastoral systems in Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Colombia based on carbon stocks and biodiversity. PES can promote positive environmental attitudes in farmers. Currently this project is being scaled up in Colombia based on their positive experiences with PES as a tool to promote adoption. Compared to PES systems that include only one environmental service, systems that incorporate bundling or layering of multiple services can make sustainable land uses more attractive to farmers and reduce perverse incentives.
4314926|This paper illustrates the need for a revival and renewal of landscape analysis in order to identify, evaluate and predict environmental change in environmental impact assessment (EIA) and development perspectives. An initial focus on the landscape, rather than on individual systems or processes, makes it possible to widen the scope of study, to assess change in different temporal and spatial perspectives and thereafter to converge on key issues of relevance for specific areas or development projects. This approach can be seen as a process rather than a method, which calls for intradisciplinary competence in data collection and evaluation as well as an interdisciplinary assessment capability. A combination of such scientific competence, local knowledge, and experiences of the local environment is used to widen the assessment perspectives and the prediction competence. The approach is illustrated by its application in two Tanzanian studies. The Southern Highland study emerged from two feasibility environmental impact assessments (EIAs) of proposed hydropower projects whilst the Babati study was initiated as a result of previous sectorial research on land management, which had to be analyzed in broader perspectives. In both cases, a need to define environmental baselines to assess land use and project related environmental change had been defined by different donor agencies. One conclusion from our study is, however, that there is no such thing as an environmental baseline, rather a baseline that has to be extended in different temporal and spatial perspectives to fully understand and predict environmental and related social change. This study can therefore be seen as a contribution to a new understanding of environmental change that is required for strategic environmental impact assessments and long-term natural resource-use planning.
4312002|The plankton communities in Lake Trummen, Sweden, have been studied before and after the restoration of the lake. The changes in the plankton communities are discussed in relation to decreased concentrations of plant nutrients. The biomass of phytoplankton in summer has been reduced by ca 60 percent and the troublesome bloom of blue-green algae has nearly disappeared. The annual production of phytoplankton decreased with ca 30 percent and due to better light conditions the productive layer increased The number of zooplankton, especially cladocerans, has decreased drastically.
4313618|The hypothesis of a "nuclear winter" following a major nuclear exchange has been confirmed in comprehensive scientific assessments by the United Nations, the International Council of Scientific Unions, the World Meteorological Organization and the World Health Organization, as well as by the National Academy of Sciences of the United States and the Royal Society of Canada. The nuclear-winter theory forecasts worldwide human casualties one to two orders of magnitude larger than previous estimates based on the prompt effects or nuclear detonations alone. The catastrophic and now well-established prospect of nuclear winter suggests the following fundamental policy changes: Joint establishment by the superpowers of Canonical Deterrent Forces (CDFs) of 100-300 single-warkead hardened and/or mobile delivery systems on each side; dismantling of most existing strategic nuclear systems including all MIRVed land-based and submarine forces and nuclear-armed bomber fleets wherever possible, using appropriate elements of the existing forces to construct the CDFs; dismantling of all tactical nuclear weapons and reduction and balancing of conventional military forces in Europe, with emphasis on defensive postures; and abandonment of space-based strategic defense, and firm institutionalization of the existing ABM Treaty. These actions are highly stabilizing with respect to the deterrence of international conflict, and are far more affordable than the customary arms race.
4314808|Coral reefs are a resource of immense importance for a large number of people, especially the coastal populations of the developing world. Available information on coral reefs in Sri Lanka and Southeast Asia has been used to evaluate the ecological services provided by coral reefs and to assess the long-term economic benefits derived from some of the ecosystem functions. The minimum economic value of coral reefs in Sri Lanka is estimated at USD 140 000-7 500 000 km
4314764|Many African river floodplains are disappearing or being modified as the result of water management activities, in particular large-scale irrigation schemes. Often any resulting impact on downstream wetland benefits is ignored. By combining hydrological and economic analyses we simulate different scenarios for large-scale irrigation schemes in the Hadejia-Jama'are River Basin in northern Nigeria. We compare the agricultural, fishing and fuelwood benefits lost through reduced flooding downstream against the gains from increased irrigation production upstream. Our analysis suggests that the irrigation benefits can only partially replace the lost benefits from reduced floodplain inundation. Given that several upstream irrigation schemes are completed or currently under construction, our simulations show that the introduction of regulated flood releases is the best hope of minimizing further losses of floodplain benefits. Further expansion of large-scale irrigation within the river basin should also be avoided.
4315486| We present Arctic atmospheric boundary-layer modeling with a regional model COAMPS, for the Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic Ocean (SHEBA) experiment. Model results are compared to soundings, near-surface measurements and forecasts from the ECMWF model. The near-surface temperature is often too high in winter, except in shorter periods when the boundary layer was cloud-capped and well-mixed due to cloud-top cooling. Temperatures are slightly too high also during the summer melt season. Effects are too high boundary-layer moisture and formation of too dense stratocumulus, generating a too deep well-mixed boundary layer with a cold bias at the simulated boundary-layer top. Errors in temperature and therefore moisture are responsible for large errors in heat flux, in particular in solar radiation, by forming these clouds. We conclude that the main problems lie in the surface energy balance and the treatment of the heat conduction through the ice and snow and in how low-level clouds are treated. 
4312241|Freshwater fish can significantly supplement the world's supply of dietary protein, although they now form only 15 percent of the total fish protein used for human consumption. Most of the potential increase will probably come from intensively managed fish ponds. Tilapia, trout and carp are the "big three" groups of freshwater species now in cultivation. The future success of a fish pond venture on a large scale depends upon intensive training of pond managers and public acceptance of the product. Fish production in larger bodies of water-lakes, rivers, and reservoirs-will always be important, although water pollution of various types threatens fish populations in many regions of the world.
4312823|Although New Zealand has more than 1500 protected areas, extending over 16 percent of the total land area and encompassing a wide range of management objectives, the system is biased ecologically toward upland forested terrain. Recent developments in legislation, policy-making, administration and information-gathering reflect a commitment to extend the protected area network to lowland and non-forested environments, thereby protecting a fully-representative range of the country's natural biota and landscapes.
4314663|The article considers how the preservation of biodiversity is morally justified in some of the key texts on environmental ethics, i.e. whether or not biodiversity can be justified as a moral end in itself. The views are classified according to the criteria which they hold to be the ultimate moral beneficiaries; positions are named as anthropocentrism, biocentrism and ecocentrism. In general, they are not in favor of regarding biodiversity as intrinsically valuable, but think its moral value as derivative. This means that the myriad characters of life on Earth are to be maintained as diverse because of their instrumental value for the constituents. It seems that Naess's deep ecology is the only major position that argues for biodiversity's intrinsic value, but this view has proved to be problematic.
4315083|Based on land-use/land-cover (LU/LC) maps for the 1970s and satellite imagery for the 1990s we estimate LU/LC change and associated C fluxes in 3 subregions of the Selva Lacandona, Chiapas, Mexico. The total area of closed forest was reduced by 31%, whereas secondary forests expanded more than ninefold, secondary shrubs by almost sixfold, and cultivated land and pasture areas expanded 21% and 92%, respectively. However, the LU/LC change was not uniformly distributed over the entire study area. Total mean C densities ranged from 452 Mg C ha
4314901|Atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (AD-N) to the North Atlantic Ocean (NAO) basin arises from pollution sources in North America and Western Europe; these sources have increased drastically (5-10-fold) since the Industrial Revolution and continue to increase in both geographic and depositional magnitude. Based on the estimates in this study, AD-N flux (11.2 Tg N yr
4314619|The geogenic background load via wet deposition is estimated for As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb and Zn, while the total atmospheric deposition in the 1990s was quantified to excel the background by 5 to more than 20-fold. The element input via rivers is separated in a geogenic and an anthropogenic part with a rather heterogeneous distribution. The total river input (including diffuse sources) is estimated to be for As 200, Cd 60, Co 200, Cr 440, Cu 1300, Hg 50, Ni 300, Pb 1500 and Zn 6000 (t yr
41417246|Time series of abundance estimates are commonly used for analyses of population trends and possible shifts in growth rate. We investigate if trends in age composition can be used as an alternative to abundance estimates for detection of decelerated population growth. Both methods were tested under two forms of density dependence and different levels of environmental variation in simulated time series of growth in Baltic gray seals. Under logistic growth, decelerating growth could be statistically confirmed after 16 years based on population counts and 14 years based on age composition. When density dependence sets in first at larger population sizes, the age composition method performed dramatically better than population counts, and a decline could be detected after 4 years (versus 10 years). Consequently, age composition analysis provides a complementary method to detect density dependence, particularly in populations where density dependence sets in late.
41510597|Physical obstructions are becoming increasingly recognized as major factors influencing the migrations, population structures, spawning success and recruitment of freshwater organisms. This paper presents a simple but effective method, intended for use by environmental managers, government agencies and conservation bodies, of rapidly assessing and prioritizing barriers to the migrations of diadromous fishes and lampreys for passage improvements. A prioritization matrix was developed using information on fish stock status, the passage efficiency of fishes at individual structures, the distance from the tidal limit and the passability of downstream barriers, and the quantity and quality of habitat upstream of each structure. Importantly, the 'Likelihood of access' was incorporated into the matrix to account for passage efficiency at downstream barriers. Barriers ranked as the highest priority for passage improvements were those characterized by poor fish stocks upstream, low passage efficiency, easy passage from downstream, and a large quantity and high quality of habitat upstream. Prioritization of migration barriers should ensure that access improvements are targeted to achieve optimum benefits.
4311974|Remote sensing was assigned an important role in the Recommendations of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm, 1972). Remote sensing can be of importance as an instrument of global monitoring and resource management. There is some hesitation about remote sensing because there are no appropriate international institutions to handle this new technique. Without these institutions, remote sensing might be used for environmental exploitation and could lead to the widening of the gap between the poor and the rich. It is recommended that the USA and the USSR jointly contribute to development of remote sensing techniques for international use, i e for land use assessment in arid and semi-arid areas. This article was adapted from the keynote address given at the Eighth International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, Ann Arbor, Michigan, October 1972.
4313023|The projected continuing increase in use of fossil fuels and the associated increase in atmospheric CO
25547879|Environmental changes and their transboundary influences on the Mekong watercourse system have been an international research focus in recent years, but the opinions and results related to the impacts of upper Mekong River dams are quite different. In this paper, based on the records of water levels from 1960 to 2003 at three mainstream sites in the upper Mekong River, a quantitative examination has been undertaken into characteristics of the mainstream water-level process at multiple timescales and its response to cascade development. The major results are: i) Annual mean, wet period mean, and the mean water levels during the period between March and April (PBMA period) exhibit a significant increasing trend at Jiuzhou and Yunjinghong sites, which are influenced by large-scale factors such as climate change and solar activity. ii) The interdecadal and interannual variations of annual mean, annual maximum, and wet period mean water levels at three sites show similar features during the dam construction period. iii) The interdecadal variations of PBMA period water level show a gradual increase at Gajiu and Yunjinghong sites but a falling trend at Jiuzhou; these trends confirm that there is some regulation on the flow in the dry season caused by the two existing dams. iv) The downstream effects of the present dams on water levels are very limited at the annual mean and wet season mean levels, not apparent at the monthly and yearly timescales, and relatively significant at daily and hourly timescales.
4315345|Industrial tree plantations in the tropics usually follow short rotations and intensive site management including slash and burn, and the use of heavy machinery. We attempt to quantify the implied nutrient losses (harvest export, erosion, slash and burn, leaching) in order to give plantation managers a chance to understand the significance of their planning and decisions. We used the scarce globally available information and a case study plantation in East Kalimantan, Indonesia (Acacia mangium and Eucalyptus deglupta). Adaptation involves problems and is discussed in some detail. Results are approximate only. Assuming a harvest volume of 200
25547919|This article analyzes the relationship between the configuration and spatial reorganization of land-use and land-cover in the Pujal-Coy project area, Huasteca Potosina region, eastern San Luis Potos, Mexico, as well as the relationship between these changes and the environmental conditions prevailing in the area. Land-use and land-cover changes were determined through the analysis and interpretation of satellite images from different dates. The changes identified in the different study periods were correlated with the prevailing physical factors. The results show that the spatial configuration of farming activities, initially induced by the implementation of a regional development project, is highly correlated to the presence of limiting factors such as soil type, slope, and climate. Particularly, the former represents the element that has led to the establishment of the current distribution pattern of farming activities.
4314987|Recent investigations by the International Decade for the East African Lakes (IDEAL) have significantly advanced our knowledge on the history of Lake Victoria. Seismic reflection profiles confirm the origin of the lake as a result of regional tilting and provide an estimated age of 400 000 years for the lake basin. Three major desiccation events are recorded in the seismic records that may reflect the 100 000 year Milankovitch cycle of climate forcing. The most recent arid period resulted in complete desiccation of the pre-existing lake. Lake Victoria arose from a dry landscape 14 600 calendar years ago (14.6 ka). Primary production was extremely high as lake level rose in its first 500 years, nourished by the high input of nutrients from the flooded landscape. A few species of cichlids and other fish swam out of their fluvial refugia to colonize the new lake, generating hundreds of new endemic species over the ensuing 14 000 years. Lake level rose until a brief overflow event at about 14.2 ka to 13.6 ka. Closed-basin conditions returned during the Younger Dryas until 11.2 ka, when major outflow and open-basin conditions were permanently established. The lake experienced progressively stronger stratification and water-column stability through the first half of the Holocene, and diatom productivity dropped to a minimum from 9.8 to about 7.5 ka. This period coincides with, but is much longer than, the 8.2 ka climatic event that has been observed in many Holocene records from throughout the world. The degree of water-column mixing appears to have steadily increased over the last 6000 years. Short cores from the open lake, document a shift in lake conditions beginning in the 1930s that progressed to the major ecosystem collapse of the early 1980s. The coincidence of the shift in sediment properties in the 1930s with the beginning of rapid expansion of human population and agricultural activity suggests cause and effect. It is conceivable that the lake experienced similar conditions due to natural causes between about 9800 and 7500 years ago.
41418335|There is widespread concern that anthropogenic global warming will trigger Arctic climate tipping points. The Arctic has a long history of natural, abrupt climate changes, which together with current observations and model projections, can help us to identify which parts of the Arctic climate system might pass future tipping points. Here the climate tipping points are defined, noting that not all of them involve bifurcations leading to irreversible change. Past abrupt climate changes in the Arctic are briefly reviewed. Then, the current behaviour of a range of Arctic systems is summarised. Looking ahead, a range of potential tipping phenomena are described. This leads to a revised and expanded list of potential Arctic climate tipping elements, whose likelihood is assessed, in terms of how much warming will be required to tip them. Finally, the available responses are considered, especially the prospects for avoiding Arctic climate tipping points.
4314200|The influence of the environment on incidence of dieback, stem and leaf blights in three Amaranthus cruentus cultivars-
4315275|The objectives of conservation have been focused ever more intensively for two decades on the preservation of "biodiversity." Emphasis has been on the losses of species through extinction. The cure has been the establishment of parks and reserves to protect "hot spots," especially in the tropics, where the diversity of species is high. The efforts in preservation have often extended to the development of connecting links among reserves to allow movements among them. The approach has been codified in law in the form of the Endangered Species Act in the United States and the Biodiversity Treaty, both of which address the issue species by species and each of which has obvious weaknesses. Such efforts may be appropriate but they are totally inadequate as the sum of activities in conservation in a world of 6 billion people with exploding technologies for exploiting virtually all of the earth for immediate human benefit. The biosphere is decaying rapidly as a habitat for all life, including people, not because of the extinction of species, but because of the progressive impoverishment of natural communities through human-induced chronic disruption that is now global and ubiquitous. The impoverishment leads to progressive environmental dysfunction that is cumulative, but only in its later stages leads to extinction of species. Long before extinction becomes important, genetically distinct, local ecotypes are lost and the natural communities in which they were developed become impoverished and dysfunctional. The most conspicuous disruption is that of climate, a global change in the environment of every ecosystem. The most elaborate and carefully interlinked array of natural reserves will succumb as climate is moved out from under them...and biodiversity will suffer the very extinctions the parks were established to avoid. But long before that, the human environment will suffer conspicuous and progressive impoverishment. The objective of conservation is the preservation of the integrity of function of landscapes (and waterbodies). Emphasis falls on forests in the normally naturally forested parts of the earth because forests are so large in area globally and have such a large influence on virtually every aspect of environment. Functional integrity requires structural integrity over 85% or more of the naturally forested zone in most areas. It also requires objective measurement and definition by the scientific community. Suddenly, conservation has become, not the preservation of biodiversity, honorable as that may be, but the preservation of the functional integrity of the human environment. That purpose is the central purpose that we assign to the governments that we establish in democracies to define and defend the public interest. It is past time for the scientific and conservation communities to recognize the urgency of this transition, join in defining competent new objectives for conservation, and to convey to the public the urgency of the need for governmental responsibility in protecting the public interest in a habitable biosphere.
4314017|The retention of individual polychlorinated biphenyls (CBs) and persistent metabolites of CBs; methylsulfonyl CBs ( MeSO
4312243|The construction of dams and the creation of large impoundments continue to be subjects of controversy because of certain adverse environmental impacts. The paper looks at the ecological changes caused by dams, using the Volta Lake of Ghana as a case study to examine the benefits and the problems. It is urged that a revised approach which will utilize data now available on dam projects to devise precautions for future schemes may contribute to minimizing adverse environmental effects. It appears that as long as certain countries possess no alternative source of energy, where feasible, hydroelectric power will be required and dams will be built.
4312205|Growing concern and awareness of chemical hazard has caused a number of governments to revise their approach to the control of chemical substances and products. The approaches chosen by eight different countries are examined in this article. It also draws attention to the many problems in attempting to anticipate and thereby reduce the effects that a chemical may have both on man and on the environment. International cooperation in this complex and difficult field is of utmost importance in order to avoid trade complications as well as wasteful use of resources.
41417265|Marine governance of oil transportation is complex. Due to difficulties in effectively monitoring procedures on vessels en voyage, incentives to save costs by not following established regulations on issues such as cleaning of tanks, crew size, and safe navigation may be substantial. The issue of problem structure is placed in focus, that is, to what degree the specific characteristics and complexity of intentional versus accidental oil spill risks affect institutional responses. It is shown that whereas the risk of accidental oil spills primarily has been met by technical requirements on the vessels in combination with Port State control, attempts have been made to curb intentional pollution by for example increased surveillance and smart governance mechanisms such as the No-Special-Fee system. It is suggested that environmental safety could be improved by increased use of smart governance mechanisms tightly adapted to key actors' incentives to alter behavior in preferable directions.
4315558|A global three-dimensional Lagrangian chemistry-transport model STOCHEM is used to describe the European regional acid deposition and ozone air quality impacts along the Atlantic Ocean seaboard of Europe, from the SO
25547944|This paper presents a summary of the forest fire reports in the insular Caribbean derived from both management reports and an analysis of publicly available Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrodiometer (MODIS) satellite active fire products from the region. A vast difference between the amount of fires reported by land managers and fire points in the MODIS Fire Information for Resource Management System data can be observed. Future research is recommended to better understand the nature of these differences. While there is a general lack of available statistical data on forest fires in the Caribbean, a few general observations can be made: Forest fires occur mainly in dry forest types (500 to 1000 mm of mean annual rainfall). These are also the areas where most human settlements are located. Lowland high forests and montane forests with higher rainfall (1000 and more mm y) are less susceptible to forest fire, but they can burn in exceptionally dry years. Most of the dry forest ecosystems in the Caribbean can be considered to be fire-sensitive ecosystems, while the pine forests in the Caribbean (Cuba, Dominican Republic, and the Bahamas) are maintained by wildfires. In fire-sensitive ecosystems, uncontrolled burning often encourages the spread of alien invasive species. A Caribbean Fire Management Cooperation Strategy was developed between 2005 and 2006 under auspices of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. This regional strategy aims to strengthen Caribbean fire management networking by encouraging closer collaboration among countries with similar ecological conditions. The strategy for the Caribbean identifies a number of research, training, and management activities to improve wildfire management capacity in the Caribbean.
25547813|There is a need for a better understanding of the status of the environment. At the same time, concerns have been raised regarding alienation of the local populace from environmental decisions. One proposed solution is participatory environmental monitoring. When evaluating the usefulness of environmental monitoring, the focus may be on accuracy, as is usually done by scientists, or on efficiency in terms of conservation impact. To test whether investment in participatory biodiversity monitoring makes economic sense for obtaining data for management decisions, we compared the cost efficiency of participatory and conventional biodiversity monitoring methods in Philippine parks. We found that, from a government perspective, investment in monitoring that combines scientific with participatory methods is strikingly more effective than a similar level of investment in conventional scientific methods alone in generating conservation management interventions. Moreover, the local populace seemed to benefit from more secure de facto user rights over land and other resources. Participatory biodiversity monitoring not only represents a cost-effective alternative when conventional monitoring is impossible, but it is also an unexpectedly powerful complementary approach, capable of generating a much higher level of conservation management intervention, where conventional monitoring already takes place.
4312391|TCDD contamination of the area surrounding the TCDD contamination of the area surrounding the ICMESA chemical factory at Seveso is examined in light of the obvious stumbling blocks to an effective environmental policy: responsibilities for poorly controlled industrial plants, difficulties in designing and conducting a proper epidemiological surveillance, and the influence of political and professional biases on the general outcome. To date, the absence of extensive pathological findings in humans can only be partially reasurring; new waves of chloracne document a persistence of exposure which confirms the need and the importance of a long-term surveillance.
4312750|Bleaks (Alburnus alburnus) were given three different chlorinated paraffins (CPs) in food for a period of three months. Differences uptake were noted. During a subsequent elimination period of about ten months, it was found that the retention of the formulations differed considerably and that one formulation was not eliminated at all. Two of the three tested CP formulations also changed the swimming behavior of the bleaks.
40801531|During the first 35 years of the Green Revolution, Chinese grain production doubled, greatly reducing food shortage, but at a high environmental cost. In 2005, China alone accounted for around 38% of the global N fertilizer consumption, but the average on-farm N recovery efficiency for the intensive wheat-maize system was only 16-18%. Current on-farm N use efficiency (NUE) is much lower than in research trials or on-farm in other parts of the world, which is attributed to the overuse of chemical N fertilizer, ignorance of the contribution of N from the environment and the soil, poor synchrony between crop N demand and N supply, failure to bring crop yield potential into full play, and an inability to effectively inhibit N losses. Based on such analyses, some measures to drastically improve NUE in China are suggested, such as managing various N sources to limit the total applied N, spatially and temporally matching rhizospheric N supply with N demand in high-yielding crops, reducing N losses, and simultaneously achieving high-yield and high NUE. Maximizing crop yields using a minimum of N inputs requires an integrated, interdisciplinary cooperation and major scientific and practical breakthroughs involving plant nutrition, soil science, agronomy, and breeding.
4313165|Brazil has a history of producing ethanol from sugarcane, a primary crop. Recent technological advances have enabled the ethanol program in Brazil to achieve substantial progress. Today, for example, ethanol-powered automobiles represent 90 percent of new car sales in Brazil. An analysis of ethanol production costs shows that the process has been relatively cost-efficient.
23322892|Marine protected areas (MPAs) are critical to the well-being of threatened ecosystems and thus can be highly beneficial to humans, especially to those residing nearby. We explore the qualities of 117 MPAs in the Mediterranean basin and develop a taxonomy of their characteristics. We relate the spatial distribution of the MPAs to the various characteristics of the taxonomy (size, distance from shore, protection levels, management regimes, etc.) and to areas of high human impact and influence levels. To do this we use information on biogeographic regions and information from two different human influence models; one model developed for the marine environment and one covering the littoral terrestrial environment. Our analysis provides insights to planners and managers working in a regional capacity and trying to build MPA networks. Generally, current MPAs have not been established in high impact areas despite their being close to shores containing intense human activity. Decision-makers wishing to design and establish new MPAs may seek out areas of high cumulative human impacts (near the marineterrestrial interface) or avoid them depending on marine conservation objectives, including the desire to vary types of MPAs within a network. Limitations of our analysis and methodology indicate areas for further research.
4313729|The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is a piece of global legislation around which environmentalists from many nations have organized an international campaign to protect the ozone layer. In order to strengthen the protocol, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are mobilizing citizens, using scientific arguments, and lobbying governments. As coordination among NGOs grows more sophisticated, this citizens lobby can be expected to influence the negotiation of agreements to combat other global environmental problems, such as global warming.
4315366|We identify littoral microcrustacean indicators of acidification in 2 surveys of Canadian Shield lakes conducted 10 years apart. We found a total of 90 cladoceran and copepod species with richness increasing severalfold from acidic to nonacidic lakes. The fauna of the nonacidic lakes differed between the surveys. The 1987 survey employed activity traps, and caught more littoral taxa than the more recent, net-haul-based survey. Similar faunas were identified in the acidified lakes in both surveys, and several good indicator species were identified. For example, Acanthocycops vernalis was restricted to lakes with pH < 6. Sinobosmina sp. was very common but only in lakes with pH > 4.8. Tropocyclops extensus, Mesocyclops edax, and Sida crystallina were commonly found but only at pH > 5, and Chydorus faviformis only at pH > 5.9. These indicators showed promise in gauging the early stages of recovery from acidification in 3 lakes that were included in both surveys.
25547900|Dengue is a serious public health problem in Metro Manila, Philippines. Increasing dengue incidence has been attributed to climate change; however, contradicting reports show inconclusive relationships between dengue and climatic factors. This study investigates temperature and rainfall as climatic factors affecting dengue incidence in Metro Manila from 1996 to 2005. Monthly dengue incidence and climatic data for Metro Manila were collected over a 10-y period (1996-2005). Climatic factors temperature and rainfall were linked with dengue incidence through regression analysis. A predictive model equation plots dengue incidence (Y) versus rainfall (X), which suggests that rainfall is significantly correlated to dengue incidence (r = 0.377, p < 0.05). No significant correlation between dengue incidence and temperature was established (p > 0.05). Evidence shows dengue incidence in Metro Manila varies with changing rainfall patterns. Intensified surveillance and control of mosquitoes during periods with high rainfall are recommended.
41418323|Analysis of in situ and satellite data shows evidence of different regional snow cover responses to the widespread warming and increasing winter precipitation that has characterized the Arctic climate for the past 4050 years. The largest and most rapid decreases in snow water equivalent (SWE) and snow cover duration (SCD) are observed over maritime regions of the Arctic with the highest precipitation amounts. There is also evidence of marked differences in the response of snow cover between the North American and Eurasian sectors of the Arctic, with the North American sector exhibiting decreases in snow cover and snow depth over the entire period of available in situ observations from around 1950, while widespread decreases in snow cover are not apparent over Eurasia until after around 1980. However, snow depths are increasing in many regions of Eurasia. Warming and more frequent winter thaws are contributing to changes in snow pack structure with important implications for land use and provision of ecosystem services. Projected changes in snow cover from Global Climate Models for the 2050 period indicate increases in maximum SWE of up to 15% over much of the Arctic, with the largest increases (1530%) over the Siberian sector. In contrast, SCD is projected to decrease by about 1020% over much of the Arctic, with the smallest decreases over Siberia (<10%) and the largest decreases over Alaska and northern Scandinavia (3040%) by 2050. These projected changes will have far-reaching consequences for the climate system, human activities, hydrology, and ecology.
23322909|Cities are rapidly increasing in importance as a major factor shaping the Earth system, and therefore, must take corresponding responsibility. With currently over half the world's population, cities are supported by resources originating from primarily rural regions often located around the world far distant from the urban loci of use. The sustainability of a city can no longer be considered in isolation from the sustainability of human and natural resources it uses from proximal or distant regions, or the combined resource use and impacts of cities globally. The world's multiple and complex environmental and social challenges require interconnected solutions and coordinated governance approaches to planetary stewardship. We suggest that a key component of planetary stewardship is a global system of cities that develop sustainable processes and policies in concert with its non-urban areas. The potential for cities to cooperate as a system and with rural connectivity could increase their capacity to effect change and foster stewardship at the planetary scale and also increase their resource security.
4315363|It has been widely speculated that controls of SO
4314195| Global sea-surface temperature maps show that mass coral-reef bleaching episodes between 1983 and 1991 followed positive anomalies more than 1C above long-term monthly averages ("hot spots") during the preceding warm season. Irregular formation, movement, and disappearance of hot spots make their detailed long-term prediction impossible, but they can be tracked in real time from satellite data. Monitoring of ocean hot spots and of coral bleaching is needed if the Framework Convention of Climate Change is to meet its goal of protecting the most temperature-sensitive ecosystems. 
4315038|Temporal trend studies of PCBs and DDTs in two annually laminated sediment cores from the offshore NW Baltic proper and the Stockholm archipelago demonstrate that studies of laminated sediments are useful tools for detecting time trends of HOCs. The concentration trends of PCBs and DDTs, on a dry weight basis, from the two cores show quite large similarities to trends reported in pelagic biota from the NW Baltic proper, although the reduction in concentrations from the 1970s and onwards is approximately half of the reductions seen in biota. The sediment accumulation trend for these substances was not coupled to the concentration trend in biota but is closely linked to climate-related erosion/resuspension dynamics. The gross accumulation rate in the archipelago area proved to be 8 times higher compared to that of the offshore NW Baltic proper (885 and 108 g m-2 water area yr-1, respectively). Since PCB and DDT concentrations were similar in offshore and coastal areas, and the burial rates of PCB and DDT were closely linked to gross accumulation rates, the sediment burial of contaminants in relation to water area was severalfold higher in the archipelago compared to the offshore area. The high burial of sPCB and sDDT in the archipelago indicated an import of contaminants from the open sea to the archipelago. Although eutrophication-induced scavenging of contaminants may have occurred in the Baltic Sea, natural processes have obscured evidence of this.
4314711|Our globe consists of a mosaic of crustal plates, which move in different directions. The direct connection from the mantel through fissures of the crust reveal interesting ecological processes. In two places, the rifting apart of crustal plates is of particular interest for limnology: In Iceland on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, and within the Rift Valley systems of East Africa. In Africa, the geological process has been in progress above sea level for millions of years, but in Iceland for only thousands. Recent studies have linked nature to history. This paper discusses resource polymorphism in Arctic charr in Thingvallavatn, in relation to the role of habitat formation. Thingvallavatn is the only known lake in the world with four Arctic charr morphs utilizing the different food resources of the lake. Among the morphs, a clear differentiation in life history characters, morphology, habitat, and food ecology, has occurred within 10 000 years. The morphs also demonstrate a partial genetic differentiation, suggesting a separation into three reproductively semi-isolated gene pools. Conservation and management of this unique lake ecosystem and its catchment area are in progress.
4315813|Eutrophication of the Baltic Sea has potentially increased the frequency and magnitude of cyanobacteria blooms. Eutrophication leads to increased sedimentation of organic material, increasing the extent of anoxic bottoms and subsequently increasing the internal phosphorus loading. In addition, the hypoxic water volume displays a negative relationship with the total dissolved inorganic nitrogen pool, suggesting greater overall nitrogen removal with increased hypoxia. Enhanced internal loading of phosphorus and the removal of dissolved inorganic nitrogen leads to lower nitrogen to phosphorus ratios, which are one of the main factors promoting nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria blooms. Because cyanobacteria blooms in the open waters of the Baltic Sea seem to be strongly regulated by internal processes, the effects of external nutrient reductions are scale-dependent. During longer time scales, reductions in external phosphorus load may reduce cyanobacteria blooms; however, on shorter time scales the internal phosphorus loading can counteract external phosphorus reductions. The coupled processes inducing internal loading, nitrogen removal, and the prevalence of nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria can qualitatively be described as a potentially self-sustaining "vicious circle." To effectively reduce cyanobacteria blooms and overall signs of eutrophication, reductions in both nitrogen and phosphorus external loads appear essential.
4314419|Among the issues that deserve attention in the setting of global environmental policy in the near future are three that require both nongovernment and government examination. They are: i) finding adequate means to define new problems; ii) carrying out incisive and comprehensive audits of the effectiveness of programs completed or under way; and iii) developing means of reconciling the diverse communities and values involved in designing and evaluating new programs of study and action.
23253249|This article reports a dataset on 8 years of monitoring carbon fluxes in a subarctic palsa mire based on micrometeorological eddy covariance measurements. The mire is a complex with wet minerotrophic areas and elevated dry palsa as well as intermediate sub-ecosystems. The measurements document primarily the emission originating from the wet parts of the mire dominated by a rather homogenous cover of Eriophorum angustifolium. The CO 2 /CH 4 flux measurements performed during the years 20012008 showed that the areas represented in the measurements were a relatively stable sink of carbon with an average annual rate of uptake amounting to on average -46 g C m 2 y 1 including an equally stable loss through CH 4 emissions (1822 g CH 4 C m 2 y 1 ). This consistent carbon sink combined with substantial CH 4 emissions is most likely what is to be expected as the permafrost under palsa mires degrades in response to climate warming.
4315287|This paper makes three points relevant to the application of the precautionary principle to the regulation of GMOs. i) The unavoidable arbitrariness in the application of the precautionary principle reflects a deeper epistemological problem affecting scientific analyses of sustainability. This requires understanding the difference between the concepts of "risk", "uncertainty" and "ignorance". ii) When dealing with evolutionary processes it is impossible to ban uncertainty and ignorance from scientific models. Hence, traditional risk analysis (probability distributions and exact numerical models) becomes powerless. Other forms of scientific knowledge (general principles or metaphors) may be useful alternatives. iii) The existence of ecological hazards per se should not be used as a reason to stop innovations altogether. However, the precautionary principle entails that scientists move away from the concept of "substantive rationality" (trying to indicate to society optimal solutions) to that of "procedural rationality" (trying to help society to find "satisficing" solutions).
4314158| Information on the history of the Earth system is an important element in assessing global change. Analysis of air trapped in natural ice has provided data on the pre-industrial concentrations of greenhouse gases like CO
4312974|As the big commercial whale species are getting a respite, thanks to the moratorium on whaling which goes into effect by 1986, their smaller "cousins" have been largely overlooked. Porpoises, dolphins and smaller whales are facing mounting threats to their survival through increased fishing, shrinking habitats and toxic pollutants. But perhaps their most deadly enemy is scientific ignorance-we simply know too little about most of them to institute rational and effective conservation measures.
4312069|Climatic consequences of a doubled population in the year 2015 can be foreseen more firmly on a local than global level. Heat islands encompassing population and industrial centers will expand and become more numerous and marked. Existing weather anomalies within and downwind of cities such as reduced ventilation rates and more showery conditions will become more widespread unless mankind's present practices of migration to cities and growing industrialization cease. While climatic changes could be significant on a global scale as well, predictions on this scale are currently unreliable. Growing fossil fuel consumption increases atmospheric carbon dioxide and its "greenhouse" warming. More particles in the air can lead to a variety of potential changes in climate. The uncertainty in global consequences of pollution suggests that mankind would be wise to minimize the impact on the atmosphere until more is known of its effects.
4315328|In rural Africa, wild foods provide diversity, vitamins and minerals in the diet. They are also important at times of food shortage. This paper discusses issues concerning wild food use in semiarid West Africa, and presents the results of a study of the use of wild plant foods in northeast Nigeria. Interviews with farmers and herders identified a total of 67 wild foods, coming from 53 species of plant. Knowledge of wild foods varied according to ethnic group and gender. Some wild foods caused side effects if eaten in excess. Land-use change due to agricultural expansion seems to be increasing the areas where wild foods are most commonly found. Wild foods are important as a supplement to daily diet, and at times of food scarcity. In addition, they provide an opportunity to generate income when they are collected and traded. The paper concludes that wild foods are an important coping strategy for rural communities. Further research is needed to determine whether local institutions and community-based natural resource management regimes are sufficient to conserve this resource.
4313019|Only in the past few decades has the attention of the world community been drawn to the social, economic, political, and scientific questions raised by the phenomenon of aging on a massive scale. While aging trends were already marked in more developed regions, the less developed were exceedingly youthful. This current youthfulness-a product of high fertility and reduced mortality-has strongly focused the attention of policy-makers on such issues as birth control and the provision of health care, education, and other services to growing numbers of the young. Relatively little attention has been given to the long-term consequences of successful birth control programs and improved life expectancy at birth namely, the growing number and proportion of persons surviving to reach old age. Policy-makers must start anticipating aging on a massive scale as today's youth pass through the life cycle to old age. Such forward planning is particularly crucial in developing countries which will have to adjust to the transition from a youthful to an aging population much more rapidly than did more developed countries in the past.
40801588|Nuclear energy can play a role in carbon free production of electrical energy, thus making it interesting for tomorrow's energy mix. However, several issues have to be addressed. In fission technology, the design of socalled fourth generation reactors show great promise, in particular in addressing materials efficiency and safety issues. If successfully developed, such reactors may have an important and sustainable part in future energy production. Working fusion reactors may be even more materials efficient and environmental friendly, but also need more development and research. The roadmap for development of fourth generation fission and fusion reactors, therefore, asks for attention and research in these fields must be strengthened.
4315739|The plant family Orobanchaceae includes many parasitic weeds that are also impressive invaders and aggressive crop pests with several specialized features (e.g. microscopic seeds, parasitic habits). Although they have provoked several large-scale eradication and control efforts, no global evaluation of their invasive potential is as yet available. We use tools from ecological niche modeling in combination with occurrence records from herbarium specimens to evaluate the global invasive potential of each of 10 species in this assemblage, representing several of the worst global invaders. The invasive potential of these species is considerable, with all tropical and subtropical countries, and most temperate countries, vulnerable to invasions by one or more of them.
4315649| The HBV-NP model is a newly developed water quality model that describes the turnover and fluxes of both nitrogen and phosphorous. It is based on the conceptual precipitation/runoff HBV model. The HBV-NP model was applied for simulation of nitrogen for the Rnne catchment in southern Sweden. The catchment was divided into 64 subcatchments in the model. Discharge measurements from six stations and nitrogen measurements from 12 stations were used in the calibration of parameters in the model. Eight automatic calibrations were performed with different combinations of time periods, objective functions, and levels of the nitrogen load in the model. A regionally extended interpretation of the Nash-Sutcliffe R
24708972|This paper describes solute transport modeling carried out as a part of an assessment of the long-term radiological safety of a planned deep rock repository for spent nuclear fuel in Forsmark, Sweden. Specifically, it presents transport modeling performed to locate and describe discharge areas for groundwater potentially carrying radionuclides from the repository to the surface where man and the environment could be affected by the contamination. The modeling results show that topography to large extent determines the discharge locations. Present and future lake and wetland objects are central for the radionuclide transport and dose calculations in the safety assessment. Results of detailed transport modeling focusing on the regolith and the upper part of the rock indicate that the identification of discharge areas and objects considered in the safety assessment is robust in the sense that it does not change when a more detailed model representation is used.
4315419| Concentrations of 34 trace elements in hair have been determined in 47 females from an acid region in southern Sweden, who were compared with 43 females from an alkaline area. The concentrations of these elements in hair and drinking water were determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. The hair concentrations of boron and barium were significantly higher (p < 0.001) in hair samples from the acid region, the hair levels of calcium, strontium, molybdenum, iron, and selenium were significantly higher (p < 0.001) in the alkaline region. For some metals, e.g. calcium, lead, molybdenum, and strontium, there were positive correlations between the concentrations in hair and water (rs = 0.34-0.57; p  0.34-0.57; p  0.001), indicating the importance of intake from minerals in water. The increased ratio of selenium/mercury concentrations in hair samples obtained in the alkaline district (p < 0.001) indicates that these subjects may have better protection against the toxic effects of mercury. 
25094547|Based on the intensive hydrochemical measurements of the Gulf of Bothnia Year 1991, we present descriptions of the regional variations of freshwater and nutrient inputs and hydrographic and nutrient conditions in these basins for this particular year. These data are then used to construct nutrient budgets for the Bothnian Sea and Bay, for silicate, inorganic and organic nitrogen and phosphorus. The seasonal variations of internal sources and sinks and advective transports between the basins and with the Baltic proper, show the relative importance and magnitude of biogeochemical and physical processes for the development of nutrient concentrations in these basins. Annual budget estimates show that the Bothnian Sea appears to function as a very efficient sink for nitrogen and phosphorus. There is a very small exchange of nitrogen with the Baltic proper, in contrast to the large amounts of phosphorus imported and silica exported. Overall N:P ratios show the high rates typical of the Bothnian Bay, which are drastically reduced in the Bothnian Sea, particularly for inorganic nutrients. In spite of the highly variable N:P ratios of the different pools, the calculated net transfers of inorganic nutrients into organic matter follow classical Redfield ratios in both basins.
25547932|Initial studies on the pressure from environmental contaminants on raptor populations in Spain date back to the 1980s, and they have been carried out from a range of viewpoints using a range of sentinel raptor species. However, there is no national monitoring scheme, and therefore the research carried out has been sporadic both spatially and temporally. The exposure to metals has not varied over time, except in the case of lead, whose concentration in eggs and tissues has diminished. In general, the concentrations of metals detected in raptor samples from Spain are generally low and not sufficient to produce toxic effects. Excepting DDT and DDE, most organochlorine-based pesticides in raptors from Spain have diminished over the last 2 decades. The concentrations of DDE found in the eggs of various species could in part explain problems in the reproductive success of raptors in Spain.
25094582|The personal safety and well-being of one fifth, and water supply for almost half of all people depend directly or indirectly on the functional integrity of mountain ecosystems, the key component of which is a robust vegetation cover. The green 'coat' of the world's mountains is composed of specialized plants, animals and microbes, all nested in a great variety of microhabitats. Because a single mountain may host a series of climatically different life zones over short elevational distances, mountains are hot spots of biodiversity and priority regions for conservation. With their diverse root systems, plants anchor soils on slopes and prevent erosion. Both landuse and atmospheric changes such as elevated
4313932|This paper seeks to show how the conservation of natural habitats and protected areas contributes to sustainable development, with special emphasis on economic arguments. The role of environmental economics and valuation of natural resources, as analytical tools that facilitate the avoidance of adverse environmental impacts, is discussed. An integrated environmental economic framework is outlined, and some practical case studies of environmental impact valuation in developing countries are summarized. The paper goes on to discuss the links between economy-wide policies (both macroeconomic and sectoral) and natural-resource degradation, and explains the important role of environmental accounting. Issues that arise in the practical implementation of efforts to conserve biodiversity in developing countries are delineated, and the status of international dialogue on agreements to protect the environment is summarized. The role of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) is described, and key issues in recent GEF projects are highlighted. In-country issues arising from the implementation of policy for the protection of biodiversity are reviewed. Recent integrated conservation development projects (ICDPs) are examined, which have attempted to link protected area management with social and economic development in local communities. The final section contains the principal conclusions.
4314478|A greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory was compiled for Mongolia according to the methods in the IPCC/OECD Guidelines for CO
4313854|Multiple-use forests should be managed to provide a mix of social values for current and future generations. Taking a Western-world orientation and a historical approach, this article examines how forest values originate in society and are communicated to forest managers. For most of the last 200 years, the benefits of public and private forests in the Western world were predominately utilitarian and their immediate social value expressed primarily in market prices. As these countries industrialized and urbanized, romantic and symbolic forest values increased. Today the social values of forest recreation, landscape amenity, biological diversity, cultural heritage and environmental protection are of increased importance. These forest social values are not well communicated by the economic system. They rely on social and political systems to express their values. Utilitarian social values are often in conflict with romantic and symbolic forest values today; thus foresters increasingly are placed in the role of conflict managers. In what they do and do not do, foresters can reduce or increase social conflict
4313864|Savannas are highly dynamic, and reactions to particular events, such as fire or temporary drought, are transmitted through the ecosystem by interactions between different components. Indigenous herbivores respond to spatial and temporal variations in the vegetation by selectivity of forage on scales from landscape to a single bite, and by demographic changes. Herbivory itself induces changes in plants and vegetation, which in turn may promote or deter further foraging. Domestic herbivores are less mobile than many wild species, impeding large-scale selectivity, and are kept at less variable and usually higher densities, which prevents small-scale selectivity. Livestock numbers decrease following fodder shortage, only after a considerable timelag. Herbivores may interact with competitive patterns between woody and herbaceous vegetation as well as with fire regimes, and may thus be involved in large-scale physiognomic dynamics of savannas.
4313665|The feasibility of applying particle-induced X-ray emission spectroscopy (PIXE), using a scanning proton microprobe (SPM), to trace-element analysis in wood and bark samples is demonstrated. Detection limits of the order of 1-10 ppm are reached for several elements. Elemental X-ray images of the analyzed sections show the patterns of several elements; e.g. Cl, K, Ca, Mn, Fe, Cu and Zn. Some of these patterns can be related to the annual tree-ring structure. It is observed that the variation in elements that have environmental influence can be rather large within a single tree-ring, thus illustrating the possible difficulties of using tree-ring sections as a pollution monitor. The variations in elemental concentrations when crossing from bark to wood are also shown to be smooth for some elements but rather abrupt for others.
4312344|Alternative energy sources, like wind, solar, and geothermal energy, are being considered in the Soviet Union mainly for solving local energy supply problems, particularly in the sparsely populated regions of Central Asia, Siberia, the Far North, and the Far East. Whereas providing conventional forms of energy for space heating and cooling, and for the generation of electricity in these fringe areas is often expensive and complicated, favorable conditions exist for the exploitation of alternative sources of energy. Equipment based on wind and solar energy is being developed chiefly for use in agriculture and livestock breeding. Geothermal energy will be utilized for heating buildings and hot-houses, and tidal energy is being developed for large-scale electricity production.
40928399|Southern Chile encompasses one of the most extensive fjord regions of the world, the Patagonia, currently exposed to natural and anthropogenic perturbations. These fjord ecosystems provide important services to humans, which have not been adequately measured and valued. As a consequence, ecosystem services are commonly ignored in public policy design and in the evaluation of development projects. Here we tackle questions that are highly relevant for the nation's development, namely (1) understanding fjord functioning, and (2) developing management strategies based on ecosystem services, in order to secure simultaneous and adequate use of these ecosystems which area influenced by ecological (e.g., biogeochemical) and productive (e.g., aquaculture, fisheries) processes. We also seek to strengthen the analysis of fjord ecosystem value from the economical (including coastal zoning), socio-cultural, institutional, and governmental points of view. In addition, the investigation of current and future effects of climate change on this large region offers a unique opportunity to understand the social and economic consequences of a global phenomenon at local to regional scales. Biogeochemical and socio-economic models will be used to simulate future scenarios under a gamut of management options.
4315457|Densely occupied drainage basins and coastal zones in developing countries that are facing economic growth are likely to suffer from moderate to severe environmental impacts regarding different issues. The catchment basins draining towards the Atlantic coast from northeastern to southern Brazil include a wide range of climatic zones and diverse ecosystems. Within its borders lies the Atlantic rain forest, significant extensions of semiarid thorn forests (caatinga), vast tree and scrub woodlands (cerrado) and most of the 6670 km of the Brazilian coast and its marine ecosystems. In recent decades, human activities have increasingly advanced over these natural resources. Littoralization has imposed a burden on coastal habitats and communities. Most of the native vegetation of the cerrado and caatinga was removed and only 7% of the original Atlantic rainforest still exists. Estuaries, bays and coastal lagoons have been irreversibly damaged. Land uses, damming and water diversion have become the major driving forces for habitat loss and aquatic ecosystem modification. Regardless of the contrast between the drought-affected northeastern Brazil and the much more prosperous and industrialized southeastern/southern Brazil, the impacts on habitat and communities were found equally severe in both cases. Attempts to halt environmental degradation have not been effective. Instead of focusing on natural resources separately, it is suggested that more integrated environmental policies that focus on aquatic ecosystems integrity are introduced.
25547798|Site investigations of contaminated land are associated with high costs. From a societal perspective, just enough economic resources should be spent on investigations so that society's limited resources can be used optimally. The solution is to design investigation programs that are cost effective, which can be performed using value of information analysis (VOIA). The principle of VOIA is to compare the benefit at the present state of knowledge with the benefit that is expected after an investigation has been performed. A framework for VOIA of site investigations is presented based on Bayesian risk-cost-benefit decision analysis. The result is an estimate of the value of an investigation program and, for specific problems, the optimal number of samples. The main strength of the methodology is that it promotes clear thinking and compels the decision maker to reflect on issues that otherwise would be ignored. The main weakness is the complexity of VOIA models.
4314142|From 1990 to 1992, an epizootic produced a massive die-off of striped dolphins in the Mediterranean Sea. The event started in mid-Spain but extended, through three apparently interconnected outbreaks, to finally cover the whole western Mediterranean and the Tyrrhenian and Aegean Seas. Although more than 1000 carcasses of striped dolphins were collected during the event, the total toll remains unknown because of fragmentary coverage of rescue networks and because many carcasses never reached the shore. The primary cause of the episode was identified as an infection by a morbillivirus, the origin of which could not be ascertained. The dolphins affected were found to carry concentrations of pollutants higher than normal for the general population. This difference could not be explained by variation in nutritive condition or by sex or age composition. The dolphins that died at the beginning of the outbreak were in abnormally poor nutritional condition, and had increased prevalence of ectoparasites and epizoits. This suggested that these dolphins had recently undergone a period of restricted mobility, during which the ectoparasites had found attachment easier than under normal conditions. Abnormal weather conditions, leading to depressed marine productivity, may have been the cause of some of these anomalies.
4313559|Forest soils in southern Sweden have become more acid during the last decades, partly due to deposition of acidifying substances. The top soil pH has decreased by up to 1.5 units over a period of 35 years (average decrease 0.8 units). The decreases occurred not only in the root zone but throughout the whole soil profile, and were particularly marked in the originally less acid soils. The pH decrease has been accompanied by considerable losses of exchangeable Na, K, Mg and Ca, as well as of Zn and Mn ions. The species diversity of the vascular plants in the field layer increased over a 15-35-year period in spite of the acidification of the forest soils. Among species that increased were the nitrophiles, e.g. Rubus idaeus, Aegopodium podagraria and Chamaenerion angustifolium, probably an effect of the increased N-deposition. A few species decreased on a majority of sites, Polygonatum multiflorum, Pulmonaria officinalis, Dentaria bulbifera, while Mercurialis perennis, Lamium galeobdolon, Galium odoratum and Oxalis acetosella decreased at the lower pH levels. The greater abundance of several species is probably caused by the increased nitrogen deposition. The most common species appeared to respond very clearly to the acid properties of the humus layer. Acidification gradients, caused by large stemflow volumes from beech trees, showed that the species cover was closely related to the variation in soil pH. The cover curves of species growing in the narrow stemflow gradients were congruent with those of beech stands with different acidity, spread over a geographical area.
4315189| Riverine phosphorus (P) concentration and P-transport to Lake Mlaren, the third largest lake in Sweden, has been monitored for 35 years in 12 major tributaries. During a period of 15 months, complementary assessments of particulate P, suspended matter and dissolved reactive P were made. Particulate P comprised 64%, dissolved unreactive P 23% and dissolved reactive P 13% as flow-weighted means, with high seasonal variability. "Background" or "reference" P-transports in the streams were estimated by different methods and the anthropogenic contribution to P-transport was shown to be reduced over time. Potential algal availability of particulate P showed a mean availability of c. 45% for water draining arable and forested land, while the availability was higher for sewage discharge particulate P and algal P. Calculated total bioavailable P in tributaries was shown to equal reactive P measured on coarsely filtered water and it was indicated that the proportion of bioavailable P was higher during the period with high anthropogenic P-contribution than with a lower contribution. 
4312962|Marine fishery resources of the Southwest Indian Ocean are generally limited by low primary productivity and narrow coastal shelf areas. Traditional fisheries account for 90% of landings but suffer from lack of fishing gear and distribution channels. Industrial fisheries for crustaceans and for tuna are largely controlled from foreign countries and are overcapitalized. Marine environments are little spoiled except in densely populated areas and near rivers carrying pollutants and sediments.
4314557|Several village-based preserves have been established in Western Samoa that are owned, controlled and managed by the villagers. Although these preserves appear to be a robust approach to rainforest conservation, their establishment resulted in significant conflicts between the villagers and the Western NGOs that assisted in raising funds for the preserves. The principles of indigenous control were unexpectedly difficult to accept by western conservation organizations who, ultimately, were unwilling to cede decision-making authority to indigenous peoples. Conversely, ecocolonialism, the imposition of western conservation paradigms and power structures on indigenous peoples, proved to be incompatible with indigenous concepts of conservation and human dignity. Even well-intentioned conservation efforts by NGOs may fail if there is an unwitting disparagement of the traditional knowledge, culture, political systems, and integrity of indigenous peoples. Similar conflicts may occur in other areas with traditional land-tenure systems and strategies are needed to avoid such problems in the future.
4314744|The Cairngorm Mountains are outstanding for nature conservation and recognized to be of national and international importance for geomorphology, woodlands and montane (alpine) environments. The climate is unique in the mix of oceanic and continental influences, and this is reflected in the arctic-like character of the high montane zone, notably in its arctic-alpine plant communities, species, geomorphological processes and soils. There is a range of near-natural and semi-natural habitats from valley mire and pine wood, through a transition of dwarf-shrub heaths and alpine grasslands to stony fell-field. These habitats occur within an assemblage of geomorphological features which are of exceptional value for research on the changes which have shaped the mountains of Britain. A range of human activities has produced locally significant impacts on the montane zone, as well as an overall reduction in environmental quality. Various statutory and voluntary measures are in place under a range of conservation designations to mitigate these impacts and to provide for environmental protection and enhancement. Impacts from global sources, notably atmospheric pollution and climate change may, potentially have greater and more widespread effects on the montane zone, but lie outside local management controls. Research is in place or planned to monitor future changes.
4312020|Meiofauna (0.1-1 mm), macrofauna (>1 mm) and zooplankton (>0.16 mm) in four Swedish estuaries were sampled with piston corer, Smith-McIntyre grab and Nansen net, respectively. The faunal communities were evaluated by some indices. The diversity of the meiofauna reflected differences in pollution rather than differences in salinity. A combined effect of pollution and reduced salinity gave a lower macrofaunal diversity outside river mouths. The meio- and macrofaunal composition was often more similar between the various estuaries than within individual estuaries, reflecting the steep gradient caused by river outflow with effluents. The zooplankton fauna was almost uniform in all the estuaries.
4312093|Air containing vinyl chloride was passed through liver cell preparations from rat containing microsomes, cytosol and all necessary cofactors for the mixed function oxygenase detoxication system and fortified with 3,4-dichlorobenzenethiol in order to trap reactive metabolites of the gas. In parallel experiments, an air - vinyl chloride mixture was passed through a cofactor fortified liver microsome preparation freed from cytosol, into a methanol solution of the same thiol. In experiments of both types 3,4-dichlorophenylthioacetaldehyde, accompanied by other products, was identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry through comparison with an authentic sample. These results are consistent with the formation of either or both chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde as volatile reactive metabolites of vinyl chloride, although the latter is considered less likely.
4312957|This article examines the major causes of disease in the East African Region. The author links most of the serious diseases directly to lack of potable water and proper sanitation. These two factors are cited as the principal causes of disease in the Region. More specific information is given, breaking down the disease patterns in each country and offering suggestions for remedial action.
4313502|Acute toxicity data developed over 20 years at one laboratory (Columbia National Fisheries Research Laboratory, US Fish and Wildlife Service, Columbia, Missouri) were analyzed by various statistical approaches for taxonomic comparisons and to assess the degree to which various factors (formulation, pH, hardness, temperature, diet, source of fish, and life stage and size) affected toxicity. The data base consisted of 4901 tests with 410 chemicals (75 percent pesticides) and 66 species of freshwater animals. Frequency distributions of chemical toxicity were generally bimodal with insecticides occurring mainly in the $\leq 1000\ \mu {\rm g}\cdot {\rm L}^{-1}$, and herbicides, fungicides, industrials, and other chemicals in the $\geq 1000\ \mu {\rm g}\cdot {\rm L}^{-1}$ mode. Formulations of pesticides increased toxicity of technical material 32 percent of the time, and decreased toxicity 11 percent of the time. Although pH affected toxicity of only 20 percent of the chemicals tested, it caused the greatest average change in toxicity of any factor examined. Hardness had little if any effect on the toxicity of organic chemicals, and any effects observed were probably due to pH differences. Toxicity generally increased with temperature increases, but decreased with a few chemicals (DDT, dimethrin, and methoxychlor). The effect of temperature on toxicity conformed to the Q10 concept. Temperature increased the toxicity of most chemicals by a factor of 3 per 10C rise in temperature while that for organophosphate insecticides was higher (5). Regression slopes were consistent among species within a chemical for both pH and temperature, indicating chemical rather than biological differences in toxicity. Overall, insects were the most sensitive group, followed by crustaceans, fishes, and amphibians. Diet, fish source, life stage, and size, altered toxicity 5 or less most of the time.
4315225|Nitrogen was the most commonly yield-limiting nutrient in all pre-industrial agricultures. Only the Haber-Bosch synthesis of ammonia broke this barrier. The rising dependence on nitrogenous fertilizers, which represents the largest human interference in the biospheric N cycle, has two different roles. In affluent nations it helps to produce excess of food in general, and of animal foods in particular, and it boosts agricultural exports. But for at least a third of humanity in the world's most populous countries the use of N fertilizers makes the difference between malnutrition and adequate diet. Our understanding of human N (protein) needs has undergone many revisions and although some uncertainties still remain it is clear that average protein intakes are excessive in rich countries and inadequate for hundreds of millions of people in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. More dietary protein will be needed to eliminate these disparities but the future global use of N fertilizers can be moderated not just by better agronomic practices but also by higher feeding efficiencies and by gradual changes of prevailing diets. As a result, it could be possible to supply adequate nutrition to the world's growing population without any massive increases of N inputs.
40390416|Ozone concentrations are generally considerably lower over northern Europe as compared with continental and southern Europe. However, ozone becomes toxic for vegetation mainly after it has been taken up into the leaf interior through the stomata. The rates of ozone uptake into the leaves are, somewhat simplified, the product of the air ozone concentrations and the degree of stomatal opening. The phytotoxic impacts of ozone can be almost as important in northern Europe as they are in continental and southern Europe. The long daylight hours as well as the rather humid environment conditions, both in the air and soil, promote stomatal openings in northern Europe. This article summarizes scientific evidence that supports the conclusion that ozone abatement policies regarding vegetation in Europe, as well as in the rest of the world, should be based on estimates of the leaf ozone uptake and not only on the ozone concentration in the air.
4313475|A Geographic Information System (GIS) was constructed for the island of Saint Lucia to study the relationship between land use, land capability, and human settlements. An overlay of land use with land capability shows the extent to which rural development is sustainable over the long term. For Saint Lucia, only 13 percent of the land devoted to farming occurs on good quality land where long-term farming can be sustainable. The shortage of good quality land forces farmers to develop plots with poor soil quality on steep slopes. This practice increases the risks of erosion, threatening the good agricultural land located downstream. Unfortunately, the data reveal that all of the land currently being farmed is sufficient to support only 40 percent of the rural population. Until Saint Lucia's urban-based economy grows significantly, overexploitation of poor quality hill-side land can be expected to continue. The GIS has provided detailed information on specific locations and quantification of critical trouble spots. It may also help local planners assign priority to future land-conservation efforts.
4314024| The persistent DDT metabolite 3-methylsulfonyl-DDE ( MeSO
41418340|Climate change incurs costs, but government adaptation budgets are limited. Beyond a certain point, individuals must bear the costs or adapt to new circumstances, creating political-economic tipping points that we explore in three examples. First, many Alaska Native villages are threatened by erosion, but relocation is expensive. To date, critically threatened villages have not yet been relocated, suggesting that we may already have reached a political-economic tipping point. Second, forest fires shape landscape and ecological characteristics in interior Alaska. Climate-driven changes in fire regime require increased fire-fighting resources to maintain current patterns of vegetation and land use, but these resources appear to be less and less available, indicating an approaching tipping point. Third, rapid sea level rise, for example from accelerated melting of the Greenland ice sheet, will create a choice between protection and abandonment for coastal regions throughout the world, a potential global tipping point comparable to those now faced by Arctic communities. The examples illustrate the basic idea that if costs of response increase more quickly than available resources, then society has fewer and fewer options as time passes.
4312220|Long-term deposition of acid precipitation (pH 4.0-4.4) on poorly buffered areas in southern Scandinavia and northeastern North America is apparently responsible for the acidification (to below pH 5) of soft-water lakes in these areas. Chemical weathering and ion-exchange processes in terrestrial watersheds appear inadequate to neutralize all of the incoming acid. Stream and lake waters thus are acidified and lose their bicarbonate buffer. Relatively few lakes have pH levels in the poorly buffered pH 5.5-6.0 region. Sulfate supplied by acid precipitation becomes the major anion. Concentrations of Al, Mn and several heavy metals are higher in acid lakes than in unaffected soft-water lakes, apparently due to enhanced mobilization of these elements in acidified areas.
4313913|In any management strategy designed to protect the marine environment and human health from the effects of waste disposal, the prediction of the transport and fate of contaminants is essential. Most work so far has treated wastes as passive, dissolved contaminants but this can be far from reality. This paper presents a conceptual model to describe the transport and fate of a range of contaminants in coastal marine systems. Also presented is a description of the components of the conceptual model and a discussion of how effects models influence the choice of a dispersion-transport model appropriate to particular applications.
4315365|Despite reductions in atmospheric SO
4312202|In order to settle transfrontier pollution problems, a number of procedures have been introduced. They include consultation and negotiation at various levels and the handling of complaints by appropriate tribunals or authorities in either country. Among those, actions before courts or authorities of the polluting country could ensure speedy and smooth solutions when countries accept the principles of non-discrimination in matters of transfrontier pollution. In such case all victims of pollution having effects inside and outside a country would enjoy the same legal protection. Activities are under way in the OECD towards wide implementation of such an approach for the solution of transfrontier pollution problems.
4313159|This paper examines some of the factors influencing the evolution of conventional fuel and wood fuel demands in the developing world. It shows that the resource and balance-of-payments constraints against the use of conventional fuels are less than commonly assumed. It examines the dynamics of wood-fuel resource depletion and discusses the problems of estimating the future demand for wood fuel. The need for a disaggregated analysis that takes into account the differences between categories of domestic fuel consumers is emphasized.
4314791|The Stockholm 1998 Conference covered broad aspects of the Aral Sea crisis, in particular the health consequences for women and children. It was recognized that the situation is unique and severe in terms of environmental health, and that it is important to engage the whole international community to resolve the issues at stake. It was felt that one of the main objectives of the Conference, namely to raise public interest and awareness in Sweden and in the broader international community about the nature and consequences of the Aral Sea catastrophe, had been achieved. Furthermore, it was clear that efficient action, to improve the situation would involve all stakeholders in and outside of the region. An important element is to establish cooperative projects at the local level, designed to support major projects involving international donors.
4313936|Australia is the only megadiversity nation which is not, in terms of economic development, part of the global south. This paper describes the major features of terrestial biodiversity in Australia, and the record of the last two hundred years in regard to biodiversity losses. Possible causes of such losses are discussed. Native forests are used to describe some current problems and controversies. The situation in regard to conservation areas, policy, institutions and research is reviewed. The paper concludes by considering future prospects and the lessons that can be learned from Australian experience to date. On current trends it appears that significant biodiversity loss will continue into the future. Prevention of this would require extensions of the reserve system and changes to off-reserve land-management practices, as well as increased research efforts directed at understanding more fully the proximate and underlying sources of biodiversity losses.
4314922|There is a major omission in the considerable literature on environmental problems, and the threat these problems present in the South. Little is known about how the population in the South perceive these threats. Similarly, we have little understanding of people's attitudes towards environmental problems. This paper draws on studies carried out in 1993 and 1996. It draws on empirical material taken from a sample of households in the city of Goulimine, located in the pre-Saharan region of Anti-Atlas Mountains. The aim is to identify inhabitants' attitudes to environmental problems and the extent to which these attitudes and opinions correlate with actual household energy consumption. The results show a high level of concern about environmental issues, particularly among migrant groups. But closer analysis reveals an inconsistency between environmental concern and actual consumption of household energy. This is explained by the fact that certain energy sources have been, and still are, crucial in people's lifestyles and, thus, difficult to change. The paper concludes by suggesting that central, regional, and local authorities have both a responsibility and an opportunity to assist in environmental management. Moreover, it is suggested that environmental actions should become proactive, rather than reactive or responsive.
4315758|Climate change is likely to act as a multiple stressor, leading to cumulative and/or synergistic impacts on aquatic systems. Projected increases in temperature and corresponding alterations in precipitation regimes will enhance contaminant influxes to aquatic systems, and independently increase the susceptibility of aquatic organisms to contaminant exposure and effects. The consequences for the biota will in most cases be additive (cumulative) and multiplicative (synergistic). The overall result will be higher contaminant loads and biomagnification in aquatic ecosystems. Changes in stratospheric ozone and corresponding ultraviolet radiation regimes are also expected to produce cumulative and/or synergistic effects on aquatic ecosystem structure and function. Reduced ice cover is likely to have a much greater effect on underwater UV radiation exposure than the projected levels of stratospheric ozone depletion. A major increase in UV radiation levels will cause enhanced damage to organisms (biomolecular, cellular, and physiological damage, and alterations in species composition). Allocations of energy and resources by aquatic biota to UV radiation protection will increase, probably decreasing trophic-level productivity. Elemental fluxes will increase via photochemical pathways.
4312038|Desulfurization of flue gases is one among many different methods to cope with the emissions of sulfur dioxide and through this with the acidification in sensitive areas. There are many desulfurization methods but only a few are suitable for commercial purposes. Cost estimates for the lime/limestone processes are presented and compared to costs for oil desulfurization. The by-products obtained from flue gas desulfurization are in many cases difficult to market and their disposal might cause environmental problems.
41417337|By mainly targeting larger predatory fish, commercial fisheries have indirectly promoted rapid increases in densities of their prey; smaller predatory fish like sprat, stickleback and gobies. This process, known as mesopredator release, has effectively transformed many marine offshore basins into mesopredator-dominated ecosystems. In this article, we discuss recent indications of trophic cascades on the Atlantic and Baltic coasts of Sweden, where increased abundances of mesopredatory fish are linked to increased nearshore production and biomass of ephemeral algae. Based on synthesis of monitoring data, we suggest that offshore exploitation of larger predatory fish has contributed to the increase in mesopredator fish also along the coasts, with indirect negative effects on important benthic habitats and coastal water quality. The results emphasize the need to rebuild offshore and coastal populations of larger predatory fish to levels where they regain their control over lower trophic levels and important links between offshore and coastal systems are restored.
4312963|This article gives a brief history of efforts to conserve cetaceans and profiles the events which resulted in the formation of the Indian Ocean Whale Sanctuary in 1979 by the IWC. The importance of the region for scientific research is discussed and recommendations for further action given.
4315771| Studies of carbon fluxes in marine ecosystems are often done by using box model approaches with basin size boxes, or highly resolved 3D models, and an emphasis on the pelagic component of the ecosystem. Those approaches work well in the ocean proper, but can give rise to considerable problems when applied to coastal systems, because of the scale of certain ecological niches and the fact that benthic organisms are the dominant functional group of the ecosystem. In addition, 3D models require an extensive modeling effort. In this project, an intermediate approach based on a high resolution (2020 m) GIS data-grid has been developed for the coastal ecosystem in the Laxemar area (Baltic Sea, Sweden) based on a number of different site investigations. The model has been developed in the context of a safety assessment project for a proposed nuclear waste repository, in which the fate of hypothetically released radionuclides from the planned repository is estimated. The assessment project requires not only a good understanding of the ecosystem dynamics at the site, but also quantification of stocks and flows of matter in the system. The data-grid was then used to set up a carbon budget describing the spatial distribution of biomass, primary production, net ecosystem production and thus where carbon sinks and sources are located in the area. From these results, it was clear that there was a large variation in ecosystem characteristics within the basins and, on a larger scale, that the inner areas are net producing and the outer areas net respiring, even in shallow phytobenthic communities. Benthic processes had a similar or larger influence on carbon fluxes as advective processes in inner areas, whereas the opposite appears to be true in the outer basins. As many radionuclides are expected to follow the pathways of organic matter in the environment, these findings enhance our abilities to realistically describe and predict their fate in the ecosystem. 
4315245| This study reviews the major changes in global distribution of croplands during the 20th century. During the 20th century, the cropland base diminished greatly (from  0.75 ha
4314697|This paper presents emissions estimates of nitrous oxide ( N2 O) from The Netherlands (1980-2015), investigates technical mitigation options and compares results to possible goals. Projections based on reference policies result in increasing emissions: by 2000, 2010, and 2015 Dutch N2 O emissions will exceed the 1990 level by 1%, 6% and 10%, respectively. This is a net effect of decreasing agricultural and "other" emissions, and increasing emissions from energy, industry, and waste. In particular, emissions from transport increase due to introduction of 3-way catalytic converters. The results indicate that implementation of National Environmental Policy Plan 2 (NEPP-2) will not result in stabilization of emissions at the 1990 level after 2000. Additional policies are calculated to reduce Dutch emissions to about 25% below the 1990 level, most of which results from catalytic N2 O reduction in industrial nitric acid production. A much further reduction, in line with long-term policy targets, would require new technologies, or reductions in energy use, transportation, and fertilizer use.
4315018|Development planning and resource management in the Irish coastal zone have traditionally followed sectoral, top-down models, with limited opportunities for public participation or concertation of administrative effort. Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) is often proposed as an appropriate policy response in cases where these approaches have been seen to fail. In this paper, we argue that ICZM may be more sustainable if first introduced at a small scale. Local-level initiatives, designed to produce demonstrable benefits at an early stage, are perhaps more likely to engender long-term support for ICZM. This is particularly relevant where baseline data are lacking and coastal processes are poorly understood. Using seven county Donegal beach and dune systems as demonstration sites, the potential of this approach to provide scientifically-founded, locally-agreed management plans was tested over a range of coastal issues, such as progressive shoreline erosion, habitat loss, tourist development, conflicting recreational activities and traffic management. Progress at each of the sites was partially dependent on the existence, coherence and activity of existing community organizations. In the best example, a local development group already employing many of the central principles of ICZM (e.g. inclusive participation, working with natural processes) was identified. By focussing on local problems, practical solutions and relatively small numbers of stakeholders, agreement was reached on the majority of issues and strategies covered by the management plans. Implementation of the plans will begin in early 2000.
24708814|Policies on economic use of natural resources require considerations to social and cultural values. In order to make those concrete in a planning context, this paper aims to interpret social and cultural criteria, identify indicators, match these with verifier variables and visualize them on maps. Indicators were selected from a review of scholarly work and natural resource policies, and then matched with verifier variables available for Sweden's 290 municipalities. Maps of the spatial distribution of four social and four cultural verifier variables were then produced. Consideration of social and cultural values in the studied natural resource use sectors was limited. The spatial distribution of the verifier variables exhibited a general divide between northwest and south Sweden, and regional rural and urban areas. We conclude that it is possible to identify indicators and match them with verifier variables to support inclusion of social and cultural values in planning.
4312389| The copper smelter at Rnnskr in northern Sweden emits a number of toxic substances into the environment. These emissions have caused great public concern and "the Rnnskr case" has been well covered in the Swedish news media, where the smelter has sometimes been referred to as "Sweden's dirtiest industry". This article is an attempt to describe the emissions and their effects on the health status and reproductive patterns of the employees and the population living close to the industrial plant. The article also touches upon the debate in the news media and the attitudes and reactions of the various parties involved. 
4313060|At the end of the Second World War, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (TTPI)-which includes the Mariana, Caroline, and Marshall Islands-was set up. Since then it is has been administered by the United States under a UN-backed arrangement. Now these islands are in the process of evolving a new relationship with the US which will give them more political and economic independence.
4313728|Chlorofluorocarbons will be replaced by other chemicals under the Montreal Protocol to Protect the Ozone Layer. While replacements have been found for virtually every use, they are not necessarily best in terms of greenhouse potential, energy efficiency, or other performance objectives. Additional possibilities have been identified, however, which could greatly reduce global warming and also provide superior performance. New working' fluids and cycles for refrigerators coupled with advanced insulations could, for example, reduce global warming by more than one percent while saving consumers billions of dollars worldwide. Whether such advanced options come into play depends on how well industry and government can accelerate research and development and overcome institutional problems that could block acceptance.
41417262|The protection of the Baltic Sea ecosystem is exacerbated by the social, environmental and economic complexities of governing European fisheries. Increased stakeholder participation and knowledge integration are suggested to improve the EU's Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), suffering from legitimacy, credibility and compliance problems. As a result, the CFP was revised in 2002 to involve fisheries representatives, NGOs and other stakeholders through so called Regional Advisory Councils (RACs) in the policy process. We address the RAC's task to incorporate stakeholder knowledge into the EU's fisheries governance system in empirical and theoretical perspectives. Drawing on a four-stage governance concept we subsequently suggest that a basic problem is a mismatch between participation purpose (knowledge inclusion) and the governance stage at which RACs are formally positioned (evaluation of management proposals). We conclude that, if the aim is to broaden the knowledge base of fisheries management, stakeholders need to be included earlier in the governance process.
4315113|Copper production in Falun, central Sweden, has emitted sulfur dioxide ( SO
41417422|The world needs new, environmentally friendly and renewable fuels to allow an exchange from fossil fuels. The fuel must be made from cheap and 'endless' resources that are available everywhere. The new research area on solar fuels, which are made from solar energy and water, aims to meet this demand. The paper discusses why we need a solar fuel and why electricity is not enough; it proposes solar energy as the major renewable energy source to feed from. The present research strategies, involving direct, semi-direct and indirect approaches to produce solar fuels, are overviewed.
40928416|Decision makers responsible for natural resource management often complain that science delivers fragmented information that is not useful at the scale of implementation. We offer a way of negotiating complex problems by putting forward a requisite simplicity. A requisite simplicity attempts to discard some detail, while retaining conceptual clarity and scientific rigor, and helps us move to a new position where we can benefit from new knowledge. We illustrate the above using three case studies: elephant densities and vegetation change in a national park, the use of rules of thumb to support decision making in agriculture, and the management of salt in irrigation. We identify potential requisite simplicities that can allow us to generate new understanding, lead to action and provide opportunities for structured learning.
4314889|We summarize the results of a circumarctic study on biogeographic patterns in genetic diversity within asexual clones of the water flea, the Daphnia pulex complex (a freshwater crustacean). The complex is shown to consist of several thousands of distinct clones, which can be grouped into 2 major lineage groups based on molecular markers. The main groups and their component subgroups differ markedly in their distributions, and hybrids are common in 2 zones of overlap (Northern Europe and Canada). Clonal diversity is at least as high in the Arctic as in the temperate zone. Moreover, the genetic structure of all the subgroups is extremely fragmented, implying that clonal composition in the Arctic differs conspicuously among regions. This extraordinary diversity with its spatial structure on local to continental geographic scales defies the general notion of the Arctic tundra as a homogenous biome of low biodiversity.
4315410| A predictive model for gas-phase PCBs and trans-nonachlor over Lake Michigan has been constructed and the resulting data examined for trends. In this paper, we describe the model results to show how the magnitude and variability of a plume of contaminants from the Chicago area contributes to a highly variable region of net contaminant deposition over the entire lake. For the whole lake, gross annual deposition of PCBs is  3200 kg, although the net annual gas exchange is not significantly different from zero. The data-driven model illustrates that on a daily basis, the net exchange of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) can change from net deposition to net volatilization depending on the area of plume impact. These findings suggest that i) control of urban areas can accelerate the rate of volatilization from lakes; and ii) release of POPs from urban areas is largely a result of volatilization processes. 
40801590|Prof. Ulgiati stresses that we should always use an ecosystem view when transforming energy from one form to another. Sustainable growth and development of both environmental and human-dominated systems require optimum use of available resources for maximum power output. We have to adapt to the laws of nature because nature has to take care of all the waste products we produce. The presentation addresses a much needed shift away from linear production and consumption pattern, toward reorganization of economies and lifestyle that takes complexityof resources, of the environment and of the economyinto proper account. The best way to reach maximum yield from the different kinds of biomass is to use biorefineries. Biorefinery is defined as the sustainable processing of biomass into a spectrum of marketable products like heat, power, fuels, chemicals, food, feed, and materials. However, biomass from agricultural land must be used for the production of food and not fuel. Prof. Voss focuses on the sustainability of energy supply chains and energy systems. Life cycle analyses (LCA) provides the conceptual framework for a comprehensive comparative evaluation of energy supply options with regard to their resource requirements as well as the health and environmental impact. Full scope LCA considers not only the emissions from plant operation, construction, and decommissioning but also the environmental burdens and resource requirements associated with the entire lifetime of all relevant upstream and downstream processes within the energy chain. This article describes the results of LCA analyses for state-of-the-art heating and electricity systems as well as of advanced future systems. Total costs are used as a measure for the overall resource consumption.
4312126|Field and laboratory tests have been performed in search of physical, chemical and biological means of accelerating oil degradation in soil. Irrigation, inorganic fertilization, addition of fertilized peat, and addition of oil-degrading bacterial cultures proved ineffective. Adding 0.25 to 1 percent brewery waste yeast invariably accelerated oil decomposition rate substantially. Aeration had a positive influence, and low soil pH value seemed advantageous.
4314120|The organic carbon pool in the upper 1 m of the world's soils contains 1220 Gt organic carbon, 1.5 times the total for the standing biomass. In the widespread deep soils in the tropics the carbon stored below 1 m may add about 50 Gt C. The contributions of charcoal, roots and soil fauna should be added to these totals. The much less dynamic carbonate-carbon pool amounts to 720 Gt C. Changes in land use, particularly by clearing of forests, reduce organic carbon by 20 to 50% in the upper soil layers, but little in deeper layers. On the other hand, there are indications that a human-induced enrichment of soil organic matter can be maintained over centuries. Research on the causative soil processes should be supported, because an improved understanding of this phenomenon might lead to better management strategies and sound programs to stimulate organic carbon storage and fertility levels in tropical and subtropical soils. Recent research data on the CO
25547877|It has been claimed that Tonle Sap Lake is rapidly filling with sediment as a result of increasing sediment yields from the catchment. Infilling of the lake basin would have serious implications for the magnitude of flooding in central Cambodia and the Mekong Delta region and threaten the lake's unique ecosystem. In this article, we synthesize the results of radiocarbon dating of sediment cores and hydrodynamic modeling results to provide an empirically based assessment of this issue. We find that current sedimentation rates within the lake basin proper are low and have been for several millennia. However, sedimentation at the lake margin and in its floodplain is relatively high, which presents a range of issues for riparian communities.
41510591|Natural ecosystems perform fundamental lifesupport services upon which human civilization depends. However, many people believe that nature provides these services for free and therefore, they are of little or no value. While we do not pay for them, we pay significantly for their loss in terms of wastewater treatment facilities, moratoriums on greenhouse gases, increased illnesses, reduced soil fertility and losses in those images of nature that contribute to our basic happiness. Little is understood about the well-being benefits of the natural environment and its ecosystem services. The interwoven relationship of ecosystems and human well-being is insufficiently acknowledged in the wider philosophical, social, and economic well-being literature. In this article, we discuss an approach to examine human well-being and the interactions of its four primary elementsbasic human needs, economic needs, environmental needs, and subjective wellbeingand ecosystem services.
4315254|This paper summarizes those factors that have contributed to the degradation of the mangroves in El Salvador, and examines the implications of proposed changes in property rights to the mangroves for poor coastal communities. Current patterns of extraction and conversion in the mangrove ecosystem in El Salvador can be viewed through an entitlement lens that confers property rights upon some actors, for certain uses, and denies them to others. Unfortunately, the present system of laws and regulations that governs resource use in the mangroves is contradictory and confusing. A number of laws currently are active that give entirely different directives about the use and transformation of the ecosystem. The rational and sustainable management of the mangroves cannot be secured without a redefinition of entitlement rights. This redefinition of entitlements, however, should take into account the needs of those whose livelihoods are intimately connected to the health of the ecosystem.
4315110| Climate warming by ca. 0.8C between the late-19th and late-20th century, although with some fluctuations, has forced multispecies elevational tree-limit advance by > 100 m for the principal tree species in the Swedish part of the Scandinavian mountain range. Predominantly, these processes imply growth in height of old established individuals and less frequently upslope migration of new individuals. After a slight retardation during some cooler decades after 1940, a new active phase of tree-limit advance has occurred with a series of exceptionally mild winters and some warm summers during the 1990s. The magnitude of total 20th century tree-limit rise varies with topoclimate and is mainly confined to wind-sheltered and snow-rich segments of the landscape. Thickening of birch tree stands in the "advance belt" has profoundly altered the general character of the subalpine/low alpine landscape and provides a positive feedback loop for further progressive change and resilience to short-term cooling episodes. All upslope tree-limit shifts and associated landscape transformations during the 20th century have occurred without appreciable time lags, which constitutes knowledge fundamental to the generation of realistic models concerning vegetation responses to potential future warming. The new and elevated pine tree-limit may be the highest during the past 4000
4314252|The paper presents the first results of a European overview of urban innovations, undertaken by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. Projects have been chosen which improve urban metabolism; have a collective aim; resist time; favor local democracy, and participation at the conception, decision and execution phase; and produce models that are transferable to different places. Projects concerned with urban environmental auditing or social justice in cities are extremely important as they can lead to new planning to achieve the European sustainable city.
40390240|In marine sediments, the major anaerobic mineralization processes are Fe(lll) oxide reduction and sulfate reduction. In this article, we propose that the two alternative microbial mineralization pathways in sediments exert decisively different impacts on aquatic ecosystems. In systems where iron reduction dominates in the recently deposited sediment layers, the fraction of Fe(lll) oxides that is dissolved to Fe(ll) upon reduction will ultimately be transported to the oxic layer, where it will be reoxidized. Phosphorus, which is released from Fe(lll) oxides and decomposing organic matter from the sediment, will be largely trapped by this newly formed Fe(lll) oxide layer. Consequently, there are low concentrations of phosphorus in near-bottom and productive water layers and primary production tends to be limited by phosphorus (Stete 1). By contrast, in systems where sulfate reduction dominates, Fe(lll) oxides are reduced by sulfides. This chemical reduction leads to the formation and permanent burial of iron as solid iron sulfides that are unable to capture phosphorus. In addition, the cycling of iron is blocked, and phosphorus is released to overlying water. Owing to the enrichment of phosphorus in water, the nitrogen : phosphorus ratio is lowered and nitrogen tends to limit algal growth, giving an advantage to nitrogenfixing blue-green algae (Stete 2). A major factor causing a shift from Stete 1 to Stete 2 is an increase in the flux of labile organic carbon to the bottom sediments; upon accelerating eutrophication a critical point will be reached when the availability of Fe(lll) oxides in sediments will be exhausted and sulfate reduction will become dominant. Because the reserves of Fe(lll) oxides are replenished only slowly, reversal to Stete 1 may markedly exceed the time needed to reduce the flux of organic carbon to the sediment. A key factor affecting the sensitivity of a coastal system to such a regime shift is formed by the hydrodynamic alterations that decrease the transport of O to the near-bottom water, e.g., due to variations in salinity and temperature stratification.
4315576|This article confronts present main stream planning approaches against the perspective of ecological sustainability, as relevant for Rule of Law countries and based on a modern environmental law approach. It discusses the setting and implementation of environmental goals against the general experience of massive implementation deficits regarding environmental policies all over the world. In this confrontation, environmental planning, with at least some principles picked up from New Zealand's Resource Management Act, and much more taken from modern environmental law theory on legal operationalisation, is compared to adaptive management approaches which also allow for modifying the environment related goal if implementation fails or seems very difficult. The concept of adaptive environmental planning (AEP) is suggested as a possible road to choose for planning for sustainability, while maximizing development within the framework legally defined by means of environmental limits. This article presents five criteria, all of which must be met by AEP planning. One of these relates to a planning hierarchy which, among other things, leads to the conclusion that coastal planning, if it is intended to aim at sustainability, can not be dealt with in isolation, although such planning might have to meet very complex problems at the regional level.
4314022|Effects on liver histology were studied in 13 groups of female mink after treatment, for 79-96 days during the reproductive season in 1988 and 1989, with the commercial polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), Clophen A50 and Aroclor 1254, to 4 fractions prepared from the commercial PCBs, to combinations of these fractions, and to a synthetic chlorobiphenyl (CB) mixture. Three fractions contained CB congeners with a different number of chlorines in ortho-position to the biphenyl bond, viz. two to four (2-4-), one (1-), and no (0-) ortho CB congeners, while the fouth contained bi- and tricyclic contaminants mainly representing polychlorinated dibenzofurans and polychlorinated naphthalenes. Fractions of congeners and contaminants were given in doses equivalent to those in the doses of commercias PCBs. Some histological changes, viz. fatty changes in hepatocytes, hemosiderosis of Kupffer cells, frequency of polymorphonuclear cells and of mononuclear cells, were selected and used as parameters in semiquantitative estimations of the effects on liver histology. High incidences of change were found in groups exposed to commercial PCBs and in combinations of 3 and 4 different fractions, and on exposure to a combination of 1-ortho and 2-4 ortho CBs. The least marked effect in animals treated with combinations of CB fractions was found on exposure to 2-4-ortho and 0-ortho CBs. Following treatment with single CB fractions, certain effects were observed in the groups given 0-ortho and 1-ortho CBs while very slight effects on the liver were observed in the group treated with 2-4-ortho CBs. No effects at all were observed in the group given bi- and tricyclic contaminants. The degree of liver changes was ascribed to the combined effects of different compounds rather than to specific effects of individual compounds present in the commercial PCB products.
4315510|The arctic tundra and boreal forest were once considered the last frontiers on earth because of their vast expanses remote from agricultural land-use change and industrial development. These regions are now, however, experiencing environmental and social changes that are as rapid as those occurring anywhere on earth. This paper summarizes the role of northern regions in the global system and provides a blueprint for assessing the factors that govern their sensitivity to social and environmental change.
25547859|Eutrophication is an ongoing process in most parts of the Baltic Sea. This article reports on the changes during recent decades of several eutrophication-related variables in the open sea areas surrounding Finland (wintertime nutrient concentrations, wintertime nutrient ratios, and summer time chlorophyll  concentrations at the surface). The sum of nitrate- and nitrite-nitrogen ([NO+NO]-N) was observed to increase nearly fourfold in the Northern Baltic Proper and the Gulf of Finland and almost double in the Bothnian Sea from the 1960s until the 1980s or 1990s. The increase was followed by a decrease, which was modest in the two former subregions. Phosphate-phosphorus (PO-P) concentrations followed a similar pattern in the Northern Baltic Proper (threefold increase and subsequent slight decrease) and Bothnian Sea (30% increase and subsequent decrease), but increased throughout the study in the Gulf of Finland, with the present concentration being threefold to the measurements made in the early 1970s. The PO-P concentration decreased throughout the study in the Bothnian Bay. Silicate-silicon (SiO-Si) concentrations decreased 30-50% from the early 1970s to the late 1990s and increased 20-40% thereafter in the Northern Baltic Proper, the Gulf of Finland, and the Bothnian Sea. Chlorophyll  showed an increase of over 150% in the Northern Baltic Proper and the Gulf of Finland from the 1970s until the early 2000s. In the Bothnian Sea the chlorophyll  concentration increased more than 180% from the late 1970s until the late 1990s, and decreased thereafter. According to these long-term observations, the Gulf of Finland and Northern Baltic Proper show clear signs of eutrophication, which may be emphasized by hydrographical changes affecting the phytoplankton communities and thus the algal biomass.
4313909|Today, large anthropogenic emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere have a profound influence on the chemical climate of Europe and N. America, with subsequent harmful effects on aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems in these regions. A similar acidification problem is also emerging in China. Calculations using a global atmospheric chemistry model indicate that if the per capita emission of sulfur in Asian countries-including India and China-were to increase even moderately, very large emissions would occur and be likely to result in widespread acidification problems.
4313846|A geographic information system (GIS) database was developed for Langtang National Park, Nepal. This database was used to study the habitat, population, and risk of local extinction for red pandas (Ailurus fulgens). GIS capabilities most relevant to park managers included area measurements, easy updating of digital data, overlay, distance measurements, terrain modeling, scale change, attribute selection, density analysis, buffering and corridor analysis, and the ability to facilitate 'what if' planning. The results of the study suggest a population of 24 pandas isolated into four or five groups by physical barriers such as rivers and high ridges. Unless these patches of core habitat are protected from cattle grazing and other human disturbances, red pandas are destined for extinction in Langtang National Park.
4313683|The siliceous microfossil composition has been determined in a superficial sediment core (0-34 cm) from the northwestern part of the Baltic proper. The results are shown in three diagrams. Four stratigraphical zones have been established and described. The lithostratigraphy shows a sequence with laminated clay-gyttja (2.5-5 cm) containing high abundancies of the ebridian Ebria tripartita (Schumann) Lemmermann and the diatoms Actinocyclus ehrenbergi v. crassa (W. Smith) Hustedt and Coscinodiscus asteromphalus (Ehrenberg). In the uppermost layers of sediment there is a mass occurrence of Chaetoceros spp. resting spores and Achnanthes taeniata Grunow. Other diatoms, together with Chrysophyceae stomatocysts and ebridians, show trends of decreasing relative abundance. In general, the autochthonous planktonic taxa have played a more important role during the last 100 years with a peak about 20-years ago. The changes in the siliceous microfossil composition have been interpreted as mainly reflecting an increased input of nutrients into the Baltic basin. However, other parameters such as current pattern variations, both temporal and spatial, and erosional changes in the littoral zone and on coastal land areas can affect the composition of siliceous microfossils within the sediments.
4314095|Observations of ultraoligotrophy and decreasing phosphorus concentrations in acidified clear-water lakes in southwestern Sweden led to hypotheses regarding oligotrophication as a result of acidification. Reviewing the literature it appears that several hypotheses are questionable and have not yet been validated. Experimental lake acidification and field observations indicated that acidification, generally, did not result in significantly decreased phosphorus concentrations or phytoplankton production. Phosphorus concentrations are naturally low in runoff from areas sensitive to acidification, which makes it difficult to quantify the potential importance of acidification in low phosphorus leaching. According to physiological indicators of phosphorus deficiency the phytoplankton community of acidified lakes may be adapted to an oligotrophic environment. At high aluminum concentrations, often found in acidified lakes, the algal utilization of phosphorus may be impaired.
4313336|Forestry institutions provide the human resources, the structure, and the tools to serve current programs and to anticipate and address the problems of tomorrow. Failure in forestry programs in the developing world can generally be traced to a failure in some institutional aspect. A renewed determination is required to link institutional development with action programs; to consider these aspects in comprehensive forest-sector planning; and to face realistically the costs of building institutions (estimated to be 15-25 percent of total project funding).
4315433| Vegetation cover-change analysis requires selection of an appropriate set of variables for measuring and characterizing change. Satellite sensors like Landsat TM offer the advantages of wide spatial coverage while providing land-cover information. This facilitates the monitoring of surface processes. This study discusses change detection in mountainous dry-heath communities in Jmtland County, Sweden, using satellite data. Landsat-5 TM and Landsat-7 ETM+ data from 1984, 1994 and 2000, respectively, were used. Different change detection methods were compared after the images had been radiometrically normalized, georeferenced and corrected for topographic effects. For detection of the classes change - no change the NDVI image differencing method was the most accurate with an overall accuracy of 94% (K = 0.87). Additional change information was extracted from an alternative method called NDVI regression analysis and vegetation change in 3 categories within mountainous dry-heath communities were detected. By applying a fuzzy set thresholding technique the overall accuracy was improved from of 65% (K = 0.45) to 74% (K = 0.59). The methods used generate a change product showing the location of changed areas in sensitive mountainous heath communities, and it also indicates the extent of the change (high, moderate and unchanged vegetation cover decrease). A total of 17% of the dry and extremely dry-heath vegetation within the study area has changed between 1984 and 2000. On average 4% of the studied heath communities have been classified as high change, i.e. have experienced "high vegetation cover decrease" during the period. The results show that the low alpine zone of the southern part of the study area shows the highest amount of "high vegetation cover decrease". The results also show that the main change occurred between 1994 and 2000. 
4312209| This paper describes the proceedings of the International Conference held on November 2-6, 1975 at the University of Petroleum and Minerals, Drahran, Saudi Arabia, with the main theme "Heliotechnique and Development". The Conference was sponsored by La Coopration Mdirettanenne Pour L'Energie Solaire" (COMPLES). About 120 papers were presented in 15 sessions. 
4314989|Tropical regions, with their high biological activity, have the potential to emit large amounts of trace gases and aerosols to the atmosphere. This can take the form of trace gas fluxes from soils and vegetation, where gaseous species are produced and consumed by living organisms, or of smoke emissions from vegetation fires. In the last decade, considerable scientific effort has gone into quantifying these fluxes from the African continent. We find that both biogenic and pyrogenic emissions have a powerful impact on regional and global atmospheric chemistry, particularly on photooxidation processes and tropospheric ozone. The emissions of radiatively active gases and aerosols from the African continent are likely to have a significant climatic effect, but presently available data are not sufficient for reliable quantitative estimates of this effect.
4314610|This chapter revisits the major problems relating to man-made disturbances in the global nitrogen (N) cycle, and links the local findings from the project to the large-scale effects. The human transformation of atmospheric N
4312934|In August and September 1982, two cruises were made in order to investigate the extent and effects of O
4312226|The corroson rate of several metals and painted surfaces is significantly higher in polluted urban atmospheres than in rural atmospheres, and this is chiefly ascribed to the sulfur pollutants in urban atmospheres. The influence of absorpiton of sulfur dioxide, impaction of acid sulfate particles and of acid rain is reviewed. Economically serious atmospheric corrosion is restricted to the vicinity of sources of pollution, ie mainly to large, built-up areas. The annual corrosion costs ascribable to elevated concentrations of sulfur pollutants have been estimated in the USA and in Sweden to be US $7.10 and $5.30 per person and year, respectively.
4313448|This paper identifies some of the major problems and issues surrounding the development of the coastal and marine resources of the Strait of Malacca. The Strait serves as an international route between the Indian Ocean and the Southeast Asian Seas. Crude oil is a major cargo carried by tankers transiting the Strait, and the perceived hazards of a major oil spill have prompted the littoral states to impose controls over tanker movements. Exploitation of renewable resources from coastal and marine environments in the Strait supports a wide range of activities, from fisheries to agriculture. The long-term, sustainable development of the Strait's resources is endangered by low standards of environmental assessment, planning and management. This is leading to problems of misallocation and overexploitation of resources; agricultural, urban and industrial pollution; and a reduction in the ability of environmental systems to support development. Solutions to many of these problems could be achieved through improved management of land-based activities. Available principles, concepts and techniques of coastal-area management and planning would assist in resolving problems faced by individual nations and help to establish regional solutions to common problems. Concerted efforts by the international community are needed to assist in the development of manpower and to strengthen the information base for integrated management of coastal, and marine systems.
4312036|Rising demand for oil will soon collide with declining world oil supply capability. Skyrocketing prices of clean fuels of natural origin will hold only at costs of synthetic clean fuels: power gas and industrial gas from coal gasification (with air and oxygen respectively); liquids from coal; and heat from fluidized-bed combustion. Even with the world's "fabulous" reserves of coal, industrial nations must quickly learn to make do with less.
4315413|Alachlor, metolachlor and their respective environmentally stable aniline degradation products, 2,6-diethylaniline and 2-ethyl-6-methylaniline were analyzed in water and sediment samples from 9 sites along River Nzoia, Kenya using gas chromatography. The degradation products were detected in > 90% of the sediment and water samples, while the parent compounds occurred in < 14% of the water samples. Much higher concentrations of the pesticides and their degradation products occurred in the sediment than in the water (1.4 up to 10 800-fold), indicating an accumulation of the compounds in the sediment. The constant occurrence of the degradation products in the sediment during the study period infers a persistence of these compounds. It is hypothesized that the prevailing tropical climatic conditions favor a quick breakdown of the pesticides to their environmentally stable degradation products, thereby making the latter more important pollutants than their parent products in the study area.
4315084|The central part of the Kola Peninsula, severely affected by emissions from a nickel-copper smelter at Monchegorsk, represents a perfect object for environmental studies. We survey the information collected in this region, with special attention paid to earlier works by Russian researchers. Although some sources are difficult to access, and some of the data should be used with caution, the benefits to be derived from the inclusion of the already collected information in forthcoming environmental projects are obvious; it provides a historical (dynamic) view of landscape deterioration and eliminates redundant work. The perception of environmental contamination by local communities changed from acceptance in the 1950s to ignorance in the 1970s and 1980s; the active protests of the early 1990s have been terminated by economic factors, which have drawn public attention away from problems of the environment and of public health.
4314919|African and Asian mountains and highlands are ecoregions of particular importance for sustainable development due to their intensive land-use systems, their generally low economic productivity and integration, and the increasing rates of land degradation and mountain hazards. Opportunities for sustainable development exist, if ways to overcome land degradation can be found. The percentage of people who are engaged in subsistence agriculture can be reduced in favor of the secondary and tertiary sectors, protected areas can be better managed, access to remote areas improved, mountain waters utilized in a more integrated highland-lowland interaction, and mechanisms to manage conflicts developed. Research in support of sustainable development needs to focus on transdisciplinary approaches in order to develop appropriate technologies, improve land-management systems, and most importantly, create an enabling institutional environment. International cooperation is an essential tool for exchanging and communicating successful experiences from the local level to regional levels.
25547895|The loss of forest area globally due to change of land use, the importance of forests in the conservation of biodiversity and in carbon and other biogeochemical cycles, together with the threat to forests from pollution and from the impacts of climate change, place forestry policy and practice at the center of global environmental and sustainability strategy. Forests provide important economic, environmental, social, and cultural benefits, so that in forestry, as in other areas of environmental policy and management, there are tensions between economic development and environmental protection. In this article we review the current information on global forest cover and condition, examine the international processes that relate to forest protection and to sustainable forest management, and look at the main forest certification schemes. We consider the link between the international processes and certification schemes and also their combined effectiveness. We conclude that in some regions of the world neither mechanism is achieving forest protection, while in others local or regional implementation is occurring and is having a significant impact. Choice of certification scheme and implementation of management standards are often influenced by a consideration of the associated costs, and there are some major issues over the monitoring of agreed actions and of the criteria and indicators of sustainability. There are currently a number of initiatives seeking to improve the operation of the international forestry framework (e.g., The Montreal Process, the Ministerial Convention of the Protection of Forests in Europe and European Union actions in Europe, the African Timber Organisation and International Tropical Timber Organisation initiative for African tropical forest, and the development of a worldwide voluntary agreement on forestry in the United Nations Forum on Forests). We suggest that there is a need to improve the connections between scientific understanding, policy development, and forestry practice, and also the cooperation between the various international initiatives and processes, so that the international framework is more effective and its influence is extended geographically.
4312300|Cadmium, lead, and zinc distributions and cycling were determined in a mixed deciduous forest in eastern Tennessee (USA). Major points of accumulation were litter and small roots, while soil was the long-term sink. Biogeochemical cycles of Cd, Pb, and Zn were conservative with respect to inputs (inputs >> losses) and total quantities in the system (losses << standing pools). Transport of Cd, Pb, and Zn through vegetation was rapid (turnover times averaging 3.3 years), but the slow response of soil and the potential for recycling from soil to vegetation acted to effectively retain these elements within the ecosystem.
4313414|Recent studies have suggested that mercury levels in fish are elevated in acidic lakes. The purpose of this study was to determine if negative relationships between lake pH and fish mercury content, which have been reported for several areas, are consistent over a wide range of lake conditions. Samples of crayfish, fish, mink and otter from different sites in Ontario, Canada, were analyzed for total mercury and selenium in some tissues. Concentrations of mercury were lowest in specimens from watersheds near the smelters at Sudbury. Crayfish mercury levels displayed a positive correlation with lake pH. Crayfish and perch mercury levels increased linearly with distance from Sudbury. We suggest that selenium, and possibly other heavy metals emitted from the smelters, are inhibiting mercury methylation and uptake by aquatic biota in lakes near Sudbury.
4314141|To support a Dutch national integrated policy with respect to climate change an inventory was made of the emissions around 1990 of all the trace gases that contribute both directly and indirectly to the greenhouse effect. In addition to present emissions, the study evaluates the future effects of existing policies on the emissions and evaluates possible additional measures. Since emissions of carbon dioxide, CFCs, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and volatile organic compounds are relatively well known and policies aimed at controlling these gases are already in place, the study focuses on methane and nitrous oxide. The most important contribution to the total emissions of methane (1080 kton yr
4314753| Remediation of Lake Jrnsjn in Emn (a river in southeastern Sweden) is a part of the Swedish National Site Remediation Action Plan. Jrnsjn contained approx.. 400 kg PCB that were slowly leaching out from the sediments into Emn. Without remedial action the sediments would have caused problems for many decades. Several investigations and studies were carried out to determine how and under what limitations cleanup could be performed. An alternative for the remediation was selected that included vacuum dredging within a protective barrier of geotextile screens. Dredged material was to be dewatered and disposed of in a landfill. Remedial activities in Jrnsjn could, however, lead to an additional burden on Emn. Restrictions on and protective measures against such releases during remediation of Jrnsjn were therefore important issues. Dredging was carried out in 1993 and 1994. When dredging was completed, an amount of about
4313631|Over the last two years a number of multilateral environmental mediation meetings were held with representatives of the main societal sectors responsible for acid-rain reduction. Besides giving a concise overview of the Dutch acidification situation this paper describes a theoretical background of environmental mediation on the level of national policy making and the proceedings of the mediation effort. It is concluded that this approach deserves wider application as an instrument to increase mutual understanding about sectoral efforts and achievements. A major spin-off of the forum process is the facilitation of the direct negotiations between the regulating authorities and the social stakeholders.
40390244|Zinc deficiency is a problem in developing countries and not least so in Africa. This concerns both agriculture and human food provision. Zinc deficiency in soils may severely decrease yields, whereas insufficient zinc in food intake primarily affects the immune defense, notably in children. The present investigation concerned zinc availability in soils, crops, and food in the Niger inland delta in Mali. Agricultural soils are largely deficient in plant-available zinc, however, soils in close vicinity to habitation show elevated zinc concentrations. The zinc concentrations in crops are low; in rice, they are about half of reference ranges. Zinc intake assessed from a number of sampled meals was about half the recommended requirement. When zinc concentration is higher phytate was also high, which made the zinc less available. In spite of a recorded sufficient intake of iron, anemia is common and is most likely because of the high phytate concentration in the cereal-dominated diet. Increasing zinc and iron availability would be possible through the use of malting, fermentation, and soaking in food preparation. Finally, in the long run, any trace element deficiency, especially that of zinc in agricultural soils needs to be amended by addition of appropriate amounts in commercial fertilizers.
4312206|The total content of organic bound chlorine, bromine and iodine was determined prior to and after treatment of lipids from marine organisms with hexane/sulfuric acid. They were similarly measured in volatiles isolated from the same organisms by cyclohexane/steam codestillation. The results obtained were compared to the level of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) for these organisms. In both untreated and sulfuric-acid-treated lipids, most of the chlorine could not be accounted for as known compounds.
4311954|The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment is a major step toward producing a programme of concerted global action to deal with the most universal and pervasive issue the world community has ever faced-the environmental crisis. The Stockholm Conference stands at the interface between science and politics; a partnership between the two is needed in order to preserve and protect the human environment now and in the future.
4313911|It appears essential for the success of international climate protection negotiations to separate the assignment of responsibility for climate protection (who pays for it) from the opportunities to reduce or prevent emissions (who does it). This separation requires a mechanism to transfer resources, when necessary, from nations with unfulfilled responsibility to those with unexploited opportunities. International carbon emission offsets (ICEOs) could provide such a mechanism, by creating a currency for investing in carbon-saving services as a way to comply with national policies to reduce carbon emissions. An example of a transaction using the ICEO currency compares the costs to an electric utility of reducing its CO
25094544|The Gulf of Bothnia contains about 29% of the whole water volume of the Baltic Sea. The water exchange between the Baltic proper and the Gulf is good, which results in a water renewal time of about 4 to 5 yrs. The dynamics and thermodynamics of the Gulf of Bothnia are guided by hydrological, meteorological and, partly, topographical factors, such as freshwater supply, wind over sea, sun radiation, sea ice and sill depth between the sub-basins. The water mass is vertically divided into two layers with a halocline at 50 to 60 m depth. The deep water, below 60 m, mainly originates from the upper layer of the Baltic proper and has a salinity of 6-7 psu. In the surface layer, a thermocline develops each summer. This upper well-mixed layer is, on average, 15 m deep. The north to south water transport mainly occurs in this surface layer along the coasts, with a tendency to cyclonic circulation. It is, however, strongly wind-dependent and thus intermittent in time. On a long time scale, pulse-like wind events produce on average an eastbound current drift in the open sea. The river runoff causes a slow southbound current drift of diluted freshwater along the western region of the Bothnian Sea. Distribution and deposition of dissolved and particulate matter occurs with several types of transport mechanisms. Our measurements during 1991 show that in the surface water, substances can be distributed right across the Bothnian Sea in about one to two weeks, but perhaps more normally in about one month. The geographical extension of the accumulation bottoms is most often limited to areas deeper than 40 m. Transport of particulate matter can however also occur below this critical depth especially during periods of strong winds, forcing wind waves of sufficient wave length and amplitude to erode bottom particulate matter.
4315046|All harvesting of biomass results in a loss of plant nutrients from the soil. The impact of this loss on forest productivity can be determined only if the total amounts of plant nutrients in logs, other biomass and soil are known. In investigations of tropical rainforest ecosystems the total analysis of calcium is common with regard to logs and other biomass, whereas for soils only the content of exchangeable calcium has been determined. This study, involving a calcium-poor bedrock area in Sabah, Malaysia, shows that the contents of total calcium in the soil can be estimated from figures of exchangeable calcium. In the state of Sabah, these estimated amounts were lower in 19 out of 115 soil profiles compared with the amount measured at our research area at Mendolong in Sabah where a sustainable forestry is not possible with the present rotation period without compensating for the harvest-related loss of calcium.
4314010|Blubber samples from 109 specimens of ringed (Phoca hispida botnica), grey (Halichoerus grypus) and harbour (Phoca vitulina vitulina) seals from Swedish waters were analyzed for concentrations of sDDT and PCB. Seven juvenile grey seals from the northeast coast of Scotland were analyzed for comparison. The Swedish material was divided into groups according to sampling areas, species, sex, age and signs of diseases. In general, variations in contaminant concentrations within groups and between subgroups were not substantial. Concentrations did not differ significantly between juvenile harbor seals found dead during the 1988 virus epizootic and animals collected before the outbreak of the disease or in unaffected areas. Starved females, however, showed very high concentrations of both sDDT and PCB. No significant difference was found between adult female grey seals suffering from hyperadrenocorticism and apparently healthy females. Starved females, however, showed very high concentrations of both sDDT and PCB. No unambigous relationship between age and concentrations of these organochlorine com-pounds in blubber was indicated in the material studied. Studies on juvenile specimens indicate that the concentration of PCB in harbor seals from the Baltic is twice as high as in the same species along the Swedish west coast, while the concentration of sDDT is about four times higher. Ringed seals from the Baltic show PCB concentrations equal to those of the harbor seals from the west coast, but sDDT concentrations are about three times higher. Grey seals from the Baltic show the highest concentrations of both sDDT and PCB. Comparison of the present results with earlier studies on grey seals shows that a considerable decrease in concentrations of sDDT has taken place since the early 1970s. In ringed seals the concentrations of both sDDT and PCB have decreased.
23253254|Precipitation amounts and patterns at high latitude sites have been predicted to change as a result of global climatic changes. We addressed vegetation responses to three years of experimentally increased summer precipitation in two previously unaddressed tundra types: Betula nana-dominated shrub tundra (northeast Siberia) and a dry Sphagnum fuscum-dominated bog (northern Sweden). Positive responses to approximately doubled ambient precipitation (an increase of 200 mm year -1 ) were observed at the Siberian site, for B. nana (30 % larger length increments), Salix pulchra (leaf size and length increments) and Arctagrostis latifolia (leaf size and specific leaf area), but none were observed at the Swedish site. Total biomass production did not increase at either of the study sites. This study corroborates studies in other tundra vegetation types and shows that despite regional differences at the plant level, total tundra plant productivity is, at least at the short or medium term, largely irresponsive to experimentally increased summer precipitation.
4312221|Acid precipitation affects organisms at all trophic levels in affected freshwater ecosystems. The numbers of species are reduced and changes in the biomass of some groups of plants and animals have been observed. Decomposition of leaf litter and other organic substrates is hampered, nutrient recycling appears to be retarded and nitrification inhibited at pH levels frequently observed in acid-stressed waters. Currently available information is primarily qualitative, and studies of effects on interactions among the biota are lacking.
4312059|Problems attending population size and increase are now worldwide; they effect both industrialized and non-industrialized countries, though generally in different ways. A special problem is the fact that a variety of social, economic, and demographic differences distinguishes countries experiencing rapid population increases, today, from countries at a similar stage of demographic development, 75-150 years ago: 1) more rapid declines in mortality; 2) gains in longevity primarily through the application of medicine and public health, rather than through general improvements in levels of living; 3) far higher fertility; 4) far larger populations; 5) overpopulation; 6) little opportunity for emigration; 7) little social and economic change of a sort conducive to the exercise of control over family size. The prognosis is hardly favorable for human well being.
4314733| Glacier mass balance measurements in combination with ice coring provide detailed information on present and past climatic changes. In this study, a 27.5 m long ice-core record from the Little Ice Age (1600-1900), sampled at Mrmaglaciren in northern Sweden, is described and analyzed in the light of present climatic and glacier dynamic changes. Presently increased accumulation rates indicate a more maritime influence on climate in the mountains of Northern Scandinavia compared to earlier this century. Due to the strong east-west climatic gradient and to local climatic effects, glaciers have reacted differently on present changes. On the west side of massives glaciers are growing significantly, while glaciers on the east side of the mountain range have not increased their mass during the last decade, as their mass basically is governed by summer temperatures, which have not changed. Assuming that past climatic changes can be described as changes in climatic gradient and east west movement in the boundary between maritime and continental climates, we have very good proxy temperature archives in east lying glaciers. The coring at Mrmaglaciren was preceded by a radar survey of the temperature distributions within 35 Swedish glaciers. Dry ice, e.g. ice below freezing point, was found down to depths of 80-120 m on 43% of the investigated glaciers. The potential for finding useful paleorecords in other Swedish glaciers is therefore very good. 
4315147|The aim of this study is to present a historical continuum of nearly 100 years of environmental investigations and changes in trophic levels in the sea area of Helsinki. The survey is based on a re-examination of original planktological and meteorological data; the principle being that eutrophication can be detected in plankton assemblages despite changes in methodology. The bays around Helsinki were found to be moderately eutrophic to hypereutrophic at the beginning of the 20th century. There were considerable differences in the development of the bays both in terms of degradation and recovery. The efficiency of wastewater treatment and especially the introduction of sea outfall have played an important role in decreasing eutrophication in the bay area of Helsinki.
4312604|On the night of March 16-17, 1978, the supertanker Amoco Cadiz ran aground, spilling into the sea almost 223 000 tons of oil with a volatile fraction of 30 to 40 percent. A program to assess the ecological impact of the spill was begun immediately, to run for three years. It includes: chemical monitoring of the water, the sediments and the marine organisms; study of ecological effects on flora and fauna, including acute mortality and re-establishment of heavily damaged communities; studies of microbial degradation of the oil. Major results of these studies have been presented at a special symposium and are reviewed here. The recovery of areas exposed to waves, currents and wind energy is almost complete, but there is still oil in areas more protected from the physical energy of the sea. The ecological impact was extremely complex; in addition to the direct loss in biomass (acute mortality) and the corresponding loss in production, there are sublethal long-term effects especially on reproduction.
4313847|Lake sediments are natural archives that can provide environmental information when ordinary monitoring data are incomplete or missing. We have used surface sediment samples (0-1 cm) collected from 114 lakes to survey the geographical distribution of spheroidal carbonaceous particles (SCP) deposited from the atmosphere during recent years in Sweden. SCP are generated during oil and coal combustion and are mainly composed of elemental carbon. The results show a general pattern of higher concentrations in the south and declining values towards the north. Lakes in the most polluted areas have particle concentrations hundreds of times higher than lakes in the least polluted areas. The SCP distribution pattern is similar to the deposition patterns for many other air pollutants, such as wet deposited excess ${\rm SO}_{4}{}^{-2}$ and lead.
4312840|Observations of correlation between mercury content in fish and heavy metal contamination of sediments in lakes polluted by mine water are presented. In spite of high mercury levels in sediments the concentrations of mercury in pike are very low, even compared with pike from noncontaminated areas. At the same time the sediment concentrations of other heavy metals, especially zinc and lead, are extremely high. Work in progress will provide better comprehension of the mechanism behind this phenomenon.
25094574|The intuitive and logical answer to the question of how the tundra-taiga interface will react to global warming is that it should move north and this is mirrored by many models of potential treeline migration. Northward movement may be the eventual outcome if climatic warming persists over centuries or millennia. However, closer examination of the tundra-taiga interface across its circumpolar extent reveals a more complex situation. The regional climatic history of the tundra-taiga interface is highly varied, and consequently it is to be expected that the forest tundra boundary zone will respond differently to climate change depending on local variations in climate, evolutionary history, soil development, and hydrology. Investigations reveal considerable stability at present in the position of the treeline and while there may be a long-term advance northwards there are oceanic regions where climatic warming may result in a retreat southwards due to increased bog development. Reinforcing this trend is an increasing human impact, particularly in the forest tundra of Russia, which forces the limit of the forested areas southwards. Local variations will therefore require continued observation and research, as they will be of considerable importance economically as well as for ecology and conservation.
4314771|The Baltic Sea is suffering from eutrophication and attempts are being made to reduce nutrient loads. This article focuses on nitrogen transport from southern Sweden
4312475| Total mercury was determined in water and edible fish from the So Vicente estuary using substoichiometric radioisotope dilution analysis. The water was found to contain 0.01-10 g Hg/l with average values of 2.14, 1.80, and 1.66 g/l at three sampling sites situated 30-35 km downstream from a large industrial region. These figures indicate gross mercury pollution. The fish were found to contain from 3 to 860 g Hg/kg in muscle tissue; the large majority were well below tolerance limits for human consumption (500 g/kg). A future increase in the mercury content of the fish is indicated. 
4315616|This paper employs a choice experiment to obtain consumer preferences and willingness to pay for food product quality attributes currently not available in Sweden. Data were obtained from a large mail survey and estimated with a random parameter logit model. We found evidence for intraproduct differences in consumer preferences for identical attributes, as well as interproduct discrepancies in ranking of attributes. Furthermore, we found evidence of a market failure relating to the potential use of genetically modified animal fodder. Finally, we found support for the idea that a cheap-talk script can alleviate problems of external validity of choice experiments. Our results are useful in forming product differentiation strategies within the food industry, as well as for the formation of food policy.
4314804|The coastal areas of Eastern African are the centers for economic growth in most of the countries in the region. Migration toward the coast and population growth, together with overuse of resources and widespread poverty, contribute to the degradation of coastal environments. During the last decade a number of local-level projects have been carried out in the region to improve coastal development and management. This article discusses the experiences and lessons learned from many of these projects. Overall, the degree of success of these projects has been mixed. Projects focusing on biodiversity protection, but neglecting local development are often only successful in the short term. An important concern is that most projects are completely dependent on donor support and are thus far from sustainable. To be successful over the long term, local and national ownership is critical and has to be improved. Legal and regulatory frameworks are still poorly developed and enforcement of regulations is weak at best. The article discusses the need for research and capacity building to support coastal management projects; the role of monitoring and evaluation; and the importance of better communication. Project experiences with community participation are presented. It is noted that coastal managers have not yet fully recognized that private enterprise is the single most important factor driving change along the coastline of the region. In conclusion, the experiences gained over the last 10 years of ICZM in Eastern Africa indicate that projects directly targeted at the local level with activities planned and carried out in cooperation with local stakeholders have a relatively high degree of success.
4315290|Mercury emissions from the coal smoke is the main source of anthropogenic discharge and mercury pollution in atmosphere. The calculated total amount of mercury emissions of China in 1995 is approximately 213.8 tonnes, which accounts for c. 5% of estimated total global discharge of 4000 tonnes in the same period. From 1978 to 1995, total coal consumption increased fourfold. Based on these data it is estimated that the mercury emissions will increase at a rate of 5% a year, and the predicted emissions will be 273 tonnes in China in 2000. Controlling and solving mercury emissions from coal combustion are among the most important environmental tasks facing China.
4314519|The direct-use values of tropical moist forest foods are quantified from 12 consecutive months of data of their harvesting by the Huottuja (Piaroa) Amerindians of Venezuela. Alternate months were spent in a large and small village to investigate the effects of development on harvesting. Local market prices were applied to the weights of plant and animal foods collected by households to calculate their market values. Labor opportunity costs were also calculated and subtracted from the market values to give the net monetary values of forest foods. These net values for all wild plants and animals were USD 1902
4312011| Concentrations of suspended particulate Cu, Zn and Pb in the waters of Srfjord range from <0.1-2.04 g/l, 1.32-51.29 g/l and 0.7-58.05 g/l respectively. Their spatial distribution in surface water and at depth suggest that the high concentration of metals is due to metal discharge from industries situated at the southern extremity of the fjord. Considering the hydrography of the fjord and the relationship of Zn and Pb, two distinct bodies of water are thought to outflow from the fjord. 
4315647|A hydrological-based model (HBV-NP) was applied to a catchment (1900 km
4314450|Since the last deglaciation, 300-500 Pg carbon have accumulated in northern peatlands (346 mill. ha). While sequestering carbon dioxide ( CO
4313991|There are huge losses of harvested crops in the tropical and subtropical countries due to the activities of storage insects. These losses have been related to the high temperatures and relative humidities prevalent in these areas. Infestation begins during the growth period and the insects are then carried into the storage premises with the grain. Within 6 months of storage, losses may be as high as 100%. Most physical and cultural methods used in the control of insect pests in the tropics and subtropics have been unsuccessful and chemical control methods may introduce toxic residues into the stored grains. In many tropical countries, the prohibitive cost of these chemicals, and technical know-how required for their application, tend to limit their use to a few government-owned farms. The shortcomings of other insect control methods have generated much interest in the use of resistant varieties in stored-insect pest control. Several varieties of different grain types have been screened for resistance. Resistant genes have been translocated to high-yielding varieties. This article presents examples of screening trials carried out in the tropics and subtropics with particular reference to Nigeria. The huge quantity of grains lost to storage insects in the tropics has resulted in instituting measures aimed at reducing these losses.
25515841|The Canadian horticultural peat industry generates carbon emissions through various methods of peat extraction, processing, and land-use changes. This study provides a carbon emissions analysis comparing the traditional vacuum harvest (VH) and block-cut (BC) extraction techniques to a new acrotelm transplant (AT) method that restores natural peatland function by preserving and replacing the surface layer vegetation as part of the extraction process. The relative global warming potential for each extraction method was determined by estimating carbon dioxide (CO) and methane exchange for each phase of peat extraction, including emissions from land-use change and machinery fuel consumption. Preliminary findings, based on 1 y of measurements, indicate that the AT technique has the lowest annual carbon emissions compared to the VH and BC methods. Projected total carbon emissions from a 75-ha peatland after 50 y of extraction using the AT technique produced a sink of approximately 3300 t CO equivalents (CO-e). This represents a marked reduction in total carbon emissions estimated for the VH (19 000 t CO-e) and BC (29 000 t CO-e) extraction techniques. This analysis suggests that the AT method reestablishes peat accumulation and peatland carbon storage function more effectively than the VH and BC methods, which are associated with delayed restoration efforts. Consequently, the AT technique has the potential to greatly reduce the carbon footprint of the Canadian horticultural peat industry.
4315699|The Gulf of Finland is regularly affected by inflows of anoxic deep-water masses from the northern Baltic proper. These dense water masses advance over large areas with a decline of benthic life in affected areas as a result. Such events have been regularly repeated over decades and centuries. The archipelago, however, is well protected, because the inflows of anoxic deep waters do not enter such shallow waters. The situation could thus be better for benthic life in the archipelago, but in many areas this is not true. In areas where the bottoms are sheltered from storms and currents, permanent anoxia can persist for decades. Such areas were found in the western archipelago of the Gulf of Finland. Examination of surface cores revealed that many of these basins have been continuously anoxic for almost 40 y. A deeper coring showed that, at least locally, shallow water sea-floor anoxia has been a fact in the area for thousands of years.
4313886|The rate at which the population of Bangladesh is increasing, and the present level of technology, make it impossible to produce enough food for its population in the future. Population pressure has already begun to affect the environment and agricultural sustainability. Because of the intensive land use and biomass shortage cultivated soils are now being depleted of essential nutrients and organic matter. Fisheries, livestock and forestry resources are also under increasing environmental strain. With current technology it would be possible to produce 25.52 and 31.95 mill. tonnes of foodgrain by the year 2000 and 2010 AD. The current level is 18.5 mill. tonnes although greater potential exists. The production of oilseeds, sugar and fish could be doubled by the year 2010 AD. Increasing production would not be enough in view of population increases from 115 mill. today to 145, 177 and 232 mill. by the years 2000, 2010 and 2030, respectively. Unless, Bangladesh controls its population growth more effectively, regenerates already depleted agricultural resources and brings about a major breakthrough in agricultural technology, it will not be able to produce enough food to feed its own people after 2010 and continues to move towards major ecological disaster. In view of this critical situation, some measures have been recommended to control population, to regenerate agricultural resources, and future areas of research thrust.
4313065|Fiji, the most developed of the Pacific Islands states, is experiencing considerable stress on its coastal and marine environment. While these impacts have not reached the disturbing levels of the more industrialized countries, activities such as reclamation, agriculture, tourism, urban development and industrialization are leading to localized pollution and degradation of mangrove, seagrass and coral reef ecosystems. These impacts are accentuated by a heavy emphasis on economic development and the lack of clear cut institutional responsibility for coastal zone planning and management.
4312929|More than 133 000 miles (215 000 km) of pipelines are either operating, underway or planned, and together represent an investment of over $200 billion. Yet pipelines, as the author points out, are much more than just pipes in the ground. Many social, economic, and environmental considerations must be taken into account, from the planning stage through construction to final operation.
4312744|Proliferation of nuclear weapons is the decisive issue which must be confronted in the subtle synergism between nuclear energy for electric power and the resulting generation of fissile explosive materials. Societal structures smaller than national states may be expected to achieve access to devastating nuclear devices with the growing numbers of nuclear reactors for power. Ethical and public health issues, though ultimately dominated by the proliferation question, also are incompletely resolved in matters of radioactive waste management, the transportation of spent reactor fuel, and the siting of nuclear power plants.
4314824| The distribution of soil organic carbon in a mangrove forest partly contaminated with raw sewage shows that a high proportion of the carbon in the landward zones of the forest was organic. Relative content of inorganic carbon increased seawards. Carbonate from the shells of gastropods, oysters, and corals contribute to the inorganic carbon pool. The vertical profiles of organic carbon showed a general surface enrichment and subsurface depletion. An extremely high organic carbon content up to 19% of sediment (dry weight) was found at the sewage dump site. Peat formation was not evident and the organic carbon content decreased with depth of burial in the sediment. The interstitial water at the terrestrial mangrove fringe with sewage waste was relatively more acidic (pH 4-5) and strongly reducing (Eh  300 mV). The pH in the terrestrial fringe that had no sewage influence was close to neutral values (pH > 6). There was no significant difference between the rates of organic matter remineralization in the forest zones. Relative values, however, indicate that mineralization was slowest in sewage-contaminated areas compared to areas without exposure to sewage. The rate of remineralization was high in the frequently inundated mangrove areas. 
40928389|The imperative to further constrain extractive uses of natural resources will strengthen as resources degrade through over-use or exposure to climate changes. Here, we explore an approach to increase the support for marine conservation among coral reef fishers. We explore the proposition that resource dependency in the Egyptian Red Sea can act as a barrier to conservation. We administered face-to-face surveys to 49% of the fishing industry to: (i) identify the level of compliance to the local marine protected area (MPA), (ii) assess the level of dependency on marine resources in the region and (iii) examine the relationship between resource dependency and conservation attitudes. Only 11.4% of fishers were aware of the MPA. Fishers were mostly limited in their social flexibility and livelihood options. Results suggest that resource dependency is highly and negatively correlated with conservation attitudes suggesting that management efforts need to seriously focus on reducing dependency if conservation goals are to be met.
4315291|This research used knowledge of the indigenous practice of timing nontimber forest product harvest with the full moon to demonstrate that chemicals controlling the decomposition rate of foliage fluctuate with the lunar cycle and may have developed as a result of plant-herbivore interactions. Indigenous knowledge suggests that leaves harvested during the full moon are more durable. Palm leaves harvested during the full moon had higher total C, hemicellulose, complex C and lower Ca concentrations. These chemical changes should make palm leaves less susceptible to herbivory and more durable when harvested during the full moon. This study proposes a mechanism by which plants in the tropics minimize foliage herbivory and influence the decomposition rates of senesced leaves and their durability, especially during the full moon. This research supports the need to use natural life cycles in managing forests and provides a scientific basis for an indigenous community's harvesting practice.
4314161|The global atmosphere is a chemically complex and dynamic system, interacting both internally, mostly within the troposphere and stratosphere, and with the oceans, land, and living organisms. Its composition is changing today, and has also changed markedly over the last 160 000 yr. Environmentally-significant chemical processes occurring in the atmosphere include those affecting the ozone layer and the levels of radiatively active gases and particles. CH4, a very important greenhouse gas, has major natural and anthropogenic sources; it is destroyed largely by reaction with the hydroxyl radical in the troposphere. Both its sources and sink are strongly influenced by human activity. Nitrous oxide, with a similar range of sources, and chlorofluorocarbons, purely anthropogenic, are also greenhouse gases; however, their potency is offset partially by the ozone they destroy. Ozone, a key chemical and protective ultraviolet shield, has a complex chemistry influenced by many other trace species and is also an important greenhouse gas. Many other trace gases play a key role through their influence on the concentrations of ozone, the hydroxyl radical, and CH4. Gaseous sulfur compounds, both natural and anthropogenic, are oxidized to particulate sulfates which have an important effect on albedo, counteracting the influence of the greenhouse gases. Atmospheric chemistry is therefore closely linked to industrial activity, climate, and land use through many complex environmental processes; these interactions cannot be realistically described by single numbers such as potentials for ozone depletion or global warming. The International Global Atmospheric Chemistry (IGAC) project is underway and dedicated to understanding this complex system through a combination of observations, theory, and laboratory and modelling studies.
4312725|The blow-out of the Ixtoc I exploratory well in the Bay of Campeche on June 3, 1979, resulted in the release of about 475 000 metric tons of oil to the waters of the Gulf of Mexico. The authors calculate that approximately 24 000 metric tons of oil landed on Mexican beaches, about 4000 metric tons landed on Texas beaches, and about 120 000 metric tons, or 25 percent of the total, sank to the bottom of the Gulf. Since thorough studies of the ecological damage in Mexico have either not been carried out or the results have not been released, the authors estimate biological damage from the spill on the basis of data in the literature, laboratory experiments, and experience with similar spills elsewhere. They calculate that some 15 000 km
4315458|This paper describes the environmental characteristics and situation of aquatic habitats and communities in southern continental and maritime areas of southeastern South America (Patagonian Shelf GIWA Subregion), resulting from an overall assessment carried out within the framework of a GIWA project, mostly on the basis of publicly available data. The main focus of the analysis was on the current situation of transboundary water resources and anthropogenic impacts. In the inland waters, habitat and community modifications result, principally, from dams and reservoirs built in the main watercourses for hydroelectric power generation and other uses. The transformation of lotic environments into lentic ones have affected habitats and altered biotic communities. In the La Plata River basin, invasive exotic species have displaced native ones. Habitats in the ocean have been degraded, as their biodiversity becomes affected by overfishing and pollution. This article includes a discussion on the causal chain and the policy options elaborated for the Coastal Ecosystem of Buenos Aires province and the Argentinean-Uruguayan Common Fishing Zone, where fishing resources are shared by both countries.
24709001|The North Water polynya ( 76N to 79N and 70W to 80W) is known to be an important habitat for several species of marine mammals and sea birds. For millennia, it has provided the basis for subsistence hunting and human presence in the northernmost part of Baffin Bay. The abundance of air-breathing top predators also represents a potential source of nutrient cycling that maintains primary production. In this study, aerial surveys conducted in 2009 and 2010 were used for the first time to map the distribution and estimate the abundance of top predators during spring in the North Water. Belugas (Delphinapterus leucas) were not detected north of 7720N but were found along the coast of West Greenland and offshore in the middle of the North Water with an abundance estimated at 2245 (95 % CI 18112783). Narwhals (Monodon monoceros) were widely distributed on the eastern side of the North Water with an estimate of abundance of 7726 (376115 870). Walruses (Odobenus rosmarus) were found across the North Water over both shallow and deep (>500 m) water with an estimated abundance of 1499 (10772087). Bearded (Erignathus barbatus) and ringed seals (Phoca hispida) used the large floes of ice in the southeastern part of the North Water for hauling out. Most polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were detected in the southern part of the polynya. The abundances of bearded and ringed seals were 6016 (332210 893) and 9529 (546016 632), respectively, and that of polar bears was 60 (12292). Three sea bird species were distributed along the Greenland coast (eiders, Somateria spp.), in leads and cracks close to the Greenland coast (little auks, Alle alle) or widely in open water (thick-billed guillemots, Uria lomvia).
4314033|A budget, based on an extensive sampling program quantifying concentrations of extractable chlorinated hydrocarbons (EOCI) in input sources, in water and sediment, shows that large amounts of chlorinated organic matter have accumulated in the Baltic Sea. The total amount corresponds to over half of the effluents produced by the pulp-mill industry since chlorine bleaching was introduced in the early 1940s. A numerical model, that also considers possible transport and decay processes, is in agreement with the observed distribution pattern. The model also demonstrates that the Baltic will contain large amounts of chlorinated organic matter for many decades, in spite of the recent reductions in the effluents from industry. However, the chemical composition and toxic effects of the measured bulk parameter EOCI remains largely unknown. The major challenge for environmental science is to develop ecotoxicological concepts and methods to determine the effects of these substances.
4312429|The environmental problems of the developing societies, in contrast to those of the developed societies, are aggravated by a lack of technology rather than from technological affluence. Industrialization is urgently needed to ward off threatening socio-economic-environmental spectres. Technology is a social process causally related to social change. Appropriate technology is the "second best" technology on socio-economic-organizational criteria. It will create marginal environmental damage in the secondary (industrial) sector but will reduce current excessive and increasing environmental degradation in the primary (agricultural) sector. In view of the low intensity of technology the impact will be marginal and will be redressed over the course of time when more sophisticated technology becomes feasible. Taking everything into account, the most appropriate strategy for development is Scenario three.
4312094|The geographical distribution of arsenic and selenium in Norwegian forest soils has been studied. The concentration of selenium shows a distinct decrease with increasing distance from the sea, while a similar trend is not evident for arsenic. This implies that a considerable input of selenium to the soils takes place through the precipitation. The origin of this air-borne selenium may in part be marine, but terrestrial sources of volatile selenium compounds may also play a certain role. There are indications that the observed selenium distribution is possibly of biological significance.
25547858|Baltic grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) alternate between land and ice breeding, depending on ice conditions. We show that the fitness of grey seal females in terms of pup mortality and quality is reduced when breeding on land as compared with ice. The mean preweaning mortality rate on land was 21.1% (range 0% to 31.6%), and correlated with birth density (range 0.5-5.2 pups 100 m). The mean mortality rate on ice was 1.5%, where the highest density was 0.2 pups 100 m in particularly dense breeding groups. Mean weights of pups born on ice were significantly greater (48.3  8.1 kg) at the onset of moult as compared with pups born on land (37.4  7.8 kg). Because indices of life-time net reproductive rate (pup survival) and pup quality (weaning weight and health) were more auspicious on ice as compared with land, diminishing ice fields will lower the fitness of Baltic grey seal females and substantially increase the risk for quasi-extinction.
23257419|The objective of this study is to present an efficiency-perception impact assessment based upon the integration of fuzzy logic (FL) of the "Productive Reconversion" conservation program (PRP) instituted by the Mexican government, in the upper Gulf of California and the Colorado Delta Biosphere Reserve. This approach enables environmental analysts to deal with the intrinsic imprecision and ambiguity associated with people's judgments and conclusions. The application of FL to the assessment of program efficiency is illustrated in this work, demonstrating how subjective perceptions can be converted into quantitative values easy to evaluate during the decision-making process.
4315768|Ecosystem budgets of matter contribute to the assessment of transport and accumulation of bioavailable contaminants in a landscape, since flows of matter and energy ultimately determine the rates at which contaminants will be partitioned in the environment. This study compares ecosystem properties, such as net primary production (NPP), sequestration of matter and fluxes to food sources for humans, which are of potential interest to describe fluxes and accumulation of bioavailable radionuclides in 14 catchments within a larger catchment area in southeast Sweden. The carbon budgets, used as a proxy for organic matter, are mainly based on local estimates of pools and fluxes, which have been distributed across a landscape mosaic of different vegetation types and management regimes using a geographical information system (GIS). NPP varied by a factor close to two (432 - 709
4314811|The harvesting of reef building corals has a negative impact on coral reefs. This pressure is likely to increase with the growing human population along the tropical coasts and, therefore, alternative sources of livelihood and sustainable methods for resource extraction are needed. This paper presents the results of two experiments on coral culturing and one study on temporal patterns in the coral recruitment near Zanzibar, Tanzania. The survival and growth of cultured coral fragments of different sizes was compared for several species of corals, and the effects of lesions on coral fragments were examined. Temporal patterns in recruitment were assessed through regular deployment and sampling of terracotta tiles. The results show that within 1 year, fragments as small as 1-2 cm can be reared into coral colonies that can be sold to the aquarium market or used for reef rehabilitation. Lesions had no negative effect on the growth of the fragments, while a larger initial size had a positive impact on the fragment's growth rate. Coral recruitment was seasonal, with two annual peaks in February-April and November-December. This information could be of use for the timing of deployment of artificial settlement substrata for coral-culturing purposes, as well as for the planning of potentially disturbing coastal development.
4312030|Macroscopic minimodels of the flows of energy in producing the structural basis of our world of man and nature help the simple mind of man see the reasons for the rapid changes coming as we shift from a growth economy to a declining economy and finally to a steady state pattern. Twenty points are made to explain the energy control of our economy and the relationship of environment. Inflation is driven by increasing energy expended in getting energy; Environmental protection is an ally rather than antagonist of energy conservation; marginal energy sources become less useful as main energy sources decline; There is little potential in solar technology as it competes poorly with solar work in natural environments, agriculture, forestry, and other ancient ways of utilization; Net reserves of energy are much smaller than gross energies, and the cresting of world urban technological growth may be much closer than predicted by most government advisors. There are great hazards for the country that attempts to continue a growth economy when the time has come for reconversion to the steady state. If inferences from natural ecosystems in steady state are correct, the steady state for man may be a golden era of stability and individual fulfillment.
4313253|The concept of assimilative capacity has been suggested as a basis for permitting the controlled disposal of anthropogenic wastes in the ocean. It is suggested in this study that the term assimilative is a misnomer since there is no benefit for the receiving body of water from the addition of pollutants. The term accomodative capacity (AC) is suggested in its place. This procedure has been applied to the disposal of radioactive wastes, mercury and bacteria. In addition, two examples where the AC approach has been extended to the overall health of the ecosystem are considered: PCB's in the New York Bight and the disposal of sewage effluent off the coast of Southern California. From these examples, three schemes are put forward to implement the concept of AC on the basis of a) public health considerations, b) effects on the marine ecosystem and c) experimental strategies.
25434348|The forest hunter-gatherers of the middle Yangtze River basin, who were the first to invent pottery and led a sedentary lifestyle, may have begun to cultivate rice during the Blling-Allerd interstadial global warming period. The earliest rice cultivation may have dated back to 14 000 calibrated (cal.) years before present (YBP). The global warming at 9000 cal. YBP in the early Holocene brought the development of the rice cultivation to the middle Yangtze River basin. On the other hand, ancient rice-cultivating and piscatorial society met a crisis at 4200-4000 cal. YBP that was characterized by a significant cooling of the climate. This climate deterioration led the northern wheat/barley-cultivating pastoral people to migrate to the south and invade, ultimately bringing about the collapse of the rice-cultivating and piscatorial society in the Yangtze River basin.
4315764|To provide information necessary for a license application for a deep repository for spent nuclear fuel, the Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste Management Co. has started site investigations at two sites in Sweden. In this paper, we present a strategy to integrate site-specific ecosystem data into spatially explicit models needed for safety assessment studies and the environmental impact assessment. The site-specific description of ecosystems is developed by building discipline-specific models from primary data and by identifying interactions and stocks and flows of matter among functional units at the sites. The conceptual model is a helpful initial tool for defining properties needed to quantify system processes, which may reveal new interfaces between disciplines, providing a variety of new opportunities to enhance the understanding of the linkages between ecosystem characteristics and the functional properties of landscapes. This type of integrated ecosystem-landscape characterization model has an important role in forming the implementation of a safety assessment for a deep repository.
4314672|Sedimentary habitats cover most of the ocean bottom and therefore constitute the largest single ecosystem on earth in spatial coverage. Although only a small fraction of the micro-, meio- and macroscopic benthic organisms that reside in and on sediments have been described and few estimates of total species numbers and biogeographic pattern have been attempted, there is sufficient information on a few species to suggest that sedimentary organisms significantly impact major ecological processes. Benthic organisms contribute to regulation of carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur cycling, water column processes, pollutant distribution and fate, secondary production, and transport and stability of sediments. Linkages between groups of organisms and the level of functional redundancy is poorly known, however, there is probably substantial redundancy within groups. There is little evidence that biodiversity per se is necessary for benthic systems to contribute to ecosystem services, but because linkages are so poorly known and predictive knowledge confined to a few species, it is not presently possible to predict exactly how species loss will impact these services and ecosystem health. Thus, a precautionary approach of "assume the worst" is advised, and every effort should be made to curtail the species and genetic diversity loss resulting from fishing, pollution, habitat destruction, introduction of non-native (exotic) species, and global warming. Concurrently, scientists must take advantage of exciting, rapidly evolving technology and a rejuvenated interest in biodiversity to provide more concrete and thorough information on benthos and ecosystem processes.
4315002|Vertical upflow wetland systems have shown high nutrient removal efficiencies. The removal of nutrients (N and P) from wastewater was investigated in a vertical upflow wetland system in Piracicaba, Brazil. The concentration removal was 93% for phosphate, 78% for nitrate and 50% for ammonia. Effective phosphate removal was observed in the top soil layer which has a high surface adsorption area. Nitrate was removed satisfactory at low loading rates due to plant uptake and denitrification. Removal of ammonia was concentration dependent and decreased at high inflow concentrations. Spatial sampling through the bed showed that the treatment efficiency was not uniform. The possibility of the recycling of nutrients as a soil improver or animal feed is an important feature of this type of vertical flow wetland system.
4313528|The article deals with motivations and the practice of polar research, with special reference to the Antarctic. It introduces a concept of institutional motives, reviews some of the driving factors in modern polar research and considers some similarities and differences between Arctic and Antarctic science, mainly to highlight the latter. External political conditions that form the framework within which polar research is done today, differ considerably in the two regions. In the Arctic the exertion of national sovereignty, as well as military and economic interests in a number of countries have hindered the far-reaching international cooperation in science found in the Antarctic. At the same time these factors have contributed to a fragmentation of knowledge production, while in the Antarctic, an international treaty arrangement which suspends territorial claims and emphasizes research has created conditions favorable to basic research. The focus is mainly on the tradeoff between science and politics in the Antarctic, and it is suggested that research there has a symbolic instrumental function, as distinct from a practical instrumental function in the Arctic.
25547936|The globally threatened Eastern Imperial Eagle Aquila heliaca has been one of the flagship species of Hungarian bird conservation efforts since the 1980s. Due to these conservation activities and positive land-use changes during the last 2 decades, the Hungarian Imperial Eagle population increased from as few as approximately 20 pairs in the early 1980s to 81 pairs by 2006. Between 2002 and 2005 as part of a LIFE-Nature project, MME/Birdlife Hungary carried out particularly intensive monitoring, conservation, research, and public awareness actions. The main goal of the project was to secure the long-term sustainable increase in the Imperial Eagle population after Hungary's European Union accession in 2004. New methods were developed and applied to census and monitor the breeding and wintering population sizes. Standardized baseline land-use mapping and surveys were introduced to detect long-term land-use and prey density changes in priority areas for Imperial Eagles and to monitor the effects of key mortality factors, such as electrocution. Historical information and data gathered before and during the project period were assimilated using a Geographic Information System and incorporated into a comprehensive set of Imperial Eagle Management Guidelines.
4315014|The rural people in India, particularly the tribals and poor, depend on forest resources for meeting their energy needs, forest products, and for employment. This paper gives details of one estimation of dependency of people on forests in villages in the Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Gujarat states of India. Benefits derived by the people were reflected as a percentage of the total income of the household. The dependency on forests varies from 37% to 76% in these villages. This kind of assessment would create a data base and provide indicators of sustainable forest management, especially for an understanding of the intricacies of Joint Forest Management. This information can be very useful in deriving the overall contribution of the forestry sector in the national economy and thus help the planners, administrators and foresters in evolving better management practices.
4315329|Prior to construction of the Aswan High Dam, the annual Nile flood delivered about
4315230|At 81.7 million tonnes (Mt), commercial fertilizer nitrogen (N) accounts for approximately half of all N reaching global croplands today and supplies basic food needs for at least 40% of the population. The challenge is to continue to help meet that need while minimizing the risk of negative environmental impacts through improved N-use efficiency. Fertilizer-N efficiency on corn in the US has increased more than 30% over the last 20 years, but additional progress can be made for corn and other crops. Current N efficiency and productivity are generally lower in most of Asia than in North America, but they are improving. The fertilizer industry recognizes its crucial role in meeting basic human needs, now and in the future. It stands ready to meet the challenge of adopting new practices and technologies that will allow it to do so with greater efficiency and in a way that not only sustains life, but also sustains the quality of life. Higher crop production normally demands higher nutrient application rates and consequently increased mineral nitrogen use. With food demand for 2030 estimated around 2800 million tonnes (t) yr
4315607|In many European countries, milk production per cow has more than doubled in the last 40 years. The increase in production has been accompanied by declining ability to reproduce, increasing incidence of health problems, and declining longevity in modern dairy cows. Genetic selection for increased milk yield increasingly is viewed as increasing profit at the expense of reducing animal welfare. The economic future of the dairy industry is related directly to public acceptance of its breeding and production practices. It is important to the dairy industry that welfare problems should be addressed before there is widespread condemnation of breeding and management practices. A new breeding goal aimed at improving fitness and tolerance of metabolic stress is necessary to prevent the decrease in the quality of life of dairy cows and instead, perhaps, enhance it.
4312900|The World Heritage Convention was adopted by the UNESCO General Conference in November 1972. Its origins lay in the increasing awareness by all nations of the world that parts of the world's cultural and national heritage, wherever they are located, belonged to mankind's common heritage. Associated with this awareness is a sense of concern and shared responsibility for the protection and conservation of the heritage and its transmission to future generations. The Convention has now become the international instrument by which parts of the world's heritage of outstanding universal value can be identified and protected for present and future generations.
4313741|Cereal crops are the basis of the human diet; any important losses in the production of these crops will affect human populations. Diseases and pests cause significant losses in grain production throughout the world. This paper describes the resistance mechanisms of barley and wheat to aphids which are based on the presence of natural chemical compounds in the plants. These mechanisms could help increase grain production and in addition decrease the need for pesticides.
4312068|Water pollution is a major problem in the world today, with thousands of polluting substances being discharged into the waters. It seems that no river, no lake, no part of the oceans is entirely free from pollution. Both pollution caused by lack of development and pollution caused by development worsen increasingly, due to population growth and urbanization, and to increasing industrialization and bad land management. International co-operation and national pollution-abatement policies are essential if catastrophes are to be avoided in the future.
4313330|The most important forest formation classes, in relation to area, biospheric (especially climatic) effects and socioeconomic value, are the predominantly evergreen, humid tropical forests and the cold-temperate, predominantly evergreen, (boreal coniferous) forests. The two classes have many fundamental features in common. Both consist of complex and dynamic biocybernetically organized and regulated ecosystems that follow the same basic natural laws to which such systems are subject. The species richness and diversity of the tropical forest may appear redundant, but is probably an essential safety factor for survival under stress.
41417353|Surface water concentrations of dissolved organic carbon ([DOC]) are changing throughout the northern hemisphere due to changes in climate, land use and acid deposition. However, the relative importance of these drivers is unclear. Here, we use the Integrated Catchments model for Carbon (INCA-C) to simulate longterm (1996-2008) streamwater [DOC] at the four Swedish integrated monitoring (IM) sites. These are unmanaged headwater catchments with old-growth forests and no major changes in land use. Daily, seasonal and long-term variations in streamwater [DOC] driven by runoff, seasonal temperature and atmospheric sulfate (SO) deposition were observed at all sites. Using INCA-C, it was possible to reproduce observed patterns of variability in streamwater [DOC] at the four IM sites. Runoff was found to be the main short-term control on [DOC]. Seasonal patterns in [DOC] were controlled primarily by soil temperature. Measured SO deposition explained some of the longterm [DOC] variability at all sites.
4315757|Arctic freshwater and diadromous fish species will respond to the various effects of climate change in many ways. For wide-ranging species, many of which are key components of northern aquatic ecosystems and fisheries, there is a large range of possible responses due to inter- and intra-specific variation, differences in the effects of climate drivers within ACIA regions, and differences in drivers among regions. All this diversity, coupled with limited understanding of fish responses to climate parameters generally, permits enumeration only of a range of possible responses which are developed here for selected important fishes. Accordingly, indepth examination is required of possible effects within species within ACIA regions, as well as comparative studies across regions. Two particularly important species (Arctic char and Atlantic salmon) are examined as case studies to provide background for such studies.
4313989|Bass (Dicentrarchus labrax (L.)) are highly prized as sport and table fish in England and Wales. Adult bass undertake extensive migrations, whereas sexually immature bass shoal in confined estuarine nurseries where they are vulnerable to exploitation by the bass fishery. New laws, which require the seasonal closure of specific nursery areas to the bass fishery, were introduced to safeguard the recruitment of bass to the adult stock. However, the availability of suitable estuarine nursery areas is decreasing rapidly as habitats are destroyed, claimed, polluted or altered by barrage construction and water abstraction. Numerous regulations control these developments, but their requirements are inadequately co-ordinated and they rarely provide effective protection within a complex estuarine ecosystem. For the purposes of managing bass nurseries, it is concluded that future strategies must regulate both the fishery and the fishes' environment.
41805973|In this study, a consistent basin-wise monthly time series of the atmospheric nutrient load to the Baltic Sea during 1850-2006 was compiled. Due to the lack of a long time series (1850-1960) of nutrient deposition to the Baltic Sea, the data set was compiled by combining a time series of deposition data at the Baltic Nest Institute from 1970 to 2006, published historical monitoring data and deposition estimates, as well as recent modeled Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) emission estimates. The procedure for nitrogen compounds included estimation of the deposition in a few intermediate reference years, linear interpolation between them, and the decomposition of annual deposition into a seasonal deposition pattern. As no reliable monitoring results were found for the atmospheric deposition of phosphorus during the early period of our study, we used published estimates for the temporal and spatial pattern of the phosphorus load.
4313568| Lake Vttern is one of the largest oligotrophic clear-water bodies in Europe. It is highly valued for recreation, fisheries, and as a drinking water reservoir. The lake is susceptible to pollutants derived both from the atmosphere and from tributaries and has been threatened by eutrophication and other pollution. Advanced sewage treatment reduced phosphorus inputs in the mid-1970s and the biotic communities are now recovering from eutrophication symptoms. The nitrate concentration in the lake has more than doubled in 20 years and is still constantly increasing, the reasons for which are discussed. Present day salt concentrations are 30% higher compared to concentrations before World War II and deposition of acid pollutants have changed the ionic composition in favor of sulfate. The lake sediments are contaminated by zinc, cadmium, lead, and mercury, mainly from a mining operation at the lake and by chlorinated organic compounds from the bleach-plant effluents of a pulp mill. Laboratory tests indicated toxic effects of the sediments on a benthic organism. Levels of mercury, DDT and PCB in fish were approaching legislative criteria for human consumption in the late 1960s, but are now well below recommended levels. Relatively high concentrations of dioxins have recently been found in arctic char. 
4313177|Large portions of the rain forests of Borneo (mainly in Indonesian Kalimantan and in the Malaysian state of Sabah) were heavily damaged by fire in 1982 and 1983. The unusual magnitude of the fires should be related to the intense drought in tropical Southeast Asia during the second part of 1982 and early 1983. Because of their ecological and economic significance, those events have attracted wide attention. They have raised new questions regarding the management and preservation of tropical ecosystems experiencing intensified population pressures. Accurate and timely assessments of the extent and dynamics of the "Borneo fires" have been difficult, however, owing to the size and geography of the area. The authors report on a series of observations made using the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) carried on-board the NOAA-7 satellite. Such observations obtained daily by this sensor provide valuable information on the occurrence of the fires and on their impact on the vegetation.
4315140|Grave environmental problems, including contamination of biota by organochlorines and heavy metals, and increasing deep-water oxygen deficiency, were discovered in the Baltic Sea in the late 1960s. Toxic pollutants, including the newly discovered PCB, were initially seen as the main threat to the Baltic ecosystem, and the impaired reproduction found in Baltic seals and white-tailed eagles implied a threat also to human fish eaters. Countermeasures gradually gave results, and today the struggle to limit toxic pollution of the Baltic is an international environmental success story. Calculations showed that Baltic deep-water oxygen consumption must have increased, and that the Baltic nutrient load had grown about fourfold for nitrogen and 8 times for phosphorus. Evidence of increased organic production at all trophic levels in the ecosystem gradually accumulated. Phosphorus was first thought to limit Baltic primary production, but measurements soon showed that nitrogen is generally limiting in the open Baltic proper, except for nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria. Today, the debate is concerned with whether phosphorus, by limiting nitrogen-fixers, can control open-sea ecosystem production, even where phytoplankton is clearly nitrogen limited. The Baltic lesson teaches us that our views of newly discovered environmental problems undergo repeated changes, and that it may take decades for scientists to agree on their causes. Once society decides on countermeasures, it may take decades for them to become effective, and for nature to recover. Thus, environmental management decisions can hardly wait for scientific certainty. We should therefore view environmental management decisions as experiments, to be monitored, learned from, and then modified as needed.
4314576|We estimated the ecological footprint of cities in Baltic Europe and globally. The 29 largest cities of Baltic Europe appropriate for their resource consumption and waste assimilation an area of forest, agricultural, marine, and wetland ecosystems that is at least 565-1130 times larger than the area of the cities themselves. Of the global human population, 20% (1.1 billion), living in 744 large cities worldwide, appropriate for their seafood consumption as much as 25% of the globally available area of productive marine ecosystems. The same cities' appropriation of forests for assimilation of CO
4312821|This case study reviews the nature and extent of natural grasslands in Canada and how it was impacted by human settlement. It summarizes the conservation measures that were implemented between 1900-1950 to protect the faunal elements of the Canadian grasslands from extinction due to habitat destruction and over-hunting. The social, economic and political constraints associated with the establishment of a national park in southwestern Saskatchewan to conserve one of the last remnants of the grasslands biogeographic province in North America, and the actions taken to resolve them, are highlighted.
4314244|This article presents official statistics on the Siberian forests, encompassing the Asian part of Russia, from the Urals to the Pacific. The concerns relating to the deterioration of the forest resources in all regions of Siberia are addressed. Emphasis is given to the need to develop sustainable utilization policies.
4313986|This paper illustrates the complexity of the assessment of different agricultural production practices. It is argued that any assessment of agricultural production should address the type of interaction between human society and its ecosystem. In fact, the characteristics of the society in which the farming system is operating and of the natural ecosystem that is altered, influence the perception and meaning of the agricultural production process. Assumptions adopted in the assessment, such as optimizing strategy and boundaries of the production system, are as important for the significance of the analysis as the availablility and reliability of data. A numerical illustration of the problems inherent in the assessment of agricultural production is provided by comparing the performance of four different systems of livestock production: (i) beef feed-lot closed; (ii) beef feed-lot importing feed; (iii) beef feed-lot organic system; (iv) beef nomadic pastoral system. Some numerical indicators used in the assessment are derived from models of energy analysis, such as: the level of technological capitalization of society; the quantity of biophysical capital altered by agricultural production activities and the degree of alteration; and the ratio between densities of energy throughput in ecosystem and society.
4312187|Potentialities for energy conservation in the developed world are large even assuming continued growth and little change in life-styles. The energy-extravagant changes of the past are not hard to reverse and there is only a tenuous connection between energy consumption and "wealth" in countries at similar developmental stages. The potentialities for renewable energy sources are reviewed with particular stress on solar energy and its relevance to development at village level in the Third World.
4314618|It has been observed that successful cooperation among states to protect the regional or global environment is dependent on a high level of concern among the participating nations. International decision-makers' concern for the environment, in turn, depends partly on their perception of ecological and human health risks. Risk perception was analyzed in a negotiation between Sweden and Finland to restrict emissions of organochlorines from the sulfate pulp and paper industry. Data analysis from participants' surveys indicated that Swedes and Finns possessed significantly different views about the level of environmental hazard posed by kraft mill-generated organochlorines. The disagreement about environmental risk was influenced more by historical, political, and market-oriented forces than by disagreement over the technical evidence in the case. These findings indicate that risk perception is complex and that simple remedies, including "educating" decision-makers about relevant scientific evidence, are not necessarily the best means for harmonizing nations' concern for the environment.
41805981|Before climate change is considered in longterm coastal management, it is necessary to investigate how institutional stakeholders in coastal management conceptualize climate change, as their awareness will ultimately affect their actions. Using questionnaires in eight Baltic Sea riparian countries, this study examines environmental managers' awareness of climate change. Our results indicate that problems related to global warming are deemed secondary to short-term social and economic issues. Respondents agree that problems caused by global warming will become increasingly important, but pay little attention to adaptation and mitigation strategies. Current environmental problems are expected to continue to be urgent in the future. We conclude that an apparent gap exists between decision making, public concerns, and scientific consensus, resulting in a situation in which the latest evidence rarely influences commonly held opinions.
4314813|Shrimp farming is rapidly expanding over a coastal belt of about 120 km in the northwestern province of Sri Lanka. The Dutch Canal Mundel lagoon system, a shallow semienclosed coastal water system with very limited tidal mixing due to sandbar formation, act as the major brackish water source and a receiving body for the effluents discharged for 70% of the shrimp farms in Sri Lanka. Farms are mainly developed on intertidal areas in land-use categories of mangroves, salt marsh and scrubland; occupying more than 60% of the natural flood plains. Floods during intermonsoons have affected 40% of the farms directly and retension of flood water in lagoons has resulted in unusually low salinities (2 ppt) for 2-5 weeks, restricting water exchange in farms. Concentrations of sulfides (5.2-8.0 mg L
4312046| Until a few years ago cadmium was thought by most researchers to be of toxicological importance only in industry. In the late 1960s it was established as the cause of an epidemic of osteomalacia in Japan (Itai-Itai disease) and recent investigations indicate that it may be causally associated with an increase in prevalence of proteinuria in several areas in Japan where the general environment has been contaminated by cadmium. The high chronic toxicity of cadmium is explainable on the basis of its long retention time (biological half-time in the order of decades) in the human kidney, giving rise to an accumulation of cadmium, especially in the renal tubules. This accumulation, when reaching a level of about 200 g Cd/g, may cause renal dysfunction. Based on experience of the toxicity of cadmium for animals and humans, a metabolic model has been established describing the accumulation of cadmium in the kidney, and from this model calculations of critical daily intakes by food and inhaled air have been made. A comparison of these calculated effect values with existing safety values for industry shows that the latter are far too high. 
4315164|Joint Implementation under the Climate Change Convention and Clean Development Mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol require a scientific understanding of current carbon stocks, fluxes, and sequestration potential, especially in tropical ecosystems where there are large carbon reservoirs, significant carbon emissions, and large land areas available for reforestation. Central Africa contains 10% of the world's remaining tropical moist forests and has received little attention in carbon studies. In 1980, aboveground carbon stocks in the central African ecosystem were 28.92 Pg and were reduced to 24.79 Pg by 1990. Improved forest management aimed at increasing biomass density could sequester 18.32 Pg of carbon, and over
4312263|The protein eaten in the developed countries is far in excess of body needs, with no known benefits from the excess. A halt to wasteful consumption of animal protein will help to release the resources so freed for the common well-being of all-rich and poor.
25547793|This paper discusses some recent advances in spectrometric methods and approaches for mercury speciation analysis of environmental samples with focus on isotope dilution techniques for determination of mercury species' concentrations in gaseous samples and reaction rates in soils and sediments. Such analytical data is important inter alia in fundamental research on mercury biogeochemistry and for risk assessments of mercury-contaminated soils and sediments and for designing effective remedial actions. The paper describes how the use of enriched stable isotope tracers in mercury speciation analysis can improve the traceability and accuracy of results, facilitate rational method developments, and be useful for studying biogeochemical processes, i.e. rate of reactions and fluxes, of mercury species. In particular the possibilities to study and correct for unwanted species transformation reactions during sample treatment and to study "natural" transformations of species in environmental samples, or micro- and mesocosm ecosystems, during incubations are highlighted. Important considerations to generate relevant data in isotope tracer experiments as well as reliability and quality assurance of mercury speciation analysis in general are also discussed.
25094588|In the late
4313182|We describe the fate of arsenate added at a low (non-toxic) concentration over a three-month period to an outdoor flow-through system containing Baltic Sea Fucus vesiculosus with associated algae and invertebrates. The distribution of the mass of arsenic showed that the system retained about 27 percent of the arsenic made available over the three months. Of this, 90 percent was equally divided between the Fucus and the sediment. The invertebrates exhibited little or no bioaccumulation but, apparently via grazing and filter-feeding, processed and excreted much of the arsenic taken up by the benthic algae and suspended particles. Fucus, which grows slowly and experiences only limited grazing, accumulated relatively high levels of arsenic. About 95 percent of the arsenic provided in this experiment was accounted for from analyses of sediment, organisms and water.
4315714|Despite their generally isolated geographic locations, the freshwaters of the north are subjected to a wide spectrum of environmental stressors. High-latitude regions are especially sensitive to the effects of recent climatic warming, which have already resulted in marked regime shifts in the biological communities of many Arctic lakes and ponds. Important drivers of these limnological changes have included changes in the amount and duration of snow and ice cover, and, for rivers and lakes in their deltas, the frequency and extent of spring floods. Other important climate-related shifts include alterations in evaporation and precipitation ratios, marked changes in the quality and quantity of lake and river water inflows due to accelerated glacier and permafrost melting, and declining percentages of precipitation that falls as snow. The depletion of stratospheric ozone over the north, together with the clarity of many Arctic lakes, renders them especially susceptible to damage from ultraviolet radiation. In addition, the long-range atmospheric transport of pollutants, coupled with the focusing effects of contaminant transport from biological vectors to some local ecosystems (e.g., salmon nursery lakes, ponds draining seabird colonies) and biomagnification in long food chains, have led to elevated concentrations of many persistent organic pollutants (e.g., insecticides, which have never been used in Arctic regions) and other pollutants (e.g., mercury). Rapid development of gas and oil pipelines, mining for diamonds and metals, increases in human populations, and the development of all-season roads, seaports, and hydroelectric dams will stress northern aquatic ecosystems. The cumulative effects of these stresses will be far more serious than those caused by changing climate alone.
4312784|The disturbances of behavior and mental activity to be expected in the survivors of a nuclear attack will mainly be associated with the emergence of acute anxiety reactions. The immediate effects may include acute brain syndromes, protracted anxiety states, and reactive psychoses. It is to be expected that one-third of the survivors or more will suffer more-or-less severe mental and behavioral disturbances, and the psychological reactions of the survivors will continue for months or years after the attack. No adequate treatment would be available for the vast majority of these casualties, and it follows that the only rational alternative is to prevent the occurrence of a nuclear war. The psychological disturbances arising from the continuing arms race are also discussed.
40730870|Animal populations are exposed to large-scale anthropogenic impact from e.g. climate change, habitat alteration and supplemental stocking. All of these may affect body condition in wintering dabbling ducks, which in turn may affect an individual's survival and reproductive success. The aim of this study was to assess whether there have been morphometric changes in Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and Teal (Anas crecca) over the last 30 years at a major wintering site. Body mass and condition increased from the 1950s-1960s to the 2000s in both species. The increase in body mass amounted to as much as 11.7%, with no corresponding change in body size. Improved body condition was maintained from early to mid-winter, but then converged with historical values for late winter. Our interpretation is that increasingly benign ambient winter conditions permit ducks to maintain better energetic "safety margins" throughout winter, and that converging spring departure values may be related to evolutionary flight energetic optima. The observed changes are consistent with large-scale climate amelioration and local/regional habitat improvement (both anthropogenic).
4313433|Governance arrangements are evolving to transcend interjurisdictional boundaries in the Baltic and in the Great Lakes. In each of these basins, two commissions are leading the way, one related to environmental concerns and the other to fishery interests. The two commissions will collaborate in the context of an ecosystem approach. The governance arrangements in the two basins have closer similarity with respect to function than to form. Progress toward sustainable redevelopment of degraded waters and fisheries in these basins has as a prerequisite the further evolution of trans-boundary research, communication and involvement by nongovernmental personnel. Next steps are being proposed.
4312173|The interrelationship between general or customary international law and treaty or convention law in the environmental field is examined. Many conventions are concluded with the aim of protecting nature. It usually takes a long time for states to bring these conventions into force by ratification, and when they do come into force, usually only a few states have adhered to them. If this trend continues, international environmental law may never develop beyond the foundation that has already been established. If conventions concluded in this field are going to have real influence on the law-making process in international law, states must accede to the conventions now existing. A number of international conventions and agreements are examined in this article.
4315835| Mangroves, a predominant coastal habitat in the tropics, are constantly threatened by various anthropogenic pressures that are deteriorating the mangroves to a great extent. Global emissions of greenhouse gases are likely to raise the world temperature and the sea level at the rate of 0.3C and 6 mm 10 <tex-math>${\rm y}^{-1}$</tex-math> by the year 2100. Mangrove habitats would be more vulnerable to climatic changes and resultant sea level rise (SLR) because of their unique location at the interface of the sea. By altering ecobiological processes, the intertidal and supratidal zones may extend further inland, resulting in changes in the existing ecological setup. The limitation of the landward margin would cause vertical rise, resulting in water-logging and ultimately killing the mangroves and dependent biota. The present document describes mangrove habitats and related issues from the Indian subcontinent in the context of climate variations and SLR, and recommends integrated long-term monitoring. 
4314005|Results from aerial surveys of hauled-out harbor seals, Phoca vitulina, in the entire Kattegat-Skagerrak, the Limfjord and the western part of the Baltic Sea in 1989-1991 are compared with results from surveys conducted soon after the seal epizootic in 1988. The results suggest that an increase in relative abundance of seals occurred between 1988 and 1991 in the Limfjord and in most parts of the Kattegat-Skagerrak. Pup production was assessed at selected localities in the Kattegat-Skagerrak during 1978-1991. Lowered rate of pup production occurred in 1989, the year after the epizootic. However, the pup production resembled expected values in 1990-1991. The decline in 1989 was probably due either to perturbations of the reproductive cycle caused by the morbilli virus infections in 1988, or to the shortage of mature males in some areas in the 1988 mating season. The lowered pup production was also evident in the aerial surveys where no increase in relative abundance was detected during 1988-1990. Simulations based on a matrix model of the Kattegat-Skagerrak population suggest that skewed sex and age distributions will persist for decades, but a high rate of increase should enable the population to recover by 1995-1996 to a size similar to that before the epizootic.
4313181|Organochlorine pesticides, due to low cost and high efficiency, are essential for the control of pests in developing countries like Nigeria. The rate of degradation of organochlorines is probably higher in the tropics than in the temperate zones, a possibility not considered by authorities such as WHO and FAO, which recommend very limited use of such pesticides. On the other hand, the erroneous and unsafe use of pesticides in such areas is very common. Control measures, including regulation and field research conducted over time, are needed.
4314236|Forests in southern Sweden are receiving nitrogen depositions that are about twice the critical load. There are indications that nitrogen losses from forest land are increasing. Forest wetlands may in this perspective become important traps for nitrogen, thus, protecting streams, lakes and marine environments from eutrophication. A number of forest wetlands in southwestern Sweden have been investigated with the aim of assessing their efficiency as nitrogen traps. Nitrogen retention is small in undisturbed upland forest. However, increased nitrate flux from a clearcut area was largely retained in one of the studied wetlands. In the spruce, which is the dominating tree in southern Sweden, the large-scale damages due to soil acidification or climatic causes cannot be excluded and it is advocated that forest wetlands should not be subject to drainage.
4315263|We argue that all aspects of demographic change, including migration, impacts on the social resilience of individuals and communities, as well as on the sustainability of the underlying resource base. Social resilience is the ability to cope with and adapt to environmental and social change mediated through appropriate institutions. We investigate one aspect of the relationship between demographic change, social resilience, and sustainable development in contemporary coastal Vietnam: the effects of migration and remittances on resource-dependent communities in population source areas. We find, using longitudinal data on livelihood sources, that emigration and remittances have offsetting effects on resilience within an evolving social and political context. Emigration is occurring concurrently with, not driving, the expansion of unsustainable coastal aquaculture. Increasing economic inequality also undermines social resilience. At the same time diversification and increasing income levels are beneficial for resilience.
4314051|Undesirable changes in rangelands have mostly been brought about by applying the wrong ecological model(s) of rangeland dynamics. Early, oversimplistic models are giving way to a more realistic interpretation involving spatial variation and dynamics, event-driven changes, lag effects and thresholds, and changes and variation in production. The state-and-transition approach allows for inclusion of such factors. The differences between the old and developing models have significant policy and management implications.
4313000|During the past decade, a number of industrialized countries have passed laws to control chemicals. The control of both new and existing chemicals is a scientifically complex, administratively difficult, and politically sensitive problem. Because of international trade, expenses involved in testing of chemicals, and the threat of pollution across national boundaries, international organizations, especially the EEC and OECD, are working towards harmonization of chemical regulation and for mechanisms for international exchange of data and information among member countries. The United Nations, concerned with the implications of international trade in hazardous chemicals for the developing countries, has established several programs to collect and disseminate scientific, regulatory and commercial information on toxic chemicals.
4314063|"Ecosystem people" of the world subsist by producing or gathering a diversity of biological resources from their immediate vicinity. Their quality of life is intimately linked to the maintenance of modest levels of biodiversity in their own circumscribed resource catchments. Their resource base has been extensively degraded by pressures created by "biosphere people"; i.e. the Third World elite and citizens of industrial countries, who can draw resources from all over the world and are thus, indifferent to environmental degradation in the Third World. Because "ecosystem people" have a genuine stake in biodiversity mantenance in their immediate surrounding, it is important that conservation efforts include maintenance and restoration of at least modest levels of biodiversity throughout the Third World. In the case of India this may be achieved by (a) dedicating the bulk of reserve forests to production of nontimber forest produce (NTFP), to support rural economy; (b) organizing effective community-based management systems to fulfill subsistence biomass requirements of peasants and tribals; (c) encouraging a switchover from shifting cultivation to horticulture; (d) supporting traditional practices of growing a variety of plant species, including keystone resources like Ficus spp, in rural habitats and on roadsides, farm and canal bunds; and (e) promoting tree farming on private lands to fulfill commercial needs.
4315208|This study presents 4 scenarios relating to the environmental futures of electricity generation in Mexico up to the year 2025. The first scenario emphasizes the use of oil products, particularly fuel oil, and represents the historic path of Mexico's energy policy. The second scenario prioritizes the use of natural gas, reflecting the energy consumption pattern that arose in the mid-1990s as a result of reforms in the energy sector. In the third scenario, the high participation of renewable sources of energy is considered feasible from a technical and economic point of view. The fourth scenario takes into account the present- and medium-term use of natural-gas technologies that the energy reform has produced, but after 2007 a high and feasible participation of renewable sources of energy is considered. The 4 scenarios are evaluated up to the year 2025 in terms of greenhouse gases (GHG) and acid rain precursor gases (ARPG).
4311985|Chinese methods of treating human and industrial wastes are described. The primitive recycling of human wastes (night soil) stands in strong contrast to the high technology pollution control applied to industrial wastes. In Canton night soil is collected and dispatched to adjacent areas where it is used as fertilizer. Schistosomiasis is a serious health problem associated with this practice. In Japan, wastes are incinerated and thus sterilized before being used as fertilizer. In China, advanced methods of industrial wastewater treatment and chemical reclamation and recycling are practiced.
4315809|This article focuses on the ecological role of benthic macrofauna on nutrient dynamics and benthic-pelagic coupling in the Baltic Sea with relation to eutrophication. Generally, benthic macrofaunal activities have large effects on sediment biogeochemistry and often with stimulatory effects on processes that counteract eutrophication, i.e., denitrification and increased phosphorus retention of the sediment. The degree of faunal impact on such processes varies depending on faunal density and functional group composition. The effect of macrofaunal activities on sediment nutrient dynamics can also result in a higher nitrogen: phosporus ratio of the sediments efflux compared with sediments without macrofauna. Increased internal nutrient loading during eutrophication-induced anoxia is suggested to be caused both by altered sediment biogeochemical processes and through reduced or lost bioturbating macrofauna and thereby a reduced stimulatory effect from their activities on natural purification processes of the Baltic Sea ecosystem.
4315180|The article elaborates on the role of international environmental regimes and multilateral environmental agreements in the process of development of environmental policy in the 3 Baltic countries; Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Comparison of emission trends and changes in the state of the environment with reference to international environmental regimes allow one to conclude that there is no clear link between the official accession to environmental conventions and changes in environmental fields. The Baltic countries first joined international environmental regimes dealing with global or regional environmental security, while acceptance of the agreements and accession to regimes seen as more important from the point of view of solving their own environmental problems, took place later. Therefore, it can be concluded that the Baltic countries have seen the international legal instruments in their environmental policies as preventive, rather than curative instruments. Active participation in multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs) has, on the other hand, substantially contributed to the readiness of the Baltic countries to take the next step in their environmental policy-taking over the environmental policies (Acquis Communautaire) of the European Union.
4314382|Tropical sea-grass ecosystems are among the most productive submerged systems to be found. This productivity supports, through dependent species of epiphytes and associated fauna, large numbers of fish which are important protein sources for the inhabitants of tropical coastal areas. In Puttalam Lagoon, Sri Lanka, one such ecosystem, with an important fish harvest to support the coastal population, was studied in two consecutive years during the monsoon season, October 1993 and November 1994. The meadows consisted predominantly of two species of sea grasses, Cymodocea rotundata and Enhalus acoroides. Oxygen production and consumption measurements using benthic chambers placed over the sea-grass communities revealed gross production to be between 574 and 1518 g C m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. All measurements showed community P:R ratios to be > 1.0, suggesting net export and/or burial of carbon in the system. The two years showed different patterns, but the variation in production rates was best explained by light penetration and salinity. Nutrient measurements showed phosphate uptake (17-82 mg P <tex-math>${\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm day}^{-1}$</tex-math>) while nitrogen fluxes displayed both release and uptake (-110 to 207 mg N <tex-math>${\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm day}^{-1}$</tex-math>). Analyses of nutrient dynamics as related to production rates indicated a dependency of the communities on sediment nutrient sources and internal nutrient recycling, despite elevated levels of water column nutrients (42-168 g N L<sup>-1</sup>, 57-184 g P L<sup>-1</sup>). Production levels were low compared to other similar ecosystems and this is thought to be due to factors including dense epiphytic growth and high water turbidity resulting from the high nutrient levels, and seasonality.
4315653| Starting from six regional climate change scenarios, nitrogen leaching from arable-soil, water discharge, and nitrogen retention was modeled in the Rnne catchment. Additionally, biological response was modeled in the eutrophic Lake Ringsjn. The results are compared with similar studies on other catchments. All scenarios gave similar impact on water quality but varied in quantities. However, one scenario resulted in a different transport pattern due to less-pronounced seasonal variations in the hydrology. On average, the study shows that, in a future climate, we might expect: i) increased concentrations of nitrogen in the arable root zone (+50%) and in the river (+13%); ii) increased annual load of nitrogen from land to sea (+22%) due to more pronounced winter high flow; moreover, remote areas in the catchment may start to contribute to the outlet load; iii) radical changes in lake biochemistry with increased concentrations of total phosphorus (+50%), total nitrogen (+20%), and planktonic algae such as cyanobacteria (+80%). 
4313757|The anaerobic fermentation of various organic refuses such as animal dung and cellulosed substances produces a mixture of CH
4313836|The effects of an increased nitrogen deposition to the forest floor on fruit body production and species richness of the macrofungal flora of a Swedish beech forest were simulated by applying small amounts of ammonium nitrate (12 and 36 kg N per ha) on 22 occasions over a period of 4 years. Within 3-4 years all mycorrhizal species practically ceased producing fruit bodies even at the lower treatment rate, which corresponded to about 3 times the ambient deposition rate at this site situated in an area with no major sources of pollution. Several decomposer taxa, on the contrary, increased their sporophore production in the treated plots, e.g. Mycena pura, M. pelianthina, Clitocybe dicolor, C. gibba, C. phyllophila, Lepista inversa, Agaricus spp. and Lycoperdon spp. Most wood decomposers showed no obvious reaction to treatment.
40928391|Participatory research has not been a conspicuous methodology in developing nations for studying invasive pests, an increasing threat to the sustainable development in the tropics. Our study presents a community-based monitoring system that focuses on three invasive potato tuber moth species (PTM). The monitoring was developed and implemented by young farmers in a remote mountainous area of Ecuador. Local participants collected data from the PTM invasion front, which revealed clear connection between the abundance of one of the species (Tecia solanivora) and the remoteness to the main market place. This suggests that mechanisms structuring invasive populations at the invasion front are different from those occurring in areas invaded for longer period. Participatory monitoring with local people may serve as a cost-effective early warning system to detect and control incipient invasive pest species in countries where the daily management of biological resources is largely in the hands of poor rural people.
4312067|The expected doubling of the world population is often regarded as evidence that there will be a corresponding increase in the pace of environmental degradation and of the depletion of resources, especially energy. However, this view ignores an important factor in the relationship between the production needed to support the population and the resultant effects on environmental quality and on resource availability. This factor is resource productivity, that is, the amount of goods or services produced per unit expenditure of resources such as energy and per unit impact on the environment. This paper discusses how this concept can be used to work out ways of improving the total world output of goods such as food, or of services such as freight movement, without a corresponding increase in the use of necessary resources such as fertilizer or fuel or in environmental impact.
24708850|Large-scale, monoculture production systems dependent on synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, increase yields, but are costly and have deleterious impacts on human health and the environment. This research investigates variations in banana production practices in Costa Rica, to identify alternative systems that combine high productivity and profitability, with reduced reliance on agrochemicals. Farm workers were observed during daily production activities; 39 banana producers and 8 extension workers/researchers were interviewed; and a review of field experiments conducted by the National Banana Corporation between 1997 and 2002 was made. Correspondence analysis showed that there is no structured variation in large-scale banana producers' practices, but two other banana production systems were identified: a small-scale organic system and a small-scale conventional coffee banana intercropped system. Field-scale research may reveal ways that these practices can be scaled up to achieve a productive and profitable system producing high-quality export bananas with fewer or no pesticides.
4314301| The rate at which soil and surface-water acidification can be reversed by reducing atmospheric deposition is of great importance for Fenno-Scandia where so many lakes and streams are already acidified. Some models predict that recovery of aquatic ecosystems may take over a century in severely acidified areas even after major reductions in acid deposition. Predictions of a protracted recovery from acidification are being tested on a severely acidified forest catchment near Lake Grdsjn in SW Sweden. Atmospheric deposition to the entire 6300 m
25515856|Climate variability and change is projected to have significant effects on the physical, chemical, and biological components of northern Canadian marine, terrestrial, and freshwater systems. As the climate continues to change, there will be consequences for biodiversity shifts and for the ranges and distribution of many species with resulting effects on availability, accessibility, and quality of resources upon which human populations rely. This will have implications for the protection and management of wildlife, fish, and fisheries resources; protected areas; and forests. The northward migration of species and the disruption and competition from invading species are already occurring and will continue to affect marine, terrestrial, and freshwater communities. Shifting environmental conditions will likely introduce new animal-transmitted diseases and redistribute some existing diseases, affecting key economic resources and some human populations. Stress on populations of iconic wildlife species, such as the polar bear, ringed seals, and whales, will continue as a result of changes in critical sea-ice habitat interactions. Where these stresses affect economically and culturally important species, they will have significant effects on people and regional economies. Further integrated, field-based monitoring and research programs, and the development of predictive models are required to allow for more detailed and comprehensive projections of change to be made, and to inform the development and implementation of appropriate adaptation, wildlife, and habitat conservation and protection strategies.
4314006|The prevalence of skull-bone lesions in adult grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) was significantly higher in a late Baltic sample collected after 1960 compared with the prevalence found in grey seal skulls in an early Baltic sample, collected before 1950, and in a sample from the British Isles. The lesions were consistent with those present in severe periodontitis, quite often with substantial loss of alveolar bone in the mandible and maxilla. A suggested cause of the high prevalence of skull-bone lesions in the Baltic sample collected during the last decades is the toxic influence of environmental pollutants such as organochlorines.
4315562| The research program Sustainable Coastal Zone Management (SUCOZOMA), which was started in 1996 by the Swedish Foundation of Strategic Environmental Research, was motivated by the recognition of increasingly severe global, regional and national coastal problems. The program approached the complex issues of coastal eutrophication, fishing practices, and overexploited coastal resources, with a concerted effort involving multidisciplinarity, stakeholder cooperation, and a focus on the problems perceived as most serious by the public and decision-makers. As the program was concluded in 2004 it had resulted in the completion or near-completion of 22 doctoral dissertations and approximately one hundred publications. More than 40 scientists were involved in the program. Gteborg University was the host university, but important research teams have also been located at Stockholm University, the Beijer Institute, and the Kristineberg Marine Research Station of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and within the National Board of Fisheries. During the program, networks of stakeholders were established and SUCOZOMA had contributed to numerous political and administrative processes relevant for integrated coastal zone management (ICZM). SUCOZOMA program results can be grouped into different categories. Many of the projects in the two phases of the program produced results which can be defined as technical or practical and available for direct implementation in, e.g. mussel cultivation, restoration and safeguarding of spawning areas, seal-safe fishing gear or sustainable fishing of underexploited species. Other results can be characterized as policy oriented, and the impact of these can only be fairly evaluated as new policies are put into effect. SUCOZOMA resulted in important new knowledge regarding coastal science and management, but also concerning the organization required to conduct an end-user oriented multidisciplinary program effectively. 
4313777|Wetland ecosystems are among the most threatened of all environmental resources. The overutilization of the total wetlands stock has been the result of a combination of economic development pressure, information failure and market and intervention failure. There is an urgent need for a balance to be struck between wetland conservation, sustainable utilization and wetland conversion. Sustainable utilization and the maintenance of a sustainable flow of income derived from the wetlands stock is the key issue for developing economics. Economic valuation of the multifunctional wetland resource is required, principles and methods used in the assessment of temperate wetlands in developed countries can aid the analysis of tropical wetlands in developing countries. Because of the extent and urgency of the threats to wetlands a rapid assessment procedure is essential. Extended cost benefit analysis can play an important role in the formulation of a sustainable management strategy for wetlands.
25434344|This paper distinguishes three major "revolutions" in the socio-environmental interactions that reflect growth in the extent to which human beings invest in and modify their environments. As people settled in villages during the Neolithic, interactions between more people became an important element in survival strategies, shifting the emphasis in survival strategies from mobility to sociality. The emergence of cities changed human societies by: i) creating dependencies between more and more distant regions, ii) increasing the degree of aggregation of human populations, iii) narrowing the range of subsistence resources on which people depended, and iv) increasing further their investment in the natural environment and in material culture. Altogether, urbanization drove human social systems further and further away from flexibility and rapid adaptation to environmental change, while increasing the demands on the social system, including major increases in energy and matter to support urban populations. This was achieved by linking together larger and larger hinterlands for these cities, in effect creating Empires. The fundamental change is one from humans responding to environmental change and disruption by migration to humans investing in the environment, and therefore responding to environmental change by problem solving. One therefore needs to look at the combined socio-environmental systems over the longer term that reflect the buildup and culmination of the shifts in the social and environmental risk spectra due to the human-environmental interactions in periods before the "crisis" occurs, which are a fact of life in any society's interaction with its environment, and should be seen as "social" challenges rather than "environmental" ones. These are generally due to the fact that the society in question has invested so much in a particular way of life that it cannot innovate itself out of difficulty before time runs out. This implies that we have to shift our thinking about socio-environmental issues, from "population thinking" to "organization thinking." In this perspective, a crisis does not imply the disappearance of the people involved, but a transformation of the organization that links them.
4312208|The levels of DDT and PCB in blubber of Ringed Seal (Pusa hispida Schreb) from the Bothnian Bay have been studied in relation to the reproductive success of the individual females. Significantly higher levels of both compounds were found in non-pregnant females than in pregnant ones. In the non-pregnant females signs of abortion or resorption were found in uteri.
40730882|The environmental targets of the recently agreed Baltic Sea Action Plan (BSAP) targets are likely associated with a considerable cost, which motivates a search for low-cost policies. The following review shows there is a substantial literature on cost-efficient nutrient reduction strategies, including suggestions regarding lowcost abatement, but actual policies at international and national scale tend to be considerably more expensive due to lack of instruments that ensure a cost-efficient allocation of abatement across countries and sectors. Economic research on the costs of reducing hazardous substances and oil spill damages in the Baltic Sea is not available, but lessons from the international literature suggest that resources could be used more efficiently if appropriate analysis is undertaken. Common to these pollution problems is the need to ensure that all countries in the region are provided with positive incentives to implement international agreements.
4315582|Thirty-six polychlorinated biphenylols (OH-PCBs) congeners were characterized in Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) eggs collected from the Faroe Islands. The seven most abundant congeners were quantified in 19 samples, and the OH-PCB concentrations ranged between 0.92 and 4.0 ng g-1 fresh weight (f.w.). These eggs constitute a part of the traditional diet for at least a part of the population on the Faroe Islands and may contribute to the high levels of these contaminants found in the blood of pregnant Faroese women. Because the metabolites are present in the nonhatched fulmar egg, it is concluded that the OH-PCBs are transferred to the egg before laying. High levels, 3300-18 000 ng g-1 l.w., of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) were determined in the fulmar eggs, which are a considerable source for human exposure. The high PCB levels are a source for metabolic formation of hydroxylated PCBs.
4315650| The EU Water Framework Directive will require river-basin management plans in order to achieve good ecological status and find the most cost-efficient nitrogen (N) leaching abatement measures. Detailed scenario calculations based on modeling methods will be valuable in this regard. This paper describes the approach and an application with a coefficient method based on the simulation model SOILNDB for quantification of N leaching from arable land and for prediction of the effect of abatement scenarios for the Rnne catchment (1900 km
40390419|This review summarizes the main results from a 3-year open top chamber experiment, with two silver birch (Betula pendula Roth) clones (4 and 80) where impacts of 2x ambient [Co ] (EC) and [Co ] (EO) and their combination (EC + EO) were examined. Growth, physiology of the foliage and root systems, crown structure, wood properties, and biological interactions were assessed to understand the effects of a future climate on the biology of silver birch. The clones displayed great differences in their reaction to EC and EO. Growth in clone 80 increased by 40% in EC and this clone also appeared Co -tolerant, showing no growth reduction. In contrast, growth in clone 4 was not enhanced by EC, and EO reduced growth with root growth being most affected. The physiological responses of the clones to EO were smaller than expected. We found no O effect on net photosynthesis in either of the clones, and many parameters indicated no change compared with chamber controls, suggesting active detoxification and defense in foliage. In EO, increased rhizospheric respiration over time and accelerated leaf senescence was common in both clones. We assumed that elevated O offsets the positive effects of elevated Co when plants were exposed to combined EC + EO treatment. In contrast, the responses to EC + EO mostly resembled the ones in EC, at least partly due to stomatal closure, which thus reduced O flux to the leaves. However, clear cellular level symptoms of oxidative stress were observed also in EC + EO treatment. Thus, we conclude that EC masked most of the negative O effects during long exposure of birch to EC + EO treatment. Biotic interactions were not heavily affected. Only some early season defoliators may suffer from faster maturation of leaves due to EO.
4314577|Recreational scuba diving has generally been perceived as an activity with low environmental impact. With the rapid growth in popularity of diving, concerns have arisen that some heavily-dived sites may have diver visitation rates approaching the limit of ecological sustainability. The potential impacts of divers were assessed in underwater surveys at four major dive-sites in Eastern Australia. Recreational divers were followed for 30 minutes, and all contacts with and damage to the substratum or biota were recorded. Information on diver qualifications and experience was collected. The mean number of contacts with the substratum per 30 minute dive at each site ranged from 35 to 121, with a maximum of 304 in a single dive. The majority of contacts were made with fins. Breakage of coral ranged from an average of 0.6 per dive to 1.9 per dive. Most divers damaged no coral, but a small minority of divers broke between 10 and 15 corals each per 30 minute dive. The level of damage to the sites studied appeared to be sustainable at present levels of use by divers. However, at intensively dived, coral-dominated sites, the potential exists for considerable environmental impact as the number of recreational divers increases beyond present levels.
4311986|A model describing the phosphorus and oxygen flows of the Baltic is presented. Different perturbations of these flows have been simulated on a computer and the results are discussed. The aim of the model is to get a better understanding of which processes are the most critical for the behavior of the Baltic as a whole. The release of phosphate from reduced sediments and the water exchange with the Kattegatt were shown to be perhaps the most vital features of the simulated system.
41417305|This paper aims to identify challenges, and threats, and further explore opportunities for a new Biodiversity Friendly Fisheries Management Regime on the Issyk-Kul Lake in the Kyrgyz Republic. This lake is the second largest high-altitude lake in the world providing recreational and small-scale fishing activities as well as cage culture of introduced species. The populations of several indigenous species are seriously threatened, because many of the introduced species are potential predators. We examine the root causes for overfishing and relationships of alien and endemic fish species in Issyk-Kul Lake and give possible policy options that can help remediate or mitigate the biodiversity degradation. This analysis focuses on necessary legal modifications, institutional cooperation, the protection of selected endemic fish species, control of the alien species, the sustainable extension services and management offish ponds. Fisheries co-management is one option to explore shared stewardship and empowering user groups on the lake. A comprehensive fisheries management plan is also needed, in addition to immediate action and further studies on the following wider aspects: water management/irrigation issues, water-quality assessment near cage cultures, sociocultural issues, resource inventory, and assessing fish biology and the lake ecosystem.
4315121|An evaluation of the negative effects caused by anthropogenic influence on lake ecosystems was performed, using data from 143 catchments in Uppsala County, Sweden. The study included i) technical encroachments; i.e. construction of dams, dikes, etc. as well as effects of drainage of land; ii) pollution, i.e. eutrophication, acidification, and contamination by toxic substances; iii) introduction of nonnative species; and iv) exploitation of species populations. Severe damage was caused mostly by drainage of land followed by pollution by toxic substances and, to a smaller extent, introduction of nonnative species and eutrophication. Most lakes were subject to several types of disturbances, interacting in a complex pattern, which made it difficult to link the visible effects to the true causes of the disturbance. Future lake management should include analyses of all disturbances to the lake catchments, taking into account the historical perspective, in order to balance the threats/damages, in an analysis of the possibilities for maintaining biodiversity and sustainability in the ecosystems.
4312407|Age was the major variable determining the cadmium content of the land snail Cepaea hortensis at a roadside site. Body burdens increased with age, but within a year class cadmium concentrations in whole body and digestive gland were lower in larger animals. Thus samples of molluscs used for monitoring biologically persistent pollutants should be matched for age structure and growth rate, as well as body size.
25547837|In the dry forest of southern Madagascar, a region of global conservation priority, formally protected areas are nearly totally absent. We illustrate how the continued existence of unique forest habitats in the Androy region is directly dependent on informal institutions, taboos, regulating human behavior. Qualitative interviews to map and analyze the social mechanisms underlying forest protection have been combined with vegetation analyses of species diversity and composition. Of 188 forest patches, 93% were classified as protected, and in Southern Androy all remaining forest patches larger than 5 ha were protected. Eight different types of forests, with a gradient of social fencing from open access to almost complete entry prohibitions, were identified. Transgressions were well enforced with strong sanctions of significant economic as well as religious importance. Analyses of species diversity between protected and unprotected forests were complicated because of size differences and access restrictions. However, since, for example, in southern Androy >90% of the total remaining forest cover is protected through taboos, these informal institutions represent an important, and presently the only, mechanism for conservation of the highly endemic forest species. We conclude that social aspects, such as local beliefs and legitimate sanctioning systems, need to be analyzed and incorporated along with biodiversity studies for successful conservation.
4312565|This article deals with the impacts of different kinds of human activities on the Baltic Sea: physical impacts, introduction of new species, eutrophication, effects of environmental chemicals, oil pollution problems etc. Scientific knowledge of the structure and function of the Baltic ecosystem is based on one hundred year old research traditions. Since the late 1960s this research has become more and more relevant for the protection of the Baltic Sea and its living resources. Some examples on recovery of Baltic environments following disturbances are presented.
4315003|Specialists in tropical rain forest conservation have recently begun to suggest that forests facing imminent destruction in deforestation 'hot spots' can not be saved, and that conservation organizations would use their resources more effectively if they focused on preserving 'cold spots', remote places with intact rain forests. The advocates of the cold spot strategy contend that sustainable development efforts in deforestation 'hot spots' are ineffective. A case study of sustainable development in a rapidly deforesting region of coastal Ecuador questions this contention. Sustainable development in this region takes two organizational forms, one focused on the adoption of sustainable forestry techniques in a small set of villages and the other centered around the creation of a civic arena for discussing and resolving regional sustainable development issues. This two-pronged effort has achieved some success and may provide a model for sustainable development in places experiencing rapid tropical deforestation.
4313296|Dry season base flow is an important source of water in the miombo woodland biome of southern Africa. During the six-month dry season, surface water can be scarce. Hydrological evidence suggests that active manipulation of vegetation can significantly increase dry season base flow. Management alternatives for protected areas such as national parks, which go beyond water catchment protection to active promotion of dry season base flow, are discussed. The control and management of fire plays a key role.
4314418|Coastal-zone management in Tanzania has seen little success to date with habitat loss and degradation continuing unchecked. The problems with past management strategies are addressed and a new management strategy is developed for the protection of the southern region of Mafia Island. The strategy chosen is designed specifically to account for past management failings and is based upon the multiuser concept. Three years of research work have been conducted towards the subsequent development of a management plan. The design of the research program, the resultant survey results, and their application towards the formulation of this management plan are described and discussed. Finally, future plans for research and monitoring within the proposed area are presented.
25547893|Coastal wetlands reduce the damaging effects of hurricanes on coastal communities. A regression model using 34 major US hurricanes since 1980 with the natural log of damage per unit gross domestic product in the hurricane swath as the dependent variable and the natural logs of wind speed and wetland area in the swath as the independent variables was highly significant and explained 60% of the variation in relative damages. A loss of 1 ha of wetland in the model corresponded to an average USD 33 000 (median = USD 5000) increase in storm damage from specific storms. Using this relationship, and taking into account the annual probability of hits by hurricanes of varying intensities, we mapped the annual value of coastal wetlands by 1km  1km pixel and by state. The annual value ranged from USD 250 to USD 51 000 ha yr, with a mean of USD 8240 ha yr (median = USD 3230 ha yr) significantly larger than previous estimates. Coastal wetlands in the US were estimated to currently provide USD 23.2 billion yr in storm protection services. Coastal wetlands function as valuable, selfmaintaining "horizontal levees" for storm protection, and also provide a host of other ecosystem services that vertical levees do not. Their restoration and preservation is an extremely cost-effective strategy for society.
25094587|The lands surrounding the North Atlantic Region (the SCANNET Region) cover a wide range of climate regimes, physical environments and availability of natural resources. Except in the extreme North, they have supported human populations and various cultures since at least the end of the last ice age. However, the region is also important at a wider geographical scale in that it influences the global climate and supports animals that migrate between the Arctic and all the other continents of the world. Climate, environment and land use in the region are changing rapidly and projections suggest that global warming will be amplified there while increasing land use might dramatically reduce the remaining wilderness areas. Because much of the region is sparsely populated-if populated at all-observational records of past environmental changes and their impacts are both few and of short duration. However, it is becoming very important to record the changes that are now in progress, to understand the drivers of these changes, and to predict future consequences of the changes. To facilitate research into understanding impacts of global change on the lands of the North Atlantic Regions, and also to monitor changes in real time, an EU-funded network of research sites and infrastructures was formed in 2000: this was called SCANNET-SCANdinavian/North European NETwork of Terrestrial Field Bases. SCANNET currently consists of 9 core sites and 5 sites within local networks that together cover the broad range of current climate and predicted change in the region. Climate observations are well replicated across the network, whereas each site has tended to select particular environmental and ecological subjects for intensive observation. This provides diversity of both subject coverage and expertise. In this paper, we summarize the findings of SCANNET to-date and outline its information bases in order to increase awareness of data on environmental change in the North Atlantic Region. We also identify important gaps in our understanding and identify where the roles of existing infrastructures and activities represented by SCANNET can facilitate future research, monitoring and ground-truthing activities.
4312914| Over the centuries, Llibal has had an enormous influence as the traditional center of Coptic Christianity in Ethiopia, even if these architectural marvels were known only to the small Coptic community. Exactly when they were built is still disputed but it is commonly believed that they were carved out of solid rock in the 13th Century. It was declared a world Heritage Property in 1980 but the fight to save the 11 churches from the ravages of man and nature continues. 
4313398|There are approximately 25 pulp and paper mills situated along the Baltic coast of Sweden. Local environmental effects of discharge from these mills are considerable. This article summarizes effects on littoral fish community structure in nine polluted areas in the Gulf of Bothnia. Gill net catches were dominated by perch, roach and ruffe (Perca fluviatilis L., Rutilus rutilus (L.) and Gymnocephalus cernua (L.)). Catches of roach and ruffe increased in the vicinity of pulp and paper mills, regardless of the production process of the mill (sulfite, sulfate, bleaching, nonbleaching). Catches of perch did not change significantly. These changes in abundance are qualitatively similar to those associated with eutrophication and the mechanisms involved are probably the same, since both kinds of pollution increase the organic loading in the receiving area. Dietary components for perch, roach and ruffe were analyzed from five of the pollution gradients. No diet effect that could explain species distribution was observed.
4314334|The presence of 1-hydroxypyrene in human urine was confirmed with gas chromatography/mass spectrography (MS). Moreover, a comparative study was made on the database of measurements of the level of urinary 1-hydroxypyrene of young residents in 11 Chinese cities, which revealed that the significant variation of urinary content of 1-hydroxypyrene was well correlated with the extent of pollution of the ambient air by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the urban environment. It was also demonstrated that the concentration of urinary 1-hydroxypyrene varied significantly from population, to population with different occupations, for various degrees of exposure to environmental PAHs. Data showed that the concentration of 1-hydroxypyrene in human urine correlated positively with the content of BaP in the ambient air. Considering these facts, it is proposed that urinary 1-hydroxypyrene be adopted as a biomarker for human exposure to the environmental PAHs. The role of this sensitive and reliable biomarker in environmental risk assessment is also discussed.
24708778|The ecosystem services concept is used to make explicit the diverse benefits ecosystems provide to people, with the goal of improving assessment and, ultimately, decision-making. Alongside material benefits such as natural resources (e.g., clean water, timber), this concept includesthrough the 'cultural' category of ecosystem servicesdiverse non-material benefits that people obtain through interactions with ecosystems (e.g., spiritual inspiration, cultural identity, recreation). Despite the long-standing focus of ecosystem services research on measurement, most cultural ecosystem services have defined measurement and inclusion alongside other more 'material' services. This gap in measurement of cultural ecosystem services is a product of several perceived problems, some of which are not real problems and some of which can be mitigated or even solved without undue difficulty. Because of the fractured nature of the literature, these problems continue to plague the discussion of cultural services. In this paper we discuss several such problems, which although they have been addressed singly, have not been brought together in a single discussion. There is a need for a single, accessible treatment of the importance and feasibility of integrating cultural ecosystem services alongside others.
4312356|The International Field Year for the Great Lakes (IFYGL) is described in terms of the need for such a program, the manner in which the program evolved, the field operations, and the utility of the program. The unique characteristics of the IFYGL include its scope in terms of funding and the involvement of a great number of scientists of many disciplines from Canada and the United States. Also many government agencies, universities, and private organizations worked together on a well-coordinated and centrally managed effort.
4315019|This paper discusses the history of atmospheric lead pollution, the past geographic distribution of atmospheric lead deposition in Sweden, and the fate of the pollution lead in boreal forest soils. The paper is based on analyses of
4312559|At the early stage of urbanization in the Baltic, human activity was well adapted to natural conditions. During recent decades the regional systems of human activity have developed independently of the natural order, and environmental problems have emerged. Recent population trends give indications that the gravitational center of population growth will be moved to medium-sized and small cities, which is also to be hoped for from the standpoint of the future development of the Baltic Sea.
25547800|Investigations of polluted brownfield sites and sample analyses are expensive, and the resulting data are often of poor quality. Efforts are needed, therefore, to improve the methods used in investigations of brownfield sites to both reduce costs and improve the quality of the results. One approach that could be useful for both of these purposes is the triad strategy, developed by the US Environmental Protection Agency, in which managing uncertainty is a central feature. In the investigations reported here, a field study was conducted to identify possible ways in which uncertainties could be managed in practice. One example considered involves optimizing the uncertainty by adjusting the sizes of samples and the efforts expended in analytical work according to the specific aims of the project. In addition, the potential utility of several toxicity assessment methods for screening sites was evaluated. As well as presenting the results of these assessments, in this contribution we discuss ways in which a flexible work strategy and screening methods inspired of the triad philosophy could be incorporated into the Swedish approach to remediate brownfield sites. A tiered approach taking advantage of field and screening methods is proposed to assess brownfield sites focusing on the response and acceptable uncertainty that are required for the task.
4315538| High levels of DDT residues and hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCHs) were found in soil, well water, and surface water around a collapsed pesticide storage shed at Vikuge Farm, Tanzania. Residues of DDT and HCHs were found at three soil depths down to 50 cm. Surface soil samples contained up to 28% total DDT and 6% total HCH residues. Water samples had concentrations of up to 30 g L
4313339|Australia has temperate, subtropical, and tropical rain forests. The lowland forests in particular have been extensively removed, and today only about a quarter of the preEuropean-settlement coverage remains. The tropical rain forests of North Queensland are largely confined to the coastal zone between Townsville and Cooktown. This zone includes the Greater Daintree wilderness, one of the last remaining large blocks of continuous tropical rain forest in Australia. The region's lowland forests (and fringing coral reefs), however, are seriously threatened by the Cape Tribulation to Bloomfield road, most of which was completed in 1984. The nature and course of the prolonged controversy surrounding the construction of the road is examined, particular attention being given to the activities of pressure groups, the positions adopted by political parties and how the dispute was influenced by federal-state relations. The region's forests are of great biological, scientific, aesthetic and intrinsic value and the urgent need to preserve them is underscored.
4312029|Food is generally accorded a low ranking in the energy budget of industrialized countries. This notion is submitted to critical scrutiny and revision. Main attention is devoted to the energy expenditure in modern mechanized agriculture with special emphasis on fertilizers and direct use of fuel on the farms. These matters are placed into historical perspective as a reminder of the persistent acceleration of this process. In advanced nations this growing energy subsidization has in several instances reached the dimensions of surpassing the sun energy collection of the respective crops. This pattern is in the long run not applicable on a global scale.
4315751|Changes in climate and ultraviolet radiation levels in the Arctic will have far-reaching impacts, affecting aquatic species at various trophic levels, the physical and chemical environment that makes up their habitat, and the processes that act on and within freshwater ecosystems. Interactions of climatic variables, such as temperature and precipitation, with freshwater ecosystems are highly complex and can propagate through the ecosystem in ways that are difficult to project. This is partly due to a poor understanding of arctic freshwater systems and their basic interrelationships with climate and other environmental variables, and partly due to a paucity of long-term freshwater monitoring sites and integrated hydro-ecological research programs in the Arctic.
4315452|The complex interactions between human activities and the environment at the interface of land and water is analyzed with a focus on the Somali Current (East Africa), and Indian Ocean Island States, subregions of the Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA). These 2 subregions contain some of the world's richest ecosystems, including the high biodiversity forests of Madagascar and the diverse coastal habitats of the eastern African coast. These ecosystems support local communities and national and regional economies. Current and future degradation of these systems, from water basins to continental shelves, affects the livelihoods and sustainability of the countries in the region, and long-term efforts to reduce poverty. The assessments determined that pollution and climate change are the primary environmental and social concerns in the Islands of the Indian Ocean, while freshwater shortage and unsustainable exploitation of fisheries and other living resources are the primary environmental and social concerns in East Africa. The GIWA approach, through assessing root causes of environmental concerns, enables the development of policy approaches for mitigating environmental degradation. This paper explores policy frameworks for mitigating the impacts, and reducing the drivers, of 3 environmental concerns-freshwater shortage; solid waste pollution; and climate change-addressing social and institutional causes and effects, and linking the subregions to broad international frameworks. The common theme in all 3 case studies is the need to develop integrated ecosystem and international waters policies, and mechanisms to manage conflicting interests and to limit threats to natural processes.
4312234| The hydrologic cycle, driven by energy from the sun, is a unique process for distributing water between the oceans and land and between low and high latitudes. The energy released by condensation of water vapor primarily in equatorial latitudes, provides much of the fuel that drives the general circulation of the atmosphere. Especially prominent are the thermal Hadley circulations of low latitudes which interact with oceanic circulations to produce anomalous phenomena such as El Nio. Man may have a direct effect on the hydrologic cycle and climate through overgrazing of semi-arid regions and by diverting rivers that would normally flow into the Arctic Ocean. It seems likely, however, that man's most significant contribution will arise indirectly through thermal and aerosol pollution of the atmosphere. 
4314655|It is widely accepted that the increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations in the atmosphere, due to human activities, will result in warming of the Earth's surface. The worldwide project within the Framework Convention on Climate Change was generated by the initiative of United Nations, to examine this effect and better understand how the GHG increase in the atmosphere might change the climate in the future, how ecosystems and societies in different regions of the world should adapt to these changes and what must policymakers do for the mitigation of that effect. Estonia is one of more than 150 countries which signed the Framework Convention on Climate Change at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992. In 1994, a new project, Estonian Country Study, was initiated within the U.S. Country Studies Program. The project will help to compile the GHG inventory for Estonia, investigate the impact of climate change on Estonian ecosystems, and the economy, as well as to formulate national strategies for Estonia to address global climate change.
4313721|The idea of pollution prevention has emerged in the mainstream of environmental protection efforts. This paper examines the question of whether pollution prevention can be applied to global environmental problems like stratospheric ozone depletion. Early efforts to limit CFCs by their specific use-a ban on aerosols independently adopted by several nations in the 1970s-failed to discourage the increase of CFCs in other applications, and thus failed to safeguard the ozone layer. Because the primary ozone-depleting chemicals are so widely used, and the chlorine in the stratosphere cannot simply be cleaned up, pollution prevention seems to be an effective means of protecting the stratospheric ozone layer. An international treaty, the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, places limits on the production of ozone-depleting chemicals rather than their uses and so exemplifies pollution prevention on a global scale. Moreover, the Montreal Protocol provides a model for future international efforts to deal with the greenhouse effect.
4312127|The acute toxic effects of a crude oil, either alone or dispersed by two commonly used oil spill dispersants, are tested on newly hatched herring larvae. The results show that if the oil is dispersed with a dispersant, the toxicity increases 50 to 100 times compared to the oil without the dispersant. It is also shown that a natural oil dispersion without the dispersant loses much of its toxicity in 24 and 72 h. If however, the oil is dispersed by a dispersant, the high toxicity remains almost unchanged in the same time.
4314952|This paper describes empirical work on risk perception and some related dimensions, in particular with regard to radiation and nuclear power hazards. Most of the data cited come from a current CEC project in which 5 countries in Western Europe have participated. Models of risk perception are discussed and some generally valid findings concerning risk perception are summarized. Risk is seen to be a primary factor in many policy matters and clearly, to the public, more important than utility considerations. Previously formulated models (the Psychometric Model and Cultural Theory) are found to be deficient and a much more efficient alternative is suggested. It is stressed that risk perception is of interest foremost because it can be of value to decision makers in making difficult policy decisions in matters of risk. Hence, it is important to ask what facets of perceived risk are most strongly related to demand for risk mitigation. It is found that expected severity of consequences of an hazard is the clearly most important dimension. The paper concludes with a brief summary of a case study of Swedish experience with high-level nuclear waste repository siting.
4314491|The flow of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) in an eutrophied fjord system on the Swedish west coast has been studied. The aim was to identify possibilities for improving water quality through mussel cultivation. It is suggested that off-bottom mussel farms should be introduced in the fjords as extra filters, to convert passing particulate-bound nutrients into mussel meat and into mussel faeces that will form sediment under the farms. Nutrients will be removed from the fjords when the mussels are harvested, and the enriched sediments under the farms can be dredged up. Mussels are produced commercially in Sweden and the nutrient removing process could become more effective and economically viable than the methods used today. Using an empirical model it was shown that mussel farms covering 1%-2.4% of the fjord surface water DIN concentrations in the water flowing out of the fjords will be lowered by 20%, i.e. almost to the same level as DIN levels in the Skagerrak. The biological oxygen demand (BOD) in the deep basin waters, below sill depth, could be lowered by 26%. Decreased BOD could imply improved survival opportunities for higher life in the deep basins if oxygen concentrations are increased. It is also shown that if mussel farms are located so that faeces from the farms accumulate in the deep basins for more than a decade, the net effect of the farms will be increased BOD in the basin water. In addition to this type of extreme situation, the impact on the ecosystem due to mussel cultivation appears to be positive even when mussel sediments are not dredged up.
41417244|Surface sediments of the lagoons of Lom, Togo, were analyzed for mercury, methylmercury, and trace elements. Concentrations were greater than typical for natural lagoon sediments, and with greater variability within the Eastern lagoon compared to the Western one. The Eastern lagoon is larger and has been dredged in the past, while the Western lagoon, which also receives major waste inputs, has not been dredged and shows less tidal flushing. Accordingly, one naturally believes that the Eastern lagoon is cleaner and probably safe to use due to its natural resources, including fishes to eat. Unexpectedly, we describe here that mercury methylation was greater in the Eastern lagoon, indicating increased bioavailability of mercury, as probably facilitated by past dredging that decreased solid-phase retention of inorganic mercury. Urbanization has historically been more developed in the southern part of the lagoons, which is still reflected in contamination levels of sediment despite dredging, probably because sources of contamination are still more important there today. Such urban contamination emphasizes the need to regulate waste discharges and possible airborne contamination in growing cities of developing countries, and implements environmental and public health monitoring, especially in relation to misbelieves systematically associated with the cleansing effect of dredging activity.
4314030|Organochlorine chemicals, including chlorinated pesticides and polychlorobiphenyls, are found at appreciable concentrations in the polar regions, presumably as a result of long-range atmospheric transport. Concentration data in arctic and antarctic air, snow, atmospheric deposition, fish and seals, measured by various investigators, are compiled and interpreted to determine latitudinal and temporal trends. It is suggested that the often surprisingly high concentrations are explained in part by the temperature-dependent partitioning of these low volatility compounds. A process of global fractionation may be occurring in which organic compounds become latitudinally fractionated, "condensing" at different ambient temperatures dependent on their volatility. We suggest that compounds with vapor pressures in a certain low range may preferentially accumulate in polar regions. Possible adverse effects of these potentially toxic compounds on the indigenous population and on the arctic ecosystem are discussed. It is concluded that there is a need to control or even ban certain chemicals which have a tendency to fractionate into the polar ecosystems.
4315150|The main source of pollution in the inner Oslofjord in the 20th century has been municipal sewage discharges from the city of Oslo. At the beginning of the 20th century, pollution was limited to the coastal waters and the harbor area of Oslo, in the vicinity of sewer outlets. High bacteria content caused a health hazard that city authorities attempted to reduce by constructing a sewerage system, including intercepting sewers and wastewater-treatment plants. Due to population growth, the impact area of increasing wastewater loading expanded. The entire inner Oslofjord was found to be affected in the 1930s. Scientific studies linked municipal sewage discharges to an increase in the algal production. In the 1940s, the bottom layers were found to be anoxic. The Oslo sewerage authorities were aware of the fjord's pollution, but regarded organic matter as the major problem and the activated sludge method as the best solution. The role of nutrients was not commonly acknowledged until in the late 1960s. Phosphorus removal was taken into use in the 1970s, and nitrogen removal was introduced in the late 1990s. Removal of nutrients has resulted in the slow recovery of the fjord.
4313540|Levels of
4313457|The Indonesian archipelago covers an area of 7.7 million km
4313031|This article summarizes what is known of the development of biota on Rakata, the remnant of Krakatau, since the cataclysmic eruption of 1883, and the colonization of the new island, Anak Krakatau, since its emergence in 1930. Surveys of animals and plants made in the century since 1883 are reviewed and questions of turnover and the achievement of biotic equilibrium are discussed in the light of present knowledge.
4315630|There is an increasing call for stronger interdisciplinary studies in the Baltic Sea to find solutions to the environmental and social problems associated with eutrophication. Cooperation between experts from the natural sciences, socioeconomics, and management is needed. One way to solve communication problems is to develop a broad conceptual model that comprehensively describes eutrophication and links causes, effects, and the multiple relationships of eutrophication in a visual way. In the present conceptual model, the eutrophication process is divided into i) causes, ii) primary effects, iii) secondary effects, and iv) socioeconomic responses. Each part is described and discussed separately, with links to the other levels and compartments. Possible pathways are shown through the model from natural science to human society, thus inducing management options. Examples of key publications where the causes and effects are observed and studied in the Baltic Sea are listed as examples, and their implications are discussed.
4313119|A comprehensive analysis of environmental radiation doses to the population around the Savannah River Plant (SRP), based on environmental data, thus far does not exist. Available data on external gamma radiation have here been analyzed, and show an unusual cumulative dose of 2200 mrem as the average for the plant perimeter locations from July, 1954, to December, 1969. This is approximately 130 percent higher than the dose expected from natural background radiation. Measurement errors do not explain the magnitude of the observed increase, and fallout from nuclear weapons tests can account for only about 30 percent of the increase. Although releases by SRP may be responsible for the excess dose, the lack of significant differences between the doses at the 40-km radius and those at the plant perimeter remains a major puzzle. An accidental release of radioactivity could be the reason for the high contaminations observed around the plant on March 4, 1955; these are presently claimed by plant authorities to be fallout from the Nevada weapons test. The examined evidence cannot rule out SRP as the major source of the environmental contamination. As it is conceivable that this plant has given rise to a significant number of adverse health effects, a cohort survey of people who have lived near SRP is recommended.
24708985|To increase the awareness of society to the challenges of global food security, we developed five contrasting global and European scenarios for 2050 and used these to identify important issues for future agricultural research. Using a scenario development method known as morphological analysis, scenarios were constructed that took economic, political, technical, and environmental factors into account. With the scenarios as a starting point future challenges were discussed and research issues and questions were identified in an interactive process with stakeholders and researchers. Based on the outcome of this process, six socioeconomic and biophysical overarching challenges for future agricultural were formulated and related research issues identified. The outcome was compared with research priorities generated in five other research programs. In comparison, our research questions focus more on societal values and the role of consumers in influencing agricultural production, as well as on policy formulation and resolving conflicting goals, areas that are presently under-represented in agricultural research. The partly new and more interdisciplinary research priorities identified in Future Agriculture compared to other programs analyzed are likely a result of the methodological approach used, combining scenarios and interaction between stakeholders and researchers.
4315219| We analyzed nitrogen budgets at national and regional levels on a timeline from 1961-2030 using a model, IAP-N 1.0. The model was designed based upon the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) methods using Asia-specific parameters and a Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) database. In this paper we discuss new reactive-nitrogen and its various fates, and environmental nitrogen enrichment and its driving forces. The anthropogenic reactive nitrogen of Asia dramatically increased from  14.4 Tg N yr
4312792|Energy Planning in developing countries must be rethought in the context of a more general crisis of development planning. The separation of "modern" and "traditional" energy sectors by conventional planning is criticized as well as its inappropriate emphasis on fuel conservation in developing countries. An alternative approach is suggested featuring biomass and commercial fossil fuels as twin pillars of a strategy that takes full account of the political and ecological character of rural economies.
25547929|In Finland, Comprehensive Surveys to monitor numbers and productivity of four endangered species of birds of prey were started in the early 1970s. In 1982, the Ringing Center launched the Raptor Grid, a nationwide monitoring program for all other bird-of-prey species based on 10  10 km study plots of the Finnish National Grid. The annual total of study plots surveyed by voluntary raptor ringers has averaged 120. Since 1986, additional information on breeding performance has been collected using the Raptor Questionnaire. In 2006, more than 44 262 potential nest sites of birds of prey were inspected, and 12 963 occupied territories, including 8149 active nests, were found and reported by ringers. The population trend during 1982-2006 has been significantly negative in six species and positive or neutral in 18 species. Statistical power of the time series of numbers and productivity has been adequate for all species except the microtine specialists.
4315587|The giant Amazon river turtle (Podocnemis expansa) nests on extensive sand bars on the margins and interior of the channel during the dry season. The high concentration of nests in specific points of certain beaches indicates that the selection of nest placement is not random but is related to some geological aspects, such as bar margin inclination and presence of a high, sandy platform. The presence of access channels to high platform points or ramp morphology are decisive factors in the choice of nesting areas. The eroded and escarped margins of the beaches hinder the Amazon river turtle arriving at the most suitable places for nesting. Through the years, changes in beach morphology can alter nest distribution.
4313985| Although DDT and other persistent pesticides are now banned in most industrialized countries, they are still used or have only recently been discontinued in many developing countries. Organochlorine pesticides, mainly DDT and metabolites were analyzed in fish, mussels, prawns and birds from different localities and trophic levels and are compared to two other Zimbabwean man-made lakes. sDDT seemed to be both bioaccumulating and biomagnifying and levels were generally relatively high, but did not differ much from temperate lakes. The algae feeder, Redbreast Tilapia (Tilapia rendalli) had 1900 ng sDDT  g
4313558|This paper briefly discusses some aspects of air pollution, including acid deposition, and its effects on terrestrial ecosystems. Data on precipitation chemistry at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire shows declines in concentrations of hydrogen ion, sulfate, ammonium, and chloride since 1964. Using these long-term trends, predictions of sulfate deposition in the year 2000, using different SO
4314865|Endogenous growth models have revived the debate over the role of technological innovation in economic growth and development. The consensus view is that institutional and policy failures prevent poor countries from generating or using new technological ideas to reap greater economic opportunities. However, this view omits the important contribution of natural resource degradation and depletion to institutional instability. Rather than generating automatic market and innovation responses, worsening resource scarcities in poor countries can lead to social conflicts and frictions that disrupt the institutional and policy environment necessary for successful innovation, including appropriate market responses to scarcity. This indirect constraint of resource scarcity may help explain the disappointing growth performance of many poor countries.
4314736|Lakes in mountainous areas are of special interest in environmental studies because such lakes are generally particularly sensitive to inputs of atmospheric pollution and to changes in climate. Mountain lakes provide, therefore, an early warning of more widespread environmental changes. Surveys of lake-water chemistry in mountain areas in Norway, and mountain areas elsewhere in Europe which have crystalline bedrock, clearly show that such lakes are generally very dilute with low concentrations of base cations, alkalinity and SO
4314156|In its second decade, the study of global change will require increased research on the interactions of physical, biological and anthropogenic processes. The absence of prior substantive collaboration across the natural and social sciences has resulted in the delineation of a well-articulated global change research agenda that calls for, but does not yet encompass, significant interdisciplinary collaboration. There are few models of the kind of successful collaboration that is needed, and little concrete evidence of how it should be attempted. This paper makes a distinction between cooperative, but partitioned multidisciplinary research, and collaborative interdisciplinary research. The latter will only be possible if scientists from collaborating fields begin to alter the way they think about global data, and prepare to take the time needed to address the problems.
25547930|This article summarizes results from raptor monitoring and contamination studies in Norway of the golden eagle, gyrfalcon, white-tailed sea eagle, osprey, peregrine, and merlin. Golden eagle and gyrfalcon populations have been monitored since 1990 as part of the "Monitoring Programme for Terrestrial Ecosystems" (TOV). No long-term trend in the population size or productivity of golden eagle has been shown in any of the 5 study areas. The reproductive output of gyrfalcon is monitored in 3 areas. It is positively correlated with the populations of its main prey species, the rock ptarmigan and the willow ptarmigan. The white-tailed sea eagle population has been monitored since 1974 by the Norwegian Ornithological Society, and the population is increasing. The levels of pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls are low in the eggs of both the golden eagle and the gyrfalcon, but elevated levels and effects on reproduction have been indicated for a coastal subpopulation of golden eagle. The pollutant levels in white-tailed sea eagle are lower than in the Baltic population of sea eagles, and shell thinning was never severe overall, but individual eggs have contained pollutant concentrations above critical levels. The levels of pollutants in the bird-eating falcons, peregrine, and merlin were higher than in other species. New emerging pollutants, like brominated diphenylethers and perfluorinated organic compounds, could be detected in all species. By incorporating available published and unpublished data, we were able to produce time trends for pollutants and shell thickness over 4 decades.
4311935| Lake Mlaren and other large Swedish lakes have been the objects of a long-term investigation. Evidence of progressive deterioration is presented in this article. Various changes in concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus, in the composition and quantity of phytoplankton, in maximum chlorophyll a values, in amounts of macrophyte vegetation and in bottom fauna have been recorded. 
25547935|Fail-to-hatch kestrel (Falco tinnunculus) eggs collected at the end of the 1999 and 2005 breeding seasons from nest boxes in and around the city of Rome, Italy, were analyzed by gas chromatography with electron capture detection for their PCB content and for the presence of DDT derivatives and other organochlorines. Among the various PCBs, congeners 153 and 180 were detected in all the eggs and showed the highest concentrations. Eggs collected from the same nest from a polluted location in Rome during 2 different years showed similar type and number of PCB congeners. These data and the fact that eggs from another nest near a sulphate mine had, atypically, low-chlorinated congeners support the conclusion that eggs of this species, whose adults in the Mediterranean and continental Europe perform only short or no migration movements, might be indicative of local pollution. When multiple eggs in the same clutch were analyzed, the PCBs were similar in type but their concentration decreased within clutch, likely in parallel to the laying order.
4315738|One of the least understood aspects of aquatic ecology is the role of riparian zones of lakes, and how these habitats and their functions are impacted by human development of lakeshores. We investigated the effects of residential lakeshore development on littoral coarse woody debris (CWD) distribution and on riparian forest characteristics by comparing 18 lakes in the U.S. Pacific Northwest with 16 previously surveyed lakes in the U.S. Upper Midwest. Residential development had a strong negative effect on CWD and riparian forest characteristics at both local and whole-lake scales. There was a strong positive correlation between riparian forest density and littoral CWD abundance in both regions. We found regional variation in CWD and riparian forest characteristics, mostly owing to differences in native forests. Our results suggest the role of local processes in determining CWD distribution and point to potential regional differences in littoral habitat structure associated with forest composition and lakeshore development that may have consequences for littoral-pelagic coupling in lakes.
4313485|From 1984 to early 1986. WWF-US conducted a series of case studies of conservational aspects of major hydroelectric, mining and forestry development in Brazilian Amazonia. Forest fragmentation as a result of cattle-ranching and of shifting agriculture, and effects of subsistence and commercial hunting, were also examined. A subsequent report summarized the scale of economic development projects at the time and discussed their impact upon Amazonian wildlife. This article reconsiders the main findings of the report in the light of current developments in Amazonia, the political problems facing wildlife conservationists, and the pressing need for further research work.
4314938|This paper presents a study of the 1997 fires in Indonesia, which was undertaken during October and November 1997, partly to assess the extent and nature of fires during August and September, and partly to undertake real-time monitoring of the fires. Data, mainly in the form of satellite imagery and image products, was obtained from local receiving stations and through the Internet. The distribution of fires in time and space has been assessed, mainly using indicative "hot-spots" from NOAA AVHRR and ERS-2 ATSR imagery. A rough assessment of areas burnt in southern Sumatera up to the end of September 1997 has been undertaken using SPOT digital quicklook imagery, and vegetation classes burnt assessed by interpretation of preburn satellite imagery, where available. Major fires started in southern Sumatera and southern Kalimantan in early August 1997 and continued to burn until the second week of November, when they appear to have been extinguished by the arrival of substantial rain. Fires have also burnt for much of this period in southeastern Irian Jaya. The total area burnt in Sumatera Selatan and Lampung provinces of southern Sumatera alone is estimated to be about 1 mill. ha, and the total in all of Indonesia is in excess of 2 mill. ha. Most of this area was not forest, but scrub, grassland and agricultural lands. The most persistent fires, and the source of probably 90% of the smoke haze which blanketed parts of Indonesia and surrounding countries, were 7 clusters of fires along the edges of degraded peat-swamp forests in southern Sumatera and Kalimantan. Almost no fires occurred deep within undisturbed primary forest, and most were associated with land-clearing for new settlements or plantations, or with logging operations.
4313622|Recent research has shown that a nuclear war in the Northern Hemisphere during the northern spring or summer would lead to the advection overhead in Australia of a high altitude layer of smoke capable of absorbing of the order of 20% of the sunlight, and lasting for up to 12 months or more. We have used three different modelling approaches to estimating the effects of such a smoke layer on the surface climate, and here present a summary of the results, and a preliminary assessment of the possible impact on Australian food production. The possible additional impact of various other environmental stresses are discussed. It is concluded that the climatic and other stresses, combined with a possible large influx of refugees, may be sufficient to threaten the ability of Australia to adequately feed its own population. Nevertheless, the physical survival of most of the population is likely in Australia provided cities are not targeted.
25515792|Changes in temperature and moisture resulting from climate change are likely to strongly modify the ecosystem carbon sequestration capacity in high-latitude areas, both through vegetation shifts and via direct warming effects on photosynthesis and decomposition. This paper offers a synthesis of research addressing the potential impacts of climate warming on soil processes and carbon fluxes at the forest-tundra ecotone in Scandinavia. Our results demonstrated higher rates of organic matter decomposition in mountain birch forest than in tundra heath soils, with markedly shallower organic matter horizons in the forest. Field and laboratory experiments suggest that increased temperatures are likely to increase CO efflux from both tundra and forest soil providing moisture availability does not become limiting for the decomposition process. Furthermore, colonization of tundra heath by mountain birch forest would increase rates of decomposition, and thus CO emissions, from the tundra heath soils, which currently store substantial amounts of potentially labile carbon. Mesic soils underlying both forest and tundra heath are currently weak sinks of atmospheric methane, but the strength of this sink could be increased with climate warming and/or drying.
41417318|Results of research into climate and glacier dynamics in the Altai Mountains (Russia) over the period of instrumental observations (1952-2008) are presented in this article. About 1030 glaciers with a total area of 805 km and volume of 42.5 km have been recorded in the Altai Region. The average summer air temperature in different regions of the Altai has increased during the study period from about 0.2C (Aktru) to 1.1C (Akkem). The annual atmospheric precipitation rate has also increased, by 8-10%. Since 1952, the glacier area in different regions of the Altai has decreased by 9-27%, and volume by 12-24%. By 2008, as a result of degradation, the total number of glaciers was 953 with an area of 724 km and volume of 38 km.
41417302|Climate change scenarios concerning the Baltic Sea predict increase in surface water temperatures. Pikeperch (Sander lucioperca (L.)) inhabits the coastal areas of the northern Baltic Sea and is an important fish species for the Finnish fisheries. The year-class strength of pikeperch varies strongly between years and significantly depends on water temperature. We aimed to study the effects of changing temperature conditions on pikeperch fisheries and distribution based on commercial catch data from the period 1980-2008 in the Finnish coastal areas of the Baltic Sea. The results indicated that warmer summers will produce stronger pikeperch year-classes that consequently contribute significantly to the future catches. The average temperature in June-July explained 40% of the variation in the year-class catches in the Gulf of Finland and 73% in July-August in the Archipelago Sea. During the study period, the distribution of pikeperch catches expanded toward north along the coasts of the Bothnian Sea.
4312517|A new procedure for testing the physiological effects of pollutants in seabirds in their natural environment is described. With this procedure it was found that a single 0.1-0.5 ml oral dose of weathered crude oil caused a transient rise in plasma sodium, nasal and adrenal gland hypertrophy and an overall decrease in body weight gain in nestling black guillemots (Cepphus grylle).
24708791|Sustainable provision of seafood from wild-capture fisheries and mariculture is a fundamental component of healthy marine ecosystems and a major component of the Ocean Health Index. Here we critically review the food provision model of the Ocean Health Index, and explore the implications of knowledge gaps, scale of analysis, choice of reference points, measures of sustainability, and quality of input data. Global patterns for fisheries are positively related to human development and latitude, whereas patterns for mariculture are most closely associated with economic importance of seafood. Sensitivity analyses show that scores are robust to several model assumptions, but highly sensitive to choice of reference points and, for fisheries, extent of time series available to estimate landings. We show how results for sustainable seafood may be interpreted and used, and we evaluate which modifications show the greatest potential for improvements.
4312172| A relationship between the scattering properties of the atmosphere and the sulfate content of the air is shown to exist. The haze clouds produced by man over the eastern US and Western Europe consist to a considerable degree of sulfate particles. The change of the albedo for solar radiation caused by these would be equivalent to a temperature drop of several degrees over these areas if ventilation did not occur, or a decrease of the mean temperature of the Northern Hemisphere approaching 0.1C. 
4314018|Biochemical parameters in blood and urine of pregnant mink fed commercial PCB, CB fractions and mixtures of the latter were examined. Mink were fed PCB fractions starting about 35 days before mating and continuing for 50 days thereafter. In 1990, mink were exposed to PCB for 53-69 days and were sacrificed 10, 17 and 26 days after mating. Blood samples were obtained at the time of sacrifice. No significant alterations were registered for the urinary parameters. Animals fed commercial PCB, but not fractions of CBs, all had elevated alanine aminotransferase (S-ALAT) (p < 0.05). Mink fed commercial PCB, individual or combined CB fractions had lowered (p < 0.05) alkaline phosphatase (S-ALP). Lowered (p < 0.05) serum bile acids (S-BA) were recorded in animals fed commercial PCB or 2-4-ortho + 1-ortho + 0-ortho and 2-4-ortho + 0-ortho. The presence of bi-and tricyclic contaminants counteracted some of the observed biochemical changes, in particular decreases in S-fructosamine and in S-cholesterol. This protective effect and the lack of reponse in animals fed the contaminants could be attributed to induction of catalytic enzymes. Patterns of S-ALAT, S-ALP, S-BA, S-cholesterol and S-fructos-amine for animals fed 2-4-ortho resembled the pattern for the control groups, whereas the combination of 2-4-ortho + 0-ortho CBs resulted in a pattern which was similar to that in animals fed commercial PCB. Significant differences from control animals were more frequent in animals given 0-ortho than 1-ortho CBs. The patterns of biochemical changes for groups of animals fed 0-ortho CBs alone or in combination with other CBs best reproduced the pattern of the animals fed commercial PCB. The biochemical changes observed indicate the feeding of PCB or fractions of CBs causes a disturbance in hepatocytes.
4313033|The pollution of the atmosphere by massive amounts of smoke and dust following a large scale nuclear exchange could greatly decrease sunlight reaching the earth's surface in Northern Hemisphere midlatitudes, and perhaps globally. Simulations with two different three-dimensional global climate models show subfreezing land surface temperatures underlying the hypothesized dense Northern Hemisphere smoke cloud, particularly in continental interiors. The accompanying profound changes in atmospheric circulation would tend to transport the smoke upwards and towards the tropics and Southern Hemisphere, possibly bringing those areas into the severe climatic disruption spawned by a Northern Hemisphere war.
4312224|Information is reviewed concerning the effects of acid precipitation on forest ecosystems, with particular attention to forests on coarse-textured soils with a low base status, such as those typical for large parts of Scandinavia. While decreases in forest growth due to acid precipitation have not yet been convincingly demonstrated, certain soil organisms and biological processes (ia soil respiration and nitrogen mineralization) are sensitive to acid applications at levels comparable to the amounts received in a 5-10 year period in southern Scandinavia. A model is presented describing some possible mechanisms by which acid inputs might affect forest growth.
4314603|Soil mineral nitrogen and nitrogen runoff losses were studied in three small agricultural catchments (10-40 ha) in southeastern Norway during the period 1992 to 1995. Soil and crop management, and temporal variability in weather conditions were given special attention in the study. Nitrogen runoff losses on the catchment scale correlated reasonably well with soil mineral nitrogen content within the catchment area. The losses appeared to be negatively correlated with crop yields. Thus, major reductions in crop yields resulted in substantial increases in nitrogen runoff losses during the subsequent autumn and winter periods. Crop yields and factors related to contents and management of soil organic matter seem to explain a substantial part of the variations in soil mineral N. Since transformation of organic matter is largely a biological process, weather conditions can be expected to be of great importance for nitrogen mineralization. This study indicates that a major part of the leached nitrogen originates from the mineralization of organic matter rather than from applied fertilizers. Crop systems, crop management and soil organic matter management are thus considered as key factors influencing nitrogen losses from agricultural fields.
4312066|Attempts to model the future evolution of the human society, even on a time scale as short as half a century, are limited by a number of uncertainties. Some of these uncertainties are due to our unsatisfactory knowledge of the magnitude of the actual resources of energy and materials and of the complex feedback systems that affect their uses. We shall here briefly discuss some of the resource aspects which have only recently come into focus. This discussion of new possibilities does not imply that we should not be rationally concerned about the rapidly increasing load on the Earth's resources and its effects on the structure of society and on the quality of the environment. Instead the purpose is to add some further detail to the web of information that one would need in order to realistically evaluate this and related problems.
4314410|The littoral wetland in northern China refers to the coastal area on the north of the Yangtze River, including the beaches as well as the estuary wetlands of some large rivers. The total area of the northern littoral wetland amounts to 2.1 mill. ha. The littoral wetland area is particularly rich in biological resources and is an important land area. With its high prime production, the wetland offers a variety of habitats for birds, crabs, shellfish, and other animals, including a number of rare species. The littoral wetland is a vulnerable ecosystem. Due to intensive human activities, the natural environment has been greatly changed, especially in the Yellow and Liaohe River deltas, as a result of oil exploitation and wasteland cultivation. However, wetland can with care be used as a purification field for oil pollutants.
4313929|As the UNCED process draws global attention to the potentially enormous welfare implications of biodiversity loss, it is useful to take stock of what is and is not known about the problem. Combining the insights from the disciplines of economics and ecology, this paper outlines the most urgent questions for research in the area. Regarding humans less as managers than as co-actors with other species in complex self-organizing systems, we focus on the sustainability of resource use. In the context of biological conservation this implies the maintenance of sufficient biodiversity to assure the resilience of ecosystems delivering ecological services of fundamental value to human societies. The paper identifies four sets of research issues: the first comprises a set of ecological questions about the nature, measurement and con-sequences of change in biological diversity, both globally and at the level of particular ecosystems. The second concerns the economic valuation of ecological services as a means of judging the economic significance of biodiversity loss. The third concerns the driving forces behind biodiversity loss. It deals with both the proximate and underlying causes of change in the level of biodiversity. The fourth concerns the scope for changing the human behavior which threatens biodiversity, whether through the destruction of habitat, through specialization in production, or through harvesting strategies. The nature of the linkage between ecological and economic systems is discussed in the context of informational, institutional, ethical and cultural conditions. The paper takes a systems perspective emphasizing the importance of an interdisciplinary approach to biodiversity, and the gains from collaborative research.
4312751| Clophen A 50 (a mixture of polychlorinated biphenyls, PCBs, with 50 weight % chlorine), 2, 3, 4, 4-tetrachlorobiphenyl and 2, 3, 4, 4, 5-pentachlorobiphenyl were injected below the sediment surface in sediment/water systems. In systems containing macroorganisms (Chironomus sp and/or Tubifex sp), and in anaerobic systems a transport of PCBs occurred to the water column. PCBs were also transported to the surface microlayer in the systems and were recovered on jetdrop impactors 7 cm above the surface of the water. Particles generated from the sediment by macroorganisms or by gas bubbles were of major importance in distributing PCB compounds within the systems. All the PCB compounds studied behaved similarly. 
40390425|We used an off-line, regional, model of atmospheric transport and chemistry to investigate current and future levels of near-surface ozone and accumulated ozone exposure over a threshold of 40 ppb(v) (AOT40) in Europe. To describe the current situation and enable an evaluation of the model's performance we simulated a number of years around 2000. To assess changes in ozone concentrations due to possible emission changes in Europe, the model was run with the meteorology of the early 2000s and precursor emissions from a set of Clean Air for Europe (CAFE) emissions scenarios. By extrapolation of the observed increase in near-surface O at coastal locations in northwest Europe we constructed model boundaries that were used to simulate the impact of increasing hemispheric background in 2020. To assess changes in ozone concentrations due to climate change, the model was run with recent (2000) emissions but using meteorology from a regional climate model simulating a control (1961-1990) and a future (2021-2050) climate. The results indicate that climate change will have a small impact on ozone concentrations and AOT40 in the Nordic countries. Changes in hemispheric background concentrations and changes in precursor emissions in Europe will have a larger effect on ozone in Northern Europe. The situation is quite different in southern Europe, where climate change is expected to result in a very large increase in near-surface ozone concentrations.
4312727|The physical beauty of the Caribbean tends to obscure the real social and economic problems the region faces. Health is a major concern, and great emphasis is placed on such environmental services as water supply, sewage, and waste disposal. The incidence of various environmental diseases is outlined, and progress in the provision of more adequate water supplies is described, as well as improvements which are still necessary in waste disposal and sewage systems. International aid programs bearing on the environment are briefly noted.
4313831|Modern farming practices have had an important effect on both the structure of bird communities on farmland and the abundance of key species. Many species have been declining on farmland over the past 20 years. The most pervasive, yet least studied effect, has operated through a reduction in the birds food supplies as a consequence of increased farm intensification. Three broad landscape changes are described and their impact on birds identified. The effect of declining food resources and the farming practices which bring them about are discussed. The claimed benefits to wildlife of organic farming are outlined and the longer-term prospects for integrating wildlife with farming are considered against various policy initiatives such as Set-aside, the Countryside Premium Scheme and Extensification.
4314988|Nine hydrological issues relating to land use and climate change are identified from a southern Africa perspective, each illustrated by an example based on field observations or simulation modelling. The nine issues are that (i) southern Africa's hydrological regime is already so variable that climate change will be difficult to detect; (ii) fluctuations in the hydrological regime are amplified by fluctuations in climate; (iii) hydrological responses are highly sensitive to land use changes; (iv) local scale abrupt land use changes may be hydrologically more significant than regional scale gradual changes; (v) land use change frequently exacerbates already variable flow regimes; (vi) detailed spatial information is vital in assessing impacts of critical land uses; (vii) major components of the hydrological system respond very differently to climate change; (viii) in developing countries inter-seasonal climate change may be more important than that at decadal time scale; and (ix) there is need to identify the hydrologically sensitive areas of a region.
4313245|Among several species of otters that forage in the sea, only two, the chungungo and the sea otter, live largely in a marine environment. Recent developments in monitoring technologies have resulted in increased knowledge about their population dynamics and behavioral characteristics. Ecosystem studies have discovered important relationships between sea otters and kelp beds. Sea otters eat sea urchins which would normally eat the kelp, thus allowing it to grow. Further data shows a tentative relationship between this phenomenon and increased fish species that live on the kelp. Other ongoing studies are attempting to document changes in coastal ecosystems that occur over time as sea otters are reestablished in new habitats and eventually grow to equilibrium population levels.
24708995|Invasion ecology has much advanced since its early beginnings. Nevertheless, explanation, prediction, and management of biological invasions remain difficult. We argue that progress in invasion research can be accelerated by, first, pointing out difficulties this field is currently facing and, second, looking for measures to overcome them. We see basic and applied research in invasion ecology confronted with difficulties arising from (A) societal issues, e.g., disparate perceptions of invasive species; (B) the peculiarity of the invasion process, e.g., its complexity and context dependency; and (C) the scientific methodology, e.g., imprecise hypotheses. To overcome these difficulties, we propose three key measures: (1) a checklist for definitions to encourage explicit definitions; (2) implementation of a hierarchy of hypotheses (HoH), where general hypotheses branch into specific and precisely testable hypotheses; and (3) platforms for improved communication. These measures may significantly increase conceptual clarity and enhance communication, thus advancing invasion ecology.
4313740|The increasing demand for sources of protein in developing countries, coupled with the relatively high cost of imported proteins, has led to a search for alternatives, particularly novel legumes indigenous to the tropics. Canavalia ensiformis (jackbean) is an annual which has shown promise both as a source of forage and seed. The seed contains up to 30% crude protein. But, as in a number of other tropical legumes, the raw seed contains toxic substances. Jackbean is currently grown in Nigeria as an ornamental plant. These studies were designed to determine ways of improving the nutritional value of the jackbean to make it acceptable as livestock feed. Phytochemical studies showed that the raw jackbean seed contains growth-inhibiting substances which can be removed by heat treatment. However, heat treatment alone improved the nutritive value of jackbean for rats up to 20% dietary level but not for broilers or laying hens, beyond 10% dietary level. Soaking the raw seed in urea solution for a few days followed by boiling for an hour or so improved nutritive value to the point where a dietary mix containing 20% jackbean was tolerated by laying hens and a mix of up to 30% jackbean by broilers.
4315258|Shrimp aquaculture in Vietnam is in the process of being transformed into a major industry around the intensification of the production system. The experiences of other countries in the region, especially in Thailand where high input production systems dominate, suggests that now is a critical time for intervention to re-direct industry into pathways that are more sustainable ecologically, socially, and economically. In Thailand, years of experience with intensified systems and a complex industrial organization has not led to sustainable solutions. The challenge here is for society to regain control and then to re-direct the transformation along more efficient and benign pathways. Our analyses suggest that current pathways in both countries are unlikely to lead to a sustainable industry. A complete transformation of the way shrimp are grown, fed, processed, distributed, and regulated is needed.
4315592|In 1998, the Vietnamese National Assembly approved a Five Million Hectare Reforestation Program, (5MHRP) 1998-2010. It would increase forest cover by some 45%, use barren hills, produce wood, and generate socioeconomic development. It would, however, also put demands on Vietnamese planning. Experiences from a former development project and two case studies from a commune and village are used as a basis for analyzing the planning system. The study describes the objectives and strategies of government and farmers in one commune and one village and analyzes how planning data influence scenarios on future development. Official planning data do not reflect reality but are derived through negotiations. In the commune and village studied, it would be difficult for the 5MHRP to materialize, as most of the forest land, officially not yet used, is actually used for food production. The approach and method used by the study offers alternatives to current planning practices.
41417386|We use economic analysis to evaluate grandfathering, auctioning, and benchmarking approaches for allocation of emissions allowances and then discuss practical experience from European and American schemes. In principle, auctions are superior from the viewpoints of efficiency, fairness, transparency, and simplicity. In practice, auctions have been opposed by important sectors of industry, which argue that carbon pricing without compensation would harm international competitiveness. In the European Union's Emissions Trading System, this concern led to grandfathering that is updated at various intervals. Unfortunately, updating gives industry an incentive to change behavior to influence future allocation. Furthermore, the wealth transferred to incumbent firms can be significantly larger than the extra costs incurred, leading to windfall profits. Meanwhile, potential auction revenues are not available to reduce other taxes. By circumscribing free allocation, benchmarking can target competitiveness concerns, incur less wealth transfer, and provide a strategy consistent with transitioning to auctions in the long run.
25515799|In the Langcang (Upper-Mekong) watershed, degraded watershed ecosystems in upland areas threaten cultivation practices, water resources, and dam development downstream. Assessment of ecosystem services and the factors that threaten them is an important first step to support watershed management. This, however, requires detailed information that is often missing in mountainous regions. To overcome this, in this paper, we adopt a decision tree approach to assess protection, biodiversity, and production services in two mountainous watersheds (Fengqing and Xiaojie) of the Lancang River Basin. Decision tree rules were built on the basis of field surveys, available references, ecosystem maps derived from remote sensing, expert knowledge, basic topographic information, and community interviews. Decision tree results showed that forest cover and agro-forestry practices contribute greatly to improved ecosystem functioning in the Fengqing Catchment compared to the Xiaojie Catchment. The results were consistent with field observations. The decision tree method proved to be a suitable and flexible tool for the rapid assessment of watershed ecosystem services, for highlighting those areas that need more in-depth research, and for guiding watershed and ecosystem management.
4313491|The problems of community forestry are not related to technical-production questions, but to issues of distribution and equity. To date most studies have emphasized strategies for halting deforestation and planting more trees, often to the exclusion of strategies for maintaining the plantations and meeting the needs of the poor. A classification of forestry programs will help to clarify objectives, strategies, and project concepts. Community-forestry programs need to stress different actors, activities, and level of analysis when comparing these programs with those of farm forestry and social forestry. The form such strategies take will depend on local conditions. However, it is possible to lay down some broad rules for relating patterns of organization to performance, and to conceptualize alternatives to existing bureaucratic arrangements.
4314092|This paper presents an integrated response of abiotic and biotic factors to the acidification process in littoral communities in Swedish forest lakes. In structuring the acidified community three major forces can be recognized. Firstly, abiotic variation, including changed water chemistry and habitat structure, has a strong impact on all trophic levels. Low pH and increased toxicity of metals, especially aluminum, are ultimate causes of the extinction and succession of species during acidification. In the acidified community, the abiotic factors affect both the top-down and bottom-up forces, and changes can be triggered at all trophic levels. The second force structuring the community is a bottom-up effect caused by reduced nutrient cycling and a shift in plant heterogeneity. This shift, mainly resulting from a shift in the CO
4314842|Early mortality syndrome or EMS that affects salmonids in the Great Lakes exhibits many of the same clinical signs as Cayuga syndrome, that affects Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) in the New York Finger Lakes and the M74 syndrome that affects Atlantic salmon from the Baltic Sea. These similarities may reflect their shared characteristics of associated low thiamine concentrations in eggs and therapeutic responsiveness to exogenous thiamine treatment. When egg thiamine levels fall below a species-specific threshold clinical signs include loss of equilibrium, depression of respiration and reduced heart rate. Although feeding studies with thiamine deficient diets have yet to confirm a thiamine cause-effect relationship, EMS-like symptoms can be induced with thiamine antagonists. Patterns of temporal variability of EMS among Great Lakes' salmonids over the last 3 decades have been similar. In coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch), EMS was negatively correlated with alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus) abundance in Lake Michigan. We hypothesize that this may reflect quantitative or qualitative change in the alewives eaten because despite their fluctuating abundance they have remained the preferred diet item. The limited data available for other salmonids suggest similar trends.
4311987|Low pH levels in rivers of southern Norway have resulted in the mortality of trout and salmon. Experiments show that the lower pH limits for normal hatching and fry development are pH 5.0-5.5 for salmon, 4.5-5.0 for sea trout and ca pH 4.5 for brown trout. An examination of the relation between pH values in the rivers and lakes in question, and salmon and trout populations, shows that these fish populations generally decrease in size as the pH level decreases.
23253253|This study investigated the effects of long-term-enhanced UV-B, and combined UV-B with elevated CO 2 on dwarf shrub berry characteristics in a sub-arctic heath community. Germination of Vaccinium myrtillus was enhanced in seeds produced at elevated UV-B, but seed numbers and berry size were unaffected. Elevated UV-B and CO 2 stimulated the abundance of V. myrtillus berries, whilst UV-B alone stimulated the berry abundance of V. vitis-idaea and Empetrum hermaphroditum. Enhanced UV-B reduced concentrations of several polyphenolics in V. myrtillus berries, whilst elevated CO 2 increased quercetin glycosides in V. myrtillus, and syringetin glycosides and anthocyanins in E. hermaphroditum berries. UV-B  CO 2 interactions were found for total anthocyanins, delphinidin-3-hexoside and peonidin-3-pentosidein in V. myrtillus berries but not E. hermaphroditum. Results suggest positive impacts of UV-B on the germination of V. myrtillus and species-specific impacts of UV-B  elevated CO 2 on berry abundance and quality. The findings have relevance and implications for human and animal consumers plus seed dispersal and seedling establishment.
4313038|The ecological changes in lakes damaged by acidification affect waterbirds in many different ways according to the feeding habits of each species concerned. In addition, birds which exploit food resources in acid lakes are increasingly exposed to metal pollutants. For some fish-eating birds, such as divers and osprey, the problem of acid lakes has an international aspect as a considerable proportion of the total populations in Europe breeds at waters susceptible to damage from acidification.
23253252|Winter climate and snow cover are the important drivers of plant community development in polar regions. However, the impacts of changing winter climate and associated changes in snow regime have received much less attention than changes during summer. Here, we synthesize the results from studies on the impacts of extreme winter weather events on polar heathland and lichen communities. Dwarf shrubs, mosses and soil arthropods were negatively impacted by extreme warming events while lichens showed variable responses to changes in extreme winter weather events. Snow mould formation underneath the snow may contribute to spatial heterogeneity in plant growth, arthropod communities and carbon cycling. Winter snow cover and depth will drive the reported impacts of winter climate change and add to spatial patterns in vegetation heterogeneity. The challenges ahead lie in obtaining better predictions on the snow patterns across the landscape and how these will be altered due to winter climate change.
4315272| In the 1980s, people in Sweden frequently responded to moose (Alces alces) found dead or in poor physical condition. The number of moose submitted for routine investigations to the National Veterinary Institute (SVA) increased tenfold and the hunters in lvsborg County were especially concerned. Later, a complex wasting syndrome was described and reports of moose suffering from the syndrome have been collected since 1991. Today, there is no definitive answer as to the underlaying causel(s) of the syndrome, but there are several plausible hypotheses that can be divided into two groups: food-related and host-parasite related. The food-related hypotheses are postulated to have any of the following ultimate causes: acidification/liming, browser density/food production or pollution. Our view is that few of the hypotheses have been critically tested. Most of the hypotheses are supported by some observations, which is to be expected because these are post-hoc attempts to explain these very observations. 
24708862|A coastal community vulnerability index (CCVI) was constructed to evaluate the vulnerability of coastal communities (Buhangin, Pingit, Reserva, Sabang, and Zabali) in the municipality of Baler, Aurora, Philippines. This index was composed of weighted averages of seven vulnerability factors namely geographical, economic and livelihood, food security, environmental, policy and institutional, demographic, and capital good. Factor values were computed based on scores that described range of conditions that influence communities' susceptibility to hazard effects. Among the factors evaluated, economic and livelihood, policy and institutional and food security contributed to CCVI across communities. Only small variations on CCVI values (i.e., 0.470.53) were observed as factor values cancelled out one another during combination process. Overall, Sabang received the highest CCVI, which was contributed mainly by geographical and demographic factors. This technique to determine factors that influenced communities' vulnerability can provide information for local governments in enhancing policies on risk mitigation and adaptation.
4315606| A systems analysis approach was used to assess farm-scale nutrient and trace element sustainability by combining full-scale field experiments with specific studies of nutrient release from mineral weathering and trace-element cycling. At the jebyn dairy farm in northern Sweden, a farm-scale case study including phosphorus (P), potassium (K), and zinc (Zn) was run to compare organic and conventional agricultural management practices. By combining different element-balance approaches (at farm-gate, barn, and field scales) and further adapting these to the FARMFLOW model, we were able to combine mass flows and pools within the subsystems and establish links between subsystems in order to make farm-scale predictions. It was found that internal element flows on the farm are large and that there are farm internal sources (Zn) and loss terms (K). The approaches developed and tested at the jebyn farm are promising and considered generally adaptable to any farm. 
25547865|Normal and abnormal levels of human participation in ecosystems can be revealed through the use of macroecological patterns. Such patterns also provide consistent and objective guidance that will lead to achieving and maintaining ecosystem health and sustainability. This paper focuses on the consistency of this type of guidance and management. Such management, in sharp contrast to current management practices, ensures that our actions as individuals, institutions, political groups, societies, and as a species are applied consistently across all temporal, spatial, and organizational scales. This approach supplants management of today, where inconsistency results from debate, politics, and legal and religious polarity. Consistency is achieved when human endeavors are guided by natural patterns. Pattern-based management meets long-standing demands for enlightened management that requires humans to participate in complex systems in consistent and sustainable ways.
4315303|Fishery resources are a vital source of food and make valuable economic contributions to the local communities involved in fishery activities along the 850 km stretch of the Tanzania coastline and numerous islands. Small-scale artisanal fishery accounts for the majority of fish catch produced by more than 43 000 fishermen in the country, mainly operating in shallow waters within the continental shelf, using traditional fishing vessels including small boats, dhows, canoes, outrigger canoes and dinghys. Various fishing techniques are applied using uncomplicated passive fishing gears such as basket traps, fence traps, nets as well as different hook and line techniques. Species composition and size of the fish varies with gear type and location. More than 500 species of fish are utilized for food with reef fishes being the most important category including emperors, snappers, sweetlips, parrotfish, surgeonfish, rabbitfish, groupers and goatfish. Most of the fish products are used for subsistence purposes. However, some are exported. Destructive fishing methods such as drag nets and dynamite fishing pose a serious problem as they destroy important habitats for fish and other organisms, and there is a long-term trend of overharvested fishery resources. However, fish pressure varies within the country as fishery resources are utilized in a sustainable manner in some areas. For this report more than 340 references about Tanzanian fishery and fish ecology were covered. There are many gaps in terms of information needed for successful fishery management regarding both basic and applied research. Most research results have been presented as grey literature (57%) with limited distribution; only one-fifth were scientific publications in international journals.
4315421|The inundated area of the Okavango Delta changes annually and interannually. The variability relates to regional precipitation over the catchment area in the Angolan highlands, and to local rainfall. The patterns of the wetland were captured using more than 3000 satellite images for the period 1972 to 2000, near daily NOAA AVHRR data for 1985-2000, and less frequent images of the Landsat sensors form 1972 onwards. One AVHRR image for every 10-day period was classified into land and water using an unsupervised classification method. Evaluation against Landsat TM and ERS2-ATSR data indicate an agreement of 89% for the size of estimated inundation area. Results show that the wetland area has varied between approximately 2450 km
4313743|In this paper the causes of the destruction of the tropical forests are analyzed. We propose remedies and we give the specific actions which have been proposed by the World Resources Institute for the years 1987-1991 and by the Silva Conference held in Paris in February 1986. Deforestation can be arrested if the developing and the developed countries change their current behavior. Research in tropical forestry can make contributions of major significance, even if research alone cannot solve all the problems. There is a requirement for research in forest production, in the economic use of wood and in the elimination of the use of what is treated as waste. It is an important duty of the International Foundation for Science to encourage increased applications in forestry.
4313833|Moringa stenopetala, is a multipurpose tree, native to the East African lowlands, that has been shown to be an even more promising coagulant crop for water clarification in the tropics than the "pantropical" horseradish tree Moringa oleifera. In Southern Ethiopia paleonigritic terrace builders introduced the species as a "cabbage tree" in their gardens and fields at altitudes up to 2000 m, whereby different ecotypes and new cultivars developed. During dissemination to the plains on the floor of the Rift Valley and other highlands up to Wolamo this leafy vegetable became popular among other ethnic groups, and new medicinal uses were detected. Traditional selection aimed to improve the taste of the leaves but also had a positive impact on seed size, as comparative studies of the cotyledon (white seed kernels) weights demonstrated. In the Konso highlands high yields of leaves and fruits, in spite of the marginal rainfall, are due to remarkable agricultural practices and acceptance of environmental limitations. The need for detailed chemical and pharmacological assessments of Moringa stenopetala and reasons for initial difficulties with local dissemination projects are discussed.
24708786|We analyzed the management, resource use and conservation of the Ankarafantsika National Park (Madagascar) to develop a management plan, which provides a sustainable development strategy of the area while empowering the local residents. Using qualitative methodology we performed interviews with villagers and local organizations to assess the park's successes and failures from local stakeholders' perspectives. People living in a village with a permanent Madagascar National Parks (MNP) agent are more favorable to and supportive of the park conservation. People living in the park are supportive but are more divided. On the other hand, people living on the periphery of the park see conservation as more of a burden. Strategies like more equitable distribution of wealth, environment improvement and decentralization of power are discussed to achieve a more sustainable management plan based on community natural resources management. Short-term, medium, and long-term interventions from park authorities are needed to ensure the cooperation of local people in conservation endeavors.
25515844|Information on the effects of global climate change on trends in global fisheries biomass yields has been limited in spatial and temporal scale. Results are presented of a global study of the impact of sea surface temperature (SST) changes over the last 25 years on the fisheries yields of 63 large marine ecosystems (LMEs) that annually produce 80% of the world's marine fisheries catches. Warming trends were observed in 61 LMEs around the globe. In 18 of the LMEs, rates of SST warming were two to four times faster during the past 25 years than the globally averaged rates of SST warming reported by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 2007. Effects of warming on fisheries biomass yields were greatest in the fast-warming northern Northeast Atlantic LMEs, where increasing trends in fisheries biomass yields were related to zooplankton biomass increases. In contrast, fisheries biomass yields of LMEs in the fast-warming, more southerly reaches of the Northeast Atlantic were declining in response to decreases in zooplankton abundance. The LMEs around the margins of the Indian Ocean, where SSTs were among the world's slowest warming, revealed a consistent pattern of fisheries biomass increases during the past 25 years, driven principally by human need for food security from fisheries resources. As a precautionary approach toward more sustainable fisheries utilization, management measures to limit the total allowable catch through a cap-and-sustain approach are suggested for the developing nations recently fishing heavily on resources of the Agulhas Current, Somali Current, Arabian Sea, and Bay of Bengal LMEs.
4312064|Energy growth at the rates officially projected will not occur over the next few decades, owing to a combination of geopolitical, technical, social, environmental, and economic constraints. Collisions with these constraints will have serious consequences. But whilst ways of increasing energy supply tend to be slow, costly, risky, and temporary, ways of reducing demand or increasing efficiency tend to be quick, cheap, safe, and permanent, and can buy enough time to create a sustainable economy of energy income. Attractive low-energy options and decentralized technologies are unlikely to be explored or pursued until it is widely appreciated that the most important energy issues are not technical and economic but social and ethical.
4313226|Seagrasses provide important food material, habitat and erosion control in coastal and estuarine areas, particularly in the tropics and subtropics. Man's activities have decimated tens of thousands of hectares of once-productive seagrass areas and concomitant fisheries. Seagrass restoration efforts, while still in their infancy, seem an effective solution.
4315373|During much of the 1900s, the lakes in Killarney Provincial Park have been exposed to high levels of acid deposition due to sulfur emissions from the nearby metal smelters in Sudbury. The sulfur emissions from this large point source have decreased to about 10% of what they were in the 1960s. Lake water quality in Killarney Park has greatly changed in response to reduced emissions, with noticeable declines in sulfate, aluminum and calcium concentrations. Here we apply the dynamic acidification model MAGIC to 3 lakes in Killarney Park. The lakes, which have different buffering capacities and response times, were selected to represent fast, intermediate and slow recovery from acidification. The model was calibrated to match observed data for the lakes and 4 different forecast scenarios for future sulfur deposition reductions were applied. The results indicate that there is still a large potential for improvement in the water quality in Killarney. The recovery time for the different lakes varies greatly. For the lake having the slowest response time several decades are needed for the chemistry to stabilize after implementation of deposition reductions.
4312773|At least 40 percent of the population of Hiroshima and 26 percent of the population of Nagasaki were killed in the nuclear attacks on those two cities, and 37 years later the survivors still suffer after-effects. Modern nuclear weapons are far more powerful. The effects of blast, heat and ionizing radiation are discussed and typical values for various sizes of nuclear weapons and different types of explosions are calculated.
4312052| DDT and PCB residues in airborne fallout were studied at three different localities in Iceland. Low levels of both  DDT and PCB were detected at lake Mvatn. Samples of animals from different trophic levels of aquatic ecosystems (chiefly Mvatn) were also analyzed. The lower trophic levels contained little or no residues but in several of the waterfowl low levels of  DDT and occasionally PCB were detected. Compared to the levels reported from some other parts of the northern hemisphere, those found in this study were lower by one or two orders of magnitude. 
4315085|Agricultural land expansion is almost eliminating the bamboo forests of Ethiopia, and the biological diversity associated with them. Several bamboo species are endemic to Africa and mainly found in Ethiopia. Consequently, their preservation is of international concern. Urgent and effective action is required to secure their future existence and for their use in systems managed on a sustainable basis. Utilization driven production could ensure their sustainability. Lack of awareness about their multiple use and a paucity of scientific knowledge about their production and main properties are impediments for conservation and utilization. Concerted efforts are needed to generate and adopt the required knowledge and technology in order to promote bamboo forest cultivation in Ethiopia as an economically viable crop, which is of environmental interest.
23322912|The climate in Timor Leste (East Timor) is predicted to become about 1.5C warmer and about 10% wetter on average by 2050. By the same year, the population is expected to triple from 1 to 2.53 million. This article maps the predicted changes in temperature and rainfall and reviews the implications of climate change and population growth on agricultural systems. Improved cultivars of maize, rice, cassava, sweet potato and peanuts with high yield performance have been introduced, but these will need to be augmented in the future with better adapted cultivars and new crops, such as food and fodder legumes and new management practices. The requirements for fertilizers to boost yields and terracing and/or contour hedgerows to prevent soil erosion of steeply sloping terrain are discussed. Contour hedges can also be used for fodder for improved animal production to provide protein to reduce malnutrition.
4315187| The four largest Swedish lakes Vnern, Vttern, Mlaren and Hjlmaren all have a tectonic origin with multidirectional fault fissures, which influence the topography of the bottoms and the creation of subbasins. All the four lakes have been subject to several glacials, the latest of which started to recede from central Sweden c. 10 000 years ago. The many differences between the four lakes can be explained by their shapes, sizes and the relation between the sizes of the drainage basins and the size of the lakes. This paper focuses on processes considered relevant to aquatic organisms of the lakes: water balance, water residence time, water temperature, water exchange between subbasins within the lakes, and other internal water movements. Links between pollution, water exchange and retention of nutrients are discussed with an example from Lake Vnern. 
4313821|This paper summarizes the severe dryland degradation (desertification) that occurred in central Sudan in the 1970s and 1980s. Degradation was interpreted to be the result of a combination of low rainfall and excess exploitation. It was found that site recovery occurred over a period of several years, apparently owing to a combination of somewhat increased rainfall and substantial reductions in exploitation.
4315507|This study summarizes findings of a visitor impact study conducted in the Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) National Park, Nepal. The effect of visitor use, and the influence of environmental characteristics on trail conditions are investigated. Seven trails divided into 208 trail segments, and with a total length of 90 kilometers were included in the assessment. A four-class rating system has been used for the assessment of trail conditions. Arc/Info and Arc/View geographic information system (GIS) are used to analyze spatial patterns of impacts. The study indicates a strong correlation between visitor use and trail degradation. However, locational and environmental factors are equally important variables. The study concludes that more systematic, and experimental studies are needed that can make a clear distinction between human-induced trail damage and the effects of natural factors.
4314843|The purpose of this study was to describe the histopathological findings during the progression of the M74 syndrome in the Atlantic salmon from the Baltic Sea. We also wanted to evaluate whether there were differences in the histopathological picture between yolk-sac fry from different categories of M74, i.e. family groups with early, intermediate, or late development of disease. In the preclinical stage of M74, no lesions were detected in the yolk-sac fry. In the clinical stage, the dominant findings were necrotic lesions in the brain and a depletion of glycogen in liver and skeletal muscle. Yolk-sac fry with an early development of disease also exhibited intracranial hemorrhages, hepatocellular lipid accumulation, and hydropic degeneration of sceletal muscle and proximal tubules of the excretory kidney. In the terminal stage, the brain lesions had become more severe and, furthermore, yolk-sac fry with early development of M74 also showed focal hepatocellular necrosis and sometimes hyaline degeneration of skeletal muscle. The findings in yolk-sac fry with intermediate development of disease were generally the same as in yolk-sac fry with early development, even though the lesions were of lesser magnitude. The only major histopathological findings in yolk-sac fry with late development of disease were brain lesions and, in the terminal stage, a dilatation of saccus vasculosis.
4314544|Svante Arrhenius's research in atmospheric physics extended beyond the recent past and the near future states of the Earth, which today are at the center of sociopolitical attention. His plan encompassed all of the physical phenomena known at the time to relate to the formation and evolution of stars and planets. His two-volume textbook on cosmic physics is a comprehensive synopsis of the field. The inquiry into the possible cause of the ice ages and the theory of selective wavelength filter control led Arrhenius to consider the surface states of the other terrestial planets, and of the ancient Earth before it had been modified by the emergence of life. The rapid escape of hydrogen and the equilibration with igneous rocks required that carbon in the early atmosphere prevailed mainly in oxidized form as carbon dioxide, together with other photoactive gases exerting a greenhouse effect orders of magnitude larger than in our present atmosphere. This effect, together with the ensuing chemical processes, would have set the conditions for life to evolve on our planet, seeded from spores spreading through an infinite Universe, and propelled, as Arrhenius thought, by stellar radiation pressure.
4315220|Nitrogen inputs to the US from human activity doubled between 1961 and 1997, with most of the increase in the 1960s and 1970s. The largest increase was in use of inorganic N fertilizer, but emissions of NO
4314008|This paper is a background presentation of seal material that has been analyzed for a number of elements and organohalogen compounds and presented elsewhere in this issue of Ambio. Altogether 13 groups of seals representing three species were studied: harbor seals (Phoca vitulina vitulina), grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) and ringed seals (Phoca hispida botnica). The material was further divided into collection areas, age classes and health status. Biological parameters such as age, sex, weight, length, collection area, etc. are presented. Preparation procedures are described as well as the extraction of organohalogen compounds.
4312200|Recovery processes of six polluted lakes were studied after reduction of nutrients. The decrease in phosphorus input due to advanced sewage treatment varied between 30-80 percent of the prediversion data. Two lakes showed improved water quality, while in two others no marked changes were observed. Two lakes showed lower transparency and higher chlorophyll values after diversion. In small, shallow and heavily polluted lakes, the annual internal phosphorus loading from the sediments varied between 20 percent and 400 percent of the external input. Restoration of lakes by removing nutrients via removal of algae is discussed.
4314532|Using McQueen-type portable rainfall simulators, we simulated rainfall on trail surfaces and adjacent, off-trail forest sites at two reserves in the humid neotropics. Our results confirm that rates of runoff generation and soil particle detachment are significantly higher on trails and that runoff occurs frequently on trails, but only rarely off-trail. We estimate that 15 mm of rain falling in 30 minutes would detach 3186 kg  km-2 of soil from trails at Jatun Sacha (11  104 kg  km-2) and 4716 kg on trails at La Selva (6.0  104 kg  km-2). Off-trail, the same rain would detach 0.075-1.1  104 kg  km-2 at Jatun Sacha and 0-1.1  104 kg  km-2 at La Selva. The high erosional potential of rainforest trails underscores the need for careful management of ecotourism and other trail-dependent rainforest activities.
4315441|We describe an approach to estimation of the spatial distribution of reindeer (Rangifer tarandus). Spatial autocorrelation, inherent to the data describing the distribution of wildlife species, contains information that can be utilized to improve the effciency of field inventories. Our data included reindeer fecal pellet counts, satellite imagery and a digital terrain model. We applied ordinary logistic regression, autologistic regression, and the Gibbs sampler to predict spatial distribution of reindeer based on the combined data. A training set was used to compare the outcome for different field sampling designs for each method. Results suggested the possibility to reduce the number of plots by up to 75% with a 15% reduction in prediction accuracy (quality). We also showed that the Gibbs sampler outperformed, in terms of accuracy, the logistic regression. The outcome, however, was dependent on the spectral homogeneity of the area and on the relative position of the sampling design to the elevation curves. Our results justify the incorporation of spatial information when modeling the distribution of reindeer at finer scales (< 1 km).
4312063|Based on crude calculations the authors try to relate the most basic future water needs to modern estimates of water resources. On a global scale there is enough water to meet forthcoming needs. A spectacular decrease of water pollution has, however, to take place. Irrigation constitutes the greatest water withdrawal need. Water is shown to be a limiting factor of the economic development in Africa, Europe and Asia. A super-effective water management will be needed in the future.
4312101|The number and amount of oncogenic agents in the general and occupational environment is rapidly and dramatically increasing, in parallel with increased industrialization and the growth of the consumer's market. Since the specific changes produced by oncogenic agents on body tissues are largely irreversible, the only way to prevent environmental and occupational carcinogenesis is to identify these agents before they are produced and diffused, thus avoiding human exposure. The recent story of VC carcinogenesis has paradigmatically demonstrated that experimental carcinogenicity bioassays are highly predictive of the potential effects on humans. Therefore such experimental testing should be performed on all new compounds and on all the ones already widespread, but whose effects we still ignore.
4312956|This article examines the origins and evolution of early man in East Africa. The different species of early hominids are described and the fossil record discussed. East Africa is considered the most important area on earth for discovering fossils of our distant ancestors.
4314021|A variety of biochemical and toxic effects are caused by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and toxicity varies considerably between animal species. No explanation is available for this variation and the precise mechanism of PCB action is unknown. Altered metabolism of vitamin A has been suggested to be involved in the toxicity of coplanar PCBs and related dioxin-like compounds. The results presented here are part of an extensive study aimed at assessing the effects of PCB congeners, differing in numbers of chlorines in the ortho-positions, on the reproduction in mink (Mustela vison). This paper reports the effects of two technical PCB preparations (Clophen A50 and Aroclor 1254), fractions thereof and a synthetic mixture of coplanar PCBs, on the hepatic, renal, and pulmonary vitamin A content in adult mink. The non- and 1-ortho-CBs in Clophen A50 reduced hepatic and pulmonary vitamin A concentrations in adult mink. Effects of the synthetic mixture of non-ortho-CBs were similar to those of the fraction from Clophen A50 containing non-ortho-CBs. Thus, the three coplanar congeners in the synthetic mixture, together with certain 1-ortho-CBs appeared to be largely responsible for the effects of Clophen A50 observed in this study. Data presented in this study also show that, similar to more commonly used experimental animals, the mink respond to PCB exposure with reduced tissue vitamin A content
4315503|Human activities can have a remarkable effect on land-cover patterns over time. This study characterized long-term (1930s-1998) land-cover changes in Dongting Lake area in the Central Yangtze River, China, by digitalizing historical topographical maps for the 1930s and 1950s and interpreting satellite remote sensing data for 1978, 1989, and 1998. The study indicates that land-cover patterns in Dongting Lake area have been greatly altered by impoldering and subsequent lake restoration activities in the past 70 years. There are two distinct periods of change characterized by impoldering (1930s-1978) and lake restoration (1978-1998). In the former period, cropland increased sharply at the cost of a drop in other land-cover types, which had resulted in significant negative consequences, while the pattern of land-cover changes reversed in the later period.
24708974|A particle-tracking model based on high-resolution ocean flow data was used to investigate particle residence times and spatial distribution of settling sediment for two geo-morphologically different Swedish coastal areas. The study was a part of a safety assessment for the location of a future nuclear-waste repository, and information about the particle-transport patterns can contribute to predictions of the fate of a possible leakage. It is also, to our knowledge, the first time particle-transport differences between two coastal areas have been quantified in this manner. In Forsmark, a funnel-shaped bay shielded by a number of islands, the average residence time for clay particles was 5 times longer than in the modeled part of Simpevarp, which is open to the Baltic Sea. In Forsmark, <10 % of the released particles left the domain compared to 6080 % in Simpevarp. These site-specific differences will increase over time with the differences in land uplift between the areas.
41417416|The photovoltaic conversion efficiency for nearinfrared (NIR) sunlight is improved successfully by dye sensitization of bulk heterojunction polymer solar cells, in which the active layer was prepared by a ternary blend of poly(3-hexylthiophene), a fullerene derivative (1-(3-methoxycarbony1) propy1-1-pheny1-[6,6]-methanofullerene), and an NIR dye, silicon phthalocyanine bis(trihexylsilyl oxide). The mechanism of the NIR-dye sensitization is studied by femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy.
4314231|Eutrophication due to excessive nitrogen loading has been a steadily increasing problem in southern Swedish coastal waters during the last fifteen years. Political decisions now aim at decreasing the anthropogenic nitrogen emissions by 50% before 1996. Nitrogen export from farmland is a major problem in this context. Therefore, the nitrogen retention capacity in different types of wetlands in agricultural areas in southern Sweden was studied in order to determine whether wetlands could be used to reduce nitrogen export from farmland to the coastal marine ecosystems. Nitrogen retention mechanisms were also investigated in lakes with increased nitrogen loading. The results demonstrate that nitrogen removal in wetlands depends mainly on denitrification. In addition to denitrification, sedimentation can be quantitatively important in lakes. The water retention time is the most critical singel factor for removal of nitrogen. Thus, lakes remove more nitrogen than small wetlands even though the specific nitrogen retention (N retention m
4315399|Qatar has serious water resource problems, following rapid socioeconomic development and massive population increase. Municipal water provision depends on costly and unsustainable desalination. There is little regulation. Native Qataris do not pay a water tariff and migrants pay a subsidized price-approximately one third of the cost of production-so there is little awareness of the true cost of water and use is profligate. This paper discusses trends in water use and identifies issues underlying sustainable water use in Qatar. A questionnaire of respondents chosen to represent Qatari social groups measured awareness and attitudes to water. The results show that previous efforts to control water demand in Qatar, using awareness campaigns, legal restrictions and tariffs, have been ineffectual. The questionnaire evaluated reactions to possible measures to limit uses by raising awareness, using legal restrictions and raising tariffs. From this, a number of policy changes can be suggested, to bring Qatar's water industry towards sustainability.
4312237|The chemistry of inland waters is determined by deposition of airborne salts, water balance, mineralogy of soils and rocks, land vegetation and the addition of human waste products. Ground water cycles are closely linked to many mineral cycles. Water quality as a term refers to all properties of water which are important to the user (consumer in a wide sense). Water quality is an integral part of comprehensive water resources planning, requiring proper understanding of hydrochemical processes.
4315512|Over the past decades, there has been an increasing interest in the development of forest management approaches that are based on an understanding of historical natural disturbance dynamics. The rationale for such an approach is that management to favor landscape compositions and stand structures similar to those of natural ecosystems should also maintain biological diversity and essential ecological functions. In fire-dominated landscapes, this approach is possible only if current and future fire frequencies are sufficiently low, comparing to pre-industrial fire frequency, that we can substitute fire by forest management. We address this question by comparing current and future fire frequency to historical reconstruction of fire frequency from studies realized in the Canadian boreal forest. Current and simulated future fire frequencies using 2 and
4313623|Studies on the environmental consequences of nuclear war have generally stopped short of investigating the complex impacts on human societies. In particular, the research of impacts on societies in noncombatant countries is very limited. Such a study has been completed on New Zealand, a country that is often assumed to be a noncombatant and widely perceived as having better chances of "surviving" nuclear war than many other countries. The study revealed pervasive, complex, long-term, and highly disruptive impacts on all aspects of society, even as a noncombatant. Loss of trade, growing technological dependence (on Northern Hemisphere manufactures), the collapse of interlinking sectors (energy, health, transport, communications) and lack of preparedness were the four major causes of the disruptions. In the unlikely event of an electromagnetic pulse (EMP), from a high altitude nuclear explosion, the impacts would be far more devastating for the survival of society. By implication, many other noncombatant countries (both developed and developing) could be severely affected by the disruptions to their societies, even without ionizing radiation or nuclear winter. The study of nuclear war impacts on societies is therefore an important research task. It should be done through national case studies, although some countries may be grouped into a single study unit. These studies should improve our understanding of the long-term consequences of nuclear war. Such studies are also valuable since they can show how countries could be affected by sudden shocks, such as economic collapse or major climate change. The global imperative of making greater progress on nuclear disarmament should also become more obvious.
4312404|Cost-benefit analysis and environmental effects is an attempt to elucidate the logic and meaning of cost-benefit analysis as an instrument to identify, estimate and balance all the effects of a given project. Special attention is devoted to the treatment of environmental effects since they are generally uncertain and irreversible. Three actual cases; one in the United States and two in France, are presented and analyzed with the objective of illustrating and clarifying the link between cost-benefit analysis and the management of the environment.
4315811|This study examined the efficiency of cotton grass fibers in removing diesel oil from the surface of water in conditions prevailing in the Baltic Sea. The effect of low temperature, salinity, and bacterial amendments were tested in laboratory-scale set-ups, whereas 600-L mesocosms filled with Baltic Sea water were used for testing the effects of diesel oil and rapid removal of the oil on microorganisms, phytoplankton, and mussels. Cotton grass proved to be an excellent sorbent for diesel oil from the water surface at a low temperature. Inoculation with diesel-enriched microorganisms enhanced degradation of oil significantly in laboratory-scale experiments. In mesocosm experiments, the addition of diesel oil (0.66 mg L<sup>-1</sup>, 0.533 L m<sup>-2</sup>) to the basins resulted in higher microbial density than in all other basins, including inoculated ones, suggesting that the Baltic Sea contains indigenous hydrocarbon degraders. The removal of oil with cotton grass significantly improved the survival of mussels in the mesocosm tests: 100% mortality in diesel basins versus 0% mortality in basins with cotton grass, respectively. However, the surviving mussels suffered from histopathological changes such as inflammatory responses, degenerations, and cell death. The observed rescuing effect was observable even when the cotton grass-bound oil was left in the water. The results underline the importance of rapid action in limiting damage caused by oil spills.
23257415|Reindeer grazing has been entitled as ecological keystone in arcticalpine landscapes. In addition, reindeer husbandry is tightly connected to the identity of the indigenous Smi people in northern Europe. Nowadays, reindeer husbandry is challenged in several ways, of which pasture degradation, climate change, conflicting land uses and predation are the most important. Research on reindeer-related topics has been conducted for more than half a century and this review illuminates whether or not research is capable to match these challenges. Despite its high quality, traditional reindeer-related research is functionally isolated within the various disciplines. The meshwork of ecology, socio-economy, culture and politics, however, in which reindeer husbandry is embedded by various interactions, will remain unclear and difficult to manage, if actors and relationships are kept separate. We propose some targets for new integrative research approaches that incorporate traditional knowledge and focus on the entire human-ecological system 'reindeer husbandry' to develop solutions for its challenges.
4315144|The Baltic Sea is one of the world's seas that is most severely affected by human activities. Although there is an international agreement that nutrient input to the Baltic should be reduced, the measures taken so far have not resulted in major reductions in nutrient inputs nor in environmental improvements. The reasons for this are partly due to lack of knowledge on large-scale relationships and couplings between physics, biogeochemistry and ecological properties. But there is also a lack of overall drainage basin-wide analyses on cost-effective measures. There is a danger in making the wrong decisions, e.g. implement reduction schemes that are at worst ineffective or at best, far from cost effective. Researchers from many disciplines are faced with a common challenge: To develop a decision-support system, which can be used as the scientific base for cost-effective measures for the entire Baltic Sea. Such an effort is now being made within the research program MARE (http://www.mare.su.se).
4315346|This paper uses examples from Kenya and the Sudan to argue that the scale at which we pitch our analysis when trying to identify the basic properties of pastoral ecosystems may not be appropriate when it comes to recommending policy measures to secure the continued viability of pastoral herding. Pastoral households are always parts of large-scale economic and social structures. In many cases, such integration has provided the basis for the continued viability of pastoral adaptations. In other cases, the changing nature of local economies and social relations following from integration into large systems, has threatened the viability of pastoral herding or led to increasing differentiation within and between local communities. This paper raises the issue of how we most fruitfully define and delimit ecological and social systems in different local settings. It also questions conventional approaches to community-based natural resource management, which are now attracting widespread international attention.
40801530|Distributions of arsenic and metals in surface sediments collected from the coastal and estuarine areas of the northern Bohai and Yellow Seas, China, were investigated. An ecological risk assessment of arsenic and metals in the sediments was evaluated by three approaches: the Sediment Quality Guidelines (SQGs) of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), the degree of contamination, and two sets of SQGs indices. Sediments from the estuaries of the Wuli and Yalu Rivers contained some of the greatest concentrations of arsenic, cadmium, copper, mercury, lead, and zinc. Median concentrations of cadmium and mean concentrations of lead and zinc were greater than background concentrations determined for the areas. All sediments were considered to be heavily polluted by arsenic, but moderately polluted by chromium, lead, and cadmium. Current concentrations of arsenic and metals are unlikely to be acutely toxic, but chronic exposures would be expected to cause adverse effects on benthic invertebrates at 31.4% of the sites.
41417418|The efficiency of conversion of light to electrical energy with the help of conjugated polymers and molecules is rapidly improving. The optical absorption properties of these materials can be designed, and implemented via molecular engineering. Full coverage of the solar spectrum is thus feasible. Narrow absorption spectra allow construction of tandem solar cells. The poor transport properties of these materials require thin devices, which limits optical absorption. Alternative device geometries for these flexible materials compensate for the optical absorption by light trapping, and allow tandem cells.
4315524|Environmental manipulation experiments showed that species respond individualistically to each environmental-change variable. The greatest responses of plants were generally to nutrient, particularly nitrogen, addition. Summer warming experiments showed that woody plant responses were dominant and that mosses and lichens became less abundant. Responses to warming were controlled by moisture availability and snow cover. Many invertebrates increased population growth in response to summer warming, as long as desiccation was not induced. CO
4313664|The Montreal Protocol provides the international community with an effective, equitable and dynamic mechanism for protecting the ozone layer. The paper uses the Protocol's negotiating history to describe how and why agreement on a particular issue was reached and provides an in-depth analysis of the Protocol's most innovative provisions. The paper discusses international implementation of the Protocol. It concludes with a brief description of recent developments leading up to the Protocol's possible modification in June 1990.
25515806|Coral reef ecosystems have been declining at an alarming rate during recent decades, despite increasing numbers of marine protected areas (MPAs) encompassing coral reefs. However, many MPAs have not met reserve objectives, inhibiting effective protection. This study focuses on the potential effectiveness of a Hotel Managed Marine Reserve (HMMR) at enhancing reef fish stocks. Biannual visual fish census surveys were conducted at two marine reserves adjacent to Whale Island Resort, Vietnam, October 2005 to April 2007. The 6-year protected Whale Island Bay Reserve (11 ha) showed significantly higher fish densities, richness, average size, and number of fish >15 cm compared with two unprotected control sites. Fish stocks at a second newer reserve, Whale Island Bay Peninsula (5 ha), quickly increased after protection. This study has demonstrated the effectiveness of HMMRs, suggesting a global network of such privately managed reserves could play a part in the conservation of the world's coastal resources, while alleviating financial pressure on governments.
4315192| Twenty alien species have become established in the lakes Mlaren, Vnern, Vttern and Hjlmaren. Intentional introductions include fish and the signal crayfish from North America, ornamental plants, and the Canada goose. Unintentional introductions include the crayfish plague introduced with infected crayfish, the zebra mussel, and Chinese mitten crab introduced with ballast water. The introduction of pathogens and parasites, in particular the crayfish plague, to the lakes has had the greatest environmental and socioeconomic effects and has contributed to the decimation of the indigenous noble crayfish. The stocking of brown trout and salmon with origins from different biogeographical regions has contributed to the extinction of relict indigenous fish species in L. Vnern. Although major ecosystem damage caused by the introduction of alien species, with the exception of the crayfish plague, has not occurred in the four large Swedish lakes, local problems of considerable dignity occur occasionally. 
4313002|Shortly after the Amoco Cadiz spill in 1978, the coast of Brittany in France was, once again, affected by oil pollution with the wreck of the Tanio on March 7th, 1980. The quantities discharged after this accident were not very large (about 9000 tons of Bunker C oil), but the ecological impact on the shoreline was severe, since this was the second spill within two years in the same area. The contamination of seawater and the evolution of oil after the Amoco Cadiz and Tanio spills were compared. During the following ten months hydrocarbon degradation in sediment was studied at the same sampling site under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The sedimentological factors controlling the amount of oil which a sediment can absorb and retain are briefly discussed.
23257423|Although mangroves dominated by Avicennia germinans and Rhizophora mangle are extending over 6000 ha in the Tanbi Wetland National Park (TWNP) (The Gambia), their importance for local populations (both peri-urban and urban) is not well documented. For the first time, this study evaluates the different mangrove resources in and around Banjul (i.e., timber, non-timber, edible, and ethnomedicinal products) and their utilization patterns, including the possibility of ecotourism development. The questionnaire-based results have indicated that more than 80% of peri-urban population rely on mangroves for timber and non-timber products and consider them as very important for their livelihoods. However, at the same time, urban households demonstrate limited knowledge on mangrove species and their ecological/economic benefits. Among others, fishing (including the oysterCrassostrea cf. gasar collection) and tourism are the major income-generating activities found in the TWNP. The age-old practices of agriculture in some parts of the TWNP are due to scarcity of land available for agriculture, increased family size, and alternative sources of income. The recent focus on ecotourism (i.e., boardwalk construction inside the mangroves near Banjul city) received a positive response from the local stakeholders (i.e., users, government, and non-government organizations), with their appropriate roles in sharing the revenue, rights, and responsibilities of this project. Though the guidelines for conservation and management of the TWNP seem to be compatible, the harmony between local people and sustainable resource utilization should be ascertained.
4311996|Fluorescent whitening agents are used in laundry detergents, textile finishing and dyeing, pulp and paper, and plastics and synthetic fibers. The problems of their disposal as waste and their effects on the environment have not been adequately studied. Whiteners are not carcinogenic by themselves, but when they occur together with ultraviolet radiation of wavelengths carcinogenic for the skin of animals and man, a pronounced synergistic effect may come into play.
25547863|Community-based management (CBM) has been recognized as an appropriate approach to conservation, assuming that local communities have higher stakes than the state in their natural resources and have better knowledge of local resources and, therefore, can manage them more efficiently. However, the implementation of CBM has not always been successful. The objective of this research was to assess the potential for the implementation of a governmental proposal for community-based management of peccaries (Tayassuidae) in the Impenetrable northern Argentine, through the examination of the reasons why arrangements to avoid overexploitation have not evolved in this region. I used the theory of common pool resources (CPRs) as a framework for this analysis. CPRs theory explains the conditions under which appropriators of a resource are likely to engage in devising and altering governing arrangements and the conditions under which such arrangements are likely to succeed. Fieldwork was conducted between June 2000 and August 2003 using a mixed methods approach. It was found that most of the condition of the resource and users identified by the CPR theory as associated with an increased likelihood of successful management of natural resources are absent or scarcely developed in the Impenetrable. Thus, the situation in the Impenetrable does not seem appropriate for the implementation of CBM of peccaries. It is first necessary to invest in training and development of local institutions' capacities and social capital. It is also important to increase the flow of relevant information, which will enable institutions to be effective, responsible, and accountable to the community. For the moment, a more appropriate approach will have to include a mixture of protectionism and comanagement of collared peccaries while the propitious conditions for a complete local management of the resource are developed.
4312128|In order to compare the behavior of As in soils to that of P, the inorganic forms were fractionated; for acid soils the As and P fractions bound to Al (r = 0.525*) and to Fe (r = 0.436*) correlated significantly. In a solubility diagram it is shown that the Al-arsenate solubility is under-saturated with regard to the arsenic acid potential and corresponds to that of Al-phosphate. It is therefore assumed that arsenic coprecipitates as As-P complexes in soils.
4315493|Direct measurements of the potential induced by motion of electrically conducting seawater through the earth's magnetic field may be used to estimate ocean transports. For the purpose of evaluating the feasibility of monitoring the Baltic climate, a number of temporary observational systems based on this principle have been established around the Swedish coast. Some results from these investigations are presented, and the study is concluded by an outlook towards the prospects for future work along these lines.
4314279|With the lowest per capita arable land base in Africa, and with a rapidly increasing population, sustainability of agriculture in Egypt has now become a critical issue. This paper discusses the critical sustainability issues that need to be considered, and the important policy-related issues in the areas of land and water-resource management that merit urgent attention, if the sustainability of Egyptian agriculture in the 21st century is to be assured.
4312797| In order to find a proper vehicle for injection of lipophilic substances into the yolk of eggs, several different vehicles containing a fat soluble dye were injected into embryonated hens' eggs on day four of incubation. The distribution of the dye was studied. On the basis of these studies an emulsion of lecithin, peanut oil and water was chosen. To test the uptake to the embryos of a lipophilic substance injected in this vehicle, [
4315327|Indigenous knowledge of edible fungi and their utilization by local populations were investigated in southern Cameroon from 1996 to 1999. Some 100 participants from the major ethnic groups, comprising Bantu farmers and Bagyeli (Pygmy) hunter-gatherers, were interviewed. Mushroom usage by 30 families, (319 persons), was monitored daily for over a year. Mushroom knowledge among both groups was extensive. Over 50 vernacular names were provided by respondents. In Bantu households, women and children, and to some extent hunters, harvest mushrooms. In contrast, the whole Bagyeli household participates. Bantu harvest mushrooms preferentially in secondary forests while Bagyeli collect them predominantly in primary forests. Mushroom consumption is low for both groups, 1.1 and 1.4 kg of fresh mushrooms per person per year, respectively, a rate that is much lower than in central and eastern Africa. The apparent discrepancy between extensive mushroom knowledge and rather infrequent mushroom consumption probably relates to the social valuation of mushrooms.
25066567|Data collected by the Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS-1) over the New York Bight are examined. Sewage sludge, acid waste, suspended solids and major water mass boundaries were detected. The data demonstrate the potential of satellite remote sensing for monitoring large-scale events such as ocean dumping.
25547916|Aerial surveys of Caspian seals on the winter ice field in Kazakhstan territorial waters were carried out in February 2005 and 2006 to assess the annual pup production for the species and natural predation on newborn pups. Estimated pup production was 21 063 in 2005 and 16 905 in 2006 (including an estimated figure for pups born in Russian territory in each year). The breeding population size of approximately 20 000 females is much less than published estimates from the late 1980s. Eagles were the principal natural predators of pups. Commercial icebreaker routes passed through areas of dense pup concentrations in 2006, although not in 2005. Our findings have important implications for the development of conservation strategies for the species. Natural mortality, loss to predators, and, more important, the current hunting quota substantially exceed the recruitment of the Caspian seal population. Anthropogenic sources of mortality should be managed to avoid further declines in the species.
41510593|Geoengineering methods are intended to reduce climate change, which is already having demonstrable effects on ecosystem structure and functioning in some regions. Two types of geoengineering activities that have been proposed are: carbon dioxide (CO) removal (CDR), which removes CO from the atmosphere, and solar radiation management (SRM, or sunlight reflection methods), which reflects a small percentage of sunlight back into space to offset warming from greenhouse gases (GHGs). Current research suggests that SRM or CDR might diminish the impacts of climate change on ecosystems by reducing changes in temperature and precipitation. However, sudden cessation of SRM would exacerbate the climate effects on ecosystems, and some CDR might interfere with oceanic and terrestrial ecosystem processes. The many risks and uncertainties associated with these new kinds of purposeful perturbations to the Earth system are not well understood and require cautious and comprehensive research.
4312588|About 1 000 million liters of berriers and 3 600 million liters of mushrooms are produced on Swedish forestland every year. Only a fraction of this is actually harvested. Nevertheless, large segments of the forest-loving public are convinced that modern forestry practices are reducing the amounts of edible berries and mushrooms. In this article the author points out that clear cutting and the use of chemical sprays does cut down on mushroom and berry production. However, he concludes that since only ten percent of the total yield is actually harvested, there is no reason to belive that present forestry methods will radically reduce the amounts of these resources for future generations. Problems of this kind go beyond scientific research; they require political solutions reflecting both humanistic and scientific understanding of the problems.
4312110|Two main theories of organizational design are presented: the machine principle, in which there is redundancy of human parts, and the life principle, in which people hold several functions. The conditions for changing the work environment are different, depending on the actual organizational design. This is true both for the starting of processes of change and for support of them once they are under way. Values stressing the right of individuals and groups to have influence over their own work situation point clearly in the direction of the life principle. Individuals and groups should have the right and the possibility to influence their situation and be able to learn from it.
24708975|In safety assessments of underground radioactive waste repositories, understanding radionuclide fate in ecosystems is necessary to determine the impacts of potential releases. Here, the reliability of two mechanistic models (the compartmental K-model and the 3D dynamic D-model) in describing the fate of radionuclides released into a Baltic Sea bay is tested. Both are based on ecosystem models that simulate the cycling of organic matter (carbon). Radionuclide transfer is linked to adsorption and flows of carbon in food chains. Accumulation of Th-230, Cs-135, and Ni-59 in biological compartments was comparable between the models and site measurements despite differences in temporal resolution, biological state variables, and partition coefficients. Both models provided confidence limits for their modeled concentration ratios, an improvement over models that only estimate means. The D-model enables estimates at high spatio-temporal resolution. The K-model, being coarser but faster, allows estimates centuries ahead. Future developments could integrate the two models to take advantage of their respective strengths.
4313693|Tropical deforestation has been responsible, in part, for the increasing concentrations of CO
4315611|The concentrations of avenanthramides (AVAs), hydroxycinnamic acids (HCAs), a sucrose-linked truxinic acid (TASE), and certain agronomic parameters were analyzed in organically and conventionally grown oats. Three cultivars of oats (i.e. Freja, Sang, and Matilda) were grown according to standards for both conventional and organic farming in Sweden, from 1998 to 2000. Two levels of nitrogen (N) and three replicates were included. Overall, there were significant differences between years, cultivars, and N rate for AVA concentration in the grains, but there were no differences in concentration as a consequence of the conventional or organic cropping system used. The AVA content was higher in the samples grown in 2000, particularly in the cultivar Matilda, and was negatively affected by higher N rates. The HCAs showed cultivar and year differences, but were not influenced by N rates or the cropping system. The HCA content was highest in Matilda, and was significantly lower in samples grown in 1999. The concentration of TASE differed only between years, and was about 100% higher in samples from 1999, compared with samples from 1998 and 2000. The AVA and HCA concentrations were negatively correlated to the yield and specific weight of the grains and positively correlated to the protein content. Conversely, the concentration of TASE was positively correlated to the yield. The specific parameters responsible for the variation in the phenolic compounds are not known, but it seems that factors affecting the yield and/or the specific weight also affect the concentrations of AVAs, HCAs, and TASE in oat grains.
4313312|The metallic lead of shotgun pellets falling on three Danish shotgun-shooting-range areas was rapidly transformed into lead compounds in the soil environment. Transformation products were hydrocerussite
4313158|A number of developing countries have substantial coal reserves but have had difficulties with restructuring energy consumption patterns, transportation, and supply bottlenecks. Consequently, these governments have allowed multinational corporations to exploit their reserves for export. The host countries must have a detailed understanding of cost and revenue sharing arrangements. Environmental, social, and health impacts may effectively externalize costs and must be taken into consideration when planning for the development of coal reserves.
25547808|Projected warming in Sweden and other Fennoscandian countries will probably increase growth rates of forest trees near their northern limits, increase the probability of new pest outbreaks, and foster northerly migration of both native and exotic species. The greatest challenges for sustainable forestry are to restore and enhance the ecological and socioeconomic diversity of intensively managed forested landscapes. With appropriate management, climate warming may facilitate the regeneration of this diversity. Experimental transplant gardens along latitudinal or altitudinal gradients and high-resolution maps of expected future climate could provide a scientific basis for predicting the climate response of potential migrant species. Management of corridors and assisted migration could speed the movement of appropriate species.
40730879|Freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii) farming in Bangladesh has, to a large extent, been dependent on the supply of wild larvae. Although there are 81 freshwater prawn hatcheries in the country, a lack of technical knowledge, inadequate skilled manpower, and an insufficient supply of wild broods have limited hatchery production. Many thousands of coastal poor people, including women, are engaged in fishing for wild prawn larvae along the coastline during a few months each year.On average, 40% of the total yearly income for these people comes from prawn larvae fishing activity. However, indiscriminate fishing of wild larvae, with high levels of bycatch of juvenile fish and crustaceans, may impact negatively on production and biodiversity in coastal ecosystems. This concern has provoked the imposition of restrictions on larvae collection. The ban has, however, not been firmly enforced because of the limited availability of hatchery-raised larvae, the lack of aalternative livelihood for people involved in larvae fishing, and weak enforcement power. This article discusses the environmental and social consequences of prawn larvae fishing and concludes that, by increasing awareness among fry fishers, improving fishing techniques (reducing bycatch mortality), and improving the survival of fry in the market chain, a temporal ban may be a prudent measure when considering the potential negative impacts of bycatch. However, it alsosuggests that more research is needed to find out about the impact of larvae fishing on nontarget organisms and on the populations of targeted species.
4314370|We review current understanding of the long-term increase of carbon dioxide ( CO
4312265|Experiments are presented where the internal nitrogen status of birch seedlings is kept constant during an appreciable length of time at suboptimal, optimal, and supraoptimal levels. Frequent, exact, and exponentially increasing nitrogen additions were made, giving results essentially contradictory to accepted principles. This is explained by the fact that traditional experimental techniques generally do not produce a constant nitrogen status within the plants. Conclusions drawn from such experiments are therefore based upon plants with a continuously changing nutrient status, which can have no consistent relationship either to seedling size or to current production rate. The results point to a development of new ecological models where nitrogen nutrition of plants under natural conditions is better understood, as well as to development of more efficient fertilization practices in which nitrogen losses can be minimized.
4314643|The aim of the article is to describe Finnish agricultural structure and the state of the environment, as well as the environmental impacts of agriculture to surface and groundwaters; atmospheric emissions; rural landscape; and biodiversity; with special attention to fertilization, erosion and pesticides. Previous activities deal with Baltic Sea protection, national action programs and economic instruments. The objectives and structure of the Finnish Agri-Environmental Programme 1995-1999 are explained, and the implementation of the program is viewed through environmental goals and environmental impacts. Transition to sustainable agriculture in Finland is also discussed, followed by an assessment of sustainability and environmental risk analyses. A proposal to launch an international scientific project to establish a common standardized system for assessing the present and future sustainability of agriculture for Baltic Sea Region is presented.
40801536|Skier numbers, and revenues for the multi-billion-dollar ski industry, are highly sensitive to snow cover. Previous research projected that under climate change, natural snow cover will become inadequate at 65% of sites in the Australian ski resorts by 2020. Resorts plan to compensate for reduced snowfall through additional snowmaking. For the six main resorts, however, this would require over 700 additional snow guns by 2020, requiring ~ US $100 million in capital investment, and 2,500- 3,300 ML of water per month, as well as increased energy consumption. This is not practically feasible, especially as less water will be available. Therefore, low altitude ski resorts such as these may not be able to rely on snowmaking even for short-term adaptation to climate change. Instead, they are likely to seek conversion to summer activities and increased property development.
4314211|Batu Apoi, a dipterocarp forest in Brunei Darussalam is being developed into the country's first National Park. Universiti Brunei Darussalam-Royal Geographical Society ran a rainforest expedition at the site in order to document the great biological diversity of the reserve, beginning in 1991. This 14-month project and subsequent research have resulted in the collection of many species of plants and animals, indicating that Batu Apoi is richer in species than might be expected from its size. New species of virtually every group of plants and animals have been identified. Many of the plant and animal species are used by the Iban tribesmen, who, thanks to an enactment that prohibits guns in Brunei, hunt employing traditional methods such as traps, snares and spears. A variety of plants are purported to possess pharmaceutical properties, according to local beliefs, many of which do not have botanical names. With revenue generated from overseas investments, besides oil and gas production at home, Brunei Darussalam is in an enviable position in being perhaps one of few countries that has relatively large areas under rainforest cover, but does not need to exploit its forest for timber export. However, immense opportunities that remain in studying and eventually utilizing these forest resources sustainably will be a challenge for the country in the years to come.
4312077| The problem of possible future changes of the climate of the earth is attracting an increasing interest as an important part of the global environmental problem. The complex nature of the problem necessitates a major scientific effort to make possible assessments of likely future climatic changes, regardless of whether these may be natural or man-made. The development of climate models for the atmosphere-ocean-land-ice system may permit reasonably reliable assessments, which hopefully will replace qualitative statements being made today, which often are not scientifically well founded. The approach to the problem recommended by the joint WMO-ICSU-UN conference on the Physical Basis of Climate and Climate Modelling in Liding, Sweden, in the summer of 1974, is outlined and the specific recommendations for an action program are summarized. 
4312748| The pH history of three lakes in the province of Bohusln in southwestern Sweden has been studied. Earlier pH values were estimated, using an improved method, from the subfossil diatom remains present in core samples of the sediments. Since the creation of the lakes about 12 500 years ago, the pH has decreased from around 7 to around 6 due to natural causes. During the past few decades, because of acid precipitation, pH has further decreased to 4.5 or below. The reverse pH changes in one of the lakes during the 1970's, following liming, could also be followed from the "diatom pH record". 
4315648| The dynamic catchment model HBV-N has been further developed by adding routines for phosphorus transport and is now called the HBV-NP model. The model was shown to satisfactorily simulate nutrient dynamics in the Rnne catchment (1 900 km
4313090|The high dry and wet deposition of ammonia/ammonium, nitrous oxides and nitrate that appears over large areas in Europe today is higher than what can be considered useful for the forests. The different sources for ammonia/ammonium and nitrous oxides are overviewed, as are the most important nitrogen processes of the forest. On this basis and from plant physiological indications an ammonium hypothesis is put forward to explain some of the forest dieback symptoms appearing today. It is suggested that nitrogen saturation of the forest might appear and that leaf uptake of ammonia/ammonium and nitrous oxides contributes to the forest dieback in many different ways: - decreased frost hardiness - disturbed mycorrhiza functions and reduced root growth - increased damage by animals, fungi, bacteria and viruses - strengthening the deficiency symptoms of magnesium, potassium, phosphorus, molybdenum and boron. - due to high volume growth and reduced root growth a strengthening of the storm damage - during dry periods a leaf poisoning from nonprotein nitrogen might take place. The nitrogen saturation effects also show up through high nitrogen content of needles and by failing production increase at forest fertilization with nitrogen.
41417308|Repeated fertilization of forests to increase biomass production is an environmentally controversial proposal, the effects of which we assessed on breeding birds in stands of young Norway spruce (Picea abies), in an intensively managed forest area in southern Sweden. Our results show that fertilized stands had 38% more species and 21% more individuals than unfertilized stands. Compared with stands under traditional management, the further intensification of forestry by repeated applications of fertilizers thus seemed to enhance species richness and abundance of forest birds. We cannot conclude at this stage whether the response in the bird community was caused by changes in food resources or increased structural complexity in the forest canopy due to the skid roads used for the application of the fertilizers. Future studies should focus on structural and compositional effects of fertilization processes during the entire rotation period and at assessing its effects in a landscape context.
4312019|Nitrifying autotrophic bacteria have been studied in a water body polluted with ammonium. Attention was devoted to their abundance and activity, in the search for possible reasons for previously-recorded high concentrations of nitrite in the water. In water and in sediment surface, nitrite-formers were found to occur in much greater abundance than nitrite-oxidizers. The latter group also showed depressed activity, indicating a disturbance of the normal recycling of nitrogen.
4312045|The deleterious effects of the use of increased amounts of fertilizers on the environment and food products have attracted increasing attention. There have been many reports of eutrophication of water-courses, degredation of soils, and the toxic effects of nitrates and heavy metals in food products. The use of artificial fertilizers is necessary, however, for maintenance and increase of crop production. The conflict calls for intensified research, particularly on the minimum nutrient requirements of plants, and on those properties of crop species which are of importance in anabling the crop to fill the requirements with low nutrient concentrations in the root medium and with minimum addition of fertilizers. Recent results indicate that the internal requirements of some very different plant species vary relatively little. On the other hand, the conditions required in the surrounding root medium vary greatly. An understanding of the fundamental mechanisms in plant nutrition is a prerequisite for the proper breeding of crops that are more efficient in utilizing the added fertilizers and for the development of fertilizers and fertilizing practices that do not have adverse effects on the environment.
4312605|Microbial biodegradation of Amoco Cadiz oil was evidenced by increases in the number and activity of hydrocarbon-utilizing bacteria, and by changes in the chemical composition of oil exposed to weathering in various marine environments. Because of the complexity of the oil and the contrasting nature of microbial responses in the aerobic and anaerobic environments polluted in this oil spill, the effectiveness of microbial oil degradation is varied and does not result in rapid removal of all oil pollutants.
25547846|A high-resolution chemical transport model, driven by meteorology representing current and future climate, was used to investigate the effects of possible future changes in climate on nitrogen deposition in northwestern Europe. The model system was able to resolve the climatology of precipitation and chemical properties observed in northern Europe during the 1980s, albeit with some underestimation of the temporal and spatial variability of meteorological parameters and chemical components. The results point toward a substantial increase (30% or more) in nitrogen deposition over western Norway as a consequence of increasing precipitation but more moderate changes for other areas. Deposition of oxidized nitrogen will increase more than the deposition of reduced nitrogen. Over Sweden, oxidized nitrogen will increase only marginally and reduced nitrogen will decrease, although annual precipitation is expected to increase here as well. This is probably because more reduced nitrogen will be removed further west in Scandinavia because of the strong increase in precipitation along the Norwegian coast. The total deposition of oxidized nitrogen over Norway is expected to increase from 96 Gg N y during the current climate to 107 Gg N y by 2100 due only to changes in climate. The corresponding values for Sweden are more modest, from 137 Gg N y to 139 Gg N y.
4314385|The coastal waters of Sri Lanka have well-developed reefs; the majority are made up of sandstone and rocky habitats that form extensive reefs around the island. The greatest extent of true coral reefs is located in the Gulf of Mannar region off the northwestern coast of the island. For centuries coastal people have been dependent on the harvest of reef fish and other resources. Corals have been utilized in the production of lime that is used in the construction industry. The exports of spiny lobsters, sea cucumber and ornamental reef fish contribute significantly to the foreign-exchange earnings of the country. Tourism has also benefited from the aesthetic value of coral reefs. However, due to unmanaged resource utilization, reef habitats are being depleted at an alarming rate. Research has revealed that the status of coastal reefs is declining steadily due to various human activities such as destructive fishing, coral mining, overharvesting, unplanned development, and sedimentation due to land-use patterns. Although laws have been introduced to protect reefs, few have been implemented due to inadequate institutional cooperation and political considerations. There is also a lack of awareness and concern among the general public. This paper reviews the status of coastal reefs in Sri Lanka; major disturbance factors are described and management issues are discussed. Research conducted on coral reefs in Sri Lanka is also reviewed.
4314788|The boreal forest is the largest forest region in Canada, occupying approximately 315 mill. ha. Within this forest region long-term average annual area burned is 1.3 mill. ha, with extreme fire years being common, covering up to 7 million ha in a single fire season. Only 2% to 3% of those fires that cover more than 200 ha eventually contribute about 98% of the total area burned annually. Careful examination of fire statistics seems to indicate that fire occurrence is increasing in the boreal forest. Boreal forest tree species and ecosystems are adapted to the periodic passage of fire and some would disappear as natural components of the landscape in the absence of fire. Use of fire as a management tool recognizes the natural role of fire and is applied judiciously for ecosystem maintenance and restoration in selected areas. Implications of possible anthropogenically generated climate change are examined within the context of sustainability of the boreal forest biome and the anticipated impact on fire regime and fire management.
4311995|Sulfurous pollutants strongly affect the physiological activities in plants before visible damage can be observed. The effects of accumulated sulfur compounds on the cell metabolism are discussed, especially the harmful interaction of sulfur compounds on photosynthesis. In lichens the sulfurous pollutants are easily accumulated all during the year. As lichens are extremely susceptible to sulfurous pollution, they are recommended as test organisms. It is proposed that the photosynthetic rate of sensitive lichens be used as a biotest to indicate air pollution.
4315305|This paper reviews the experience and status of coastal aquaculture of seaweeds, mollusks, fish and crustaceans in eastern Africa and the islands of the western Indian Ocean. In many respects, coastal aquaculture is still in its infancy in the region, and there is a pressing need to formulate development strategies aimed at improving the income and assuring the availability of affordable protein to coastal communities. This paper also draws from positive and negative experiences in other parts of the world. The requirements of feed and fry, and the conversion of mangroves are used to illustrate how some aquaculture activities constitute a net loss to global seafood production. The paper presents both general and specific sustainability guidelines based on the acknowledgement of aquaculture as an ecological process. It is concluded that without clear recognition of its dependence on natural ecosystems, the aquaculture industry is unlikely to develop to its full potential in the region.
41417390|At the international level, India is emerging as a key actor in climate negotiations, while at the national and sub-national levels, the climate policy landscape is becoming more active and more ambitious. It is essential to unravel this complex landscape if we are to understand why policy looks the way it does, and the extent to which India might contribute to a future international framework for tackling climate change as well as how international parties might cooperate with and support India's domestic efforts. Drawing on both primary and secondary data, this paper analyzes the material and ideational drivers that are most strongly influencing policy choices at different levels, from international negotiations down to individual states. We argue that at each level of decision making in India, climate policy is embedded in wider policy concerns. In the international realm, it is being woven into broader foreign policy strategy, while domestically, it is being shaped to serve national and sub-national development interests. While our analysis highlights some common drivers at all levels, it also finds that their influences over policy are not uniform across the different arenas, and in some cases, they work in different ways at different levels of policy. We also indicate what this may mean for the likely acceptability within India of various climate policies being pushed at the international level.
4315152|This study provides an overview on the phyto- and zooplankton studies made of the Neva Bay and of the changes that have taken place in the plankton community during the 20th century. It is known that plankton respond to changes in water quality, especially to changes in the content of organic matter. Comparisons of the literature data reveal the value of species as indicators of different conditions. Many plankton species in the Neva Bay show great year-to-year fluctuations due to varying environmental conditions. According to the results of studies conducted in 1911-1990, freshwater plankton species have dominated in the Neva Bay. The plankton community has essentially consisted of species transported from Lake Ladoga. Brackish-water species occasionally occurred in the plankton samples of the Neva Bay. High turbidity and rapid throughflow of water limit algal production in the bay and, due to the high outflow, the europhication effects of the catchment area are mainly conducted into the Gulf of Finland.
4315480|The Swedish Regional Climate Modelling Programme, SWECLIM, was a 6.5-year national research network for regional climate modeling, regional climate change projections and hydrological impact assessment and information to a wide range of stakeholders. Most of the program activities focussed on the regional climate system of Northern Europe. This led to the establishment of an advanced, coupled atmosphere-ocean-hydrology regional climate model system, a suite of regional climate change projections and progress on relevant data and process studies. These were, in turn, used for information and educational purposes, as a starting point for impact analyses on different societal sectors and provided contributions also to international climate research.
4314590|In this study we analyze the scope and potential impact of reservoir construction on the world's river systems. Water storage behind the global population of large dams represents a 700% increase in the standing stock of natural river water, with residence times for individual impoundments spanning less than one day to several years. The imprint of such storage persists downstream. The mouths of several large rivers show a reservoir-induced aging of continental runoff that exceeds three months. Globally, the mean age of river water has likely tripled to well over one month. From both case studies and global synthesis, we find that this aging can lead to significant changes in net water balance, flow regime, reoxygenation of surface waters, and sediment transport. The pandemic construction of large reservoirs represents an important component of the terrestrial water cycle and one that merits due consideration in future global change studies.
4314389|Measurements of sea levels, velocities and temperatures, are used to study water exchange and heat flux in Chwaka Bay, a shallow tidal marsh on the East African coast. The bay has an area, ranging from 50 km<sup>2</sup> at high water (HWS) to 20 km<sup>2</sup> at low water (LWS). It is characterized by vast muddy sand flats, partly covered by sea grass. The tide is semidiurnal with a spring tidal range of 3.2 m. The southwestern creek, surrounded by mangrove vegetation, shows a tidal asymmetry with a combination of long ebb periods and high ebb velocities. The water and heat exchange with the ocean is calculated from simultaneous sea level and temperature data. Although the average temperature within the bay is higher than oceanic temperature, there is an average import of heat from the ocean of approx. 50 W m<sup>-2</sup>. Thus, the sum of longwave back radiation, evaporation and sensible heat flux exceeds the net incoming shortwave solar radiation. This negative heat balance is interpreted as a result of reflexion of shortwave radiation at the bottom. The result is supported by a set of figures, featuring the temperature as a function of time of day and time after high tide, which can be used as a guideline for comfortable bathing. Although the bay is almost drained during low tide, and the average residence time is estimated to between -1 day, the residence times for the waters in the inner parts of the bay are substantially longer.
4315063|The factors and plant processes that have been proposed to control treeline location are evaluated for European and North American treelines. While often presented as alternative determinants of treeline, the ideas of the increased environmental hazard coefficient and the idea of tree material limitation are considered to be complementary. This is because plant damage, rather than outright death, coupled with difficult conditions for material acquisition and small available material pools, eventually makes accretion of biomass untenable. The location where this balance is achieved varies with climate, but catastrophic events and human activities make correlation with climate tenuous and future predictions difficult. Field manipulation of conditions for many tree species in many geographic locations at and below the treeline are needed to develop generalizations that are both explanatory and predictive.
4315482|Extreme daily precipitation in Sweden for the years 1961-2000 is analyzed with respect to spatial scale, regional variations and associated weather types. Correlograms based on a lag distance of 30 km estimated the spatial scale of variation of the annual mean precipitation, the 99th percentile of daily precipitation and the average of annual maximum daily precipitation to 100 km, 60-100 km and 40-70 km, respectively. Regions of correlation with respect to precipitation at 82 stations during days of extreme events are identified through Maximum-Likelihood Factor Analysis. Eleven factors are found to provide the optimum factor solution. Weather types for the days of extreme events are determined by an objective classification scheme, based on daily sea level pressure, which is modified by subjective inclusion of fronts. In total, 63% of the extreme events occurred during cyclonic weather types, 32% during frontal, 3% during directional and 2% during anticyclonic types. The frequency of the weather types during extreme events varied between the regions however.
4312779|The impact of ionizing radiation on marine ecosystems following a nuclear war will be relatively less than upon terrestrial ecosystems. The impact from the reduction in the transmission of solar radiation by light-absorbing particles in the atmosphere or from the increased flux of ultraviolet light has been predicted by others to have the potential for large-scale reductions of marine populations at the bottom of the food web. The areas of the ocean most vulnerable to nuclear war are the inshore and coastal regions.
4314945|The rapid economic growth in China has been accompanied by a corresponding increase in pollution. In this paper the extent and effects of acid precipitation and precursors are discussed based on field observations and literature studies. Sulfur dioxide emissions are at present the major cause of acid precipitation, but emissions of nitrogen oxides are increasing. The deposition of sulfur compounds in the most polluted areas in China is higher than in those parts of Eastern and Central Europe which are experiencing severe pollution. Soils and soil waters seem to be acidified in many areas in southern China. Pollution has affected the vitality of forests and other vegetation particularly in and close to urban areas. Surface water acidification is not likely to become a major regional problem in the near future, but streams in some areas, which currently receive little acid deposition, appear to be sensitive to acidification.
4312138| During a period of 15 months the concentration of polychlorinated biphenyls in the Gta River was investigated. On-site, continuous solvent extraction was used to isolate PCB from large water samples. The PCB concentrations were determined by electron capture gas chromatography and were found to be in the range of 0.3-1.2 ng/l. The low concentrations and their small variation support the view that no source of heavy pollution was present along the river. 
24708996|Invasive species, range-expanding species, genetically modified organisms (GMOs), synthetic organisms, and emerging pathogens increasingly affect the human environment. We propose a framework that allows comparison of consecutive stages that such novel organisms go through. The framework provides a common terminology for novel organisms, facilitating knowledge exchange among researchers, managers, and policy makers that work on, or have to make effective decisions about, novel organisms. The framework also indicates that knowledge about the causes and consequences of stage transitions for the better studied novel organisms, such as invasive species, can be transferred to more poorly studied ones, such as GMOs and emerging pathogens. Finally, the framework advances understanding of how climate change can affect the establishment, spread, and impacts of novel organisms, and how biodiversity affects, and is affected by, novel organisms.
4312385|Although the human toxicology of lead has probably been more extensively studied than that of any other toxic element, until the last few years attention has been focused on 1) the effects of industrial exposure of adult males at levels sufficient to produce obvious clinical symptoms and signs, and 2) the effects of clinical lead poisoning in children, generally from chewing painted objects. The convenient concept of supposedly safe threshold levels has been increasingly challenged in recent years. Evidence for children suggests that a continuum of "sub-clinical" toxic effects on brain function extends down to body lead levels previously regarded as normal. This review is largely concerned with adverse effects on behavior and intelligence in nominally asymptomatic children which appear to be associated with disturbances of brain maturation and function resulting from pre and post-natal exposure to lead at "normal" environmental levels. The relative importance of dietary and airborne lead is discussed in this context.
40730867|For more than a decade, anthropogenic sulfur (S) and nitrogen (N) deposition has been identified as a key pollutant in the Arctic. In this study new critical loads of acidity (S and N) were estimated for terrestrial ecosystems north of 60  latitude by applying the Simple Mass Balance (SMB) model using two critical chemical criteria (Al/Bc = 1 and ANC le = 0). Critical loads were exceeded in large areas of northern Europe and the Norilsk region in western Siberia during the 1990s, with the more stringent criterion (ANC le = 0) showing the larger area of exceedance. However, modeled deposition estimates indicate that mean concentrations of sulfur oxides and total S deposition within the Arctic almost halved between 1990 and 2000. The modeled exceeded area is much reduced when currently agreed emission reductions are applied, and almost disappears under the implementation of maximum technically feasible reductions by 2020. In northern North America there was no exceedance under any of the deposition scenarios applied. Modeled N deposition was less than 5 kg ha y almost across the entire study area for all scenarios; and therefore empirical critical loads for the eutrophying impact of nitrogen are unlikely to be exceeded. The reduction in critical load exceedances is supported by observed improvements in surface water quality, whereas the observed extensive damage of terrestrial vegetation around the mining and smelter complexes in the area is mainly caused by direct impacts of air pollution and metals.
24708848|The REDD+ scheme of the United Nations intends to offer developing countries financial incentives to reduce the rates of deforestation and forest degradation for reducing global CO2 emissions. This is combined with building carbon stocks in existing wooded ecosystems and fostering other soil, biodiversity and water conservation objectives. Successful application of REDD+ to the Xylophone Triangle of West Africa faces substantial challenges and risks to both meeting REDD+ objectives and to the local people's rights and livelihoods. The transnationality of the culturally coherent area requires collaboration of three national governments. The opportunities, however, are great to capitalize on the region's biodiversity, the well-developed traditional ecological knowledge and the use of local medicinal plants as an integral part of the agro-ecosystem. Possibilities open to, not only sequester carbon, but also to increase the resilience of the ecosystem and of independent rural livelihoods in the face of climate change and globalization.
4313315|Approaches to avoid the problems associated with traditional federal water construction projects in the United States are discussed. A variety of nontraditional and nonstructural alternatives are described, including long-term leasing of water across state borders to alleviate future water shortages in the Colorado River Basin. Non-structural alternatives should be very attractive to both developed and developing countries because they involve less capital investment, environmental damage, and social disruption.
24708987|Climate change is projected to have a strongly negative effect on water supplies in the arid mountains of South America, significantly impacting millions of people. As one of the poorest countries in the region, Bolivia is particularly vulnerable to such changes due to its limited capacity to adapt. Water security is threatened further by glacial recession with Bolivian glaciers losing nearly half their ice mass over the past 50 years raising serious water management concerns. This review examines current trends in water availability and glacier melt in the Bolivian Andes, assesses the driving factors of reduced water availability and identifies key gaps in our knowledge of the Andean cryosphere. The lack of research regarding permafrost water sources in the Bolivian Andes is addressed, with focus on the potential contribution to mountain water supplies provided by rock glaciers.
4313616|The 5 May 1988 United Nations report clearly states that the nuclear winter theory is supported by current scientific evidence and that a major nuclear war would result in an unprecedented holocaust for the people of combatant and noncombatant nations alike. Nevertheless, nations of the world continue to produce nuclear weapons and make plans for their use. The number of nations with nuclear weapons continues to grow. Although the recent Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) agreement and Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) talks demonstrate the political will to work on this problem, they would still not prevent nuclear winter when fully implemented. The principal political implication of nuclear winter is that nuclear weapons cannot be used as an instrument of war or policy. Even a "first strike" or a "limited nuclear war" would be likely to result in nuclear winter for the aggressor as well as for the rest of humanity. The only solution is to resolve conflicts in nonviolent ways. Star Wars is not the answer. Plans for first use of nuclear weapons exacerbate the problem. Obstacles on the road to solving the problem of nuclear weapons include the military-industrial-scientific-technical complex and regional conflicts.
4312074|Air pollution produces not only local effects, but also effects which extend on a worldwide basis. Some of these effects may cause changes in the biosphere, eg climatic changes as a result of changes in the radiation properties of the atmosphere. The fate of some of the main pollutants and natural gases in the atmosphere is reviewed.
4314693|Mercury (Hg) emissions from informal gold mining operations represent a serious environmental problem in developing countries. In Amazonia, from 70 to 170 tonnes (t) of Hg are discharged annually. The extent of biota contamination is also widespread. Mercury must be rendered soluble and then converted into methylmercury in order to accumulate in the food-chain. Generally, it is regarded that Hg must be oxidized to produce significant dissolution. In this work, we examine the stability of mercury as the unoxidized aqueous elemental Hg o (aq.) in aquatic environments. In contact with organic acids, evidence of Hg-organic complex formation has been found from both thermodynamic analysis and electrochemical experiments. Although methylation of these soluble species is not fully understood, formation of such complexes in darkwater rivers must contribute to increased bioavailability.
4312373|One source of the increasing cadmium pollution of our environment may be the cadmium pigments used in plastics and the cadmium added to polyvinylchloride as a stabilizer. To provide data on whether cadmium can migrate from the plastic into the soil and become available for plant uptake, samples of plastics were added to test soils on which spring wheat was grown annually for four years. Yield was measured, and cadmium contents were determined in the harvested grain and straw by use of atomic absorption spectroscopy. The results showed that plastic-bound Cd can migrate into the soil and become available for plants.
4313073|Investigations of natural regeneration following clear-fell logging operations in the Gogol Valley, Papua New Guinea, were initiated in 1983 on a 0.2 hectare plot near the Sapi River. Six months after logging, the site was almost covered by regrowth dominated by small fast growing secondary trees. The regrowth comprised 51 genera with 60 species and a total density of
4315677|Tropical forest people often suffer from the same processes that threaten biodiversity. An improved knowledge of what is important to local people could improve decision making. This article examines the usefulness of explicitly asking what is important to local people. Our examples draw on biodiversity surveys in East Kalimantan (Indonesian Borneo). With local communities we characterized locally valued habitats, species, and sites, and their significance. This process clarified various priorities and threats, suggested refinements and limits to management options, and indicated issues requiring specific actions, further investigation, or both. It also shows how biological evaluations are more efficient with local guidance, and reveals potential for collaborations between local communities and those concerned with conservation. Such evaluations are a first step in facilitating the incorporation of local concerns into higher-level decision making. Conservationists who engage with local views can benefit from an expanded constituency, and from new opportunities for pursuing effective conservation.
4314698|The article examines the history of forest declines, and presents a concise account of the European forest monitoring and research programs of the last 15 years. The critical loads approach is identified as a key mechanism for taking scientific evidence through to policy formulation. For forest ecosystems the approach is of particular importance because is provides a quantification of the link between pollutant inputs and biological sustainability.
4312743|Energy resource development in the most arid of the United States' western coal regions, the Chaco area of New Mexico's San Juan Basin, may accelerate desertification, deplete already scarce water supplies, undermine the Navajo Indian way of life, dramatically degrade air quality, and compromise fossil and archeological resources of world importance. The Chaco region, part of the energy-rich Four Corners Area, is already impacted by the world's largest coal mine and power generating complex, plus the little-understood health hazards from mining and milling about 30 percent of the uranium produced in the United States.
41417400|A re-survey of acid-sensitive lakes in Ireland (initial survey 1997) was carried out during spring 2007 (n = 60). Since 1997, atmospheric emissions of sulfur dioxide and deposition of non-marine sulfate (SO00B207B;) in Ireland have decreased by ~63 and 36%, respectively. Comparison of water chemistry between surveys showed significant decreases in the concentration of SO00B207B;, nonmarine SO00B, and non-marine base cations. In concert, alkalinity increased significantly; however, no change was observed in surface water pH and total aluminum. High inter-annual variability in sea salt inputs and increasing (albeit non-significant) dissolved organic carbon may have influenced the response of pH and total aluminum (as ~ 70% is organic aluminum). Despite their location on the western periphery of Europe, and dominant influence from Atlantic air masses, the repeat survey suggests that the chemistry of small Irish lakes has shown a significant response to reductions in air pollution driven primarily by the implementation of the Gothenburg Protocol under the UNECE Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution.
4314515|The golden apple snail (Pomacea canaliculata) was introduced intentionally into Asia in 1980 with the expectation that it could be cultivated as a high-protein food source for local consumption and as an export commodity for high-income countries. It has since invaded Asian rice systems, where it is dispersed through extensive irrigation networks and feeds voraciously on young rice seedlings. This paper analyzes the economics of the golden apple snail invasion in Asia. The Philippines is used as a case study to quantify the direct, on-farm costs associated with yield loss, replanting, and snail control. The analysis shows that the cumulative (present-value) costs of the snail invasion to Philippine rice agriculture in 1990 were between USD 425 and USD 1200 mill., even without taking into account the nonmarket damages to human health and ecosystems. If this amount were invested in an effective quarantine and inspection program for nonindigenous species, similar exotic pest problems in agriculture could be avoided in the future.
4314624|In China, major agroforestry systems are estimated to cover 45 million ha. Agrosilviculture is a dominant practice. Aquasilvicultures, e.g. tree-fish-arable crop and tree-fish-livestock systems, are alternatives for land use in the wetlands. Silvopastoral systems are popular in the northern and western regions. Compared to a monoculture, well-managed systems have many benefits. The recycling of residues is expected to increase the efficient use of natural resources. The C sink in the vegetation of major agroforestry systems in China was 179 Tg yr
41417387|Stabilizing global greenhouse gas concentrations at levels to avoid significant climate risks will require massive "decarbonization" of all the major economies over the next few decades, in addition to the reduced emissions from other GHGs and carbon sequestration. Achieving the necessary scale of emissions reductions will require a multifaceted policy effort to support a broad array of technological and behavioral changes. Change on this scale will require sound, well-thought-out strategies. In this article, we outline some core principles, drawn from recent social science research, for guiding the design of clean technology policies, with a focus on energy. The market should be encouraged to make good choices: pricing carbon emissions and other environmental damage, removing distorting subsidies and barriers to competition, and supporting RD&D broadly. More specific policies are required to address particular market failures and barriers. For those technologies identified as being particularly desirable, some narrower RD&D policies are available.
4315206|Over the past three decades, with a combination of new technology, rising female literacy rates, and strengthened family planning programs, the world has seen dramatic increases in the use of contraception, with corresponding declines in fertility and population growth rates. At the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo in 1994, parties pledged a tripling of funding for reproductive health programs in developing countries. Many demographers believe that making such programs more widely available to women would extend the decline in birth rates and shift the world towards the low scenario of United Nations population projections over the next century and a half, By examining the costs and impacts of such programs, in view of the links between population and carbon emissions, this paper shows that extension of voluntary family planning could make a large and cost-effective contribution to the greenhouse gas limitation goals of the Kyoto Protocol that was negotiated in 1997.
4315377|Aquaculture has been seen as a solution to food/protein availability in rural populations of poor countries. It is mainly based on exotic species, that produce changes in host system dynamics once introduced. Aquaculture not only changes the ecology of freshwater systems, but can also lead to modification of social relations. Until now, aquaculture programs have not been adequately analyzed no questioned enough. We evaluate both ecological effects and local social benefits of common carp aquaculture programs in shallow ponds of rural areas, using a municipality in Central Mexico as a case study. Using an "environmental entitlements" approach, our findings suggest that: i) carp aquaculture increases water turbidity and depletes native species reducing the poor people's access to them; ii) aquaculture mainly benefits pond owners rather than poor peasants. This mainly results from changes in fishing rights. We conclude that aquaculture policy goals and assumptions of benefits should be reviewed, if the negative ecological effects are to be decreased and conditions for people in rural areas are to be improved.
4314488|This paper describes the impacts on the future availability of water in Egypt of driving forces operating at three different scales in the Nile Basin: global (climate change), regional (land-use change) and river basin (water-resources management). Global and regional driving forces are taken from an integrated model for the assessment of climate change (IMAGE 2.0) and from the results of Global Climate Model experiments. Regional hydrologic models of the largest Nile tributaries are used to calculate the impacts on Main Nile discharge. River-basin driving forces are considered through a set of future water-resource management strategies in Egypt. The combined effects of all three driving forces on future water availability in Egypt range from a large water surplus to a large water deficit by the year 2050. This range of results arises from uncertainties in the integrated modelling approach used and from the different ways Egypt may approach population growth, agricultural policy and human aspirations for greater water use in the future.
4315481| Recent mild and wet years in Sweden were compared with long observation series of temperature, precipitation and runoff. Spatial average series for northern and southern Sweden were constructed and analyzed for the period 1901-2002. Precipitation increased considerably during the period, whereas temperature and runoff increases were weaker. On average, for the whole country, the differences between the period 1991-2002 and 1901-1990 were + 0.7C for temperature, + 11% in precipitation and + 7% in runoff. The differences in temperature and precipitation, but not runoff, were significant at the 5% level. However, the 1930s were equally mild, and the runoff was almost as high in the 1920s. The characteristic feature of the past decade is the combination of high temperature, precipitation and runoff. The deviation between the most recent decade and the preceding years is consistent with climate scenario projections for Sweden, but there are also differences in the seasonal pattern. 
4314307|The ecotoxicological implications of persistent contaminants in the Baltic became clear during the 1950s and 1960s when mercury, DDT, and PCB were identified in Baltic organisms at different trophic levels. However, new chemicals are still produced and used for various applications without proper knowledge about their potential environmental impact. Bis(4-chlorophenyl) sulfone (BCPS) is used in the production of high-temperature polymers, it may also be used in reactive dyes, it is a byproduct in pesticide production, and a potential pesticide. This paper shows that BCPS has also been identified as a contaminant in perch (Perca fluviatilis) muscle from three different locations in the Latvian coastal area. BCPS was also found in grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) blubber and in an egg from white-tailed sea eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla) from the Swedish Bothnian Sea and Baltic proper coasts. The concentration of BCPS in the perch samples (40 to 100 ng g
24708779|The study shows extensive oil contamination of rivers, creeks, and ground waters in Ogoniland, Nigeria. The levels found in the more contaminated sites are high enough to cause severe impacts on the ecosystem and human health: extractable petroleum hydrocarbons (EPHs) (>10-C40) in surface waters up to 7420 g L1, drinking water wells show up to 42 200 g L1, and benzene up to 9000 g L1, more than 900 times the WHO guidelines. EPH concentrations in sediments were up to 17 900 mg kg1. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons concentrations reached 8.0 mg kg1, in the most contaminated sites. The contamination has killed large areas of mangroves. Although the natural conditions for degradation of petroleum hydrocarbons are favorable with high temperatures and relatively high rainfall, the recovery of contaminated areas is prevented due to the chronic character of the contamination. Oil spills of varying magnitude originates from facilities and pipelines; leaks from aging, dilapidated, and abandoned infrastructure; and from spills during transport and artisanal refining of stolen oil under very primitive conditions.
4312476|Conifer seedlings were treated with DDT and lindane before being planted in a reforestation area. Samples were taken at intervals from the planted seedlings and the surrounding soil and analyzed for DDT components and lindane. The loss of the insecticides from the seedlings as well as their occurrence and distribution in the soil was determined.
25094546|Many of the problems coupled to large local discharges of contaminants to the Gulf of Bothnia are now decreasing, although the concentrations of pollutants in sediments and biota will remain high for a long time. The long-term development of the pollution situation in the Gulf of Bothnia will essentially be governed by conditions outside the area. Many contaminants are widely spread and may accumulate far from the sources. Therefore, differences in vulnerability will be crucial for where environmental effects occur. The ecosystems of the Gulf of Bothnia are particularly vulnerable because of almost oligotrophic conditions and a climate that may favor accumulation of persistent organic pollutants.
4315331| Total mercury content was evaluated in water and suspended sediment samples of the Moji-Guau river and in water and bottom sediment of its 3 marginal lagoons (Catingueiro, Barrinha, and Rio das Pedras), located downstream of the sampling point in the main channel. In all situations, low Hg concentrations were found in suspended and bottom sediments. Aluminum was used as a geochemical tracer to normalize the Hg concentrations in the sediment cores from the Rio das Pedras lagoon (r = 0.92). It was estimated that the Moji-Guau river transports up to 19 kg Hg yr
4312649|The author describes the biosphere reserve system in the USSR and underscores the significance of these areas as sites for long-term ecological monitoring. They also provide a vehicle for international collaboration in scientific and technological development activities, to improve our understanding of the inter-relationship between human activities and the environment. The potential value of bisophere reserves in conducting studies of the structure and functions of ecosystems is also discussed. The need for long-term ecological research in a wide variety of areas using methods that give accurate and comparable sets of data is stressed.
25547946|Fire-dependent pine forests in the Caribbean Basin cover extensive areas in the coastal plain of the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico and on several islands in the Bahamas Archipelago, Cuba, Hispaniola, and the Honduran Bay islands. These forests are high in conservation value but, unfortunately, remain mostly unprotected. Moreover, even though they are fire dependent, the use of fire for forest management often suffers from poor public perception and is prohibited by law in several countries. In this paper, we describe the fundamental links among fire, forest regeneration, and forest persistence in these ecosystems. We identify two general strategies based on the presence or absence of pine seedling adaptations for fire survival and describe management implications of these two strategies. We also introduce conceptual models describing fire, forest structure, and regeneration strategy linkages.
4313877|The role of population growth in past history and present and future economic growth and development is still not well understood. The spectacular growth of world population in the past has been closely associated with economic progress and growing prosperity, and the evidence of its harmful effect on development is weaker than often thought. Poverty and famine in developing countries should usually not be ascribed to population growth but to natural disasters and disastrous policies. The demographic transition adjusts birth rates to death rates but only with a lag, and world population will rise considerably well into the next century no matter what governments in developing countries do to encourage family planning. Population is not a policy variable that governments can turn on or off at will. Policy attention should be directed not only to restraining population, but to ways to accommodate the inevitable and to promote and develop technologies that will make this possible with minimal environmental destruction.
4313835|Recent reports have suggested that the fixed nitrogen which deposits from the atmosphere onto the watershed is a significant fraction of total anthropogenic loading of nitrogen to the Chesapeake Bay. A different approach was used here to estimate the atmospheric contribution of nitrogen to Narragansett Bay, the New York Bight, Ochlockonee Bay, Laholm Bay, and Chesapeake Bay. There is probably at least a factor of four uncertainty in loading estimates. The large uncertainty results primarily from fundamental inadequacies in determining the magnitude of a variety of process which control nitrogen behavior in terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems. Using best estimate assumptions, deposition can, in some cases, represent a significant fraction of total anthropogenic nitrogen loading. The best estimates of the contribution of nitrogen reaching these ecosystems via emissions and deposition, relative to the total anthropogenic inputs of nitrogen, ranged from 11% to essentially 100%.
4314637|A large, densely populated catchment area dominating water quality of land runoff, stratification of the brackish water, a residence time of 25 years, intermittent renewal of oxygenated bottom water from the North Sea, few plant and animal species already stressed by low salinity, make the Baltic Sea vulnerable to changes in external forcings such as increased inputs of nutrients and toxic substances. A severalfold increase of nutrient inputs and primary production since the beginning of the century has increased the area of anoxic bottoms, decreased the transparency of the water by 2.5-3 m, favored filamentous annual algae at the expense of coarse, perennial ones-like the important bladderwrack (Fucus vesiculosus)-changed the fish community from cod, salmon, pike and perch toward herring, sprat, bream, and roach. Because they are a major source of external nitrogen, a shift in current agricultural practices has to be made including: tree curtains to increase patchiness, biodiversity and natural pest control; catch crops along rivers; matching animal density and crop types to achieve optimal recycling of nutrients. So far, integrated land use, based on operative ecological-socioeconomic models, is the most powerful policy instrument for a sustainable agriculture.
4311950| The boron content of a large number of Swedish and Norwegian fresh waters was studied in 1970. Twenty stations from the Swedish water sampling network were selected to follow the variation during one year. A synoptic study was performed in the summer of 1970. A modified curcumin method was used for the determination of total boron in fresh waters. The median value of the boron content in 355 water samples was estimated at 12 g B/l. The yield ranged from about 20 to 115 g B/hayr. 
4314549|Following the pioneering contributions of Arrhenius, Callendar and others, climate models emerged as a very promising tool for the study of greenhouse warming. In the early 1960s, a one-dimensional, radiative-convective equilibrium model was developed as the first step towards the development of a three-dimensional model of climate. Incorporating not only the radiative but also the convective heat exchange between the earth's surface and the atmosphere, the model overcame the difficulty encountered by the earlier approach of surface radiative heat balance in estimating the magnitude of greenhouse warming. By the 1970s, a three-dimensional, general circulation model (GCM) of the atmosphere, coupled to a very idealized ocean of swamp-like wet surface, had been used for studies of greenhouse warming. Despite many drastic simplifications, the GCM was very effective for elucidating the physical mechanisms that control global warming and served as a stepping stone towards the use of more comprehensive, coupled ocean-atmosphere GCMs for the study of this problem.
41417326|This study was conducted in the Swedish sub-Arctic, near Abisko, in order to assess the direction and scale of possible vegetation changes in the alpine-birch forest ecotone. We have re-surveyed shrub, tree and vegetation data at 549 plots grouped into 61 clusters. The plots were originally surveyed in 1997 and re-surveyed in 2010. Our study is unique for the area as we have quantitatively estimated a 19% increase in tree biomass mainly within the existing birch forest. We also found significant increases in the cover of two vegetation types "birch forest-heath with mosses" and "meadow with low herbs", while the cover of snowbed vegetation decreased significantly. The vegetation changes might be caused by climate, herbivory and past human impact but irrespective of the causes, the observed transition of the vegetation will have substantial effects on the mountain ecosystems.
4312726|The Wider Caribbean Region is in the process of rapid development. Some countries are developing energy-intensive heavy industries; others have been attracting equally hazardous non-resource-based "enclave" industries. Most countries are heavily dependent on imports of food, and are attempting to increase their own food production by devoting more land to agriculture-often by clearing forests-and by increasing the use of agricultural chemicals. Coastal tourism plays an important economic role and may be reaching the saturation point. The region is characterized by a high population growth rate and a high rate of urbanization. All of these factors cause significant disruption of the natural environment, and the region's resource base is threatened. An important first step to prevent environmental damage has been the adoption of an action plan for environmental management by the governments of the region.
40390241|Recent research in northern Europe has revised many long-held conceptions of the complexity of forest ecosystems and their natural structure and dynamics. The unveiling of the picture of natural characteristics of forest ecosystem structure and dynamics reveals much more diversity than its traditional complement, highlighting the importance of non-stand-replacing disturbances and the associated heterogeneous and dynamic stand and landscape structures. This increasing detail is a reflection of a fundamental change in the ecological understanding of forests as complex ecosystems. In particular, the generalization that the boreal forest is regulated by fierce stand-replacing disturbances, leading to the dominance of even-aged stand successions, has been disproved. However, this misconception has, until now, been repeated and used to legitimize the dominant practice of clear-cutting as a nature-based way to manage the forest. The practical conclusion of this review paper is that the dominating forest management model in North European boreal forests, which is based on the clear-cut harvesting of timber and growing of even-aged stands, is in contradiction with the variable and complex characteristics of the disturbance-succession cycle observed in naturally dynamic forests with negligible human impact. As a consequence, the structural variation of the boreal forest under management has been grossly truncated compared with its natural range. Because of this, and due to the scarcity of protection areas in many regions of northern Europe, it is not likely that the conservation of native biodiversity and ecological sustainability will be attained, assuming that the model of forest management remains unchanged. Thus, there is a strong incentive for change in the prevailing forest management model toward one that is based on natural ecosystem dynamics and an understanding of forests as complex systems.
4313600|While many will agree to the desirability of conserving biodiversity, governments still have difficulty in finding sufficient financial resources for addressing the problems of conservation in a way that is commensurate with the needs of society. Innovative funding mechanisms are required.
25515828|Land degradation is a global development and environment issue that afflicts China more than most countries in terms of the extent, economic impact, and number of people affected. Up-to-date, quantitative information is needed to support policy and action for food and water security, economic development, and environmental integrity. Data for a defined, recent period enable us to distinguish the legacy of historical land degradation from what is happening now. We define land degradation as long-term decline in ecosystem function and productivity and measure it by remote sensing of the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), the greenness index. NDVI may be translated to net primary productivity (NPP). Deviation from the norm serves as a proxy assessment of land degradation and improvement-if other factors that may be responsible are taken into account. These other factors include climate, which may be assessed by rain-use efficiency and energy-use efficiency. Analysis of the 23-year Global Inventory Modeling and Mapping Studies (GIMMS) NDVI data reveals that, in China over the period 1981-2003, NPP increased overall, but areas of declining climate-adjusted NPP comprise 23% of the country, mainly in south China. About 35% of China's population (457 million out of 1 317 million) depend on the degrading land. Degrading areas suffered a loss of NPP of 12 kgC ha y, amounting to almost 60 million tC not fixed from the atmosphere; loss of soil organic carbon from these areas is likely to be orders of magnitude greater. There is no correlation between land degradation and dry lands; it is more of an issue in cropland and forest: 21% of degrading land is cropland and 40% is forest, 24% of the arable and 44% of the forest, respectively. There is no simple statistical relationship between land degradation and rural population density or poverty. Most identified land degradation is in the south and east, driven by unprecedented land-use change.
4312051|A longitudinal study of persistent pesticides and pollutants in Swedish foods over the past ten years reveals decreasing levels in many instances. This can be attributed to administrative measures and restricted use patterns. Mercury in foods of animal origin (meat, eggs, liver) has decreased to 1/3-1/6 of levels present before the ban of methylmercury as a seed dressing agent. Mercury levels in fish have decreased in eg several water areas earlier exposed to phenylmercury emission from wood pulp and paper pulp factories, but no decrease has been observed in the vicinity of chlorine-alkali industries. DDT has decreased in human breast milk, mainly due to replacement of DDT in home formulations in the midsixties. In contrast, DDE and PCB have not diminished in human milk-the main alimentary source of these compounds is fish with high fat content.
4313455|Mangroves and seagrasses show similar global patterns of generic richness, characterized by a maximum variety in the Indo-West Pacific where the countries of East Asia are situated. Unfortunately, these ecosystems are being destroyed by both natural and human-induced stresses. Natural stresses to the vegetation take the form of tropical cyclones, typhoons, tidal waves, volcanic activity, pests and diseases, and population interactions. On the other hand, man-induced stresses comprise the uncontrolled exploitation by traditional users and destructive activities unrelated to sustainable uses of the resources. Mangrove and seagrass coastal ecosystems are intricately linked by physical and nutrient interactions, animal migrations, and human impact. These habitat interconnections remain a key factor in the management of mangrove and seagrass resources in the East Asian region.
4314616|Indonesia's coral reefs are currently undergoing rapid destruction from human activities including: poison fishing; blast fishing; coral mining; sedimentation; pollution and overfishing. In this paper, these destructive activities are described and the private gains from these activities accruing to individuals are compared with the associated costs to society. It is shown that the social costs by far outweigh the short-term private gains. Yet, powerful forces have a clear interest in maintaining the status quo of destruction. These forces vary from high risk, high payoff poison fishing to poverty-trap activities such as coral mining. The paper concludes with a discussion on designing appropriate policy responses such as: local threat-based approach; national threat-based approach; integrated coastal zone management; and the use of marine protected areas.
4313164|India and China, both heavy consumers of biomass, have devoted considerable resources to the development of viable biogas programs. The Chinese have emphasized a grassroots approach that ensures profitable investment by individual households, collectives and the state. The Indian program has been characterized by a top-down approach that has been less cost-efficient. Nevertheless, the institutional system for implementing biogas programs in both countries seems to be evolving towards a similar framework.
4314094|In this article we discuss the hypothesis that atmospheric deposition of acidifying substances to terrestrial ecosystems increase the leaching of trace metals from soils and thereby can alter the balance between phytoplankton species in coastal waters. The hypothesis is based on the following arguments: i) pH has a strong influence on the sorption of metals in soils and sediments and thus on the concentrations of metals in water; ii) Acidification has been shown to increase the mobility of several trace metals in soils and in lake sediments; iii) Trace metals can both enhance and inhibit the growth of marine phytoplankton, in a species-specific way; and iv) Several trace metals essential for phytoplankton growth are found in growth-limiting concentrations in seawater whereas concentrations are high in acidified river water. It is shown for acidified running waters draining to the Kattegat on the Swedish west coast that the concentrations of cobalt, one of the essential trace metals for phytoplankton growth, are inversely related to the pH of the water. It is also shown that the effects of cobalt on the growth of coastal phytoplankton is species-specific, and that concentrations of cobalt in the open Kattegat are in the range where limitation or inhibition of phytoplankton growth could be expected.
4315422|The invasion of Salvinia molesta in the Lower Senegal River Delta in Mauritania and Senegal in 1999 posed a serious threat to the socioeconomic conditions of the local people as well as to wetland biodiversity. Eventually, an effective biological control of S. molesta was obtained by means of the weevil Cyrtobagous salviniae, which was introduced in the river in Senegal and Mauritania in May 2000 and in Senegal in April 2001. In October 2001, it became apparent that the weevils were doing a magnificent job. The color of the plants was turning from green to dark-brown or black, and subsequently the plants started to sink to the bottom. Detailed monitoring of the dispersal of C. salviniae in November-December 2001 confirmed the visual observations of the outcome of biological control. In April 2002, it could be concluded that S. molesta was no longer a problem in the Senegal River.
4315774|To evaluate the radiological impact of potential releases to the biosphere from a geological repository for spent nuclear fuel, it is necessary to assess the long-term dynamics of the distribution of radionuclides in the environment. In this paper, we propose an approach for making prognoses of the distribution and fluxes of radionuclides released from the geosphere, in discharges of contaminated groundwater, to an evolving landscape. The biosphere changes during the temperate part (spanning approximately 20 000 years) of an interglacial period are handled by building biosphere models for the projected succession of situations. Radionuclide transport in the landscape is modeled dynamically with a series of interconnected radioecological models of those ecosystem types (sea, lake, running water, mire, agricultural land and forest) that occur at present, and are projected to occur in the future, in a candidate area for a geological repository in Sweden. The transformation between ecosystems is modeled as discrete events occurring every thousand years by substituting one model by another. Examples of predictions of the radionuclide distribution in the landscape are presented for several scenarios with discharge locations varying in time and space. The article also outlines an approach for estimating the exposure of man resulting from all possible reasonable uses of a potentially contaminated landscape, which was used for derivation of Landscape Dose Factors.
4313138|Fish livers are frequently the tissue samples analyzed when monitoring heavy metal concentrations in fish from the marine environment. In this study, fat concentrations and levels of Cu, Zn, Cd and Pb were determined in six sets of cod liver samples. The content of fat in the livers was found to be an important factor in explaining the observed variations in heavy metal concentrations. It was concluded that: -if the results of monitoring tests are to be comparable, the fat content must be considered when determining the residue levels of heavy metals in cod liver. -to improve the comparability of measurements of heavy metals in fish liver, the chemistry leading to the observed variations should be known.
4314594|Bottlenose dolphins resident in the Moray Firth, NE Scotland, display a variety of skin lesions and physical deformities which appear to be signs of disease, the cause of which is unknown. The population is isolated and small (around 130 individuals) and it is important to determine the severity of this problem to establish if there is cause for concern. Assessing the health of free-ranging marine mammals is difficult. We used photographs of individuals, taken over a four year period, to provide a full and systematic description of the types of lesions and deformities present and to document the prevalence of each type. Overall, 95% of dolphins sampled showed one or more types of lesion on the back or dorsal fin; 61% had three or more types and 5% had six or seven types. Six percent of animals displayed deformities. Lesions on adult females and calves covered significantly greater areas of skin than on adult males or sub-adults. The results show that visible disease is a prominent feature of this population and is, therefore, a cause for concern. The next step is to establish whether this is a natural feature or is anthropogenically induced and the findings are discussed in this context.
4313651|The chlorine bound to identified pollutants normally contribute to less than 10-15% of the extractable, organically bound chlorine (EOCI) in fish and about 5% in sediments. Recent findings indicate that some of the unidentified EOCI is in the form of compounds with molecular weights similar to those of lipids. The objective of this study was, therefore, to hydrolyze EOCI from fish and sediment samples and to characterize the hydrolysis products. Before hydrolysis, the EOCI compounds are neutral. Between 60 and 80% of EOCI was hydrolyzed by lipase, and 30% of cod liver EOCI was recovered as acidic material. The findings showed that a considerable portion of the unidentified, chlorinated substances is bound in esters.
4315443| Long-term trends in the Secchi depth of the Baltic Sea have been interpreted in terms of eutrophication (1, 2). The spectral attenuation coefficient K
41417415|The primary targets of our project are to drastically improve the photovoltaic conversion efficiency and to develop new energy storage and delivery technologies. Our approach to obtain an efficiency over 40% starts from the improvement of III-V multi-junction solar cells by introducing a novel material for each cell realizing an ideal combination of bandgaps and lattice-matching. Further improvement incorporates quantum structures such as stacked quantum wells and quantum dots, which allow higher degree of freedom in the design of the bandgap and the lattice strain. Highly controlled arrangement of either quantum dots or quantum wells permits the coupling of the wavefunctions, and thus forms intermediate bands in the bandgap of a host material, which allows multiple photon absorption theoretically leading to a conversion efficiency exceeding 50%. In addition to such improvements, microfabrication technology for the integrated high-efficiency cells and the development of novel material systems that realizes high efficiency and low cost at the same time are investigated.
24708978|Assessments of radiological impacts on humans and other biota from potential releases to the biosphere from a deep geologic repository for spent nuclear fuel are associated with several challenges. Releases, if any, will likely occur in a far future and to an environment that will have experienced substantial transformations. Such releases would occur over very long periods during which environmental conditions will vary continuously due to climate change and ecosystem succession. Assessments of radiological impacts must therefore be based on simulations using models that can describe the transport and accumulation of radionuclides for a large variety of environmental conditions. In this paper we describe such a model and show examples of its application in a safety assessment, taking into account results from sensitivity and uncertainty analyses of the model predictions.
4314699|The article presents two contrasting views of deforestation and groundwater recharge/dry season flow. Seven variables causing the dichotomy are identified and analyzed. These include the comparative importance of various hydrological processes, research methodological aspects, people's perception of change, and unclear definitions. A simple model indicating the most likely catchment response to deforestation is presented. Recharge through macropores is argued to be the key mechanism for conveying rainwater to groundwater in the dry tropics. Management aspects of forests and water are discussed.
4313149|Increased energy efficiency and an aggregate demand kept to moderate levels till allow bioenergy to play a role in satisfying future energy needs. Biomass-based electricity generation and liquid-fuels production are two areas on which research and development efforts should concentrate. Financial incentives to encourage conversion of biomass into fuel are needed.
4315487|Climate change resulting from the enhanced greenhouse effect is expected to give rise to changes in hydrological systems. This hydrological change, as with the change in climate variables, will vary regionally around the globe. Impact studies at local and regional scales are needed to assess how different regions will be affected. This study focuses on assessment of hydrological impacts of climate change over a wide range of Swedish basins. Different methods of transferring the signal of climate change from climate models to hydrological models were used. Several hydrological model simulations using regional climate model scenarios from Swedish Regional Climate Modelling Programme (SWECLIM) are presented. A principal conclusion is that subregional impacts to river flow vary considerably according to whether a basin is in northern or southern Sweden. Furthermore, projected hydrological change is just as dependent on the choice of the global climate model used for regional climate model boundary conditions as the choice of anthropogenic emissions scenario.
25547926|This paper outlines the importance of the policy context for monitoring with and for raptors, and, conversely, of the importance of such monitoring for policy. It then outlines two key areas of European Union (EU) environmental policy most relevant to monitoring for and with raptors, namely biodiversity policy and pollution policy. For each of the policy areas, the pertinent objectives and actions of the current EU policy are identified, and their relevance for raptor monitoring is discussed. The potential contribution of raptor monitoring to the further development of these policy areas is also addressed.
4314818|Coral reefs are an important resource base for many coastal communities throughout the Western Indian Ocean region (WIO). With the continued growth of coastal populations and the concomitant increase in the need for marine resources, coral reefs stand at the face of overexploitation in many countries, and are being subjected to widespread degradation due to destructive fishing practices and pollution. Within this setting, the islands of Zanzibar exhibit almost all of the problems seen throughout the WIO, and so serve to exemplify some of the issues involved. Zanzibar has extensive coral reefs, which are actively used as a resource base by an increasing coastal population. At the same time, the expansion of urban areas and the development of coastal tourist facilities means that the coral reefs are coming under increasing pressure to provide even more resources than they have historically been required to deliver. At the same time, they are recipients of increasing levels of pollutants from expanding human populations, and they are subject to a range of physically destructive activities. In general terms, the reefs of Zanzibar are in comparatively good condition although there are clear areas of significant perturbation adjacent to certain urban areas and areas of high visitation. The main anthropogenic threats to the coral reefs of Zanzibar include overexploitation, destructive activities (fishing and anchor damage), and pollution. There are indications that overfishing of key species may be leading to a decline in certain economic species as well as ecological shifts in the benthic communities of some reef areas. As is often the case regionally, the lack of historical data limits attempts to resolve the true impact of some of these factors. In line with perceived local problems, a number of activities have been undertaken in Zanzibar to address specific coral-reef related issues, and these are discussed here in the light of the larger regional setting. Some discussion is also centered around the basic issues that undermine the sustainable management of coral reefs in Zanzibar, and how these problems are being dealt with in other parts of the WIO.
4314243|This article presents results from a survey of woody biomass on farmland in Kenya. The survey covered the 10 mill. ha of high-potential land where 80% of the country's population lives. Contrary to prevailing beliefs, a rapid increase of planted woody biomass between years 1986-1992 was discovered. The annual increase was estimated at 4.7%. The survey also revealed that wood on farmlands can become a major source of raw materials for the wood industry, since the standing volume is larger than that found in conventional forests. Previous conclusions, i.e. that population density is positively correlated with the volume of planted woody biomass, were confirmed by the survey finding of a high ( r
4315766|The water exchange of the Baltic coastal zone is characterized by its seasonally varying regimes. In the safety assessment of a potential repository for spent nuclear fuel, it is important to assess the consequences of a hypothetical leak of radionuclides through the seabed into a waterborne transport phase. In particular, estimates of the associated residence times in the near-shore coastal zone are of interest. There are several methods to quantify such measures, of which three are presented here. Using the coastal location of Forsmark (Sweden) as an example, methods based on passive tracers, particle trajectories, and the average age distribution of exogeneous water parcels are compared for a representative one-year cycle. Tracer-based methods can simulate diffusivity more realistically than the other methods. Trajectory-based methods can handle Lagrangian dispersion processes due to advection but neglect diffusion on the sub-grid scale. The method based on the concept of average age (AvA) of exogeneous water can include all such sources simultaneously not only boundary water bodies but also various (fresh)-water discharges. Due to the inclusion of sub-grid diffusion this method gives a smoother measure of the water renewal. It is shown that backward in time trajectories and AvA-times are basically equipollent methods, yielding correlated results within the limits set by the diffusivity.
4315622|To study future, sustainable production systems, a step-wise method was used to create three future scenarios for pig production based on different sustainability goals. The first scenario focused on animal welfare and the natural behavior of the animals. The second targeted low impacts on the environment and the efficient use of natural resources. The third scenario aimed at product quality and safety. Each scenario fulfilled different aspects of sustainability, but there were goal conflicts because no scenario fulfilled all sustainability goals. The scenarios were then parameterized. The environmental impact was calculated using the life-cycle assessment (LCA) methodology, and the economic cost was calculated from the same data set. The cost per kilo of pork was highest for the animal welfare scenario and similar for the other two scenarios. The environmental scenario had the lowest environmental impact, and the product-quality scenario the highest. The results are discussed based on different future priorities.
4313931|Biodiversity, the vast array of non-human organisms of our planet, should be valued for four general reasons. First, we (and many others) believe that, as the dominant species on Earth, Homo sapiens has an ethical, stewardship responsibility towards humanity's only known living companions in the universe. Second, as attested to by activities as diverse as gardening, making of nature films, and ecotourism, biodiversity has esthetic values. Third, humanity has derived many direct economic values from biodiversity, including all of its food and many of its medicines and industrial products. The potential of nature's genetic library for providing more of these benefits is enormous. Fourth, and most important from an anthropocentric perspective, plants, animals, and microorganisms help to supply human beings with an array of free ecosystem services, without which civilization could not persist. These include such things as controlling the gaseous mix of the atmosphere, generating and maintaining soils, controlling pests, and running biogeochemical cycles. The present extinction episode caused by human activity seriously jeopardizes the ethical, aesthetic, direct economic and life-support values of biodiversity; it may be the single most important externality associated with human economic activity.
4312244|Quoting figures from the global mid-decade survey of the World Health Organization, the author suggests that the community water supply and sanitary disposal of excreta goals recommended by HABITAT, the UN 1976 Conference on Human Settlement, will require reordering of priorities in the developing countries in favor of these sectors, particularly in the rural areas. He outlines strategies for consideration of the developing countries, the rich countries and the international agencies.
4313032| Acting on a recommendation of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and the World Meteorological Organization carried out a Pilot Project to study the occurrence and distribution of oil pollution in the world's oceans. Between 1975 and 1978, almost 100 000 visual observations of oil slicks, 5000 samples of tar from the sea surface, 3000 samples of water for the determination of dissolved/dispersed petroleum residues, and 3500 samples of tar stranded on beaches were investigated. The results show that surface contamination in the form of slicks and floating tar was most prevalent near the major tanker lanes and shipping routes, that concentrations of dissolved/dispersed petroleum residues in the g/l range were present almost everywhere at 1 meter depth in the water column, and that the stranding of tar on the beaches of Japan was a highly seasonal phenomenon. Thus, as a result of this project, a preliminary understanding of the global distribution of oil pollution has emerged. 
4314815|Chwaka Bay is a shallow lagoon on the east coast of Unguja Island, Zanzibar, Tanzania. During low-water spring more than 50% of the bay area is dry land. Studies on tides, velocities and seabed morphology in Chwaka Bay have formed a point of departure for the interdisciplinary study presented here. The focus is on Chwaka village which is one of the 7 Swahili communities in the bay area. Through interviews and observations carried out in August 1997 and March-June 1998, data have been collected on the use and management of marine and coastal resources by men and women in Chwaka. The study shows that Chwaka inhabitants have a wealth of knowledge about the different tidal cycles, semidiurnal, diurnal and fortnightly; seasonal changes in winds and precipitation; and seabed morphology. It also shows how they apply this knowledge to make optimal use of the bay and its resources. Chwaka people have their own terms and categories for describing the relationships between the revolution of the moon and the tidal cycles which, in substance, correspond, basically, to scientific terminology. Moreover, their mental maps of the seabed morphology, together with their knowledge about the operation of currents in the bay, mean that they are able to navigate successfully even under extreme low-water spring. The study demonstrates that natural conditions and cycles at the same time provide constraints on as well as opportunities for production. Illustrations are provided of the strength and weaknesses of local institutional arrangements for the use and management of marine resources under conditions of external influence. The example of Chwaka points to the importance of dialogue and collaboration between local communities, researchers, and policy-makers, in research as well as in practical development work.
4313130|Forest recreation has developed into a main land-use from in Sweden's suburban forests. This has caused serious problems for the forestry industry as the public demands an unchanged forest landscape. At the same time society requires a very effective forestry, as this is a major source of national income. An intensive debate about the best way to utilize Sweden's forests has been going on for the past 20 years between forest visitors and forest owners and officials. Results from 15 years of studies concerning forest recreation show, among other things, that if forest recreation is to be a democratic possibility for all urban dwellers, the forests must be situated not too far away. In the ideal situation they should be located within walking distance. It is shown that 0.5-1.0 percent of the total forest area is required for forest recreation. This area must be given a new silviculture concept. Further, "urbanization" of the recreation forests must be prevented. Setting aside 500 m
4314232| Nitrogen retention in a small stream, River Rn in southern Sweden was studied by mass-balance calculations along a 7-km reach with running water and in a small pond. In addition denitrification activity and limiting factors for the denitrification were analyzed with the acetylene blockage method in different types of sediments from the stream and the pond at different times of the year. The total annual nitrogen retention was less than 3% of the total nitrogen transport in the stream. The retention in the pond was greater than in the rest of the river. Significant nitrogen retention (20-50%) occurs only during low flow periods in the summer. On such occasions, the denitrification losses correspond to more than half of the total nitrogen retention. On an annual basis denitrification was responsible for 30-40% of the total retention in Rn. The discharge was by far the most critical factor determining nitrogen retention both in running water and the pond. 
4314740|A high arctic polar semidesert and a subarctic dwarf-shrub heath were subjected to increases in the concentration of nutrients, elevated temperatures and greater summer precipitation over five growing seasons. The aim of the study was to determine the sensitivity and resilience of the two contrasting European arctic ecosystems to components of projected global environmental change. Both ecosystems were sensitive to environmental change, with nutrient eliciting the greatest responses, followed by temperature, and then water, which exerted little measurable influence. The direction, magnitude and timing of responses differed markedly between ecosystems and species responded individualistically. Some of the observed responses were similar to those from parallel studies in Alaskan wet tussock tundra and other European subarctic communities, but underlying mechanisms may not always be the same. Community level changes at the subarctic dwarf-shrub heath were mediated through the responses of a few key species which were already present in the community, whilst at the high Arctic polar semidesert, responses were determined by both existing and invading species. Responses of arctic plants and communities to nutrient enrichment and temperature are greater than those reported in response to elevated CO
4313637|It is universally agreed that biological diversity must be preserved, but the practical responsibility seems to have been left to the countries involved, and to nongovernmental conservation organizations, neither of which are able to cope entirely with this formidable task. The question is, whether conservation of biological diversity in Third World countries is possible at all, as long as these countries are caught in the viscious circle of growing poverty, rapidly growing populations, and environmental degradation. Is it naive to believe, that we can tackle the last of these problems in isolation and with quite inadequate means?
4314427|The fast development of a modern economy in Changzhou City is speeding up urbanization. However, in the process, certain problems are unavoidable. This paper analyzes three of the main problems for Changzhou: the unsuitable infrastructure; the decrease in cultivated land; and declining environmental quality. The authors suggest better ways to solve these problems, and the article presents several reasonable strategies such as integrated planning for the city as a whole; developing the urban infrastructure; controlling the decrease in cultivated land by restricting built-up areas; and raising the quality of the environment by paying attention to pollution treatment.
4312371|During the last decade, human activity has considerably increased in the area of Lake Balaton. Agricultural production has grown and tourism has increased threefold. At present, much more nitrogen and phosphorous is discharged into the lake than formerly. Consequently, eutrophication has accelerated. Important investments are being made to protect the lake; here the efforts of scientific research are concentrated as well. The Council for Coordinating Environmental Research on Lake Balaton has been founded, and a program of research projects has been decided upon.
4314184|Disease outbreaks with high mortality rates among seals and dolphins have recently attracted considerable public and scientific interest. Although in most cases morbilli-virus infections were shown to be the primary cause of the disease outbreaks, it was speculated that pollution-induced immunosuppression had played a contributory role. Here we present results of a prospective study under semifield conditions, in which two groups of harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) were fed herring from marine regions with different contamination levels; the highly polluted Baltic Sea and the relatively unpolluted Atlantic Ocean. During a period of 93 weeks, parameters related to immune function were monitored and compared between the two groups. We found that natural killer-cell activity and mitogen-induced proliferative T-cell responses from the seals feeding on herring from the Baltic Sea were significantly lower. In addition, we observed higher levels of circulating polymorphonuclear granulocytes in these animals, which may indicate an increase in the occurrence of bacterial infections. This is the first demonstration of impaired immunological functions in mammals associated with chronic exposure to environmental contaminants accumulated through the marine food chain.
4315588|Extractive reserves constitute an innovative approach to match conservation and development objectives, which were originally envisaged as part of a land struggle by forest dwellers in Brazil. In spite of the idea's popularity and the attempts to apply the concept to different tropical regions, there has been little analysis of the combined conservation and development performance of extractive reserve programs. We present a detailed analysis of deforestation and demographic and socioeconomic changes in Alto Juru, the first extractive reserve created in Brazil in 1990. Forest cover has remained fairly stable. Population has declined slightly, with some internal displacements. The cash economy base has shifted from the original rubber production to a diversified portfolio of agriculture and livestock, and there has been a dramatic rise in nonagrarian income. We conclude that the Reserve represents a very dynamic setting with positive conservation and development outcomes during its first decade.
4312216|A brief description of the general approach used to study the long-range transport of air pollutants in Europe is given. The large-scale picture of emission, dispersion and deposition of sulfur compounds is discussed with particular reference to precipitation scavenging. The importance of air pollution monitoring for assessing the environmental impact of large-scale changes and developments in a region is pointed out.
4315289|This paper presents the main findings of a study on health effects of environmental cadmium pollution in China, performed in 1998, i.e. approximately 25 years after the first warnings of such effects were published in Ambio. Forearm bone mineral density (BMD) and renal dysfunction were assessed in population groups exposed to cadmium via rice. Decreased BMD was found in postmenopausal women with elevated urinary cadmium (CdU) or cadmium in blood (CdB) and among men with elevated CdB. Also, clear and statistically significant dose-effect and dose-response relationships were found between CdB or CdU and renal dysfunction (increased excretion of retinol-binding protein). This is the first report of bone effects among Cd-exposed population groups in Asia outside Japan. The report is also of interest since it demonstrates that bone effects, a comparatively severe adverse health effect of Cd, in combination with renal dysfunction, still occurs in environmentally exposed population groups in Asia. Recent reports on bone effects in Cd-exposed population groups in Europe are discussed.
4313544|The construction of a small dam at the outlet of Lake Buhi in the Bicol province of the Philippines created a number of problems that threatened the livelihood and well being of the local inhabitants. To try and resolve these problems a workshop was held in the area using the technique of Agroecosystem Analysis. Participants comprised representives of the donor and government agencies, officials of the municipality of Buhi and local farmers and fishermen. The technique proved to be an efficient and economic way of achieving a consensus of priorities for further action.
4315755|Climate change is projected to cause significant alterations to aquatic biogeochemical processes, (including carbon dynamics), aquatic food web structure, dynamics and biodiversity, primary and secondary production; and, affect the range, distribution and habitat quality/quantity of aquatic mammals and waterfowl. Projected enhanced permafrost thawing is very likely to increase nutrient, sediment, and carbon loadings to aquatic systems, resulting in both positive and negative effects on freshwater chemistry. Nutrient and carbon enrichment will enhance nutrient cycling and productivity, and alter the generation and consumption of carbon-based trace gases. Consequently, the status of aquatic ecosystems as carbon sinks or sources is very likely to change. Climate change will also very likely affect the biodiversity of freshwater ecosystems across most of the Arctic. The magnitude, extent, and duration of the impacts and responses will be system- and location-dependent. Projected effects on aquatic mammals and waterfowl include altered migration routes and timing; a possible increase in the incidence of mortality and decreased growth and productivity from disease and/or parasites; and, probable changes in habitat suitability and timing of availability.
4315718| In a warming climate, permafrost is likely to be significantly reduced and eventually disappear from the sub-Arctic region. This will affect people at a range of scales, from locally by slumping of buildings and roads, to globally as melting of permafrost will most likely increase the emissions of the powerful greenhouse gas methane, which will further enhance global warming. In order to predict future changes in permafrost, it is crucial to understand what determines the presence or absence of permafrost under current climate conditions, to assess where permafrost is particularly vulnerable to climate change, and to identify where changes are already occurring. The Tornetrsk region of northern sub-Arctic Sweden is one area where changes in permafrost have been recorded and where permafrost could be particularly vulnerable to any future climate changes. This paper therefore reviews the various physical, biological, and anthropogenic parameters that determine the presence or absence of permafrost in the Tornetrsk region under current climate conditions, so that we can gain an understanding of its current vulnerability and potential future responses to climate change. A patchy permafrost distribution as found in the Tornetrsk region is not random, but a consequence of site-specific factors that control the microclimate and hence the surface and subsurface temperature. It is also a product of past as well as current processes. In sub-Arctic areas such as northern Sweden, it is mainly the physical parameters, e.g., topography, soil type, and climate (in particular snow depth), that determine permafrost distribution. Even though humans have been present in the study area for centuries, their impacts on permafrost distribution can more or less be neglected at the catchment level. Because ongoing climate warming is projected to continue and lead to an increased snow cover, the permafrost in the region will most likely disappear within decades, at least at lower elevations. 
4315273|This paper examines the problem of the development of models capable of predicting the capacity of the global food production system. In particular, it identifies the various factors influencing the food production, and estimates their relative influence and predictability. The paper discusses also the problems connected with coupling of models representing the "driving" forces, the Earth system consisting of the atmosphere, the ocean and land surface, and food production. The overall conclusions drawn are: i) The time is not yet ripe for designing a comprehensive coupled model for predicting the global food production that takes into account all the factors having a significant influence; ii) the main difficulties are the modelling of the driving forces, e.g. socioeconomic and political factors, and iii) despite these problems, it is judged that results obtained with existing models are capable of providing concrete information for implementation of adaptation and mitigation measures.
25094553|Comparing the economic value of edible mushrooms and timber requires many assumptions. We use chanterelle (Chantharellus sp.) mushrooms collected from productive Douglas-fir (Pseudo-tsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) forests on the Olympic Peninsula as an example. Discounted present net worth in perpetuity is estimated for both mushrooms and timber using two timber harvest regimes and three levels of chanterelle productivity. Given these assumptions, timber is 1-2 orders of magnitude more valuable than mushrooms, yet while timber grows, harvesting mushrooms can provide annual income to harvesters once fruiting is established.
4315005|Neda Farahbakhshazad, Gregory M. Morrison and Eneas Salati Filho This paper reviews the knowledge on crowberry (Empetrum nigrum ssp. nigrum and ssp. hermaphroditum) dominated ecosystems in the Nordic region. Empetrum leaves and litter have high phenolic content resulting in slow decomposition, and with the formation of an organic top soil, nutrients are kept in an organic nutrient bank in the soil mainly available for plants with ericoid mycorrhiza. Empetrum nigrum ssp. hermaphroditum is a strong nutrient competitor and outcompetes most plants in late successional stages. This is due to chemical interference (allelopathy) and resource competition. Crowberry as an organism is resistant to atmospheric pollution and may even increase in vigor by high atmospheric N deposition in nemoral coastal heaths, but is very sensitive to mechanical disturbances and fire. However, there are indications that the closed nutrient cycle established when Empetrum is dominant may be disturbed after airborne inputs of inorganic N.
4313205|Technical development and commercial evaluation have made feasible the mining of metalliferous muds from the Atlantis II Deep in the central Red Sea. However, this may create ocean-wide environmental risks. Industrial exploration has been accompanied by oceanographic research and by the development and application of numerical models for risk assessment of the daily discharge of about 100,000 tons of mined muds back into the sea. Results of environmental research indicate unsolved problems and suggest that only large-scale mining and discharge experiments will provide the opportunity for an appropriate final risk evaluation.
4312998|Ozone is a natural constituent in the troposphere, with downward transport of ozone-rich stratospheric air and in situ photochemical oxidation of methane and carbon monoxide as the main sources, and photochemical destruction and ground removal as the main sinks. Emission from the burning of fossil fuels may cause enhanced ozone concentrations under the action of sunlight. Increased ozone concentrations can be found downwind of industrial and urban pollution sources (at distances of the order of 10-100 km), in air masses transported over long distances (of the order of 1000 km), and in layers in the free troposphere. There is more ozone in the northern hemisphere troposphere than in the southern, with anthropogenic activities as an important contributor. Exposure to enhanced ozone concentrations may pose a risk to public health, and significant yield reductions have been observed in many crops. Increased ozone concentrations indicate significant photochemical activity with efficient production of sulfate, nitrate and other pollutants of environmental concern. Tropospheric ozone is important for the infrared radiation budget of the atmosphere. It has been calculated that the northern hemisphere could be warmer than the southern by 0.2C due to the larger abundance of ozone. A doubling of tropospheric ozone could raise the surface temperatures by nearly 1C, compared to the estimated 2-3C increase following a doubling of CO2.
4314900|Mercury contamination caused by the amalgamation of gold in small-scale gold mining is an environmental problem of increasing concern, particularly in tropical regions like the Amazon, where a new boom of such gold mining started in the 1970s. In Brazil, research into these problems has been carried out for many years, but there is no available data for Bolivia. The present paper surveys mercury contamination of a Bolivian river system in the Amazon drainage basin, measured in water, fish, and human hair. High concentrations in fish and human hair from consumers of carnivorous fish species are reported. The potential health risk from fish consumption was evident in people living downstream of gold-mining activities, but not in the mining population itself.
4314262|Using data from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) on the NOAA series of satellites, an increase in the area covered by cyanobacteria blooms in the Baltic Sea was detected. The time series of satellite data covers a period of 12 years from 1982 to 1993. The total area covered by surface-floating cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) has increased in the 1990s, reaching over 62 000 km in 1992. From 1992, visible accumulations appeared for the first time in the Gulf of Riga and reappeared, in the western Gulf of Finland, after being absent from 1984. Conspicuous surface blooms were also present in the early 1980s, coincident with a period of sunny and calm summers. However, when the influence of variable sunshine duration is taken into account, the increase in 1991-1993 is still distinct, indicating significant changes in the Baltic environment. The causal factors for the increased cyanobacteria blooms are still not clear.
40390426|We studied long-range transport patterns and related weather types in relation to high-ozone events in southern Sweden. The aim was to deepen the understanding of the relationship between Lamb-Jenkinson weather types and surface ozone concentration variation, thus widening the application of the weather type analysis of air quality at 4 sites in this region. The long-range transport patterns associated with high-ozone events were classified into trajectories from Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and in the vicinity of southern Sweden (VIC). The VIC type, characterized by short and whirling curves, represented more than 40% of the high-ozone events at the studied rural sites. More than half of the high-ozone events occurred under high-pressure conditions, belonging to weather type A (anticyclones). The high correlation coefficient between annual counts of weather type A and those of long-range transport pattern VIC confirmed the strong link between stagnant weather conditions and high-ozone events, especially during the summer. Furthermore, a strong linear anticorrelation was detected between high-ozone events and annual counts of weather type C (cyclones) during the summer. This relationship implies that the frequency of weather type C is a useful indicator for low risk of summertime highozone events in southern Sweden. Moreover, the relationship between the weather type and high ozone risk may be useful in examining the potential effect of climate change on the regional air quality.
25515797|This paper describes the process of urbanization and land use change in the urban ecosystems of the National Capital Region (NCR) of Delhi, India. Two types of land use change are considered-from natural to urban and from agricultural to urban. Both types are explained in terms of economic variables known to be drivers of change. A panel data method was used, and economic variables were combined with GIS-based information on land use change during 1986-2004 for 11 administrative units of the NCR. The results suggest that investment in the construction sector plays a major role in converting the land from natural to urban areas, while differences in land productivity seems to be the major driver for change from agricultural to urban uses.
4315405|One hundred and sixty four plastic particles (mean length 4.1 mm) recovered from the scats of fur seals (Arctocephalus spp.) on Macquarie Island were examined. Electron micrographs of 41 of the plastic particles showed that none could be identified as plastic pellet feedstock from their shapes. Commonly, such pellets are cylindrical and spherical. Instead, all the 164 plastic particles from the seal scats were angular particles of 7 colors (feedstock particles are normally opaque or white) and could be classified into 2 categories: i) fragmented along crystal lines and likely to be the result of UV breakdown; and ii) worn by abrasion (where striations were clearly visible) into irregular shapes with rounded corners. White, brown, green, yellow and blue were the most common colors. In composition, they came from 5 polymer groups; polyethylene 93%, polypropylene 4%, poly(1-Cl-1-butenylene) polychloroprene 2%, melamine-urea (phenol) (formaldehyde) resin 0.5%, and cellulose (rope fiber) 0.5%. The larger groups are buoyant with a specific gravity less than that of seawater. These small plastic particles are formed from the breakdown of larger particles (fragments). Their origin seems to be from the breakdown of user plastics washed ashore and ground down on cobbled beaches. Certainly most particles (70%) had attained their final form by active abrasion. It is hypothesized that the plastic particles were washed out to sea and then selected by size and consumed by individuals of a pelagic fish species, Electrona subaspera, who in turn were consumed by the fur seals. Thus, the particles were accumulated both by the fish and the seals in the usual process of their feeding.
40928385|Boreal forests in Sweden are exploited in a number of ways, including forestry and reindeer husbandry. In the winter, reindeer feed mainly on lichens, and lichen-rich forests are a key resource in the herding system. Commercial forestry has mainly negative effects on reindeer husbandry, and conflicts between these two industries have escalated over the last century. This article reviews the effects of modern forest management practices on the winter resources available for reindeer husbandry. Forestry affects reindeer husbandry at both the stand level and the landscape level and over various time scales. Clear-cutting, site preparation, fertilization, short rotation times, and forest fragmentation have largely resulted in a reduced amount of ground growing and arboreal lichens and restricted access to resource. This article also discusses alternative forestry practices and approaches that could reduce the impacts of forestry on reindeer husbandry, both in the short and long term.
40730884|Protected areas represent the major method for conserving biodiversity. However, visitor use can threaten their conservation value. Based on a review of recent research, I have categorized factors that affect the severity of environmental impacts of visitor use. These factors need to be considered or evaluated when assessing visitor use of sites in protected areas. They are: (i) the conservation value of the site, (ii) its resistance to use, (iii) its recovery from use, (iv) its susceptibility to erosion, (v) the severity of direct impacts associated with specific activities, (vi) the severity of indirect impacts, (vii) the amount of use, (viii) the social and (ix) ecological dimensions to the timing of use, and (x) the total area affected. Although the factors may not be of equal importance or necessarily assessed on an equal scale, they allow people to make more informed assessments of potential impacts, assist in identifying where monitoring may be required, and indicate where additional site-or activity-specific research may be appropriate.
25094569|The tundra-taiga boundary stretches for more than 13 400 km around the Northern Hemisphere and is probably the Earth's greatest vegetation transition. The trees that define the boundary have been sensitive to climate changes in the past and models of future vegetation distribution suggest a rapid and dramatic invasion of the tundra by the taiga. Such changes would generate both positive and negative feedbacks to the climate system and the balance could result in a net warming effect. However, the boundary is becoming increasingly affected by human activities that remove trees and degrade forest-tundra into tundra-like areas. Because of the vastness and remoteness of the tundra-taiga boundary, and of methodological problems such as problematic definitions and lack of standardized methods to record the location and characteristics of the ecotone, a project group has been established under the auspices of the International Arctic Science Committee (IASC). This paper summarizes the initial output of the group and focuses on our uncertainties in understanding the current processes at the tundra-taiga boundary and the conflicts between model predictions of changes in the location of the boundary and contrasting recently observed changes due to human activities. Finally, we present recommendations for a coordinated international approach to the problem and invite the international community to join us in reducing the uncertainties about the dynamics of the ecotone and their consequences.
4314121|A crucial means of curbing the outflow of carbonaceous materials, nutrients and pollutants to coastal waters is to minimize the rural exodus into coastal cities. This is an issue of increasing ecological security in the dry-climate tropics and subtropics, now hosting most of the poor countries. A diagnostic diagram is presented to clarify fundamental differences in terms of environmental preconditions for human activity, in particular the drought-proofing of crop yields. Attention is drawn to the possibility of transforming presently huge nonproductive evaporation losses into productive evapotranspiration. It is stated that the potential biomass production in drylands is preconditioned by the water availability, which in turn determines the potential of these regions to function as macro-scale carbon sources and sinks. Introduction of new agricultural techniques, in order to respond to increased biomass needs of growing populations, influence the actual capacity of carbon storage in agricultural lands. The article discusses the linkages between biomass productivity, capacity of carbon storage and choice of agricultural techniques. Rainwater partitioning over a catchment is discussed as partitioning between two complementary types of water-dependent production. On the one hand, biomass production in agriculture and forestry returns huge amounts of water to the atmosphere, while on the other hand economic production has to be based on the remaining water surplus recharging local aquifers and rivers.
41417349|The aim was to describe spatiotemporal patterns of colonization of spruce branches by algae and lichens and the relationship with decreasing deposition of N and S. Coverage was estimated annually over 10 years for four Swedish Integrated Monitoring catchments with varying deposition levels. Initial hypotheses were that algal coverage would be positively correlated with deposition and that lichen coverage would be negatively correlated with S and positively with N deposition. Data were analyzed using regression, ANOVA, and partial least square regression. The results showed a temporal decrease in the coverage of algae but an increase in colonization rates, while lichens showed less uniform patterns. Within catchments, algae and lichen coverages were positively correlated with mainly S deposition. Across catchments, coverage of algae increased, while the coverage of lichens decreased with increasing N and S deposition. Colonization rates of both algae and lichens showed weak correlations with both spatial and temporal trends in N and S deposition. Thus, while N and S deposition had an effect on the colonization and coverage of algae and lichens, other factors are also important.
4314425|The planet and the regions inhabited by mankind are an integrated system consisting of many interacting factors including the natural environment, society, economy, culture, etc. It is a priority for both the developed and the developing countries to achieve sustainable development of these factors. The City of Changzhou has placed great importance on coordinating economic and social development in the course of its rapid economic growth. The city has become a model district of development in China. In order for Changzhou to attain the level of the developed countries by the year 2010, it is imperative to promote overall social development by putting into perspective both the short-term and long-term goals. Coordinated economic, social and environmental development must be the aim, while maintaining economic growth. This article summaries the past 15-year development of Changzhou City urban and rural coordinated development, environmental protection, housing construction, and development of the social resources.
4313013|With a burgeoning population in the Third World anticipated for the next century, immense pressures will be placed on the world's dwindling resource base. If present trends continue, by the year 2000, 65 of the world's least developed countries could have in excess of 441 million people they would be unable to feed with domestic food supplies. Furthermore, deserts, now consuming 792 million hectares might conceivably double in size. Management of increasingly scarce resources must start now.
4312403|Some of the problems and uncertainties in evaluating the probability of a significant fission reactor accident, and the damage that could follow such an accident, are discussed, using as a basis recent American and Scandinavian studies. Also the interpretation of risk evaluations is assessed, and it is concluded that the upper risk limit implied by present knowledge is disturbingly high. As a result, societies having or building nuclear reactors must include the possibility of catastrophic accidents very directly in their planning, and they must obtain social acceptance of the associated risk interval.
4314494|Environmental and/or occupational exposure to cadmium give rise to a tubular kidney dysfunction which may proceed to more generalized renal damage and bone disease if exposure has been high and prolonged. Recent scientific work shows that early renal effects develop at lower levels of exposure than previously anticipated. Previous risk assessments for cadmium were mainly based on studies on healthy male workers. The general population, however, also include particularly susceptible groups such as elderly and individuals with illnesses (e.g. diabetes) that may predispose to cadmium-induced health effects. A significant proportion of the general population displays early signs of toxicity already at urinary cadmium concentrations around 3 nmol
4312783|The death of millions of humans and animals would simultaneously lower both the need for food and the production of animal products. The threats to crop yields are many, and production would fall sharply in the major target countries. Trade in food and food-producing inputs would come to an abrupt halt. Stocks of fuel, fertilizer and agricultural chemicals would soon be exhausted. The food system would move from modern to traditional.
4312061|The population factor cannot be regarded in isolation from distribution of resources or, for that matter, of existing technology. Lower fertility rates in the developing countries can never make up for an unequitable distribution of the world's resources, nor can they be a substitute for social reforms in the developing countries themselves. The Bucharest Conference, however important, should be regarded as only a first move in a continuous intergovernmental process. In part, the United Nations' ability to come to grips with the population issue will depend on what institutional provisions can be found for such a political process.
4313242|A brief outline of earlier research on the large, commercially important species of cetaceans is followed by an account of the information required for the management of cetaceans. The distribution of species and stocks, their vital parameters and estimation of stock sizes and the determination of catch limits is discussed. A brief account of marine pollution in relation to cetaceans is provided.
25066564|A short review of the basic principles of remote sensing and the status of the methods used to sense the surface and resources of the Earth from altitude platforms. Included are descriptions of the electromagnetic radiation spectrum, atmospheric influence on the radiation, radiation properties, instrumentation, platforms, multispectral techniques and a summary of the future possibilities of remote sensing technology.
4315126|High-elevation sites in the tropics may be particularly sensitive to rapid climate change. By sampling treeline populations, I have developed the first extensive (> 300 years) tree-ring chronology in tropical North America. The site is Nevado de Colima, at the western end of the Mexican Neovolcanic Belt, and the species studied is Mexican mountain pine (Pinus hartwegii). Despite past logging in the area, 300 to 500-year old pines were found at 3600-3700 m elevation, about 300 m below the present treeline. The Nevado de Colima tree-ring chronology is well replicated from 1600 to 1997. Calibration with Colima climatic records points to summer monsoon precipitation as the strongest dendroclimatic signal. Most trees also exhibit extremely low growth in 1913 and 1914, following the January 1913 Plinian eruption of the Volcan de Colima. Because P. hartwegii is found on top of high mountains from Mexico to Guatemala, there is potential for developing a network of tropical treeline chronologies.
4312162|The effects of Venezuelan crude oil on the reproduction of a Baltic stock of the amphipod Gammarus oceanicus have been studied. Sub-lethal levels of the oil were found to decrease the brood numbers if the female was exposed to oil during the incubation period. No effect on the length of the incubation time was observed. The frequency with which the male and the female enter the precopulation stage, which is necessary for successful fertilization, was found to decrease in the presence of low concentrations of oil in the water.
4314148|An interdisciplinary perspective on the 19th and 20th century landscape tranformation from heathland to woodland in Halland, southern Sweden, is presented. The physical conditions and actions behind this drastic change in land use, emphasize the need for studies which combine causal connections with human intentions. The reafforesters in Halland can be seen as representatives of the early nature conservationist movement that was guided by a perception focused on production which aimed to conserve for man. They reconstucted what was once extensive forest. However, new forests in Halland are coniferous and not deciduous as they once were. What is considered natural and what unnatural is a matter of human values, but the precise values associated with nature's landscape are not apparent. Following the historical flow of ideas it is possible to reveal when and why the idea of reafforestation was born and how it gained force as a movement across the County of Halland. Today, we experience distrust and disputes between foresters and conservationists, and nature conservationists are often guided by a philosophical perception of nature, wishing to conserve from man.
4314638|This paper discusses the issues of internationalization in the Baltic Region. Incorporation of the Baltic region in the international trading system involves two issues: market opportunities-future development of agricultural prices-and trading rules for agricultural products (WTO). Still more important will be the integration of the countries of the Baltic region in the European Union, this issue is also addressed. Economic issues are discussed from the international perspective and the environmental perspective is addressed asking the question about implications of free trade for the environment and food security.
4315286|Acid rain has caused extensive surface water acidification in Sweden since the mid-20th century. Sulfur emissions from fossil-fuel burning and metal production were the main sources of acid deposition. In the public consciousness, acid deposition is strongly associated with the industrial period, in particular the last 50 years. However, studies of lake-water pH development and atmospheric pollution, based on analyses of lake sediment deposits, have shown the importance of a long-term perspective. Here, we present a conceptual argument, using the sediment record, that large-scale atmospheric acid deposition has impacted the environment since at least Medieval times. Sulfur sources were the pre-industrial mining and metal industries that produced silver, lead and other metals from sulfide ores. This early excess sulfur deposition in southern Sweden did not cause surface water acidification; on the contrary, it contributed to alkalization, i.e. increased pH and productivity of the lakes. Suggested mechanisms are that the excess sulfur caused enhanced cation exchange in catchment soils, and that it altered iron-phosphorus cycling in the lakes, which released phosphorus and increased lake productivity.
4314866|On the political stage the climate change debate used to center primarily around intergenerational issues, particularly whether aggressive abatement action was even warranted-on the basis of uncertain scientific projections. In recent years, influenced by both improved scientific knowledge and greater emphasis on the precautionary principle, within policy circles, climate change has become more widely accepted as a significant threat to ecological sustainability. Accordingly, the focus of debate has gradually shifted to intragenerational concerns, with the issue of equitable burden sharing in terms of greenhouse gas emission abatement emerging as a point of primary contention. This paper integrates scientific and political analyses to explore a number of questions which have been raised during the debate. In particular, we draw on carbon cycle modelling to investigate effective and equitable strategies of emission reduction consistent with stabilization of atmospheric CO
4315730|Introduction of alien species is a major threat to biological diversity. Although public attention typically focuses on the species level, guidelines from the Convention of Biological Diversity Process define alien species to include entities below species level. This inclusion recognizes that release of nonlocal populations of native species may also result in negative effects on biodiversity. In practice, little is known about the extent, degree of establishment, or the effects on natural gene pools of such releases. Existing information on the releases in Sweden shows that alien populations are spread to a great extent. The most commonly released species include brown trout, Atlantic salmon, Arctic char, common whitefish, Scots pine, Norway spruce, mallard duck, gray partridge, and pheasant. Although millions of forest trees, fish, and birds are released annually, poor documentation makes the geographic and genetic origin of these populations, as well as the sites where they have been released, largely unclear. We provide recommendations for urgently needed first steps relating to the risks and problems associated with release of alien populations.
40730877|Tilapia, a tropical freshwater fish native to Africa, is an increasingly important global food commodity.The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), a major environmental nongovernmental organization, has established stakeholder dialogues to formulate farm certification standards that promote "responsible" culture practices. As a preface to its "tilapia aquaculture dialogue," the WWF for Nature commissioned a review of potential certification issues, later published as a peer-reviewed article. This article contends that both the review and the draft certification standards subsequently developed fail to adequately integrate critical factors governing the relative sustainability of tilapia production and thereby miss more significant issues related to resource-use efficiency and the appropriation of ecosystem space and services. This raises a distinct possibility that subsequent certification will promote intensive systems of tilapia production that are far less ecologically benign than existing widely practiced semiintensive alternatives. Given the likely future significanceof this emergent standard, it is contended that a more holistic approach to certification is essential.
4312472|The forests of Asia, which include the greatest tropical rain forests in the world after those of South America, are not only one of the greatest repositories of world genetic resources and one of the greatest economic resources of the developing countries of Asia, but have a significance uniquely their own. In no part of the world are so many people so dependent upon forests for their existence as are the peoples of Asia. Increasing population on the one hand and economic development on the other has made increasing demands on forests and forest lands. To ensure economic development and socio-economic wellbeing for millions, the existing forests of Asia must be saved. They must be given an opportunity for qualitative recuperation, and extended by re-forestation of cleared areas and afforestation of available lands close to human habitations.
40928404|In this study an attempt is made to estimate nitrogen and phosphorus discharged to the environment from the striped catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus) farming sector in the Mekong Delta (833'-1055'N, 10430'-10650'E), South Vietnam. The sector accounted for 687,000 t production in 2007 and 1,094,879 t in 2008, with over 95% of the produce destined for export to over 100 countries. Commercial and farm-made feeds are used in catfish farming, currently the former being more predominant. Nitrogen discharge levels were similar for commercial feeds (median 46.0 kg/t fish) and farm-made feeds (median 46.8 kg/t fish); whilst, phosphorus discharge levels for commercial feeds (median 14.4 kg/t fish) were considerably lower than for farmmade feeds (median 18.4 kg/t fish). Based on the median nutrient discharge levels for commercial feeds, striped catfish production in the Mekong Delta discharged 31,602 t N and 9,893 t P, and 50,364 t N and 15,766 t P in 2007 and 2008, respectively. However, the amount of nutrients returned directly to the Mekong River may be substantially less than this as a significant proportion of the water used for catfish farming as well as the sludge is diverted to other agricultural farming systems. Striped catfish farming in the Mekong Delta compared favourably with other cultured species, irrespective of the type of feed used, when the total amounts of N and P discharged in the production of a tonne of production was estimated.
4313254|Water erosion and sedimentation often cause severe environmental and social problems in many tropical and sub-tropical areas. The authors draw attention to the intimate relationships among sedimentation processes in different parts of river basins, the interfluvial area delivering the material, the river channels transporting the sediment load and the depositional environment where particles come to final rest. Cases are presented of hill slopes, small catchments and big river systems. The need for general strategies of river basin development is stressed and proposals are presented for future research.
4312952|The countries of East Africa and the Western Indian Ocean have generally not been intensively developed in agriculture or other sectors. Valuable marine resources in the region are nevertheless threatened by the aggregate effects of decentralized and subsistence agricultural and pastoral activities and brush and forest clearing. The effects of massive upland soil loss are felt in coastal river plains and at the mouths of major rivers. In certain areas, unplanned coastal development has also created specific environmental problems. Economic values of coastal resources have not been fully realized through special development programs. Improved land-use planning and terrestrial resource management are needed throughout the region to help protect its marine resources and to optimize coastal development.
4315393|The scientific and policy worlds have different goals, which can lead to different standards for what constitutes "proof" of a change or phenomena, and different approaches for characterizing and conveying uncertainty and risk. These differences can compromise effective communication among scientists, policymakers, and the public, and constrain the types of socially compelling questions scientists are willing to address. In this paper, we review a set of approaches for dealing with uncertainty, and illustrate some of the errors that arise when science and policy fail to coordinate correctly. We offer a set of recommendations, including restructuring of science curricula and establishment of science-policy forums populated by leaders in both arenas, and specifically constituted to address problems of uncertainty.
4314671|All freshwater eventually passes through or over sedimentary habitats on the way to oceanic or atmospheric domains. These zones of freshwater sediments contain an enormous variety of species that produce and process organic carbon. Some species perform specific functions such as fixing or recycling nitrogen. Others break down contaminants or mix sediments so as to alter the rates of ecosystem processes Approximately 175 000 species have already been described and yet still, new species continue to be discovered. Their diversity and distributions range greatly along gradients of depth, dissolved oxygen, latitude, and altitude in wetlands, lakes, rivers, and groundwaters. Deep, isolated habitats contain unique, endemic species especially among those organisms with limited dispersal ability. Competent scientists must be trained in many parts of the globe to accelerate studies of this species-rich biota and essential ecosystem relationships.
4312394|Current principles for limitation of releases of radioactive contaminants into the environment involve concepts and methods which are not common in the control of non-radioactive pollutants. The article gives a review of these concepts and methods with special attention to the commitment concept and source-related rather than individual-related assessments. The concept of dose commitment per unit practice is of value in the three basic assessments of source justification, optimization of protection and limitation of present and future doses to individuals. In principle, the same methods and concepts should be useful also in the assessment of non-radioactive pollutants in cases where the main risk is that of cancer or hereditary effects.
4315238| Concentrations of p,p-DDE, polychlorinated biphenyl congeners (PCBs), polychlorinated-dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), -dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and - naphthalenes (PCNs) were measured in bluefin tuna, swordfish, common cormorants, and barn swallows collected from Italy. Average concentrations of PCBs in livers of tuna, swordfish, cormorant, and swallows were 930, 745, 1420 and 1230 ng PCBs g
4315460|Aspects of transboundary, water shortage, and fisheries issues are discussed in the context of the recently completed Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA) for the Pacific Islands. The region encompasses some 30 million km
4312026|Energy technologies, both current and future, are reviewed with special emphasis on environmental and social effects. The conclusions are that we find ourselves unprepared to meet energy needs in environmentally or socially acceptable ways using the remaining fossil fuels, unable to demonstrate that nuclear fission can ever be an acceptable energy source, and having little understanding of solar, geothermal, wind, fusion and other alternative energy sources. Although the need for new technology is pressing, the support for development of such technologies-for energy supply and also to enable more efficient use of energy-and the degree of public awareness of the options before us, are entirely inadequate. The problem facing us is thus largely political, rather than scientific or technological.
4315008|The coexistence of hurricanes, coral reefs, and rainforests in the Caribbean demonstrates that highly structured ecosystems with great diversity can flourish in spite of recurring exposure to intense destructive energy. Coral reefs develop in response to wave energy and resist hurricanes largely by virtue of their structural strength. Limited fetch also protects some reefs from fully developed hurricane waves. While storms may produce dramatic local reef damage, they appear to have little impact on the ability of coral reefs to provide food or habitat for fish and other animals. Rainforests experience an enormous increase in wind energy during hurricanes with dramatic structural changes in the vegetation. The resulting changes in forest microclimate are larger than those on reefs and the loss of fruit, leaves, cover, and microclimate has a great impact on animal populations. Recovery of many aspects of rainforest structure and function is rapid, though there may be long-term changes in species composition. While resistance and repair have maintained reefs and rainforests in the past, human impacts may threaten theirability to survive.
4314810|The decline of the world's coral reefs threatens to deprive people in the coastal areas of many tropical countries of their livelihood. Experiments on rehabilitation of coral reefs through transplantation of corals have often been based on methods that are too expensive for a wider application in developing countries. The present study was aimed at developing simple methods for transplantation of corals to rehabilitate degraded coral reefs. The staghorn coral Acropora formosa was transplanted using different methods in shallow areas of sand and rubble near Mafia Island, Tanzania. After 23 months, the cover of the transplanted corals had increased by 51%. The colonization of other species of hard and soft corals was also promoted by the transplantation of corals. The method of tying corals together with strings before placement on the seabed was effective and could be applied for rehabilitation of degraded coral reefs that are moderately exposed to water movements.
4315572|Bivalves are ancient animals that feed by filtering large volumes of water. In this way, phytoplankton, bacteria and viruses from the water column are greatly concentrated in the mussels. The hazards associated with the consumption of mussels are thus dependent on the occurrence and composition of toxic algae and human microbial pathogens in the areas where shellfish are grown. Diarrheic shellfish toxins have occurred regularly in Sweden during the past 27 years. Peaks of toxins in mussels are mostly recorded from October to December, but the pattern can differ significantly due to location and year, making it hard to predict toxin levels in mussels. With an expansion of aquaculture and a subsequent increase in seafood consumption, better risk management is needed to minimize the effects on humans of algal toxins and human pathogens. New control strategies that have to be implemented are: i) proper site selection of culture installations; ii) regular and cost-efficient monitoring of algae, bacteria and viruses; iii) new indicators for fecal contamination, suitable for the specific locations where shellfish grow; iv) rapid dissemination of information to the industry and public, including risk assessment and advice on how to cope with the situation.
4313767|The benefits of intensive farming of the giant tiger prawn Penaeus monodon in the Philippines are discussed in relation to the environmental costs. Ecological effects include mangrove conversion into ponds; use of antibiotics and chemicals leading to drug resistance; dumping of pond effluents which affect neighboring ecosystems; and pumping of groundwater that causes saltwater intrusion and vulnerability to floods. In addition, these effects lead to social costs in the form of reduction in domestic and agricultural water supplies; decreases in the production of foodfish and other food crops; further marginalization of coastal fishermen; displacement of labor; and credit monopoly by big businessmen. Comparative economic analyses of three prawn-farming systems showed that, compared to extensive and intensive culture, semi-intensive farms give the best performance using undiscounted (payback period, return on investment) and discounted (net present value, internal rate of return) economic indicators. With a 20% fluctuation in inputs or selling price intensive farming will no longer be profitable because of the high variable cost. The paper concludes with recommendations for strict enforcement of existing government guidelines (e.g. ban on mangrove conversion); institution of new policies on the use of groundwater, seawater and public credit; diversification of cultured species; and emphasis on semi-intensive farming parallel with brakes on further intensification of prawn farming (1).
4314644|This paper deals with the question of whether the main changes currently taking place in German agriculture are compatible with the requirements of economic, social, environmental and political sustainability. The first issues discussed are structural adjustment processes and income problems in West German agriculture. This leads to the conclusion that the social hardships farm families have to cope with, economic disruptions caused by policy changes, and serious ecological problems resulting from agricultural practice are obviously not in accordance with the criteria of sustainable development. The second issue the paper addresses is transformation of East German agriculture focusing on two main areas of change: restructuring of collectivized farms and privatization of nationalized land. The institutional arrangements and organizational forms of agriculture resulting from these developments are not likely to be always sustainable in the long run, because of the huge economic transaction costs of the transformation process itself and the political rent seeking activities it provokes with the interest groups and political networks involved. Present and coming changes of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) are the third subject of the paper, particularly referring to the present discussion on a "reform of the CAP reform". Also this area faces serious sustainability problems. The subsidies paid per ha or livestock unit cause considerable allocative distortions reducing economic efficiency. They can also only be justified as temporary support measures facilitating adjustment processes induced by price reductions. Furthermore, only a very small proportion of the financial means spent for the reform measures are used for environmental programs. Finally, the ecological situation in German agriculture is outlined by indicating some crucial issues.
4314608|In the acidified areas of southern Norway, sulfate deposition has decreased by about 40% since 1980, while nitrogen deposition has been constant during the same period. The wet deposition of nitrogen today is about twice that of sulfur. Consequently, the relative importance of nitrogen for the acidification of surface waters and soils has increased. In the Bjerkreim river catchment (southwestern Norway), nitrogen is an important acidifying component. In the upper part of the catchment, deposition of S and N must be reduced substantially in order to reach nonexceedance of critical loads in the runoff waters. After the 1994 Sulphur Protocol is implemented, nitrogen will represent the major part of the exceedance, and substantial reductions of N depositions will be necessary. In the most sensitive subcatchment both N and S deposition must be reduced by more than 80% of present deposition in order to achieve nonexceedance in runoff. Since this catchment is representative of large parts of the acidified areas in Norway, further decreases in acidification of surface waters could be more effectively accomplished by reductions of N rather than of S. The concentrations of P in lakes and rivers in the Bjerkreim catchment are extremely low and are frequently below analytical detection limits
4313935|An international convention is essential for the conservation of global biological diversity. The incentives facing any one country, with regard to the diverse biological resources that it hosts, often point to the conversion of these to more specialized resources, such as agricultural crops and domesticated animals. From a global perspective, however, these conversions are not desirable on account of the consequent losses of two important global services that biodiversity provides: insurance and information. This divergence between the interests of local development and those of global security exists on account of the "public good" nature of the services, which allow consumers to free ride on the producers of these services. The end result is the continued depletion of global biodiversity. This is yet another example of the "tragedy of the commons", at the global level. An international convention can remedy this dilemma through the facilitation of joint action by the global community. The nature of the necessary cooperation is the compensation of those countries which provide the services of biodiversity. Therefore, a biodiversity convention should be directed to the creation of international mechanisms that compensate a country for the benefits generated by its biological resources. An international convention of this nature is the only means available for the conservation of a truly global resource, such as biodiversity and the services it generates.
4312819|The dramatic increase in tourist trekking in the Himalayan regions of Nepal has created serious impacts on the natural and cultural environment of the Sagarmatha National Park area. Direct field involvement and an alternative approach to park planning and management were key elements of what was a very broadbased but small scale effort by the New Zealand Government in cooperating with the Government of Nepal in setting up a national park in the Sagarmatha region of the Himalayas.
4314578|An important subset of the vast number of issues associated with the conservation of tropical forests are the costs and benefits incurred by local peoples. This paper presents the results of a study of the costs borne by households living near the Mantadia National Park, a protected area in eastern Madagascar. The villages in this region are subsistence economies that are based on swidden agriculture and forest product collection. Village communities have lost access to more than 800 ha of agricultural lands and to a significant amount of forest products as a result of the park. The net present value of costs to the average household because of protection is USD 419. The analysis undertaken also provides useful information about geographic variations in the costs borne.
41417295|Phosphorus recovery from wastewater has become a necessity for sustainable development because phosphorus is a non-renewable essential resource, and its discharge into the environment causes serious negative impacts. There are no economic incentives for the implementation of phosphorus recovery technologies because the selling price of rock phosphate is lower than phosphorus recovered from sewage. The methodologies used to determine the feasibility of such projects are usually focused on internal costs without considering environmental externalities. This article shows a methodology to assess the economic feasibility of wastewater phosphorus recovery projects that takes into account internal and external impacts. The shadow price of phosphorus is estimated using the directional distance function to measure the environmental benefits obtained by preventing the discharge of phosphorus into the environment. The economic feasibility analysis taking into account the environmental benefits shows that the phosphorus recovery is viable not only from sustainable development but also from an economic point of view.
40730904|Protecting the climate is not costly but profitable (even if avoided climate change is worth zero), mainly because saving fuel costs less than buying fuel. The two biggest opportunities, both sufficiently fast, are oil and electricity. The US, for example, can eliminate its oil use by the 2040s at an average cost of $15 per barrel (2000$), half by redoubled efficiency and half by alternative supplies, and can save three-fourths of its electricity more cheaply than operating a thermal power station. Integrative design permits this by making big energy savings cheaper than small ones, turning traditionally assumed diminishing returns into empirically observed expanding returns. Such efficiency choices accelerate climate-safe, inexhaustible, and resilient energy supply notably the "micropower" now delivering about a sixth of the world's electricity and 90% of its new electricity. These cheap, fast, market-financeable, globally applicable options offer the most effective, yet most underestimated and overlooked, solutions for climate, proliferation, and poverty.
4312223|Soil properties are functions of the environmental factors for which airborne transport is of importance. Several studies support the assumption that the observed acidification of the precipitation will result in a decrease in the pH of the soil and in base saturation as well as in an increase in the leaching. Problems remain unsolved in relation to the time required and the intensities of these effects. The adverse effects may be compensated through an increase in weathering. The variation in susceptibility between soils provides another unsolved problem of great ecological and economic significance. The synergistic effects of acid precipitation and other airborne pollutants must be recognized.
4314394|This article outlines the development of commercial open-water algae farming in Zanzibar in a historic context, with special reference to actual events at the corporate level from the initiation of algae farming to its present state. These events, which contain policies and intentions of implementation at the producer level, have an array of social implications for the algae-farming communities. The three aspects of these implications are delineated; (i) a changing mode of tenure rights of the farmed lagoon areas; (ii) a changing role for algae farmers, i.e. women; (iii) a qualitative change within the composition of indigenous productive activities, the latter being illustrated by a declining activity in agriculture. The article demonstrates the importance of the encounter between an indigenous livelihood system and infused incentives pertaining to divergent rationales of livelihood in socioeconomic development processes.
4314575| The extent and rate of deforestation from 1972 to 1989, including some spatial properties in the heavily polluted mountains of Kruvn Hory, on the border between the Czech Republic and Germany were studied. Deforestation was assessed using satellite remote sensing integrated with digital elevation data. The results show that over 50% of the coniferous forest disappeared during this period. Especially affected areas were between 600 and 1000 m a. s. l. and slopes facing south and southeast. The sector downwind of a large point source of SO
4313602| The potential temperature increase associated with the greenhouse effect means that the urgent conservation issue is biological adaptation to extreme environmental stresses. Extinction and replacement of rare tropical rain-forest species of the insect Drosophila is likely if temperature increases by as little as 2C. Laboratory work indicates that a substantial increase in temperature tolerance is difficult to achieve by directional selection. This is not surprising since the basic physiology of organisms will become rapidly restrictive as tolerance limits are increased. This limited scope for adaptation by genetical procedures emphasizes that a relatively small climatic shift will be associated with species extinctions, especially as recent habitat destruction largely precludes the possibility of refuge by geological shifts. Adaptation to substantial changes in desiccation stress has been demonstrated in the laboratory and in the wild in insects and plants. Experimental work in Drosophila melanogaster indicated that the cost is a reduction in available metabolic energy in desiccation tolerant strains. Since resistance to many stresses depends upon metabolic rate, combinations of stresses including high temperatures will be expected to be cumulative. It follows that the potential for adaptation to temperature change will be reduced at a time when the stress from environmental pollutants and/or desiccation is simultaneously increasing, especially if synergistic effects regularly occur. 
25547881|Rapid development in the upper reaches of the Mekong River, in the form of construction of large hydropower dams and reservoirs, large irrigation schemes, and rapid urban development, is putting water resources under stress. Recent studies have concluded that these developments will lead to flow alterations in the Mekong River. These flow alterations would threaten the sensitive ecosystems downstream, particularly Tonle Sap River, Tonle Sap Lake, its floodplain, and its gallery forest and protected areas, by changing the flood-pulse system of the lake. This article estimates the changes in parameters of the Tonle Sap flood pulse due to the aforementioned flow alterations. The impacts on the flooded area and loss of gallery forest and protected areas were analyzed using geographic information system-based methods. Relatively small rises in the dry-season lake water level would permanently inundate disproportionately large areas of floodplain, rendering it inaccessible to floodplain vegetation and eroding the productivity basis of the ecosystem. It is highly important to maintain the natural hydrological pattern of the Mekong River, particularly the dry-season water levels, to preserve Tonle Sap Lake's ecosystem productivity.
24708976|Scenarios of barrier failure and radionuclide release to the near-surface environment are important to consider within performance and safety assessments of repositories for nuclear waste. A geological repository for spent nuclear fuel is planned at Forsmark, Sweden. Conceptual and numerical reactive transport models were developed in order to assess the retention capacity of the Quaternary till and clay deposits for selected radionuclides, in the event of an activity release from the repository. The elements considered were carbon (C), chlorine (Cl), cesium (Cs), iodine (I), molybdenum (Mo), niobium (Nb), nickel (Ni), radium (Ra), selenium (Se), strontium (Sr), technetium (Tc), thorium (Th), and uranium (U). According to the numerical predictions, the repository-derived nuclides that would be most significantly retained are Th, Ni, and Cs, mainly through sorption onto clays, followed by U, C, Sr, and Ra, trapped by sorption and/or incorporation into mineral phases.
4312324|An interdisciplinary research project concerning range management in the arid zones of Tunisia is described. The research technique is based on ecological studies of physical and human environments. The population of the study area was in ancient times fully nomadic, but now lives in almost settled communities. Desertification is increasing due chiefly to erosion following overgrazing and periodic cereal farming. Proposed management schemes emphasize the production of additional foodstuffs in irrigated areas to make up shortfalls. The steppe dweller must feel involved in socioeconomic development and must participate in the action being undertaken. This project is a Tunisian contribution to UNESCO's intergovernmental program on Man and the Biosphere (MAB). It is a specific example of the collaboration of FAO and UNESCO regarding research on and management of rangelands in arid and semi-arid regions.
4312909| The outstanding scientific value of the Galpagos Islands' biotic communities became fully evident for the first time when they inspired Charles Darwin to speculate about organic evolution and the origin of species. After Darwin's visit it took about 130 years until this knowledge was translated into conservation action. In spite of a few real success stories, like the saving of the surviving giant tortoises and land iguanas, most conservation problems remain unsolved. Many of them ultimately are financial and political. 
4314143|To evaluate whether metal concentrations in crustaceans from the Antarctic Ocean may be suitable as indicators of background levels, the elements Cd, Pb, Cu and Zn were analyzed in 17 species. Samples were taken from RV Polarstem in the Weddell Sea (Author give month/year) and during the first German Underwater Expedition to the Antarctic Peninsula (Author give month/year). Metal concentrations found show considerable interspecific heterogeneity without consistent dependence on higher taxa. They are not low compared to other areas with the exceptation of Pb. In contrast, observed Cd levels in caridean decapods (Chorismus antarcticus and Notocrangon antarcticus) were among the highest Cd concentrations observed in marine crustaceans (13 mg kg
4314299|Many semiarid regions are characterized by scarcity of trees due to both natural and human impact; e.g. many countries around the Mediterranean. Thus, afforestation is often a prime objective of many forestry departments in these countries. In Israel, the term "savanization" has been introduced to describe projects which aim to establish small-scale patches of trees in the desert. Rather than using water transported hundreds of kilometers from Lake Kinnereth, Israel's foremost water supply, to irrigate the trees, researchers have been investigating the possibility of using runoff water generated on the spot. The geohydrological conditions on hillslopes in the semiarid northern Negev Highlands, provide the basis of a runoff harvesting system for trees. "Minicatchments", situated on the lower slopes, collect surface runoff and store sufficient water to support tree growth.
4312562|Shipping in the Baltic is seen in historical perspective. There have been rapid changes in size, speed and specialization of ships. More sophisticated vessels carry larger tonnages, and there is more door-to-door transport of general cargo and private cars. This has meant a decline in traditional liner shipping and an increase in ferry traffic. With the modern tonnage, littoral states should not find it difficult to enforce the Baltic Convention.
40730863|A database of global agricultural primary production has been constructed and used to estimate its energy content. The portion of crops available for food and biofuel after postharvest losses was evaluated. The basic conditions for agriculture and plant growth were studied, to ensure sustainable scenarios regarding use of residues. The available energy contents for the world and EU27 was found to be 7,200-9,300 and 430 TWh, respectively, to be compared with food requirements of 7,100 and 530 TWh.Clearly, very little, or nothing, remains for biofuel from agricultural primary crops. However, by using residues and bioorganic waste, it was found that biofuel production could theoretically replace one-fourth of the global consumption of fossil fuels for transport. The expansion potential for global agriculture is limited by availability of land, water, and energy. A future decrease in supply of fossil energy and ongoing land degradation will thus cause difficulties for increased biofuel production from agriculture.
4313880|This paper presents trends of population, fertility, mortality and age-structure over a range starting in the middle of the 20th century and extending through the 21st century. The paper gives due emphasis to the demographic situation in the currently developing countries. The data are derived from the estimates and projections prepared by the United Nations Population Division. The 21st century is not ony knocking on the door, but also many of today's children, even those in the Third World, will live through its middle and beyond. It is therefore imperative to assess the prospects during that period. The projections constitute a basic outline of the demographic perspective and, even more important, provide material that is essential for studying the interactions between population, resources and environment.
4315100|In many countries where the economy has shifted from mainly agricultural to industrial, abandoned agricultural lands are lost to urbanization. For more than 4 centuries the Puerto Rican economy depended almost entirely on agriculture, but sociopolitical changes early in the 20th century resulted in a shift to industry. This shift in the economy, and an increase in population, has resulted in an increase in urban areas. This study describes the rate and distribution of urban growth on the island of Puerto Rico from 1977 to 1994 and the resulting influence on potential agricultural lands. Urban extent and growth were determined by interpreting aerial photographs and satellite imagery. The 1994 urban coverage was combined with a soil coverage based on agricultural potential to determine the distribution of urban areas relative to potential farmlands. Analyses showed that in 1977, 11.3% of Puerto Rico was classified as urban. After 17 years, urban areas had increased by 27.4% and urban growth on soils suitable for agriculture had increased by 41.6%. This represents a loss of 6% of potential agricultural lands. If this pattern of encroachment by urban growth into potential farmlands continues, Puerto Rico's potential for food production in the future could be greatly limited.
4314268|Coral reefs provide a major impetus for tourist development throughout the tropics. Their increased popularity has led to extremely rapid growth of many resorts. Using the Red Sea as a case history we examine the impacts that expanding coastal tourism has had on coral reefs. Present development is restricted almost entirely to Egypt, Israel and Jordan. The short coastlines of the latter two countries mean that most of their reefs are already, or soon will be, affected by tourism (developed or used recreationally). Approximately 19% of Egypt's reefs are currently affected, but this figure is expected to rise to over 30% by the year 2000. However, the intensity of use of reefs is likely to increase much more during this period. Israel plans a further 43% increase in coastal tourism, Jordan 100% and Egypt a massive 11-fold expansion. Of the planned expansion in Egypt, 55% will occur around the established resorts of Hurghada and Sharm-el-Sheikh. Tourist development has already caused substantial damage to inshore reefs near Hurghada from infilling, sedimentation and over-fishing for marine curios. Elsewhere, new constructions are also beginning to modify reef habitats. Until now, damage to Sharm-el-Sheikh's reefs has been mainly caused by the direct effects of diving and snorkelling. Although, current levels of recreational use appear to be sustainable, the massive expansion planned throughout the region will place the long-term future of reefs in doubt. Unless the pace of tourist development in the northern Red Sea is significantly reduced soon the carrying capacity of coral reefs seems sure to be exceeded with widespread reef degradation the likely result.
41417323|Greening of the Arctic due to climate warming may provide herbivores with richer food supplies, resulting in higher herbivore densities. In turn, this may cause changes in vegetation composition and ecosystem function. In 1982-1984, we studied the ecology of non-breeding moulting geese in Jameson Land, low Arctic East Greenland. By then, geese consumed most of the graminoid production in available moss fens, and it appeared that the geese had filled up the available habitat. In 2008, we revisited the area and found that the number of moulting geese and the temperature sum for June-July had tripled, while the above-ground biomass in a moss fen ungrazed by geese had more than doubled. In a goose-grazed fen, the overall plant composition was unchanged, but the frequency of graminoids had decreased and the area with dead vegetation and open spots had increased. We suggest that climate warming has lead to increased productivity, allowing for higher numbers of moulting geese. However, the reduction of vegetation cover by grazing may have longer term negative consequences for the number of geese the habitat can sustain.
4313800|Termites are abundant and widely distributed throughout tropical and sub-tropical regions of Ethiopia. Some species cause serious damage to certain crops, young forestry plantations and wooden buildings. Most species are not pests but are significant detritivores and important components of the ecosystem. Human perceptions of their pest status has led to expensive campaigns to control mound-building species, Macrotermes, on denuded and eroded rangeland where the primary problem is overgrazing.
25515798|The Tapajos River Basin in the Brazilian Amazon is the location of one of the largest concentrations of artisanal and small-scale miners in the world. Today, 40 000 miners produce 8 t of gold annum and at least double this amount of mercury is released into the environment. This region was selected under the Global Mercury Project, a United Nations program that aims to reduce the environmental and health impacts caused by mercury through the application of cleaner technologies and increased awareness. A group of educators provided support to miners, training 4200 people in 141 mining locations. The effectiveness of this training was evaluated based on 20 performance indicators. After 120 days of training, an absolute improvement of approximately 29% had been achieved. As a result of this training, it is estimated that annual mercury emissions in Tapajos have been reduced by 1762 kg or around 10% of the total mercury released in the region.
4311973| Lake restoration projects are being carried out in Sweden in order to obtain methods for restoring irreversibly damaged lakes, to train limnologists and to contribute knowledge to theoretical ecology. Lake Trummen was a shallow, over-exploited recipient, and the black sediment from the lake's receiver period was pumped up into settling ponds on land. In Jrla Lake, a deep recipient, the oxygen deficiency in the hypolimnion was remedied by aeration without disturbing the thermal stratification. Hornborga Lake became overgrown with macrophytes after the water level was lowered. Methods for directing the development from emergent to underwater vegetation have been worked out in order to reestablish the environmental conditions of a waterfowl lake. Methods and experience gained in the Swedish projects are being applied in the planning of the restoration of the Lake of Tunis in Tunisia. 
4315155|Local Agenda 21 (LA21) processes have 2 central goals. i) On the basis of some of the empirical evidence in this study, the primary goal is to improve democratic (environmental) policy-making processes in such a manner that a larger share of the population will be able to participate in planning and decision making and will also be able to understand the consequences of these decisions. ii) The LA21 processes seek to improve (at least indirectly) the broadly defined environmental situation locally in a manner that takes into account both the local and the global contexts. The first part of this article discusses the concept and methods of LA21 and sheds light on the different action areas that are central to the Baltic LA21 processes. In addition, the study will describe and display the LA21 situation within one network of cities, the Union of the Baltic Cities (UBC). Networking, including transfer of information, models and ideas, has been among the main tools for the diffusion of LA21 ideas especially into newly democratized societies. Finally, the article will conclude with an overall assessment of the LA21 situation on the Baltic rim.
4314542|This paper is an introduction to the special issue of Ambio (Ambio Vol. 26 No 1, February 1997) commemorating the 100-year anniversary of the publication of Svante Arrhenius' landmark paper on the greenhouse effect. Arrhenius' most significant achievements in this particular field of science are briefly summarized and an attempt is made to provide a realistic explanation of the fundamental physical processes contributing to the greenhouse effect
24708997|Sustainable development in Africa is dependent on increasing use of the continent's water resources without significantly degrading ecosystem services that are also fundamental to human wellbeing. This is particularly challenging in Africa because of high spatial and temporal variability in the availability of water resources and limited amounts of total water availability across expansive semiarid portions of the continent. The challenge is compounded by ambitious targets for increased water use and a rush of international funding to finance development activities. Balancing development with environmental sustainability requires (i) understanding the boundary conditions imposed by the continent's climate and hydrology today and into the future, (ii) estimating the magnitude and spatial distribution of water use needed to meet development goals, and (iii) understanding the environmental water requirements of affected ecosystems, their current status and potential consequences of increased water use. This article reviews recent advancements in each of these topics and highlights innovative approaches and tools available to support sustainable development. While much remains to be learned, scientific understanding and technology should not be viewed as impediments to sustainable development on the continent.
4314940|Paleolimnological analyses of sediment cores from Lake Oloidien in Kenya's central Rift Valley produced a detailed chronology of climate-driven environmental change since the early 1800s. During much of the 19th century and between about 1940 and 1998, Lake Oloidien was shallow and inhabited by algal and invertebrate communities typical of moderately saline lakes. Confluence with Lake Naivasha between about 1890 and the late 1930s flushed dissolved salts out of Lake Oloidien and created a temporary freshwater phase with papyrus swamp, well-developed submerged macrophyte beds, and reduced algal production. The timing and magnitude of ecological change in Lake Oloidien implies that early agricultural development of the Rift Valley by British colonial settlers coincided with an unusually favorable water-resource availability, out of balance with long-term trends in rainfall and evaporation. Recent lake-level decline and rising salinity are in part a natural consequence of the lake's hydrological response to interannual and decade-scale climatic variability. However, ongoing diversion of Rift Valley river inflows for cropland irrigation and industry, accelerates the salinization of Lake Oloidien, and may result in deterioration of precious freshwater resources throughout the region.
4312496|The grounding of the Soviet tanker Tsesis in the archipelago south of Stockholm in October 1977 resulted in a spill of over 1000 tons of medium grade fuel oil. The environmental impact of the spill was studied by an international research team. Severe but not catastrophic initial effects were found in pelagic, littoral and benthic ecosystems. The effects proved to be of short duration in the pelagic system and after about one year the littoral zone had also recovered considerably, whereas in the soft bottom communities not even the beginning of a recovery was found. The results from the first year of study presented here illustrate the recovery rates of a coastal ecosystem in a cold brackish sea, following an oil spill.
4313163|Recent improvements in the energy efficiency of fuelwood cook-stoves have resulted from the application of principles of combustion and heat transfer, standardized testing, advanced production engineering techniques and the systematic analysis of user feedback. Issues of quality control in large-scale production, stove durability and lifetime, health and safety impacts, and the effectiveness of different dissemination strategies require additional research and analysis.
4313680|In the Baltic Sea area, including the Kattegat, the external N/P loading ratios are generally well above the 16:1 Redfield ratio for all subareas (the Bothnian Bay, the Bothnian Sea, the Baltic proper and the Kattegat). During winter, the inorganic N/P ratio in surface waters varies. Appreciably higher values than the loading ratio are found for the northernmost basin, the low-saline Bothnian Bay, while lower values than the loading ratio are found for the Baltic proper and the Kattegat. Nutrient enrichment tests indicate general N limitation in the Baltic proper and the Kattegat, although stimulation of algal growth after P enrichment has been found in the Baltic proper during summer blooms of blue-green algae. Blooms of blue-green algae are common in the Baltic proper but hardly ever occur in the Bothnian Bay and the Kattegat. This has been the case for the last century, indicating natural summer N limitation. Full-scale experimental manipulation of the external N/P loading ratio has been carried out in the Himmerfjrd basin, south of Stockholm. Results suggest nitrogen as the most limiting nutrient in coastal areas of the Baltic proper, uninfluenced by direct nutrient discharges. The knowledge of the effects of altered external nutrient supplies for nutrient limitation in the Baltic Sea system as a whole is too limited to allow for reliable predictions. However, the Baltic Sea may have developed towards a more pronounced N limitation due to a twofold historic increase in P supply relative to N supply. At present, the situation may be reversed as N supply is probably increasing more rapidly than P supply. Management of the Baltic Sea area cannot be based on removal of either N or P in sewage, but must take both elements into consideration, as well as differences between sub-basins and between polluted coastal and offshore areas.
4314781| Previous atmospheric and precipitation sampling on Ellesmere Island in the Canadian High Arctic (76 to 83N) detected the presence of trace contaminants originating from both mid-latitudinal and transpolar sources. Plant samples (Saxifraga oppositofolia) were collected along a latitudinal transect from 10 remote sites on Ellesmere Island in order to determine the influx pathway of lead pollution to this region. Unlike contemporaneous measurements of cesium-137 activities and organo-chlorine concentrations, the bioaccumulation of lead was greater in northern compared to southern Ellesmere Island. Stable isotopic measurements of lead suggested that Eurasian sources contributed over half of the lead burden in the most northern-sampled plants. These data support stable isotopic measurements of aerosols from northern Ellesmere Island in suggesting that Eurasian sources of lead pollution may now predominate in this region of the North American High Arctic. 
4312611|Peat is a rich and versatile energy reserve in countries like Canada, Finland, Ireland, Sweden, the USA and the USSR. Peat deserves utmost attention as a fuel and as a raw material for the chemical process industries in these countries. In Sweden, moderate efforts to make use of peat-moderate compared to the size of the Swedish energy problem-may make Sweden independent from oil before the turn of the century. Peat can be produced as milled peat, sod peat or hydraulic peat, a method now under development. Peat is also suitable for production of low and intermediate Btu gas as well as hydrogen, ethylene, SNG (substitute natural gas) and synthesis gas for production of methanol, Fisher Tropsch gasoline etc. Methods are also being worked out that will allow exploited peatland to be converted to energy plantations. Peat may also be converted in its wet condition directly to oil in a liquefaction process. The major use for peat during the next decade will however be as a fuel for production of heat and/or electricity in state-of-art as well as advanced combustion processes including cold combustion of hydrogen produced from peat in fuel cells.
4314563|The use of improved fallows has been proposed as a management alternative to shifting cultivation in the tropics. Managed fallows are quite widespread in the Americas, producing biological and economic benefits, however, cases in which both advantages are realized are scarce. In this article we evaluate the economic viability of forest fallows managed with planted timber tree species to replenish soils and provide economically valuable timber. At a 5% real interest rate, the enriched fallow-subsistence agriculture system yields land values from USD 5000-12 000 ha
4315039|PCBs associate with organic matter in the aquatic environment. Sediment of different bottom types at different water depths may have organic matter with different properties. Also the different bottoms can be either oxic/bioturbated or anoxic/laminated, depending on water depth. To investigate if these circumstances would influence the distribution of PCBs in sediment, samples were collected from different bottom types at different water depths in two areas in the Stockholm Archipelago in the Baltic Sea. The bottom types were classified according to their water content. It was concluded that the concentration of PCBs on an organic carbon basis is the same for the different bottom types and the two areas. The possible differences in properties of the organic matter in different sediments is of minor importance, as are the influences of bioturbation and redox conditions. Instead, it is the properties of the PCB congeners which determine their distribution in the sediments.
4315228|A core goal of both US and European pollution control policies has been to establish rules and regulations pertaining to the movement of reactive-nitrogen (Nr) through the environment. This is manifest in US federal legislation such as the Clean Air Act Amendments and the Clean Water Act Amendments and in various protocols of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and its Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution (CLRTAP). In this paper, we begin by reviewing these two U.S. laws and their effectiveness and make some comparisons with the approaches used mainly in Europe by the UNECE and CLRTAP. Next we use the Mississippi drainage/Gulf of Mexico hypoxia case study to highlight the importance of applying a "systems approach" to address the reactive nitrogen problem at the regional scale. After briefly posing a number of unanswered questions related to nitrogen control policies, we conclude by sketching a blueprint for future actions related to the development of improved policies to regulate reactive nitrogen.
4312278|Solar energy could make a major contribution to Australia's primary energy supply by the year 2000 by providing some of the heat used in homes and industrial processes. Half the country's energy usage is in the form of heat, which is the most cost effective way of utilizing solar energy. There is also a possibility of providing a renewable liquid fuel from the cellulose which is produced by photosynthesis in trees and plants. Solar electric power generation is likely to be restricted to small installations since Australia's large coal reserves can supply power stations for the foreseeable future.
4314280| Regulation of some lead-containing products (e.g., gasoline additives, paint, solder) has reduced some emissions of lead to the environment. This is reflected in reduced aerosol lead concentrations and fallout in both urban and remote regions. It is also evidenced by recent declines in median blood lead (PbB) levels in the US and several European countries. However, those declines in PbB levels are small relative to the estimated natural PbB level in humans (0.016 g
4313314|The atmospheric transport to Sweden and the deposition of radioactive material following the Chernobyl accident have been described on the basis of radiological and meteorological data and theoretical calculations of dispersion. The radioactive cloud created by the explosion at 01.23 local time on April 26, 1986, was transported northwest and north over the Baltic Sea, with the first radionuclides probably reaching southeast Sweden early on April 27. In Svealand (eastern central Sweden), high concentrations of radionuclides began to appear on the evening of the same day. Sweden was affected by dry deposition, including fairly large hot particles and also by wet deposition. Wet deposition occurred via precipitation over eastern Sweden on April 28 and over parts of northern Sweden until April 30. The deposition of radionuclides over the country was mapped in detail, by extensive measurements of gamma radiation using aircraft and by in situ spectroscopy on the ground. Deposition of cesium mainly occurred through wet deposition. In the case of other nuclides, for example,
41417278|Conservation policies are increasing in response to human-induced ecosystem degradation, but little is known about their interplay with natural disasters. Through an analysis of satellite imagery and field data we evaluated the impacts of a devastating earthquake on forest recovery and avoided forest loss estimated to have been obtained by two of the largest conservation programs in the world. Results show that more than 10% of the forests in Wenchuan County, Sichuan province, China were immediately affected by the 2008 earthquake, offsetting some gains in forest cover observed since the enactment of the conservation programs. But without the enactment of these conservation programs, the combined effects of human disturbance and earthquake-induced landslides could have severely reduced the region's forest cover. The continuationand enhancementof incentives for participation in conservation programs will be important for reducing the environmental impacts of the combined effects of human disturbance and natural hazards not only in the study area but also in many disaster-prone regions around the world.
4315348|The paper presents an overview of the present situation of the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). The analysis indicates an urgent need to radically improve the current water supply and wastewater management practices, to become sustainable. The MCMA is one of the most rapidly growing urban centers of the world, with a population of about 21 million people, a very high rate of immigration and numerous illegal settlements. In order to meet the increasing water demand, successive governments have focused almost exclusively on supply management and engineering solutions, which have resulted in investments of hundreds of millions of USD and the construction of major infrastructure projects for interbasin water transfer. Environmental, economic and social policies associated with water management are mostly inadequate and insufficient, which is resulting in increasing deterioration in the environment, health and socioeconomic conditions of a population living in one of the largest urban agglomerations of the world. Surprisingly, however, no long-term strategies on demand-management, reuse, conservation, and improved water-management practices have been developed so far.
4314695|Major subsystems of the terrestrial phosphorus cycle on the densely populated, 142 ha motu of Fogafale, are: carbonate substrate ($\sim 10^{3}\ {\rm g}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm t}^{-1}$), groundwater ($\sim 0.4\ {\rm g}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm t}^{-1}$), terrestrial flora ($\sim 0.22\ {\rm t}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$) and fauna ($\sim 18\ {\rm kg}\ {\rm P}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$). Freshwater provides the principal medium for terrestrial geochemical atoll processes and is the central recycling plant for phosphorus from atmospheric fallout and decomposition of biotic waste. Present data cannot determine precise fluxes within and between all subsystems, but perturbations, resulting from increasing human populations and changing land use, may be estimated. Changes in Fogafale's biotic phosphorus capitals and increasing phosphorus-containing imports have skewed fluxes and transfer routes of biogenic waste. Atolls are dynamic systems, able to recover from environmental disruptions, but the sustainability and effectiveness of underlying biogeochemical cycles require quantification, monitoring and nurturing. In particular, the integrity of Fogafale's essential fresh groundwater needs to be ascertained and protected.
4312742|Chemical eradication of tsetse flies could alter vast tropical African areas to different land uses. Application of modern technologies, however, will impoverish the poor by alienating their land and destroying or diverting their food supplies, while endangering the whole environment. The process will ensure future dependency on Western technology and food surpluses. It could also destroy Africa's remaining forests, cause further desertification of the Sahel, and wipe out meat production for export there.
4314465|Asian emissions of carbon dioxide from the use of fossil fuels now exceed those from North America or Europe. It is thus essential that the countries of Asia be full and active partners in any global agreement to limit the emissions of greenhouse gases. This paper presents estimated emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuel use in each of the countries and geographical entities of Asia. The two favored approaches for reducing future emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuel use are: (i) improving the efficiency of energy use; and (ii) making greater use of less carbon-intensive sources of energy. With respect to energy efficiency, the higher Energy/GNP ratio of developing countries when compared to industrialized countries is frequently cited as evidence of the inefficient use of energy in developing countries. However, this comparison is made using a GNP figure that is calculated using market exchange rates. In contrast, when GNP is based on purchasing power parity, the Energy/GNP ratios for developing countries are similar to the ratios for industrialized countries. Data for some of the larger developing countries of Asia are presented to illustrate this point. The potential for increasing the use of natural gas is also discussed and the proven reserves of natural gas in a number of countries are provided.
4313560| This paper reviews some results from comparative investigations on effects of acid deposition on forest ecosystems, initiated by Odn in 1968 or started as a consequence of his ideas. While these studies marked the opening of a new problem area in applied ecology, it is concluded that there are many difficulties involved in the interpretation of descriptive data when working with so extremely complex systems as natural ecosystems. The paper also discusses results from two of the Swedish long-term experiments in forest stands, where well-defined nutrient and acid regimes have been maintained since 1971 and resulted in significant changes in soil acidity, tree growth, and vegetation composition. It is concluded that such experiments, if located to representative sites and well designed, may provide not only results pertinent to the current discussion on "critical loads" of sulfur and nitrogen, but also insight into how basic ecosystem processes are affected by deposition of acid and nitrogen. On the other hand, large-scale field experiments are expensive, time-consuming, and limited in the possibilities to manipulate some of the relevant factors. In addition to long-term field experiments a variety of approaches is needed to generate prognoses and testable new hypotheses: comparative studies for generation of hypotheses and definition of the magnitude of the problem; experimental process studies; mathematical modelling linking comparative and experimental results together. 
4314203| Long-term daily means, minimum and maximum temperatures, precipitation, evaporation and windspeed were calculated from standard meteorological data for a semiarid, sandy rangeland in Naiman, Inner Mongolia, China. Soil temperature and soil moisture were measured at an experimental site, where nylon mesh litter-bags with barley straw were buried 10 cm deep on 19 August 1988. On five occasions during the following year litter-bags were sampled, dried, weighed and analyzed to determine their nutrient contents. A decomposition model assuming exponential decay and no activity below 0C was fitted to the data. The predicted mass loss rate was 0.33% per frost-free day, corresponding to a first-year mass loss of 54%, which is similar to that of barley in central Sweden. The model explained 84% of the variance in organic-matter mass loss, and it was concluded that the remaining error could be reduced by including soil water dynamics in the model. 
4313856|After three sessions of the UN-sponsored Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for a Framework Convention on Climate Change, global warming negotiations appear to have polarized around two key issues. Countries are divided over how strictly the treaty should control greenhouse gas emissions and how to share the hardship of emission controls in the most fair and equitable manner. The United States' "go slow" position has frustrated European efforts to create a convention with binding targets and timetables for reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs). Developing nations fear that the United States' refusal to control CO2 emissions signals a lack of commitment toward halting global warming and foreshadows future equity conflicts over financial and technical assistance to help them adopt "climate friendly" development paths. Nevertheless, early negotiating positions can be deceptive. The existence of many significant, low cost energy reforms indicates the existence of untapped bargaining space for overcoming these immediate deadlocks. However, these "no regrets" energy reforms are only the easy, first steps toward arresting climate disruption. Powerful and deeply entrenched social forces will resist an increasingly desperate need to dramatically reduce the global combustion of fossil fuels.
4313572|This paper discusses the basis for cage culturing of salmonids and mussel long-line rearing in Scandinavian marine aquaculture, it also includes a discussion on the support that is required from the marine environment to sustain production; how aquaculture fits into the marine ecosystem; and what side-effects and changes it may cause. Local as well as regional environmental effects are evaluated and related to the growth and economic development of the aquaculture industry. While mussel-rearing represents a more or less self-regulated extensive aquaculture system that is, to a large extent, integrated with the natural marine ecosystem, cage-farming of fish has a processing structure which resembles modern intensive meat production. Cage-farming adds to eutrophication due to nutrient input through the supplied feed, while mussel culturing counteracts eutrophication since no feed is added and nutrients are removed when the mussels are harvested. The production of 1 ton of harvested farmed salmon is indirectly (via food pellets mainly made from fish) dependent on solar fixation by marine plankton from a water area of about 1 km
4315153|The Lithuanian water-management system developed on the basis of Soviet regulations in 1950-1990. Surface-water quality monitoring started in the 1950s, and the system was improved in the 1960s. Today, 48 rivers are being monitored using up to 70 parameters. Statutory monitoring of discharges started in 1962, wastewater standards were issued in 1957 and 1966, and then revised in 1996. Wastewater-treatment plants were built first in rural areas, in factories since the 1950s, and later in towns. Since 1991, large capacity municipal plants have been constructed with foreign assistance. Water quality has improved in some rivers since 1970, but Lithuania's main river, Nemunas, remains moderately polluted. The lower Nemunas is especially affected by discharges of municipal and industrial wastewater from Sovietsk and Neman (Russia), which account for half of the total loading. Hydrobiological data of 1994-1998 indicated the eutrophication of the Curonian Lagoon, and bacteriological pollution and blue-green algae blooms in the Baltic Sea north of Klaipeda.
4311967|The pollution gradients reflected in the snow around an industrial center in southern Norway indicate that the heaviest deposition of excess acid occurs in the rural district. The largest deposits of Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, K, Na, and SO
4313333|Rapid deforestation in the Third World is rooted in development patterns, rapid population growth, concentration of landholdings, and slow employment growth. Investment incentives, tax and credit subsidies, farm pricing policies, and logging concession terms often intensify forest exploitation. Data from case studies of Malaysia, Ghana, Indonesia, the Philippines, the Ivory Coast, and Brazil illustrate the huge economic losses that such policies create. These policies are not only unsuccessful as a means to promote economic development, but also result in severe environmental losses. Both development and environmental goals can be served by policy improvements to promote more sustainable forest development.
24708988|The Tonle Sap is the largest wetland in Southeast Asia and one of the world's most productive inland fisheries. The Mekong River inundates the Tonle Sap every year, shaping a mosaic of natural and agricultural habitats. Ongoing hydropower development, however, will dampen the flood pulse that maintains the Tonle Sap. This study established the current underlying relationship among hydrology, vegetation, and human use. We found that vegetation is strongly influenced by flood duration; however, this relationship was heavily distorted by fire, grazing, and rice cultivation. The expected flood pulse alteration will result in higher water levels during the dry season, permanently inundating existing forests. The reduction of the maximum flood extent will facilitate agricultural expansion into natural habitats. This study is the most comprehensive field survey of the Tonle Sap to date, and it provides fundamental knowledge needed to understand the underlying processes that maintain this important wetland.
4313906|There is concern that some populations of small cetaceans have declined as a result of increases in pollution and other human activities in coastal areas. Pollution and other environmental stresses may directly or indirectly increase the susceptibility of dolphins and porpoises to disease. However, few opportunities exist to monitor the health status of cetacean populations. This paper describes skin lesions which were observed on bottlenose dolphins from Scottish waters and suggests that conventional photo-identification studies could be extended to assess the prevalence of demal disease symptoms in cetacean populations.
4313353|Israel is a semiarid country that has fully developed all of its conventional water resources in a carefully planned program designed to achieve maximum development of the country's agricultural potential. Today the main source for developing additional water resources for agriculture is the recycling of wastewater for irrigation. This paper traces the development of the Israeli wastewater-reuse program, which has now been declared a national policy, with some 35 percent of Israel's total wastewater flow recycled for agricultural and industrial use in 1986. The goal is to achieve 80 percent reuse by the year 2000. Agronomic, engineering, sociopolitical and health aspects of the development of wastewater reuse in Israel are analyzed.
4315678|There exists a negative externality of livestock breeding due to the difference between private and social breeding cost in Xilingol Biosphere Reserve (XBR), Inner Mongolia, that has caused extensive ecological degradation of the grassland. The property rights regime, the household production responsibility system (HPRS), was adopted in the 1980s to increase livestock production in XBR. Although HPRS has successfully increased production by promoting private economic interests and leads to inefficient enforcement of stock rate, it has led to grassland degradation due to. Through interviews conducted with government representatives and herding families in all management units of XBR, we elucidate the shortfalls of the current management regime and the Fencing Grassland and Moving Users policy initiated in 2002 to restore grassland. We propose an alternative property rights regime, small-scale co-management, to concurrently promote both individual economic interests and grassland conservation by improving the enforcement of stock rate.
4313908|Year to year variations of shrimp abundance in the ocean adjacent to the Zambezi River mouth are found to be strongly correlated with the wet season runoff. Since the river is regulated by the Cahora Bassa Dam, the author argues that it is possible to tune the runoff to match the life cycle of the shrimp such that the fishing potential is enhanced.
41417304|The tilapiine cichlids Oreochromis leucostictus and Tilapia zillii were introduced into Lake Naivasha, Kenya, in 1956. Previous studies on data collected to 1987 revealed they were persistent following establishment, despite environmental variability and exploitation. Recent data, however, suggest this persistence is under threat as data indicate some significant declines in aspects of their abundance since 1999. The influence of changes in lake level, allodiversity and fishing effort on this decline was tested and showed that a decline in lake level was a significant causal factor. The recent change in allodiversity, with the establishment and dominance of Cyprinus carpio in the fishery, was not significant on the catch per unit effort of O. leucostictus but was on T. zillii. Since 1999, catches of tilapiines in the fishery have been independent of fishing effort, contrary to between 1975 and 1987, suggesting their management through application of fishery models may no longer be applicable. As it was anthropogenic-mediated lake level changes that were mainly responsible for their decline, then lake management should focus on sustainable water utilization that maximizes lake levels in accordance with the basin-wide water balance.
4315536| We investigated unhatched eggs (n = 57) of Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) from the period 1988-2002 and compared them with eggs (n = 134) from 1971-1978. Mean concentrations of PCBs, DDT and HCB in the earlier period were (mg kg
4313865|Natural and social scientists are cooperating in a major research program focused on environmental change in semiarid North Central Tanzania. The aim is to contribute to an empirical and theoretical basis for assessing interrelations between man and land in a semiarid environment, and also to support ongoing development projects in the area. Physical processes are recorded and analyzed. Indigenous conservation practices are documented. The relationships between land degradation and factors such as land tenure, ethnic and social stratification, and degree of market involvement are studied. The effect of a large-scale environmental intervention, the removal of all livestock from the so-called Kondoa Eroded Area, is analyzed in a comparatively long-term perspective. The research program allows for close cooperation between Tanzanian and Swedish researchers. Both senior researchers and Ph.D. students are participating. Research cooperation, training and tutorial responsibilities flow in both directions between the two countries.
25547796|This review provides a summary of methods for treating soils contaminated with polychlorinated aromatic compounds, especially polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs). Unlike many other soil pollutants, PCDD/Fs bind tightly to the soil, which severely reduces the efficiency of most aqueous treatment procedures and leaves few realistic alternatives besides the traditional containment techniques (landfill, solidification/stabilization, and in situ vitrification). Incineration has long been, and still is, the most efficient destruction technique, with a removal efficiency of >99.9999%. However, supercritical water oxidation, base-catalyzed decomposition, steam distillation, and various extraction techniques, such as solvent and liquefied gas and subcritical water extraction, may provide removal efficiencies of >95%. Many of the alternative techniques are expected to be cheaper than incineration and may therefore be attractive for moderately polluted soils. However, some of them are at an early stage of development and need to be further tested before their true potential can be assessed.
4314737|Palsas are peat-covered mounds up to a few meters high, and with permafrost cores developed either in peat or mineral soil. Due to the good insulating effect of the peat, this kind of permafrost landform can survive in a climate where the mean annual temperature is just below the freezing point. In marginal areas of palsa distribution, like in the Dovrefjell mountains, the occurrences of palsas are sensitive to climate fluctuations. In Dovrefjell, southern Norway, the main tendency is declining palsas due to melting of permafrost. Further climatic warming will probably result in melting of most palsas within a few decades. Palsa bogs are sensitive to all human impacts that can destroy the peat cover or otherwise change the insulating effect of the surface layer. Haukskardsmyra, the biggest palsa bog in the Dovrefjell mountains, is a protected area.
40730865|Interest in long time series of organic matter data has recently increased due to concerns about the effects of global climate change on aquatic ecosystems. This study presents and evaluates unique time series of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and water color from Lake Malaren, Sweden, stretching almost seven decades (1935-2004). A negative linear trend was found in COD, but not in water color. The decrease was mainly due to installation of sewage works around 1970. Time series of COD and water color had cyclic pattern. It was strongest for COD, with 23 years periodicity. Similar periodicity observed in air temperature and precipitation in Sweden has been attributed to the North Atlantic Oscillation index and solar system orbit, suggesting that COD in Lake Malaren is partly derived from algae. Discharge influenced water color more than COD, possibly because water color consists of colored substances brought into the lake from surrounding soils.
4314735|Ozone in the atmosphere, mainly in the stratosphere, absorbs most of the ultraviolet-B (wavelength 280-315 nm) radiation from the sun, which can destroy DNA and other biologically important molecules and, thereby, damage living organisms. Due to the pollution of the atmosphere by humans, the ozone layer is presently being depleted, more rapidly at higher latitudes than at lower, and more rapidly over Scandinavia than over most geographical regions at corresponding latitudes. Ultraviolet-B radiation is generally more intense in mountain regions than at sea level. We have experiments in progress in which we simulate the effects of further ozone depletion on terrestrial ecosystems (mountain heaths, bogs, tundra) by irradiating them with artificial ultraviolet-B radiation. Effects on the growth of dwarf-shrubs and mosses and on plant litter decomposition are described.
4313706|Commercial logging is theoretically a relatively benign form of exploitation for tropical forests, but in actuality has not been practiced on a sustainable basis. This article begins with a brief historical overview of natural forest-management systems, showing that several have been sustainable from a silvicultural viewpoint. However, these have never been carried out on a large scale because of economic and social limitations. To overcome these obstacles will require: improved economic analysis methods that recognize the long-term and external benefits of forest maintenance; elimination of incentives for forest conversion, redesign of concession agreements and royalty and tax systems to provide incentives for long-term management; and involvement of local populations in forest management, both in terms of planning and receipt of benefits.
4314641|During the Lithuanian economic crisis of the 1990s, a decline in agricultural production was accompanied by decreases in water and environmental pollution. If no efforts are made for the reconstruction of agriculture toward sustainable and biological farming, the ongoing recovery of the economy will in all likelihood result in increases in the levels of pollution. For that reason an important state pilot program was developed and the Tatula Fund (Karst Region Fund Tatula) was established to implement it. The program and the fund are designed to support and encourage the transition from traditional to sustainable and biological agriculture. The Tatula Fund allocates its members free interest credits and grants, and subsidies for the construction of waste treatment facilities, for educational activities, ecological monitoring and other activities, on a competitive basis. In the ecologically sensitive karst region of northern Lithuania, it is necessary to protect groundwater, while at the same time it is important to solve the current marketing problems of agricultural production as well as unemployment issues. According to the statement of the government's strategies on environmental protection and climate changes, as the national economy continues to grow, the pilot program developed in the karst region will be expanded throughout Lithuania. So far, the programs that have been developed for the karst zone, on education and certification of biological production, are being implemented in all regions of Lithuania.
4314348|Monitoring of forest health status over the last few years has reported a small but significant decline in crown vigor in Norwegian conifer forests. Such a concise statement about the development on a national level may conceal important regional differences. In this article, probability mapping and median polish is used to examine the geographical distribution of changes in crown vigor. The results reveal a geographical trend, with systematic differences along a north-south gradient in southern and central Norway.
4315783|In the past, human activities often resulted in mercury releases to the biosphere with little consideration of undesirable consequences for the health of humans and wildlife. This paper outlines the pathways through which humans and wildlife are exposed to mercury. Fish consumption is the major route of exposure to methylmercury. Humans can also receive toxic doses of mercury through inhalation of elevated concentrations of gaseous elemental mercury. We propose that any effective strategy for reducing mercury exposures requires an examination of the complete life cycle of mercury. This paper examines the life cycle of mercury from a global perspective and then identifies several approaches to measuring the benefits of reducing mercury exposure, policy options for reducing Hg emissions, possible exposure reduction mechanisms, and issues associated with mercury risk assessment and communication for different populations.
41417398|Successful implementation of an international nutrient abatement agreement, such as the Baltic Sea Action Plan (BSAP), requires consistent understanding of the baseline nutrient loads, and a perception of acceptable costs and fairness in targeted reductions of these base line loads. This article presents a general framework for identifying the implications of divergence between different nutrient load quantification approaches, with regard to both cost and fairness criteria outcomes, for the international agreement to decrease nutrient loads into the Baltic Sea as presented in the BSAP. The results indicate that even relatively small divergence in the nutrient load quantification translates into relatively large differences in abatement cost for different Baltic Sea countries. A robust result, irrespective of differences in nutrient load assessments, is a conflict between abatement cost effectiveness and fairness, with relatively poor countries facing heavy abatement cost burdens for cost-effective international load abatement.
40928388|This study examines the bleaching responses of scleractinian corals at four sites in Kenya (Kanamai, Vipingo, Mombasa and Nyali) representing two distinct lagoon habitats (relatively shallow and relatively deep). Bleaching incidence was monitored for the whole coral community, while zooxanthellae densities and chlorophyll levels were monitored for target species (Pocillopora damicornis, Pontes lutea, and Pontes cylindrica) during a non-bleaching year (2006) and a year of mild-bleaching (2007). Differences in bleaching responses between habitats were observed, with shallower sites Kanamai and Vipingo exhibiting lower bleaching incidence than deeper sites Nyali and Mombasa. These shallower lagoons display more fluctuating thermal and light environments than the deeper sites, suggesting that corals in the shallower lagoons have acclimatized and/or adapted to the fluctuating environmental conditions they endure on a daily basis and have become more resistant to bleaching stress. In deeper sites that did exhibit higher bleaching (Mombasa and Nyali), it was found that coral recovery occurred more quickly in the protected area than in the non-protected area.
4314849| Since 1974, sea-run Baltic salmon populations have been afflicted by an early life-stage mortality known as the M74 syndrome. The syndrome has been shown to be associated with a thiamine (vitamin B
4314793|China is a country with a long history of civilization. Its civilization centers re-located from the plains of the lower and middle reaches of the Yellow River to the basin of the lower watershed of the Yangtze River. This paper analyzes the ecological environmental background of the changes of the civilization centers established in the main dynasties and regimes in ancient China, in which the dynamics of population, farmland, forest, and natural disasters for each period are emphasized. The relationship between environmental degradation, wars, and social development cycles, are also discussed. The results show that anthropogenic environmental impact was one of the decisive contributing factors leading to the relocation of the centers of civilization in ancient China. It is suggested that the rise and fall of ancient civilizations in China and other countries provide modern societies with important lessons for environmental protection.
4312999|The forests of the Central Himalaya are suffering serious losses due to population growth and expansion of agriculture. Although utilization of forest products is a necessary component of the Central Himalayan agroeconomy it is prohibitively inefficient. More than seven units of energy must be taken from the forest in order to produce a single unit of agricultural energy. Consequently, the carrying capacity of the forest has been exceeded. Further destruction of the forest must be prevented and positive steps such as reforestation and tree farming should be taken to ensure the future of the region's ecology and economy.
4315082|Drainage and peat harvesting may induce considerable changes in the fluxes to the atmosphere of the greenhouse gases CH
4314321|The increase in UV-B associated with stratospheric ozone depletion is likely to have a substantial impact on human health. Potential risks include increases in the incidence of, and morbidity from, eye diseases, skin cancer, and infectious diseases. Quantitative estimates of risk are available for some effects (e.g. skin cancer), while for others (e.g., infectious diseases), quantitative estimates are not possible, due to a lack of sufficient data. UV radiation has been shown in experimental systems to damage the cornea and lens of the eye. Chronic exposure to UV-B, resulting in a high, cumulative, lifetime dose, is one of several factors clearly associated with the risk of cataract of the cortical and posterior subcapsular forms. Estimates of the effect of ozone depletion on cataract have been made, but are still highly uncertain. These estimates predict an approximately 0.5% increase in cataract for each 1% sustained decrease in ozone. Some components of the immune system are present in the skin, which makes the immune system accessible to UV radiation. Experiments in animals show that UV exposure decreases the immune response to skin cancers, infectious agents, and other antigens and can lead to unresponsiveness upon repeated challenges. Suppressed immunity may occur either locally in sun-exposed skin or systematically, at nonexposed sites. Studies in human subjects also indicate that exposure to UV-B radiation can suppress the induction of some immune responses and may cause systemic alterations in immune function. The importance of these immune effects for infectious diseases in humans is unknown. However, in areas of the world where infectious diseases already pose a significant challenge to human health, and in persons with impaired immune function, the added insult of UV-B-induced immune suppression could be significant. In susceptible (light-skinned) populations, the cumulative lifetime exposure to UV-B radiation is the key risk factor for development of nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC). This knowledge has permitted the development of quantitative risk estimates for increases in the incidence of NMSC resulting from ozone depletion. Using information derived from animal experiments and human epidemiology, it is estimated that a sustained 1% decrease in stratospheric ozone will result in an increase of NMSC incidence of approximately 2%. The relationship between UV-B exposure and melanoma skin cancer is less well understood and appears to differ fundamentally from that of NMSC in that it is not apparently a function of cumulative lifetime dose, but may be related to the accumulation impact of multiple high-dose exposures such as those received in sunburns. Epidemiologic data indicate that the risk of melanoma increases with an increase in episodes of intense sunlight exposure, (i.e. sunburn) especially during childhood. There is, however, uncertainty about how the relationship between these exposures and melanoma should be modeled so that the estimates of the increase in melanoma that would result from ozone depletion are much less certain.
40928394|The past decade has seen increased international recognition of the importance of the services provided by natural ecosystems. It is unclear however whether such international awareness will lead to improved environmental management in many regions. We explore this issue by examining the specific case of fish migration and dams on the Mekong river. We determine that dams on the Mekong mainstem and major tributaries will have a major impact on the basin's fisheries and the people who depend upon them for food and income. We find no evidence that current moves towards dam construction will stop, and consider two scenarios for the future of the fisheries and other ecosystems of the basin. We conclude that major investment is required in innovative technology to reduce the loss of ecosystem services, and alternative livelihood strategies to cope with the losses that do occur.
4314782|This paper compares transient carbon fluxes to and from forests during climatic change in a pure natural model of ecosystem adjustment and also in a model that captures the human response to these changes. Both models incorporate forest dieback and regeneration, forest redistribution, and changes in ecosystem production during climatic change. The natural model predicts that forested ecosystems in the United States will release 2.5 to 6.3 Pg carbon during the next 7 decades under climatic change. The model including human response shows that markets will mitigate, and even reverse, these fluxes by managing some forests for timber and storing carbon in wood products.
4314722|The problems of limited water resources are discussed in an historical perspective and in terms of the near future. Tunisia has a long history of human influence, man's impact on nature and natural resources having been strong since Roman times. Recent land use, or rather abuse, has caused soil degradation, in the form of soil erosion, decreases in soil organic matter, nitrogen and phosphorus, as well as salinization of arable soil and soil desiccation through the overexploitation of groundwater. Future development must build on a far more efficient use of water. Improvement of water management is, therefore, a priority, for groundwater as well as surface water. Detailed knowledge of the water balance, and of various types of water resources, is a prerequisite for future planning of land allocation for agriculture, arboriculture, horticulture, as well as for pasturing, reforestation, and for nature reserves for biotopes and biota. The future of the rural population requires a change toward increased productivity in as sustainable a system as possible, which also entails simultaneous urban development.
4313505|One central problem in current ecotoxicological research is to identify, within the natural ecosystem, such species or subsystems that may have a key function for the integrity of the whole system or may be particularly sensitive to pollutants. In the Baltic Sea, the bladder-wrack, (Fucus vesiculosus L.) is the dominant structural element in the shallow, hard-bottom ecosystem, and as such it plays an important role for the function of this subsystem as well as of adjacent subsystems. Laboratory experiments, in model ecosystem studies and in the field, have shown that bladder-wrack is extremely sensitive to long-term exposure to the chlorate contained in effluents from pulp mills. It is argued that the chlorate-induced structural changes in the bladder-wrack subsystem within a restricted area may have consequences in time and space far beyond the area and period of observation, e.g. on invertebrate macrofauna production and on fish reproduction. Thus, although the chlorate effect on the bladder-wrack is restricted in time and space, the secondary effects might extend to the offshore waters in the form of decreased recruitment of pelagic fish populations. This example might promote an increased awareness of what consequences large-scale changes, for example eutrophication, might have on the Baltic ecosystem and on its role as a fish-producing area.
4314049|An economy can be both efficient and sustainable, but efficiency does not guarantee sustainability. The safe minimum standard (SMS) for biological diversity illustrates the practical steps that could be taken to increase the likelihood that the economy is sustainable. Extinction threatens sustainability because it may affect the stability of economically important ecosystems and it may entail losses of plants, animals, and microorganisms that would otherwise have become important resources in the future. Wherever preservation is biologically feasible, extinction of species would be avoided unless the costs of avoidance are excessive or other social goals must receive a higher priority. The stated policies of the US and many other countries are consistent with the SMS. However, in the US at least, lack of funding has been a major impediment to implementation. A tax on natural resource use would be a possible source of funding for programs to improve prospects for economic sustainability.
4313113|Freshwater fisheries in China are well-established, long-standing traditions. A great diversity of aquacultural practices occupy a highly significant place in the overall food production strategy. These practices exemplify the country's ecological approach toward use of available resources to sustain her enormous population. Annual fish production exceeds one million metric tons. The majority is derived from fish-farm ponds, natural lakes and reservoirs. The key to China's capacity to sustain her population centers lies in the traditional design of her agricultural landscape and, where ample freshwater resources exist, the role of aquaculture within it. In recent years, a number of newly devised methodologies and socio-economic incentives have been implemented. Some of these innovations are efficient while others require further evaluation.
4314559|Primary or tail feathers were collected from 92 wading birds in Florida from Lake Okeechobee and wetlands farther south, from 1987 to 1990. Mean concentrations detected in feathers of nestlings were 2.0 ppm Hg in roseate spoonbills (Ajaia ajaja), 3.5 ppm Hg in great blue herons (Ardea herodias), 4.7 ppm Hg in great white herons (Ardea herodias occidentalis), and 7.1 ppm Hg in great egrets (Casmerodius albus). Concentrations in feathers of great white herons increased with the age of the bird, from 4.7 ppm Hg in nestlings, to 6.7 ppm Hg in juveniles, and 8.2 ppm Hg in adults. Mercury concentrations were greatest in species consuming large fish. Feathers collected from wood storks (Mycteria americana) contained an average of 3.3 ppm Hg. Mercury concentrations in feathers of wading birds from southern Florida were greater than those reported in feathers of wading birds from Asia. Both liver and feather Hg concentrations were known for 25 wading birds. The regression of liver (wet weight) Hg concentrations (Y) on feather Hg concentrations (X) was: log(Y) = 1.52 log(X)-0.722. The correlation coefficient was 0.84. If reproductive disorders are expected when concentrations in feathers of adult birds average 9 ppm Hg, as might be inferred from a published laboratory study on mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), then Hg in southern Florida may be high enough to reduce productivity of wading bird populations. However, additional controlled studies are needed before a minimum toxic concentration in feathers can be designated with confidence.
41418339|It seems inevitable that the ongoing and rapid changes in the physical environment of the marine Arctic will push components of the region's existing social-ecological systemssmall and largebeyond tipping points and into new regimes. Ongoing changes include warming, freshening, acidification, and alterations to food web structure. In anticipation we pose three distinct but interrelated challenges: (1) to explore existing connectivities within components of the marine system; (2) to seek indicators (if they exist) of approaching regime change through observation and modeling; and (3) to build functional resilience into existing systems through adaptation-oriented policy and to have in hand transformative options when tipping points are crossed and new development trajectories are required. Each of the above challenges is scale dependent, and each requires a much deeper understanding than we currently have of connectivity within existing systems and their response to external forcing. Here, we argue from a global perspective the need to understand the Arctic's role in an increasingly nonlinear world; then describe emerging evidence from new observations on the connectivity of processes and system components from the Canada Basin and subarctic seas surrounding northern North America; and finally posit an approach founded in "resilience thinking" to allow northern residents living in small coastal communities to participate in the observation, adaption andif necessarytransformation of the social-ecological system with which they live.
4314869|The problem of child-lifting by wolves in Hazaribagh West, Koderma and Latehar forest divisions of Bihar State, India, has been evaluated, based on records of the Forest Department, interviews, and a survey. Five wolf packs have created problems in 63 villages. 80 child casualties occurred from April 1993 to April 1995 and only 20 victims were rescued. All the children were taken from settlements primarily during March to August between 17.00 and 19.00 hrs. There were more female victims (58%) than males and 89% were 3-11-yrs old. Recommendations for the mitigation of human-wolf conflicts, and a conservation strategy for wolves might include: surveying wolf habitats for identification of dens and rendezvous sites, and estimating wolf populations; capture of problem wolves; improving compensation to victims' families; research on wolf behavior, rabies, wolf/dog hybrids, and the prey-base; possibilities for introducing natural prey, and regulation of wolf populations.
4315661| The main source of human exposure to persistent organic pollutants (POPs) is, in general, food. In this study, 64 butter samples from 37 countries were analyzed to assess the global contamination of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), dibenzofurans (PCDFs), biphenyls (PCBs), hexachlorobenzene (HCB), and 2,2-bis (4-chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane (DDT) together with its major metabolites. The objectives of the study were to assess the presence of major organohalogen contaminants in butter, to trace geographical differences, and to determine toxic equivalents (TEQs) of PCDDs/Fs and dioxin-like PCBs in butter. The highest PCDD/F concentrations were found in butter from Korea with an average of 1.4 pg TEQ g
4313904|The manufacture of the greater part of most conventional building materials used today is based on use of fossil fuels, thereby contributing sizeable amounts of carbon from combustion and chemical reactions in the raw material to the atmosphere. Alternative building materials and systems have to be developed in order to balance atmospheric carbon dioxide. Using electricity from renewable sources, limestone storing carbon can be precipitated from seawater with simultaneous production of hydrogen, oxygen, and chlorine gas. Existing resources for the operation of the mineral accretion process are surveyed and similarities in biogenic calcium carbonate deposition discussed. Electrolytically precipitated limestone and material consisting of artificial limestone and hard coral skeletons are proposed as a sink for carbon and for use as building materials. To assess the potential role of these materials in the carbon cycle, experimental measurements are needed.
25515809|Control of plant invasions requires regional knowledge of invasive species' distribution and the factors that promote their spread. We studied the distribution of invasive alien plants in Denmark at 2 spatial scales ("site" and "municipality") based on habitat descriptions and species lists from 2343 sites recorded within environmental assessments for planned infrastructure projects and conservation management. We created a Geographic Information System database of the sites and supplemented the field data with information on traffic routes, water courses, and socioeconomic indicators from the respective municipalities. The percentage of invaded sites within a municipality decreased with increasing tax percentage and it increased with (sub-)urbanity. The number of invasive species at the sites was positively correlated with resident plant diversity, disturbance, and proximity to traffic routes. We conclude that current plant invasions in Denmark are mainly an anthropogenic (sub-)urban phenomenon. The results are discussed with respect to the utility of environmental assessment data for studying plant invasions and improving control of invasive species.
4314784|Five environmental problems have been identified, which should see significant improvement in the United Kingdom, if action is taken within the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN ECE) Second NO
4315427|Our ecological footprint analyses of coral reef fish fisheries and, in particular, the live reef fish food trade (FT), indicate many countries' current consumption exceeds estimated sustainable per capita global, regional and local coral reef production levels. Hong Kong appropriates 25% of SE Asia's annual reef fish production of 135 260-286 560 tonnes (t) through its FT demand, exceeding regional biocapacity by 8.3 times; reef fish fisheries demand outpaces sustainable production in the Indo-Pacific and SE Asia by 2.5 and 6 times. In contrast, most Pacific islands live within their own reef fisheries means with local demand at < 20% of total capacity in Oceania. The FT annually requisitions up to 40% of SE Asia's estimated reef fish and virtually all of its estimated grouper yields. Our results underscore the unsustainable nature of the FT and the urgent need for regional management and conservation of coral reef fisheries in the Indo-Pacific.
4314820|A 12-month study was conducted on recruitment patterns in two locations on Taa Reef, northern Tanzania. Since one of the sites had been severely damaged by dynamite fishing, the central aim was to examine any impact that this might have had on coral recruitment. Results showed a strong seasonality in recruitment with peak recruitment occurring in April at both sites. The peak in recruitment coincided with the peak in water temperature, and low sedimentation rate. A significant difference was observed between sites experiencing different degrees of coral damage, with higher recruitment occurring at the least disturbed site suggesting that recruitment rate was influenced by coral cover. Significant differences were also observed in the distribution of recruits between the upper and lower surfaces of the settling tiles used in the study, with coral larvae preferring to settle on the lower surfaces. Overall, dynamite fishing at Taa Reef appears to have had a major impact due to the removal of viable seed populations of corals. This has decreased the supply of recruits for recolonization of the damaged areas. In addition to recruitment levels, other factors such as sedimentation rates and competition for space with other organisms were also examined, but these did not appear to play a major role in determining recruitment levels at the study sites.
4314267|The impacts of aquaculture on biodiversity are rarely positive, sometimes neutral, but usually negative to some degree. Impacts arise from the consumption of resources, such as land (or space), water, seed and feed, their transformation into products valued by society and the production of wastes (uneaten food, faecal and urinary products, chemotheraputants, microorganisms and parasites and feral farmed organisms). Negative impacts may be direct, through the introduction of exotic genetic material into the environment for example, or indirect through loss of habitat and niche space. It is concluded that the key issues in deciding the acceptability of this method of food production are scale, intensity of resource use, and net production of wastes. It is also argued that protection of biodiversity is essential from the aquaculturist's point of view.
4311951|This three-year-old project is part of a larger investigation of chemical changes in the Baltic Sea. A new in situ measuring method is used. Various types of environments are simulated in aquatic microcosms under controlled conditions. Quantitative data have been obtained for the production of hydrogen sulphides in reduced environments and for the associated release of phosphate and ammonia from the sediments.
4315408|On the basis of a Solomon Islands case study, we report that tropical rainforests hitherto perceived as untouched, pristine, virgin, etc., are actually sites of former settlement, extensive forest clearance, and irrigated/swideen agriculture. An unusually wide range of sources-rainforest ecology, forest classification and mapping, ethnobotany, land-use history, oral traditions, ethnographic and archaeological observations-supports our conclusions. These observations have bearings for contemporary perspectives on scenarios for rainforest regeneration after logging. They also force a revision of certain assumptions concerning Melanesian prehistory and historical demography, and indicate that interdisciplinary links between botany, archaeology and social anthropology are needed to achieve a better appreciation of rainforest dynamics.
25515851|There is significant evidence that northern Canada's climate has already undergone substantial change. These changes have meant significant impacts for physical, natural and human systems in Canada's North. Climate models suggest that such trends will continue into the future, and therefore shifts in Arctic systems are expected for some time to come. This introductory paper is the first in a series published in two issues of Ambio presenting work conducted for northern chapters of two recent Canadian national climate science assessment initiatives, From Impacts to Adaptation: Canada in a Changing Climate 2007 and Human Health in a Changing Climate: A Canadian Assessment of Vulnerabilities and Adaptive Capacity. Collectively, these assessments involved the work of 24 scientists with expertise in a variety of disciplines and regions in the Canadian North. These assessment processes adopted aspects of a vulnerability approach to climate assessment, primarily through a review of existing and projected exposures and elements of adaptive capacity based on existing literature. In so doing, they have contributed towards a more comprehensive understanding of climate impacts and adaptations across the northern regions of the country. This paper provides an overview and introduction to the series of papers contained in the two issues of Ambio.
4312108|The relationship between internal, 24-hour rhythms (so-called biological clocks) and external work schedules is now attracting increased attention. The article gives a brief survey of the field. Lowered performance and other difficulties for the individual occur when the internal rhythms, normally synchronized to the rhythms of the society, experience a change of the external working conditions. Such a change is imposed on persons who should work after a jet flight across time zones or on shift workers. These changing working conditions and their effects on body and mental functions are surveyed. Some fields which urgently need to be investigated are listed.
4314164|Large advances have been made in linking terrestrial biospheric and atmospheric processes in real time. Further, it is now possible to model the potential response of the Earth's primary productivity to the changing climate and to changes in atmospheric CO
4313114|In contrast with much of the Himalayas, where deforestation and erosion pose drastic problems, large tracts of primary forest remain in Bhutan, although the closed nature of this Buddhist kingdom has meant that little is known of the character or extent of the resource. During 1983, a preliminary study was made in which ground-survey data were collected and related to LANDSAT 2 imagery. In this article, major forest types are described, and their extent and the pressures to which they are subjected are discussed. With developing technology and frontiers that are beginning to open, these pressures are increasing and it is considered vitally important that more exhaustive studies be undertaken and published so that informed decisions may be made about future use and management. The Bhutanese forests are a unique and locally untouched wilderness whose maintenance should be the concern of the entire developed world.
4314102|The problem of nitrogen pollution in European surface- and groundwaters has become a focus of recent European and Scandinavian directives, with legislation calling for a 50% reduction of N losses by the years 1995 and 2000, respectively. This paper provides a conceptual framework upon which management strategies to reduce losses of diffuse nitrogen pollution to surface waters may be based. The control of nitrogen pollution may take place through an increase in the complexity of the landscape, not throughout the catchment area, but rather in specific zones, the river corridor in particular. Within river corridors, riparian areas have been recognized globally for their value as nutrient removal "buffer systems". Studies have identified vegetation uptake and microbial denitrification as the primary mechanisms responsible for N removal in these systems. For these processes to function optimally on an annual basis, both vegetation and water regime must be managed. The establishment and management of riparian buffer zones in suitable places within river corridors, will provide a stable and sustainable water-protection function. This will complement future nitrogen input control strategies, needed for both the long-term protection of groundwater and surface waters in Europe as a whole, and for the proposed 50% reduction in nitrogen loading to the Baltic and North Sea coastal waters by the turn of the century.
4314330|Malaria, according to the World Health Organization, is one of the most serious and complex health problems facing humanity in the 20th century. In the past, climatic changes have greatly affected its geography. Its seriousness and complexity are therefore likely to be compounded by an anthropogenic greenhouse effect. The Malaria Potential Occurrence Zone (MOZ) model was designed to calculate first-order estimates of climate change impacts on malaria. MOZ focuses on the climatic determinants of the life cycles of malaria parasites and vectors. It does not take epidemiology into account. MOZ predicts receptivity, or potential transmission, rather than actual occurrence. MOZ indicates that the intensity and the extent of malaria potential transmission significantly change under the climate change scenarios generated by five atmospheric general circulation models. All five simulations reveal an increase in seasonal malaria at the expense of perennial malaria. This is cause for great concern. Indeed, seasonal malaria is most likely to lead to epidemics among unprepared or nonimmune populations. Moreover, climate change may trigger massive migrations of environmental refugees. Such population movements would likely put national and international health infrastructures under severe stress. Today, malaria is a developing country issue but could spread to higher latitudes. The results obtained with MOZ suggest that malaria could become a public-health problem for developed countries within decades.
24708796|Tourism is a financing mechanism considered by many donor-funded marine conservation initiatives. Here we assess the potential role of visitor entry fees, in generating the necessary revenue to manage a marine protected area (MPA), established through a Global Environmental Facility Grant, in a temperate region of Chile. We assess tourists' willingness to pay (WTP) for an entry fee associated to management and protection of the MPA. Results show 97 % of respondents were willing to pay an entrance fee. WTP predictors included the type of tourist, tourists' sensitivity to crowding, education, and understanding of ecological benefits of the MPA. Nature-based tourists state median WTP values of US$ 4.38 and Sun-sea-sand tourists US$ 3.77. Overall, entry fees could account for 1013 % of MPA running costs. In Chile, where funding for conservation runs among the weakest in the world, visitor entry fees are no panacea in the short term and other mechanisms, including direct state/government support, should be considered.
40928401|We assessed the blue mussel Mytilus edulis fishery management scheme introduced in 1994 in the Danish Wadden Sea that regulate fishing vessels, fishery quota, set-aside for mussel-eating birds and established zones closed to mussel fishery. The results showed (i) a reduction in the blue mussel biomass and mussel bed areas in zones closed to fishery, (ii) decrease in eiders Somateria mollissima numbers and increase or stable numbers for oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus and herring gull Larus argentatus and (iii) that energy estimations based on ecological food requirements for the mussel-eating birds should be at least three times larger, than the amount setaside in the mussel management scheme. It is concluded that the mussel management scheme had been unable to stabilize or increase the blue mussel stocks and to secure stable or increasing numbers for all target bird species. Thus, it is recommended to revise the present blue mussel management scheme in the Danish Wadden Sea, to continue and improve mussel stock and bird surveys, and to consider novel studies of the mussel-eating birds' energetics for improved set-aside estimates and future assessments.
4314646|This paper attempts to summarize cooperation activities within the agricultural sector from the point of view of the Eastern countries of the Baltic region. Attention is paid to the objectives to formulate and create a sustainable agriculture model, taking into account similarities and differences in the countries located around the Baltic Sea including experience of cooperation within the last 5-year period; relevant examples; and evaluation; key issues for future opportunities; strategies and developments.
25547943|The Amazon is being rapidly transformed by fire. Logging and forest fragmentation sharply elevate fire incidence by increasing forest desiccation and fuel loads, and forests that have experienced a low-intensity surface fire are vulnerable to far more catastrophic fires. Satellites typically detect thermal signatures from 40 000 to 50 000 separate fires in the Amazon each year, and this number could increase as new highways and infrastructure expand across the basin. Many are concerned that large-scale deforestation, by reducing regional evapotranspiration and creating moisture-trapping smoke plumes, will make the basin increasingly vulnerable to fire. The Amazon may also be affected by future global warming and atmospheric changes, although much remains uncertain. Most models suggest the basin will become warmer throughout this century, although there is no consensus about how precipitation will be affected. The most alarming scenarios project a permanent disruption of the El Nio-Southern Oscillation, leading to greatly increased drought or destructive synergisms between regional and global climate change in the Amazon.
4315609| Animal behavior is a central part of animal welfare, a keystone in sustainable animal breeding. During domestication, animals have adapted with respect to behavior and an array of other traits. We compared the behavior of junglefowl and White Leghorn layers, selected for egg production (and indirectly for growth). Junglefowl had a more active behavior in social, exploratory, anti-predatory and feeding tests. A genome scan for Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs) in a junglefowl  White Leghom intercross revealed several significant or suggestive QTLs for different traits. Some production QTLs coincided with QTLs for behaviour, suggesting that pleiotropic effects may be important for the development of domestication phenotypes. One gene has been located, which has a strong effect on the risk of being a victim of feather pecking, a detrimental behavior disorder. Modern genomics paired with analysis of behavior may help in designing more sustainable and robust breeding in the future. 
4311946|According to present knowledge, a significant decrease in the stratospheric ozone can take place in the future due to the action of nitrogen oxides emitted in the exhaust of supersonic commercial aircraft. This may have biological consequences. Although some estimates are given of the possible consequences of such air traffic, it is also shown that reliable predictions cannot be made before better knowledge about the stratosphere is obtained. A minimum requirement is that no large-scale supersonic operations be started at this time.
4314785|Results from an assessment of greenhouse gas emissions during the life-cycle of the carrots and tomatoes consumed in Sweden are presented and discussed. The life-cycle was divided into storage, transportation from producer to retailer, farm production, and the production and transportation of fertilizers. Emissions from carrots were lowest when produced within or close to Sweden, whilst contrary results were obtained for tomatoes. For carrots, emissions during storage and transportation dominated. In the life-cycle of tomatoes, emissions were dominated by those from the combustion of the fuel required for heating greenhouses. The total emissions of greenhouse gases from present consumption patterns for fresh vegetables, in Sweden, were estimated and compared to an assumed Permissible Environmental Space for food consumption. The conclusion drawn is that present patterns of consumption and production for fresh vegetables are unlikely to be sustainable.
4314982|This paper forecasts major trends behind the conversion of arable land to nonagricultural uses by the year 2030, as well as food production capacities in China. It was found that agricultural structure adjustment, urbanization and industrialization will play an equally important role in reducing the gross quantity of arable land. In order to conserve high-quality farmland it is necessary to increase the intensity of nonagricultural land uses through both economic incentives and administrative measures. The findings show that strengthening protection measures for arable land, including land reorganization, land reclamation, and land restoration, will significantly contribute to maintaining the acreage of arable land and enhancing food production capacities.
4315068|The rate at which deforestation of montane cloud forests of the Tropical Andes is documented, and the extent of different productive land uses in those areas, make it difficult to forecast appropriate conservation scenarios for countries that occupy the crescent of the Northern Andes abode of one of the richest biological and cultural diversity of the world. Because of ancient human impacts on soils and wildlife, as well as current intensive land-use practices, Tropandean landscapes are being depleted not only of nutrients and organic matter in cultivated soils, but also water catchment and other resources, including fisheries, forestry, mining, agriculture, and livestock that mountain peoples are producing as a result of the governmental policies of subsidized capital inputs. The exodus of young people to the cities in the Andean world exacerbates the deterioration of the rural quality of life and brings issues of marginality, poverty, and neglect into the cultural landscape. In view of this critical situation, novel conservation approaches are suggested, reflecting needed changes to contemporary paradigms of mountain studies; with the use of case examples from Andean countries, mainly Ecuador, are questioned axioms of tropical ecology. These are less clear in the field than in the scanty literature on tropical mountains, offering a holistic view of the Tropandean landscape. Hence, verticality, marginality, centrality, power and violence, expansion, religion and myth, ethnic pride and inspiration, are seen as conventional paradigms of montology that have to be re-examined in light of modern environmental thought in the Andes.
4315779|The paper builds on existing literature, highlighting current understanding and identifying unresolved issues about MeHg exposure, health effects, and risk assessment, and concludes with a consensus statement. Methylmercury is a potent toxin, bioaccumulated and concentrated through the aquatic food chain, placing at risk people, throughout the globe and across the socioeconomic spectrum, who consume predatory fish or for whom fish is a dietary mainstay. Methylmercury developmental neurotoxicity has constituted the basis for risk assessments and public health policies. Despite gaps in our knowledge on new bioindicators of exposure, factors that influence MeHg uptake and toxicity, toxicokinetics, neurologic and cardiovascular effects in adult populations, and the nutritional benefits and risks from the large number of marine and freshwater fish and fish-eating species, the panel concluded that to preserve human health, all efforts need to be made to reduce and eliminate sources of exposure.
4313166|Cotton, a major crop in Nicaragua, generates cotton stalks as a residue of its harvest. The stalks, after being harvested and stored in chip form, can be compacted into pellets or briquettes. The fuel can then be used by individuals, commerce and industry, and appears to be an economically feasible energy alternative for Nicaragua.
41510595|Environmental change in the Sudan-Sahel region of West Africa (SSWA) has been much debated since the droughts of the 1970s. In this article we assess climate variability and environmental stress in the region. Households in Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, and Nigeria were asked about climatic changes and their perceptions were compared across north-south and west-east rainfall gradients. More than 80% of all households found that rainfall had decreased, especially in the wettest areas. Increases in wind speeds and temperature were perceived by an overall 60-80% of households. Contrary to household perceptions, observed rainfall patterns showed an increasing trend over the past 20 years. However, August rainfall declined, and could therefore potentially explain the contrasting negative household perceptions of rainfall trends. Most households reported degradation of soils, water resources, vegetation, and fauna, but more so in the 500-900 mm zones. Adaptation measures to counter environmental degradation included use of manure, reforestation, soil and water conservation, and protection of fauna and vegetation. The results raise concerns for future environmental management in the region, especially in the 500-900 mm zones and the western part of SSWA.
4314154|Biological systems are intimately involved in the transfers of energy and materials around our planet, affecting the geochemistry and other physical properties of the atmosphere, the land surface, and the oceans and their sediments. Fossil-fuel combustion, land use and other human activities are, increasingly, disrupting these natural biogeochemical cycles and processes, with the potential for far-reaching consequences; for example, changes in atmospheric composition affecting the global heat balance. The carbon, nitrogen and sulfur cycles are of particular importance to the functioning of the biosphere, and are also closely linked to the physical climate system. Within IGBP, the global-scale modelling effort is initially focussed on the carbon cycle: this is poorly understood-yet is critical to estimating future levels of CO
4314888|This paper provides an overview of data and results obtained through a number of studies of actual and potential trace gas exchanges in northern Eurasia, made possible through the Swedish-Russian Tundra Ecology -94 expedition. It was found that: i) long-term accumulation rates of carbon in organic tundra soils, i.e. net uptake of atmospheric CO
25515845|This paper puts forward a model for managing eutrophication that integrates the salient ecological and economic characteristics of a coastal area suffering from severe nutrient enrichment. The model links the development of phosphorus concentration over time to nutrient emissions from agriculture and habitation. It accounts for differences in agricultural and municipal abatement options and their costs, as well as the need to undertake irreversible investments to set up wastewater treatment facilities. Furthermore, it considers sediment release of phosphorus as a function of annual nutrient loads. The model is parameterized for a 30-km-wide area off the Finnish coast of the Gulf of Finland. The socially optimal policy, which minimizes the sum of monetary damage caused by eutrophication and the costs of nutrient abatement over time, is determined using a dynamic programming approach. The results suggest that considerable investments are warranted to bring wastewater treatment facilities up to date. Continued efforts to reduce agricultural nutrient loading are nevertheless also called for. The analysis provided is a first step toward an integrated analysis of eutrophication that accounts for complexities inherent in the problem, such as sediment release of phosphorus and irreversible investments in abatement technology. The results are sensitive in particular to ecological assumptions and parameterization, and further research is needed in these areas.
4312233|Man is completely dependent on water supplied by the natural water cycle. At the same time, he modifies this cycle by innumerable manipulations. In the planning process, all interactions between man and water have to be seen in an integrated way. Three main interactions are identified in a generalized scheme that is based on the river basin as the basic water module in nature: direct water-based manipulations (withdrawal, instream structures), indirect land-based manipulations (land-use changes in the river basin) and water-related nuisances. Water-related problems in a society vary both geographically and in time; a few dominating problem profiles can be identified. A discussion of some main water issues ends the paper.
4312219|Gaseous sulfur dioxide affects vegetation in the environs of sources, in industrial areas or on orographic exposed sites even at a distance. Cells, plant organisms and ecosystems react in similar ways. Small quantities of the gas can be absorbed without harm and assimilated into organic compounds. Increasing concentrations result in reversible changes and later in irreversible ones, until a break-down of the system occurs. Various functions of ecosystems, eg crop production and erosion control, are affected at different concentrations. Maximum concentrations of 0.05, 0.08, and 0.12 mg SO
4315020|Night-time satellite imagery acquired between October 1994 and March 1995 is here exploited to derive economic and energy-related global maps. By considering the lit area of a city, and combining this with ancillary statistical information, an analysis was performed designed to investigate the potential of night-time imagery for quantitative estimation of global socioeconomic parameters. An attempt to estimate global urban population using correlations of lit area and urban populations to derive country-level relationships accounted for over 90% of the quoted total. Furthermore, the total lit area of a country has a statistically significant high correlation value with other parameters, specifically Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and total carbon dioxide ( CO
4314380|The article describes the results of a study of the environment and the use of natural resources in a coastal area in the Northwestern Province, Sri Lanka. The economy in the area is based mainly on fisheries and agriculture. The study shows that there is significant overuse of the natural resources in the area. Fishing in Puttalam Lagoon has exceeded the carrying capacity of the ecosystem and a number of habitats of critical importance to the productivity of the ecosystem are also under severe pressure. Wetlands with mangroves and other vegetation are being transformed into prawn farms at a rapid rate, coral reefs are being degraded due to the use of destructive fishing techniques. Based on these finding the article recommends several management alternatives.
4312316|The three-stage "Blue Plan" for the Mediterranean area proposes a concerted approach to socioeconomic problems, and its aim is to evaluate different development possibilities and select those designed to safeguard the marine environment and the Mediterranean sea-board for present and future generations. It takes fresh initiatives for a multinational cooperation favorable to the transfer of knowledge and technology. The Blue Plan might be an indication of a new solidarity and an emerging Mediterranean consciousness.
4314350|The picture of continent areas that meteorological satellites provide daily is interpreted in terms of chlorophyll activity thanks to an ecological model adapted to global studies. This model simulates the monthly phenological rhythm of the vast and complex vegetation systems of the African continent; results are shown as digitized maps. The paper aims to provide a better understanding and interpretation of satellite measurements. Partial validations through correlations between simulated maps and satellite images can ease the monitoring of the intertropical belt and lead to greater understanding of the global ecological changes that are taking place as a result of growing human impact.
4314119|The papers presented in the special issue of Ambio No. 7, 1993 were discussed at the Royal Colloquium 1993 on Tropical and Subtropical Coastal Zone Management: A Question of Carbon Flow in a Sectoral Society. This paper presents a summary of the highlights of the discussion and the consensus achieved. The issue of the linear flow of carbon through society which must be closed to form circular flows within and between sectors was discussed per se. These linear flows constitute threats not only to coastal zones, but also to tropical agriculture and urban subsistence. The issue was discussed also as an indicator for a more general development process. The constraints in efficient use of scientific and technological information for implementation of appropriate development goals were seen as a major development problem. Issues such as coastal zone management, agricultural practices and rural- urban configuration must be considered in terms of flows of matter and energy. Social practices were seen as the core issue for implementing the closure of linear flows. Several tools for managing these problems, at various organization levels, were discussed.
4315438|About 55% of the land area in Sweden is covered by forest. Presently, there is no uniform and geographically explict description of the forest cover for Sweden. Independent data sources already existing are satellite data from Landsat TM and SPOT HRV, map masks and forest inventory plots. Together, they provide the possibility of computing estimates of forest variables such as stem volume and stand age. The accuracy for these estimations will be low on the pixel level, but higher on a stand level. This type of raster-based forest data is useful for authorities when planning how timber resources should be utilized or for monitoring purposes. The production line that was developed to create a countrywide database of forest variable estimates in a cost-efficient way is described. Accuracy of forest variable estimates for an area in southwestern Sweden was assessed at stand level. Results showed 33% overall root mean square error for the estimates of total wood volume, and 23% for the age estimates.
4312275|The complex architectural and floristic structure of the tropical moist evergreen forest, popularly also called rain forest, varies according to site conditions. Interpretation of field studies in Bornean and Amazonian rain forest indicate that natural forest structure maximizes site utilization. Man's interference with this structure may temporarily increase economic productivity but almost always causes degradation of the site. Regional and global atmospheric conditions may also be irreversibly changed if man's destruction of the forest continues.
4312268|Indonesia faces a serious food problem. The protein needs of an expanding population and the shift of agriculture from better lands to marginal ones demand an increasing nitrogen supply. However, commercial N-fertilizers have virtually eliminated compost and green manures contributed to eutrophication, and possibly decreased biological nitrogen fixation. Modernization of agricultural production may result only in changing the life style of the villagers, without improving their health status.
4314545| The agenda of global carbon cycle research features two fundamental problems. The first concerns the direct response of the carbon system to the anthropogenic perturbation, i.e. how is the excess carbon dioxide emitted by fossil fuel burning and from changes in land use (i.e. deforestation) distributed between atmosphere, land and the ocean, and how is this distribution changing as a function of time? The second problem adresses the feedbacks, i.e. how do changes in climate feedback on the natural carbon cycle and may thus lead to variations in the atmospheric CO
4315453|This article is based on the findings of the Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA) Subregion 53, Bay of Bengal. It introduces the Subregion. The wide disparity in development indicators in the Bay of Bengal Subregion (BOBSR) is presented. The large population of poor people living in South Asia is presented as a factor that needs special attention. The article focuses on the 3 geographic sites selected for detailed analysis: i) the Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna river systems; ii) the Merbok Estuary mangroves, Malaysia; and iii) the Sunderbans mangroves, Bangladesh. Integrated water management based upon regional cooperation among Bangladesh, India and Nepal holds opportunities for mutual benefit. Policy options are proposed. For mangrove ecosystems, the impacts of urbanization in Malaysia and the unmanaged expansion of shrimp farming in Bangladesh are analyzed. Improved governance was seen to hold promise for enhancing economic benefits from shrimp farming while safeguarding the natural ecological system. However, these measures need to be a part of national efforts to achieve the UN Millennium Development Goals.
4314464|The Regional Workshop on Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory and Mitigation Strategies held 25-28 September 1995 in Seoul, Korea had the following objectives: (i) present preliminary results of inventory and mitigation assessment; (ii) discuss methodologies and data issues; (iii) facilitate exchange of knowledge among experts; and (iv) build consensus for efforts among Asian and Pacific countries. Seventy-two participants representing national governments, academic and research institutions, and nongovernmental organizations from 15 countries and international bodies attended the workshop. This paper summarizes workshop presentations and working group discussions on greenhouse gas inventories and the results of mitigation strategies in three areas: energy, forestry, and methane.
4313449|Cooperative work on heavy metals and other non-oil pollutants in Southeast Asia began systematically in 1981 on adoption of the UNEP East Asian Seas Action Plan. The five countries taking part in the action plan are Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. The parameters agreed upon at a 1983 Workshop included general water quality, nutrients, chlorinated hydrocarbons, and heavy metals in water, sediments and biota. So far, there has been no report on real problem areas in regard to chlorinated hydrocarbons or heavy metals. In most cases, pollution was caused by untreated domestic-waste runoff from cities. There is an obvious need to create a co-ordinated analytical capacity between national laboratories in the region.
4315652|The response of a biogeochemical lake model (BIOLA) to different eutrophication management actions has been studied in a eutrophic lake. Management actions included in the study were nutrient load reduction, sediment manipulation, biomanipulation, and herbicide application. The model was used to simulate nutrient and biomass concentrations in the lake during the 1990s. During the same period, management scenarios were also simulated. Several ecological parameters were calibrated to better simulate the behavior of the chosen lake, but there were still some difficulties with phosphate. This indicated that further model development is necessary. The most favorable development within the lake was found for scenarios with nutrient load reduction and biomanipulation through planktivorous fish reduction. Reducing both the nitrogen and phosphorus loads had a greater effect on the lake's water quality than simply reducing just one of the nutrients.
4314344|The significance of terrestrial ecosystems to global climate change will not be fully recognized until all components which contribute to their flux are accurately quantified. The absence of a common approach to quantify terrestrial carbon has resulted in substantial discrepancies in regional, national, and global estimates of carbon. One of the most dramatic cases is represented by the flux estimates for Russian forests which differ both in character and by two orders of magnitude. A system of accounting which provides a comprehensive estimate of the carbon flux between Russian forests and the atmosphere is presented herein. All significant components of the carbon cycle in forest ecosystems are considered. The sequestration of carbon in Russian forests is substantial. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Russian forests were accumulating 0.68 Pg C yr
4315818|The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area signed in 1974 in Helsinki is probably the most important environmental agreement consummated in the Baltic Sea region. This article is the first study that explores the history of this agreement, also known as the Helsinki Convention, by using primary archival sources. The principal sources are the archives of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland. We examine the role of Finland in the process that led to the signing of the Helsinki Convention from the perspective of international politics. The study focuses primarily on Finnish, Swedish, and Soviet state-level parties from the end of the 1960s to 1974. We show that Cold War politics affected in several ways negotiations and contents of the Helsinki Convention. We also argue that the Soviet Union used the emerging international environmental issues as a new tool of power politics.
4315567|The participation of fishermen in fisheries management is discussed with varying ideas under the notions of "co-management", "participatory management" or "local management". Empirical studies within Swedish fishery have thrown new light on the preconditions for fishermen's participation in fisheries management. Among the important factors influencing failure or success are the two which we discuss here: the question of articulation, organization and representation of interests of fishermen and the question of trust between the groups that are usually cooperating in resource management, fishermen, governmental administrators and researchers. The research summarized has addressed the interests of fishermen with regard to resource management, local fisheries management, and participation of fishermen. The overarching question connecting the three themes is: How can the interests of fishermen be represented better within fisheries management? Interests and trust, "soft facts", can be as important for the success or failure of fisheries management and participation as can "hard facts" such as ownership rights, quantity and quality of resources or monetary value of resources.
4314486|Compared to the temperate zone, carbon sequestration by trees is much faster in the tropical belt due to favorable climatic conditions. However net sequestration in tropics is much less than actual CO
23257417|The northern reef of Yongxing Island, the largest reef island of the Xisha Islands in the South China Sea, was in good condition with significant cover of scleractinian corals until 2002. Surveys in 2008 and 2010, however, found that coral coverage had declined rapidly and severely, implying that catastrophic coral mortality occurred during the past 8 years. A blackish mat was observed covering live and dead corals in both 2008 and 2010 that was identified as an encrusting sponge, Terpios hoshinota, by special surface morphology and spicule structure. In addition, spicule residues were found on the surface of long-dead corals, indicating a previous invasion of T. hosinota. T. hoshinota is referred to as the "black disease" because it rapidly overgrows and kills corals. Our evidence indicates that outbreaks of black disease are at least partially responsible for the massive coral mortality at the northern reef of Yongxing Island over the past 8 years, although human activities and heat-related coral bleaching cannot be discounted as minor causes for this coral decline.
4314841|Research within the Swedish FiRe project Reproductive Disturbances in Baltic Fish has focused mainly on the M74 syndrome, which has caused high mortality in fry of sea-run Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) from the Baltic Sea. At the end of the 4-year project, the cause of M74 is still not known, but the symptoms have been well described and treatment with thiamine (vitamin B
4314872|Nonenergy use is the consumption of fossil fuels as feedstocks for the manufacture of synthetic materials, e.g. plastics. Nonenergy partly leads to short-term carbon dioxide emissions and partly, it is stored in products for longer periods of time. The IPCC guidelines (Reference Approach) offer a top-down method to estimate the amount of stored carbon. An alternative method is material flow analysis, a bottom-up calculation method. A prerequisite for the application of both methods is that nonenergy use data published in national energy balances comply with a common definition. We found that this is not always the case and that the resulting errors can be considerable, i.e. approx. 10% for Germany and 30% for Italy. Therefore, we performed a harmonization step for nonenergy data. We then applied the IPCC method and material flow analysis to Germany. One result is that the material-flow analysis confirms the outcome according to the IPCC Reference Approach. Another result is that total carbon losses equal about 10% of nonenergy use.
4315256|Common property systems are a critical institution mediating the relationship between population change and environmental outcomes, especially in coastal and marine ecosystems. Evidence from El Salvador; Goa, India; and the Solomon Islands demonstrates how the social structures and institutions stemming from patterns of human migration variably influence environmental out-comes through their effects on common property resource institutions. In each of the case studies, the demographic phenomenon is not population growth or a change in numbers, but an underlying process that affects population size and growth rates: i.e. migration and associated social relations that result from or cause more migration. The following 3 case studies provide the respective historical and cultural context to show that there is a nonlinear link between population and environment, which when explored reveals the importance of understanding how individuals and communities are embedded in sets of social relations that must be considered when evaluating environmental policies or when determining the causes of environmental degradation.
4312369|The common reed (Phragmites australis) can be harvested in dry condition during the winter, ground into a powder, and used as a fuel for heating houses. One kg of dry matter will yield 5 kWh of energy. Technically rational harvest methods already exist. Cultivation on wetlands could greatly increase the amount of reed available for energy production. A harvest of 10 tons of dry matter per ha (50 MWh/ha/year) should be achievable. Cultivation of reed and fabrication of reed powder would yield about ten times more energy than would be used for soil preparation, harvesting, grinding, transportation etc. Estimated costs for reed powder from natural reed stands are competitive with present consumer oil prices in Sweden. Reeds can be harvested in such a way that wetland ecosystems are managed without major disturbances, and a cultivation of reed would make it possible to preserve or even increase the area of wetlands now threatened by extensive ditching. This would improve water balance, waterfowl production and wildlife management, and the land would become economically productive.
4315139|Human-induced environmental changes, especially eutrophication, and fluctuations of natural environmental conditions under the changes in climate and solar activity affect the reproduction and growth of various fish species and communities in the Baltic Sea. The importance of human impacts has increased considerably during the last decades, overshadowing in many cases natural factors. High exploitation rates have depressed some valuable fish species and affected the species dominance hierarchy. Oxygen depletion in deeper layers progressively deteriorates the living conditions of certain marine species. Mass immigration of nonindigenous species with ballast waters can seriously affect ecosystems and fish stocks. The summary effect of these variables upon marine, relict and freshwater species can yield unexpected results. Fish resources should be properly assessed and managed by their natural units (populations). Based on cyclic fluctuations of global climatic processes, composition of long-term forecasts on changes in the structure and abundance of fish fauna should be started.
4312195|Some effects on the ontogenic development of the Baltic spring-spawning herring (Clupea harengus membras L) of a Venezuelan crude oil, either alone or mixed with oil-spill dispersants, were studied. Eggs were exposed to different concentrations of additives in the test media. Three different oil-spill dispersants were used. One (Finasol SC) is highly toxic, the other two (Finasol OSR-2 and BP 1100 X) are "non-toxic" dispersants developed after the Torrey Canyon disaster. The results show that the toxicity of the crude oil increases several hundred-fold if the the oil is dispersed by Finasol OSR-2 or BP 1100 X, and by an additional factor of ten if Finasol SC is used. The sublethal effects on several physiological functions were studied: embryonic activity, rate of embryonic heart beat, morphological aberrations, and growth of the larvae. It was found that these functions were severely affected and that disturbances of the functions may appear at concentrations of dispersants much lower than those used in the present study.
41417248|We compared the European and eastern Chinese waterbird assemblages and checked whether the effects of human disturbance could be detected in the assemblages' composition. For the different Chinese provinces, we expected to find a negative effect of economic development on the mean bird species mass and on the proportion of bentivorous, piscivorous and insectivorous bird species. We also expected to find relatively fewer large species in the Chinese assemblage. Species rankabundance curves were relatively similar, but China had significantly more species with smaller body masses. The China assemblage was characterized by relatively higher abundance of heavy-bodied species, contrary to our expectations. Mean bird body mass decreased in China with increasing disturbance and increasing gross domestic product (GDP). For coastal provinces in China the percentage of bentivorous, piscivorous and insectivorous bird species declined with increasing GDP, maybe through the increased use of pesticides or fertilizer.
25547882|The Mekong River Basin is facing rapid changes, including intensive plans for water development. While the different development projects are considered to be important for economic development, the negative impacts that they are likely to cause for ecosystems and livelihoods are estimated to be remarkable. Yet, existing impact assessment processes seem in many cases to be inadequate to capture even the actual magnitude of the impacts at different levels. This article looks at the different impact assessment processes and their challenges in the basin. It is argued that impact assessment in this kind of dynamic and complex setting requires better coordination between assessments at different levels. Basinwide impact assessment would benefit from a more adaptive, multilevel approach that makes better use of assessments from local levels up to the regional level and builds on more participatory and interdisciplinary methods. Successful impact assessment also requires the recognition of the highly political nature of water development and related planning processes.
4315096|Acidification represents a growing threat to certain developing country ecosystems in tropical and subtropical climates. A methodology investigating the extent of acidification risks from sulfur emissions on a global scale is presented. Atmospheric transfer models have been used to calculate transfer and deposition of sulfur (using emissions for 1990 and a projection for 2050) and alkaline soil dust. A method to derive the relative sensitivity of terrestrial ecosystems is explained and preliminary critical load values are assigned. A range of values for critical loads and base cation deposition have been used to investigate uncertainty in maps depicting the excess of deposition above critical loads. These show an increasing risk of acidification in 2050 in extended regions of southem and eastern Asia, as well as parts of southern Africa, in comparison to 1990. Certain areas, especially in Asia, are shown at risk even when high values of critical load and base cation deposition are used.
4314098|Acidification, liming and other anthropogenic effects alter the amounts and character of the humic material and its manifold roles. Although the transfer of DOC from soils to surface waters is an incidental feature of terrestrial ecology, the reactive chemistry of DOC makes it of great importance in the ecology of the aquatic ecosystem. It is, therefore, important to identify the complex nature of the humic material in order to understand its biological role in aquatic ecosystems. Humic substances may buffer against acidification, but may also add acidity to surface waters. This may be an important factor in the northern part of Sweden, whereas further south pH is primarily attributed to anthropogenic sources. There is large spatial and temporal variation in the transport of DOC from the terrestrial environment, which varies the ecosystem effects mediated by the humic material on the ecosystem. The humic material can affect biological processes through several different mechanisms, either directly through interfering with metabolic processes or indirectly by altering the bioavailability of nutrients or toxicants.
25547918|In the 20th century, much research was done on desertification. Desertification developed into a complex and vague construct that means land degradation under specific conditions. Projects focusing on land degradation in semiarid East Africa have met with limited success because farmers prioritize drought as the major productivity-reducing problem. Yet studies on long-term rainfall trends have not confirmed that droughts are more frequent. In this article, we combine drought and land degradation effects into an Agricultural Drought Framework, which departs from the farmers' prioritization of drought and accommodates scientists' concern for land degradation. It includes meteorological drought, soil water drought, and soil nutrient drought. The framework increases insight into how different land degradation processes influence the vulnerability of land and farmers to drought. A focus on increased rainwater use efficiency will address both problems of land degradation and drought, thereby improving productivity and food security in semiarid East Africa.
4314746| The example of the Massif Central, which is the largest mountain area of France, illustrates a widespread type of European mountains: those located at middle altitudes (less than 2000 m), with a past economy based almost exclusively on agriculture and which today offer restricted touristic potentials. Such mountains are severely affected by depopulation which primarily controls contemporary landscape change, much more than climate fluctuations. The growing extension of forests and fallowlands induces feedback effects which combine with current economical trends to marginalize such mountain areas, which return to "mediaeval wilderness". This is especially the case in the central granitic highlands where islands of human life and activities appear more and more restricted. In contrast, some peri-urban and more scenic areas such as the volcanic mountains of the Cantal Massif and the Chane des Puys, promote tourism activities in natural parks in attempts to limit and halt depopulation. However, the maintenance of attractive landscapes faces two problems: the decreasing number of farmers and the cost of agri-environmental measures. 
4312238|Rainfall fluctuation, partly expressed in terms of rainfall variability, is described with regard to its distribution in time as well as in space around the globe. The concept "normal precipitation" is discussed and is claimed to be misleading, as no single time period can be considered "normal" in this context. As regards the time distribution, fluctuations are treated both on a year-to-year basis and as long-term trends. The probability of periods of droughts is discussed in this connection.
4315070|Andean cloud forests play an important role in watershed hydrology and protection against erosion. Even though most cloud forests fall under officially protected areas, a good deal of the cloud forests are being deforested and replaced by pastures for grazing cattle, which is the most important land use in Venezuelan cloud forest environments. The water dynamics of the natural forest as well as the impact of replacement by pastures are poorly understood. We have been conducting a research project since 1996, in order to study some of the water fluxes of the forest and to evaluate the hydrological impact of replacement by pasture. The study site is located at La Mucuy (2300 m with 3124 mm rainfall), Merida State, in the Venezuelan Andes. The results show that, in the forest, 91% of total incoming water was from rainfall and 9% was from cloudwater. Total foliage interception was 51%, which is a high value for a tropical montane forest. About 49% of the total incoming water reaches the ground as throughfall, whereas litter intercepts 6% of the water and a final 1.4% was lost by surface runoff. Therefore, infiltration must be about 42%. Approximately 16% was lost by transpiration leaving about 26% for drainage. Results from pastureland studies show 7% interception, while surface runoff (2%) and transpiration (about 66%) were higher than in the forest. Our first results on soil water status suggest that the forest soil (upper horizon) has a significantly higher % moisture than the pasture soil.
4313603|The impact of Man on the Baltic ecosystem in the 20th century is summarized by estimating changes in major energy flows, expressed as organic carbon. Recent eutrophication has increased pelagic primary production by an estimated 30-70%, and sedimentation of organic carbon by 70-190%. Above the primary halocline, biomass and production of benthos have increased, while in the deep waters of the Baltic proper, oxygen deficiency has led to the loss of formerly important food chains over nearly
4314475|Research on country-level carbon budgets provides a quantitative basis for national policy decisions on greenhouse gas mitigation strategies. For many countries, including Russia, the carbon pools and flux associated with the forest sector are important components of the national carbon budget. Russia has 884 mill. ha of forest storing an estimated 42.1 PgC in live biomass, 29.5 PgC in detritus, and 2.9 PgC in forest products. Between 1988 and 1993, carbon stores in live biomass were reduced by 0.5 Pg as a result of the timber harvest (which exceeded carbon accumulation in growing trees), fires, and other natural disturbances. Only a small portion of the disturbed forest carbon pool is instantly released into the atmosphere: the greater part of it is transferred into the detrital pool while some is accumulated in forest products. The lack of data on these key components leads to large uncertainties in carbon flux estimates. Russian forests have significant potential to be managed for the purposes of carbon sequestration. The analysis indicates that forest management measures can increase the future level of carbon storage in Russian forests on a sustainable basis by 2.0 PgC, approximately 2.8%.
4315031|Concentrations of PCBs in water (dissolved), suspended particles (SPM), sediment trap material, and sediments in the Baltic Sea are discussed in relation to the dynamics of organic carbon and lipids as the sorbing matrices. Both carbon- and lipid-normalized concentrations of PCBs in SPM increase during the sedimentation giving rise to an increase in observed log ${\rm K}_{{\rm oc}}$ with more that one order of magnitude for most of the studied PCBs. It appears that hydrophobic organic compounds (HOCs) are retained within the settling particles while the organic carbon and the lipids are degraded, rather than there being a continuous uptake of PCBs during settling. However, the explanation for the high concentration maintained in the sediments over long time periods, must be an increasing capability of the organic matrix to sorb HOCs during the ageing process. The results are of importance for current models of the fate of HOCs in the environment and imply that the use of a single equation to estimate equilibrium concentrations of HOCs in SPM may significantly underestimate concentrations in settling particles.
4315132|Long-term information on possible changes in cyanobacterial blooms in the Baltic Sea, formed mainly by Nodularia spurnigena and Aphanizomenon sp., was sought in published records in historical (years 1887-1938) and modern (years 1974-1998) phytoplankton data sets. Old and new sampling methods and fixatives were tested to improve the comparison of data that had been collected and analyzed in different ways. A hundred years ago, plankton was mainly of interest as a source of fish food; eutrophication problems were only locally reported from the coast, mainly in southern haffs and the receiving waters of larger cities. There were few recordings of open-sea blooms before World War II. Abundances of Nodularia spumigena and Aphanizomenon sp. were low in the old material, and 137 summer samples from 1887-1938 showed no peak abundance. High abundances are common in the new material, and the range of the numbers of both taxa has increased markedly relative to the old material. Since the 1960s, cyanobacterial blooms have been common in the open sea in both the Baltic proper and the Gulf of Finland, indicating high availability of nutrients.
4313351|Stream management throughout the world requires a holistic, ecosystem approach that is partly centered on stream riparian zones, but also involves fisheries management and factors exogenous to the stream. The importance of the riparian zone as a buffer between the stream and watershed is illustrated by examples from Denmark and The Netherlands where agricultural use of the watershed threatens surface-water quality. Additional examples from western Jamaica, Zimbabwe and the United States illustrate the ecological value as well as historical mismanagement of streams. The economic value of riparian zones as nutrient filters is discussed, with examples from agricultural lands in Sweden. The importance of a holistic approach is illustrated by the oncho (river blindness disease) program in western Africa where disease control may threaten riparian zones and the worldwide introduction of exotic fishes which threatens indigenous species. The holistic approach is extended to a global perspective where factors wholly outside the watershed may affect streams. Examples are deforestation in western Africa that causes desertification in Zimbabwe and long-range transport of air pollutants that causes acidification of running waters in Scandinavia.
4315395|Controlling deforestation in Brazil's Amazon region has long been illusive despite repeated efforts of government authorities to slow the process. From 1997 to 2000, deforestation rates in Brazil's 9-state "Legal Amazon" region continually crept upward. Now, a licensing and enforcement program for clearing by large farmers and ranchers in the state of Mato Grosso appears to be having an effect. The deforestation rate in Mato Grosso was already beginning to slacken before initiation of the program in 1999, but examination of county-level data suggests that deforestation in already heavily cleared areas was falling due to lack of suitable uncleared land, while little-cleared areas were experiencing rapid deforestation. Following initiation of the program, the clearing rates declined in the recent frontiers. Areas with greater enforcement effort also appear to have experienced greater declines. Demonstration of government ability to enforce regulations and influence trends is important to domestic and international debates regarding use of avoided deforestation to mitigate global warming.
4315034|The expanding occurrence of laminated surficial sediments in the Baltic proper has increased the possibilities to assess interannual variation in sediment accumulation over the past four decades. During the same period of time, wind speeds and wind directions in the area have been recorded continuously on Gotska Sandn. When studying the fine structure in three distinctly laminated sediment cores, selected from 55 cores collected within a 39 km2 area, annual dry matter accumulation was found to correlate positively with the frequency of high wind speeds, reaching an optimum at gale force  14 m s-1. This confirms that resuspended sediments contribute significantly to the sediment accumulation, with a mean rate of 2 mm yr-1 for 25 surficially laminated cores collected at depths of 115-145 m. Decadal changes in both storm frequency and sediment deposition were observed, which may have implications not only for the turnover of sediments and associated nutrients and contaminants, but also for interpretations using sediment cores as historical archives. Horizontal comparison of dated sediment layers in all cores revealed a record of substantial changes in deep-water conditions. Recent recolonization of large areas by benthic fauna, within the depth of 102-125 m, suggests that storm events in the early 1990s are responsible for substantially improved oxygen conditions. Although, bioturbation of laminated sediments, with a depth range of 0.5-5.5 cm in our samples, creates a false picture of an earlier improvement.
4312997|High ozone concentrations frequently occur over extensive areas in western Europe and ozone seems to be a mounting problem for farming and forestry in these countries. Ozone must be taken into account in any effort to assess the economic consequences of damage to crops and forests caused by air pollution. Recent scientific results are presented regarding effects of ozone on crops and trees in the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Denmark, Sweden and the United States.
4315334|Based on 1997-1998 field investigations in the Changjiang river mouth, rain sampling from the river's upper reaches to the mouth, historical data, and relevant literature, the various sources of Total Nitrogen (TN) and Dissolved Inorganic Nitrogen (DIN) in the Changjiang river catchment and N transport in the Changjiang river mouth were estimated. The export fluxes of various form of N were mainly controlled by the river runoff, and the export fluxes of NO
4314019| The urinary excretion of cortisol and oestrone sulfate were determined in pregnant mink fed PCB and fractions of PCB. Data from trials undertaken in 1988 (70 animals) and 1989 (20 animals) are included. Mink were fed PCB daily starting about 35 days before mating and continuing for another 50 days thereafter, i.e. until expected time of delivery. At the time of implantation PCB-treated mink from 1988 tended to have a higher urinary cortisol excretion than control animals (2.32 vs 1.14 mol per mol creatinine, 0.05 < p < 0.10). During the same period PCB-treated mink from 1989 had significantly (p < 0.05) higher urinary cortisol excretion compared to control animals (5.22 vs 289 mol per mol creatinine). The increase in urinary excretion of oestrone sulfate after mating began approximately 10 days later in PCB-treated than in control mink. In contrast, when approaching the time of parturition oestrone sulfate excretion was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in the PCB-treated than in the control group. The exact mechanism by which alterations in the secretion of cortisol could influence the observed high incidence of fetal resorption in PCB fed mink is not known. Furthermore, the results indicate ovary/corpus luteum to be the most probable source of U-oestrone sulfate in the pregnant mink. 
4312904|Kakadu National Park, one of the first areas in Australia to be accepted for entry on the World Heritage List, was nominated because of its outstanding natural and cultural values. It is largely Aboriginal land leased to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. Special Aboriginal training programs have been introduced and the Aboriginal people are involved in all aspects of Park management.
4315682| Salix fragilis is the most common willow species grown extensively under the indigenous agroforestry system in the cold desert of Lahaul valley located in the northwestern Himalayas, India. Presently, this tree is under severe pest attack, and other infections have made its survival in the area questionable. This deciduous multipurpose tree species provides vegetation cover to the barren landscape of Lahaul and is a significant contributor of fuel and fodder to the region. This study is a detailed profile of the plant in three villages within this region: Khoksar, Jahlma, and Hinsa. The willow provided 69.5%, 29%, and 42% of the total fuelwood requirements of Jahlma, Khoksar, and Hinsa respectively. A striking observation was that only 30.0  20.1% trees were healthy: 55.2  16.1% of the willows have dried up and 14.8  6.1% were in drying condition due to a combination of pest infestation and infection. To sustain this cultivation of willow under the existing agroforestry system in the region, we recommend that locally available wild species and other established varieties of willow growing in similar regions of the Himalayas be introduced on a trial basis. 
4314474|In order to fulfill their commitments to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the industrialized countries started searching for cost-effective alternatives for reducing their greenhouse gas emissions. This has led to a rising interest in forestry-based carbon (C) offsets. Tree planting or silvicultural treatments can be used to actively remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Alternatively, conservation practices or improved forest management can be used to prevent or reduce current trends of carbon release from existing forests. In this paper, we describe a series of carbon offset projects that have been initiated using these approaches. A project involving planting of degraded forests in Sabah, Malaysia, is described in more detail. It is estimated that this project will offset 183 Mg C ha
4313945|This paper discusses increases in trace metals (Cu, Cd, Zn, Pb, Mn, and Co) in the soft tissues and shells of an Indian estuarine bivalve Villorita cyprinoides var. cochinensis (Hanley). Concentrations of metals in the shells have been plotted against shell weights, which can be regarded as an index of the age of the bivalve. Metals like Cu, Zn, and Cd were found to be more abundant in the soft tissues while Pb, Mn, and Co were preferentially concentrated in the shells. This preferential enrichment of metals in the shells is discussed in the light of the mineralogical characteristics of the shells.
25547797|In this paper we show that oxygenated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (oxy-PAHs) are important cocontaminants that should be taken into account during risk assessment and remediation of sites with high levels of PAHs. The presented data, which have been collected both from our own research and the published literature, demonstrate that oxy-PAHs are abundant but neglected contaminants at these sites. The oxy-PAHs show relatively high persistency and because they are formed through transformation of PAHs, their concentrations in the environment may even increase as the sites are remediated by methods that promote PAH degradation. Furthermore, we show that oxy-PAHs are toxic to both humans and the environment, although the toxicity seems to be manifested through other effects than those known to be important for polycyclic aromatic compounds in general, that is, mutagenicity and carcinogenicity. Finally, we present data that support the hypothesis that oxy-PAHs are more mobile in the environment than PAHs, due to their polarity, and thus have a higher tendency to spread from contaminated sites via surface water and groundwater. We believe that oxy-PAHs should be included in monitoring programs at PAH-contaminated sites, even if a number of other toxicologically relevant compounds that may also be present, such as nitro-PAHs and azaarenes, are not monitored. This is because oxy-PAH levels are difficult to predict from the PAH levels, because their environmental behavior differs substantially from that of PAHs, and oxy-PAHs may be formed as PAHs are degraded.
4314909|This paper focusses on the widespread but false belief that water is very simple and can be handled within a "water sector". Water's mutifunctionality is discussed in terms of its manifold appearances in relation to a simple mental image of the interaction between human society and the physical landscape hosting its life-support system. Fundamental regional differences in the challenges are highlighted in terms of both vapor flow of "green" water, involved in biomass production, and liquid flow of "blue" water available in aquifers and rivers for societal use. The author shows that the developing world is at present experiencing a threefold escalation: of water stress; of dispute proneness; and of pollution load. Analysis suggests that water availability constraints will increasingly disturb global food security. The increasing food needs make it particularly important to find ways of reconciling upstream/downstream conflicts of interest, especially as intensified upstream biomass production (agriculture, forestry) easily leads to downstream river depletion. Such depletion will generate increasingly severe problems for water-dependent societal activities and aquatic ecological services downstream. The paper presents a simplified holistic view of humanity's present environmental predicament by benefitting from a freshwater perspective. Like the doctor bases much of his diagnosis of a patient on the blood system, its circulation and quality, the author bases her diagnosis of the world ecosystem on the bloodstream of the biosphere, i.e. the water cycle. The aim is to indentify the most crucial actions in future-oriented decision-making.
4315045|The World Heritage Convention has been ratified by 158 countries and provides an international legal regime for the conservation of sites of global cultural or natural value. There are 33 tropical forest sites listed under the convention, mainly for their global biodiversity value. They constitute an elite set of biodiversity sites covering approximately 2.5% of the world's closed tropical forests and making a significant contribution to the conservation of the world's terrestrial biodiversity. A range of international initiatives will eventually provide a framework for better conservation and sustainable management of forests worldwide, but the World Heritage Convention provides an existing mechanism which could quickly be mobilized to safeguard the most important forests. In the past sites were selected for listing under the convention if they were perceived to have minimal human impact. However, all forests are modified by humans and we contend that modification need not be inconsistent with the maintenance of global biodiversity values. The convention could have greater impact if it addressed more directly the reality of the ubiquitous human modification of forests. This could be achieved through use of more adaptive forms of management based on objective criteria and indicators to define tolerance of change and trigger management responses to achieve desired biodiversity outcomes. We conclude that an optimal list of world heritage tropical forest sites might include up to 100 sites or clusters of sites and that such a network of sites could effectively protect a high proportion of the world's forest biodiversity. The present rate of attrition of the world's tropical forests suggests the need for urgent international action to focus on a set of priority sites and the World Heritage Conservation could provide the best international framework for such action.
4313888|For the first time in 4000 million years of life on Earth a single species, Homo sapiens is causing progressive ecological disturbances. These changes are the outcome of the human aptitude for culture, especially as this aptitude has recently found expression in the Western World. They are associated with the fact that humans are using about 12 000 times as much energy, mainly in the form of fossil fuels, as they were 400 generations ago when farming was first introduced. Nearly 80% of this energy use and technological waste production is taking place in the industrialized nations, which make up around 25% of the total human population. If the biosphere is to survive as a system capable of supporting humankind, humans must apply their aptitude for culture to working out new societal arrangements which are sensitive to the health needs both of the ecosystems of the biosphere and of human populations.
25547812|This paper focuses on appropriation of natural capital through construction of buildings. The ecological footprint and the Costanza natural capital concepts are applied. The environmental consequences of human settlement are currently of great concern, and a need is felt to reduce the impact of building on the environment. The embodied energy of building materials and the "land area" required to sustain their production are considered to evaluate the demand on nature of this activity. The ecological footprints of 2 typical Italian buildings are compared. The paper also focuses on how to reduce the natural capital appropriation of building construction by means of environmentally inexpensive materials, renewable energy resources, and optimization of the use of bioproductive land by construction of multistoried buildings. Finally, to allocate an environmental load of buildings, an economic evaluation of natural capital appropriation through building construction is proposed.
4315629|We investigated the potential role of Antarctic tourism in the introduction of human-associated pathogens into Antarctic wildlife. We collected and analyzed 233 fecal samples from eight bird species. The samples were collected at six localities on the Antarctic Peninsula, which often is visited by tourists. Every sample was investigated for pathogens of potential human origin: Campylobacter jejuni, Salmonella spp., and Yersina spp. None of these bacteria was found. Our data suggest that the tourism industry so far has achieved its goal of not introducing pathogens into the Antarctic region. There is, however, an urgent need to further investigate the situation in areas closer to permanent Antarctic settlements.
4315455|This paper presents results of the research under the program Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA) for the Aral Sea basin (Subregion 24 of the GIWA program). These results show that the determining factor for the region is freshwater shortage and the main issue is modification of stream flow. According to GIWA assessment estimations, freshwater shortage is responsible for about 70% of the developmental problems in the region. The current economy is developing under conditions of increasing water deficiency. In spite of increasing efforts by the governments of the countries in the region, and by the international community, the situation in regard to water supply and economic objectives in the countries of central Asia remains tense and shows clear tendencies towards aggravation and conflict. The main causes for this sharpening of ecological and socioeconomic conditions in the region are analyzed, and measures to mitigate stress in transboundary water-resources use are presented.
41510596|We report observations of disappearance of Erica tetralix in wet heathland, which is unlikely to be caused by competition, as E. tetralix is dying before its place is taken up by other species. To investigate the causes, we used both old and new data. Results showed that presence of Molinia caerulea and Calluna vulgaris were substantial in the former E. tetralix dominated areas. Measurements of the C/N ratio in the morlayer were between 21 and 26 under the E. tetralix stands. As the expected C/N ratio in a healthy nutrient poor ecosystem like the E. tetralix wet heathland is around 30, this indicates that the ratio is probably decreasing and, correspondingly, the probability of nitrogen leaching from the ecosystem is increasing. The morlayer pH was extremely lowbetween 3.03 and 3.78. This represents a pH decline since the 1960s, where pH values generally were above 4. This supports the hypothesis that the decrease in morlayer pH is the major factor explaining the disappearance of E. tetralix and that measures to increase pH should be considered as part of the recommendations for relevant future management.
4315030|Several studies show that there are interactive processes between eutrophication and uptake of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in aquatic biota. The main concept is that the increased biomass and production in aquatic ecosystems, due to excess discharge of nutrients, causes a chain event that results in reduced uptake of POPs in primary producers (phytoplankton). This effect is then transferred to consumers at different trophic levels. The chain event may work in an indirect way by increasing the sedimentation of organic matter and, thereby, increasing the downward flux of pollutants to the bottoms, where they are caught in the organic sediment matrix. The chain event may also work in a direct way; the uptake of POPs in the fast growing phytoplankton is decreased as a result of "growth-dilution", and lower amounts of pollutants are transported in the food-web. The effect seen may also be a result of changed food-web structures that differ considerably from nutrient-poor to nutrient-rich ecosystems. In this paper, we use the existing knowledge of POPs behavior in aquatic systems of different nutrient status, to discuss possible interactive processes of eutrophication and contaminants in the Baltic Sea. The Baltic is known to be highly contaminated with POPs and exposed to ongoing eutrophication. Results from investigations in lakes are compared to laboratory and field studies of the Baltic Sea.
4314848|During recent decades several Baltic fish species have been affected by poor reproductive success. The sea-run Baltic salmon populations are affected by the M74 syndrome, an early life-stage mortality associated with low thiamine (vitamin B
4313337|As natural forests diminish in parts of the developing world, rural communities widely establish local stocks of trees for soil conservation and to maintain needed goods and services, such as fuelwood. Growing pressures on the resource base of rural communities are making it increasingly difficult to develop appropriate independent tree management practices not requiring external support. Such support needs to be accurately matched to the particular needs and possibilities of each case. Three community forestry strategies are reviewed-communal forestry, farm forestry for the household, and farm forestry for the market.
4313737|While recognizing that the relations between science, technology and development are far more complex than we thought 30 years ago and that neither science nor technology is a shortcut to development, it is argued that the building up of a national research capacity should be considered as a priority for every nation in the world. After a brief historical review of the development of science in the developing world this article discusses the professional and social status of scientists, the conditions under which research is conducted and characterizes the scientific production in developing countries (DCs). Recent changes of the foreign aid policies and institutions are also reviewed. In the conclusion, it is stressed that better concerted cooperation between foreign aid managers and national policy-makers is needed to find innovative ways to back the emergence and the reproduction of endogenous scientific communities in the developing world. More and more problems, e.g. environmental deterioration, are becoming a growing concern for all nations of the world. The solution to these problems will require mobilization of the world around reinforced collaborative efforts.
41417266|Environmental change challenges local and global survival of populations and species. In a speciespoor environment like the Baltic Sea this is particularly critical as major ecosystem functions may be upheld by single species. A complex interplay between demographic and genetic characteristics of species and populations determines risks of local extinction, chances of re-establishment of lost populations, and tolerance to environmental changes by evolution of new adaptations. Recent studies show that Baltic populations of dominant marine species are locally adapted, have lost genetic variation and are relatively isolated. In addition, some have evolved unusually high degrees of clonality and others are representatives of endemic (unique) evolutionary lineages. We here suggest that a consequence of local adaptation, isolation and genetic endemism is an increased risk of failure in restoring extinct Baltic populations. Additionally, restricted availability of genetic variation owing to lost variation and isolation may negatively impact the potential for evolutionary rescue following environmental change.
4315502|The Small Sanjiang Plain (SSP), was formerly the largest wetland complex in China, located in the Northeastern part of Heilongjiang Province, China. Home to vast numbers of waterfowls, fish, and plants, the SSP is globally significant for biodiversity conservation. The loss and fragmentation of wetlands as a result agricultural development over 50 years has impacted wetland communities and their biodiversity. We used GIS to inventory large-scale land-use changes from 1950 to 2000, together with other statistical data. We found that 73.6% of the wetlands were lost due to agricultural development. Consequences of these land-use changes included: i) a rapid decline in waterfowl and plant species with the loss and fragmentation of natural wetlands and wetland ecosystem degradation; ii) greater variation in wetland water levels as the result of land-use changes over the years; iii) disruption of the dynamic river-floodplain connection by construction of drainage ditches and levees; and iv) a decrease in floodplain area that caused increased flooding peak flows and runoff. Here we show how these changes affect wetland biodiversity and impact important wetland species.
4314526|Accelerating land degradation constitutes a risk for sustaining the environment as well as the livelihood of man. A holistic approach to the planning, development and management of land resources is required to meet the human and environmental needs and to combat degradation. It is essential to facilitate the dialogue in the planning process and to further cooperation between people and institutions by inviting all stakeholders to a participatory decision-making process. It is stated that action-oriented research, e.g. on the development of indicators of soil and land quality as well as of adapted technology packages, shall be enhanced. Approaches to promote sustainable land management and progress in soil and water conservation technologies were extensively discussed at the 9th ISCO Conference entitled "Towards sustainable land use-furthering cooperation between people and institutions", held in Bonn from 26-30 August 1996.
4315805| Estuaries have been suggested to have an important role in reducing the nitrogen load transported to the sea. We measured denitrification rates in six estuaries of the northern Baltic Sea. Four of them were river mouths in the Bothnian Bay (northern Gulf of Bothnia), and two were estuary bays, one in the Archipelago Sea (southern Gulf of Bothnia) and the other in the Gulf of Finland. Denitrification rates in the four river mouths varied between 330 and 905 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. The estuary bays at the Archipelago Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia had denitrification rates from 90 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> to 910 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> and from 230 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> to 320 mol N m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Denitrification removed 3.6-9.0% of the total nitrogen loading in the river mouths and in the estuary bay in the Gulf of Finland, where the residence times were short. In the estuary bay with a long residence time, in the Archipelago Sea, up to 4.5% of nitrate loading and 19% of nitrogen loading were removed before entering the sea. According to our results, the sediments of the fast-flowing rivers and the estuary areas with short residence times have a limited capacity to reduce the nitrogen load to the Baltic Sea. 
4314107|Radioactive debris released from Chernobyl reactor No. 4 was deposited over Sweden in late April and early May 1986, creating a primary contamination landscape dominated by cesium-137. Two alternative approaches to characterizing the impacts of this contamination are examined. The first approach employs predictive models in formulating hypotheses concerning possible cancer induction; hypotheses that are untestable. An alternative approach is sketched here, using empirical studies, to outline a comprehensive view of the human environmental impacts of Chernobyl on Sweden. The impacts discussed here are changes experienced by the Saami reindeer herders, by people living in the north for whom fishing, hunting, and use of forest resources are important, and by those who experienced change in previously held attitudes. This review demonstrates that human environmental impacts are strongly dependent on the information, recommendations, and mandated actions originating from radiation experts. The finding leads to recommendations concerning fundamental changes in the way that problems arising from life in the contamination landscape are examined. The most fundamental change would be the institution of close cooperation between natural scientists and social scientists in institutional settings where this can be brought about.
4314428|Water shortage and pollution are universal problems that are especially acute in the developing countries. They are becoming so serious as to pose a threat to human existence. How to solve these problems is of major concern to both scientists and governments. This article introduces the general conditions of water resources, the main water-related problems, and strategic measures for sustainable development, protection and utilization of water resources in Changzhou, a city in the Yangtze River Delta, China. Water-resources protection areas, particularly the sources, are defined through legislation. Various measures are taken to control water pollution and overexploitation of groundwater. Both water-supply projects and sewage-treatment projects have begun to be implemented. Solutions to the problem of solid waste are also discussed. Prices of the products and services provided by these public services must be increased because lower prices have led to excessive demand, a deteriorating water Environment, and insufficient funds to cover efficient, environmentally-sound disposal methods.
25547806|Understanding the history of how humans have interacted with the rest of nature can help clarify the options for managing our increasingly interconnected global system. Simple, deterministic relationships between environmental stress and social change are inadequate. Extreme drought, for instance, triggered both social collapse and ingenious management of water through irrigation. Human responses to change, in turn, feed into climate and ecological systems, producing a complex web of multidirectional connections in time and space. Integrated records of the co-evolving human-environment system over millennia are needed to provide a basis for a deeper understanding of the present and for forecasting the future. This requires the major task of assembling and integrating regional and global historical, archaeological, and paleoenvironmental records. Humans cannot predict the future. But, if we can adequately understand the past, we can use that understanding to influence our decisions and to create a better, more sustainable and desirable future.
4313202|For more than 100 years botanical gardens have served as retreats for rare and threatened plant species. The botanical garden in Tokyo has elaborated on this idea by cultivating Melastoma tetramerum, a tree endemic to the Bonin Islands. There are only two specimens remaining in the natural environment. Seeds and grafts were taken from one of these trees and were reproduced in the Tokyo gardens. From there the plants were returned to the Bonin Islands, where efforts are being made to find a suitable method for the plants to become securely established in their natural environment.
41417396|Aquatic macrophytes play an important role in the structural and functional aspects of aquatic ecosystems by altering water movement regimes, providing shelter to fish and aquatic invertebrates, serving as a food source, and altering water quality by regulating oxygen balance, nutrient cycles, and accumulating heavy metals. The ability to hyperaccumulate heavy metals makes them interesting research candidates, especially for the treatment of industrial effluents and sewage waste water. The use of aquatic macrophytes, such as Azolla with hyper accumulating ability is known to be an environmentally friendly option to restore polluted aquatic resources. The present review highlights the phytoaccumulation potential of macrophytes with emphasis on utilization of Azolla as a promising candidate for phytoremediation. The impact of uptake of heavy metals on morphology and metabolic processes of Azolla has also been discussed for a better understanding and utilization of this symbiotic association in the field of phytoremediation.
4315359|Surface water acidity is decreasing in large areas of Europe and North America in response to reductions in atmospheric S deposition, but the ecological responses to these water-quality improvements are uncertain. Biota are recovering in some lakes and rivers, as water quality improves, but they are not yet recovering in others. To make sense of these different responses, and to foster effective management of the acid rain problem, we need to understand 2 things: i) the sequence of ecological steps needed for biotic communities to recover; and ii) where and how to intervene in this process should recovery stall. Here our purpose is to develop conceptual frameworks to serve these 2 needs. In the first framework, the primarily ecological one, a decision tree highlights the sequence of processes necessary for ecological recovery, linking them with management tools and responses to bottlenecks in the process. These bottlenecks are inadequate water quality, an inadequate supply of colonists to permit estab-lishment, and community-level impediments to recovery dynamics. A second, more management-oriented framework identifies where we can intervene to overcome these bottlenecks, and what research is needed to build the models to operationalize the framework. Our ability to assess the benefits of S emission reduction would be simplified if we had models to predict the rate and extent of ecological recovery from acidification. To build such models we must identify the ecological steps in the recovery process. The frameworks we present will advance us towards this goal.
4314270|The importance of attitudes has been little discussed in relation to conservation biology. The author claims that mobilization of attitudes is crucial, if we are to have a chance to preserve biodiversity and pristine nature, i.e. the main elements in natural heritage. Attitudes must be based on broad knowledge and conscious evaluation. This paper discusses the value of biodiversity and pristine/almost pristine nature. Then presents a suggestion for systematic thinking, with four levels of insight: (i) descriptive knowledge; (ii) values; (iii) attitudes; and (iv) action. Each level is viewed along a time scale including: (i) contact with prehistoric times; (ii) today's situation; and (iii) perspectives for the future. Through this process, the author arrives at the following attitude: "Respect for the planet's natural heritage, for future generations, and for future evolution".
4312249|Considerable similarities exist in the water situation facing the two countries. However, differences in ideology, political system and of course natural characteristics have given rise to considerable differences in policy with regard to the management of national water resources. This has apparently contributed to a higher cropping index, a more labor-intensive agricultural development and a higher degree of mobilization of rural areas in China than in India. The article focuses on irrigation and flood control, navigation, hydropower and inland fisheries.
4314692|In the autumn of 1995, Finland, Norway and Sweden initiated a joint Nordic Lake Survey using standard protocols for lake selection criteria and analytical procedures. Subsequently, the project was expanded to include Denmark, Russian Kola, Russian Karelia, Scotland and Wales. The survey covers a geographic area of ca. 1 300 000 km<sup>2</sup>; this is about 13% of Europe's total area and 28% of Europe excluding European Russia. The total number of lakes (> 0.04 km<sup>2</sup>) in the study area is about 155 000 and of these 5690 lakes (3.7%) were sampled in this survey. This is 3.7% of the total lake population (> 0.04 km<sup>2</sup>). The lake density is about 1 lake per 9 km<sup>2</sup>, and the sampling density is 1 lake per 244 km<sup>2</sup>. The first common evaluation of lake chemistry in northern Europe showed that the chemistry of these lakes, except those in Denmark, are characterized by low ionic strength (dilute) waters, with low concentrations of the nutrients nitrogen and phosphorus. There are general differences in the lake water chemistry between the countries, due to differences in hydrology, precipitation chemistry, hydrology, soil cover and vegetation. From western Norway, Scotland and Wales to eastern Finland and Karelia, there is a gradient from high to low precipitation (5000 to 300 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>) and from mountain areas with thin and patchy soils to forested areas with thick soils. These two factors are reflected in lake water chemistry with low concentrations of base cations (Ca, Mg, Na, K), alkalinity ( HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>) and total organic carbon (TOC) in the western areas to higher concentrations in the eastern areas. An exception is high TOC levels in lakes in Scotland and Wales. Median values for base cation concentrations are three times higher in Sweden, Finland, Scotland, and Wales than in Norway, and TOC concentrations vary even more. The lakes in Denmark are influenced by a different bedrock mineralogy than in the other countries, and agricultural activities are much more intensive in their catchments. The Danish lakes generally have much higher ion concentrations and high concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus. In Finland, Norway, Sweden, Russian Kola and Karelia, more than 50% of the lakes have low critical load (CL) values for sulfur acidity (CL < 60 meq m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) while Scotland, Wales, and Denmark have very few lakes with low CL. The highest percentage (27%) of lakes with exceedance of critical loads for sulfur acidity (at present S-loading) is found in Norway. In Russian Kola, Sweden and Finland 17%, and 9%, respectively, of the lakes are exceeded. In Scotland, critical loads for sulfur acidity are exceeded in only 1% of the total lake population, while 24% of Welsh lakes are exceeded. In total, this adds up to approximately 22 000 lakes, corresponding to 14% of the total lake population in northern Europe, where CL for sulfur acidity is exceeded.
4312007|A comprehensive picture of the degree of eutrophication and pollution in a lake may be obtained by analyzing the occurrence of only a few different midges of the family Chironomidae, the larvae of which are commonly found in profundal lake sediments. The application of this simple indicator system is demonstrated with examples from the three largest lakes in Sweden. Also, the content of phosphorus and nitrogen in the lakes is compared.
4312589|Much of the impact of acidification on the biotic components of a lake ecosystem can be explained by altered predator-prey relations. Toxic effects on some key organisms, such as fish, cause the predation pattern to shift toward invertebrate predators, which earlier were suppressed by fish predation.
4312776|The acute and long-term effects of ionizing radiation are described, and estimates are given of the early and late casualties, including deaths from cancer and probable hereditary damage, likely to result from ionizing radiation in the nuclear war described in the Reference Scenario. By the most conservative estimates, the survivors of this nuclear war would suffer from 5.4 to 12.8 million fatal cancers; from 17 to 31 million would be rendered sterile; and between 6.4 and 16.3 million children are likely to be born with birth defects in the subsequent 100 years.
4313867|Valley bottomland wetlands are of major importance in agricultural and pastoral systems in savanna Africa. They act as key resources for cultivators and pastoralists, providing a source of arable land or grazing during droughts or the dry season. As well as sustaining rural livelihoods and increasing food security, wetland patches allow the opportunity for diversification of crop production and the provision of a wide range of direct and indirect benefits. Wetlands are central to resource-management strategies that make use of catenal variations and seasonal and interannual changes in resource availability. Such wetland patches are also of major importance in land-tenure regimes and resource-access conflicts. With increasing resource pressure in Africa's drylands, wetlands are becoming even more valuable components of agroecosystems. Land-management policy needs to take account of wetland-area significance and develop effective economic techniques to assess their value, appropriate technologies for their sustainable use and land use and tenure policies that recognize the importance of wetlands in dryland areas.
4313377|The Australian continent is unusually susceptible to erosion and salinization problems. Historically the removal of trees on a vast scale has significantly altered runoff patterns. The implementation of land-use plans and conservation farming forms the basis of a national soil-conservation program and is complemented by a national awareness campaign to control Australia's prime environmental problem.
4312188| A Series of articles on the nuclear power situation in various countries. In this issue: Nuclear Views, p 117; Uranium: Supply and Demand, pp 117-118; The Status of Nuclear Power: A Perspective from the United States by I C Bupp, Jr, pp 119-123; Nuclear Energy in the Soviet Union by R Grnbaum pp 124-126; Canada's Nuclear Power Program by W Peden, pp 127-128; The Nuclear Power Situation in Finland by J K Miettinen, pp 129-131. 
4314075|In Japan, little quantitative data has been developed on the sensitivity of soils to acidic deposition. Thus, the rapid acid-neutralizing capacity (ANC), derived from carbonates, exchangeable base cations and sulfate adsorption, was determined for 500 surface soils (0-20 cm) collected from all over the Japanese archipelago. The rapid ANC is a pool of bases with relatively rapid kinetics, and the contribution of mineral weathering is not included. Exchangeable base cations are the primary contributor to ANC for 423 soils (85%), whereas sulfate adsorption plays an important role in Ando soils. The 500 values of ANC were classified into three categories, low, medium and high, using the estimated median (7.6 meq 100 g
4315752|Large variations exist in the size, abundance and biota of the two principal categories of freshwater ecosystems, lotic (flowing water; e.g., rivers, streams, deltas and estuaries) and lentic (standing water; lakes, ponds and wetlands) found across the cirumpolar Arctic. Arctic climate, many components of which exhibit strong variations along latitudinal gradients, directly affects a range of physical, chemical and biological processes in these aquatic systems. Furthermore, arctic climate creates additional indirect ecological effects through the control of terrestrial hydrologic systems and processes, particularly those associated with cryospheric components such as permafrost, freshwater ice and snow accumulation/ablation. The ecological structure and function of arctic freshwater systems are also controlled by external processes and conditions, particularly those in the headwaters of the major arctic rivers and in the adjacent marine environment. The movement of physical, chemical and biotic components through the interlinked lentic and lotic freshwater systems are major determinants of arctic freshwater ecology.
41418341|Interacting forces of climate change and globalization are transforming the Arctic. Triggered by a non-linear shift in sea ice, this transformation has unleashed mounting interest in opportunities to exploit the region's natural resources as well as growing concern about environmental, economic, and political issues associated with such efforts. This article addresses the implications of this transformation for governance, identifies limitations of existing arrangements, and explores changes needed to meet new demands. It advocates the development of an Arctic regime complex featuring flexibility across issues and adaptability over time along with an enhanced role for the Arctic Council both in conducting policy-relevant assessments and in promoting synergy in interactions among the elements of the emerging Arctic regime complex. The emphasis throughout is on maximizing the fit between the socioecological features of the Arctic and the character of the governance arrangements needed to steer the Arctic toward a sustainable future.
4315553|The critical load concept is used to establish the deposition levels which ecosystems can tolerate without significant harmful effects. Here we summarize work within the Swedish research program Abatement Strategies for Transboundary Air Pollution (ASTA) assessing the critical load of N for boreal forests. Results from both field experiments in an area with low background N deposition in northern Sweden, and from a large-scale monitoring study, show that important vegetational changes start to take place when adding low N doses and that recovery of the vegetation after ceasing N input is a very slow process. The data presented indicate that changes in key ecosystem components occur even at a lower rate of N input than the present recommended empirical critical load for boreal forest understorey vegetation of 10-15 kg N ha
4315067| Mass balance has been continuously monitored on Chacaltaya Glacier (16S, Cordillera Real, Bolivia) since 1991, and on the Antizana Glacier 15 (0, Ecuador) since 1995. In ablation areas, mass balance has been surveyed on a monthly scale, providing interesting details about the seasonal pattern in 2 contrasting tropical environments. Intermittent information about ice recession exists in both regions for the last 4 decades. The data point to a clear acceleration during glacier decline during this decade; ablation rates have been 3-5 times higher than during the former decades. Fluctuations measured before on 3 glaciers in northern Peru, allow the assumption that the rate at which the glaciers retreated in the tropical Andes increased in the late 1970s. The present situation is particularly dramatic for the small-sized glaciers (< 1 km
4313748|Leptospirosis is recognized by the World Health Organization as a disease of worldwide significance. It is one of the important zoonoses that affects most mammals and can therefore be transmitted from domestic or wild animals to man. In livestock, the disease causes economic losses due to abortion, still-birth, weak neonates, neonatal death, retained placenta, infertility and decreased milk production. All pathogenic leptospires are classified into one species. Leptospira interrogans. Twenty-three serogroups containing numerous serotypes have been isolated and recognized especially in Europe, South East Asia, the Americas and Australia. Relatively little is known of leptospires infecting African livestock. This paper presents results of recent serological and bacteriological studies to determine the prevalence of leptospirosis in cattle in Zimbabwe.
4315833|Marine protected areas increasingly are challenged to maintain or increase tourism benefits while adequately protecting resources. Although carrying capacity strategies can be used to cope with use-related impacts, there is little understanding of divers themselves, their management preferences, and how preferences relate to conservation goals. By using a stated preference choice modeling approach, we investigated the choices divers make in selecting diving trips to marine protected areas as defined by use level, access, level of supervision, fees, conservation education, and diving expectations. Logit models showed that divers preferred a more restrictive management scenario over the status quo. Divers favored reductions in the level of site use and increased levels of conservation education. Divers did not favor fees to access protected areas, having less access to the resource, or extensive supervision. Finally, divers were much more willing to accept increasingly restrictive management scenarios when they could expect to see increased marine life.
4314962|Satellite data and ground rainfall measurements have been used to study variations in the size of the Sahara Desert from 1980 to 1997. Through a combination of the satellite and ground data, the 200 mm yr
41418325|Freshwater ice dominates the Arctic terrestrial environment and significantly impacts bio-physical and socio-economic systems. Unlike other major cryospheric components that either blanket large expanses (e.g., snow, permafrost, sea ice) or are concentrated in specific locations, lake and river ice are interwoven into the terrestrial landscape through major flow and storage networks. For instance, the headwaters of large ice-covered rivers extend well beyond the Arctic while many northern lakes owe their genesis to broader cryospheric changes. The effects of freshwater ice on climate mostly occur at the local/regional scale, with the degree of influence dependent on the magnitude, timing, location, and duration of ice cover, and the size of the water body. Freshwater-ice formation, growth, decay, and break-up are influenced by climatic variables that control surface heat fluxes, but these differ markedly between lakes and rivers. Despite the importance of freshwater ice, there has been a recent reduction in observational recordings.
4314766|An integrated GIS was developed as the core of a research project which provided the foundation for regional economic planning in a semiarid area in northern China. The GIS was composed of a regional geographical database and a collection of spatial models. The regional geographical database contained data sets from terrestrial-based sources including thematic maps and statistical records, and remotely sensed data. A series of spatial models has been developed by experts in various disciplines such as soil erosion, economics, rural development and arid-land management. These models were then implemented into the GIS and a series of thematic maps was produced. The results provided useful assistance for regional planning that aimed to balance demands from different land-use interest groups with the aim of achieving an optimum, environmentally sound economic development plan.
4313762|An improved assessment of the riverine input of Cd, Cu, Hg, Pb, and Zn to the Mediterranean is presented. This estimate is derived from original data and the literature for the rivers Rhone, Ebro, Po, Arno, Krka, Nile and the Tiber. Nonconservative estuarine processes were accounted for by applying a correction factor to river trace-metal fluxes. The results obtained indicate that river inputs of trace metals to the Mediterranean are lower than previously published reports suggest. Comparison with other sources (inputs through the straits, atmospheric inputs) show that dissolved net river inputs are relatively small.
4312426|Development strategies require some promise of an improved standard of living for acceptance. Sophisticated technology can offer both a symbolic and a substantive means to effect development. As normally used, however, such technology tends to undermine the independence, traditions and environment of a rural community while leaving its basic needs unprovided for. Selectively chosen and carefully implemented, some sophisticated technologies can be of great benefit to a rural community. They can help to provide not only for a community's basic needs, but also for quality finished products for trade-without destroying the rural culture and environment. Biotechnology, solar energy and electronic solid state devices are examples of technologies, which are intrinsically suited to local use and resistant to monopolization. The best development plan is one which uses a balance of simple and sophisticated technologies designed to make optimal use of resources for the community's own benefit.
25547952|In this study, we set up a wood decomposition experiment to i) quantify the percent of mass remaining, decay constant and performance strength of aspen stakes (Populus tremuloides) in dry and moist boreal (Alaska and Minnesota, USA), temperate (Washington and Idaho, USA), and tropical (Puerto Rico) forest types, and ii) determine the effects of fragmentation on wood decomposition rates as related to fragment size, forest age (and/or structure) and climate at the macro- and meso-scales. Fragment sizes represented the landscape variability within a climatic region. Overall, the mean small fragments area ranged from 10-14 ha, medium-sized fragments 33 to 60 ha, and large fragments 100-240 ha. We found that: i) aspen stakes decayed fastest in the tropical sites, and the slowest in the temperate forest fragments, ii) the percent of mass remaining was significantly greater in dry than in moist forests in boreal and temperate fragments, while the opposite was true for the tropical forest fragments, iii) no effect of fragment size on the percent of mass remaining of aspen stakes in the boreal sites, temperate dry, and tropical moist forests, and iv) no significant differences of aspen wood decay between forest edges and interior forest in boreal, temperate and tropical fragments. We conclude that: i) moisture condition is an important control over wood decomposition over broad climate gradients; and that such relationship can be non linear, and ii) the presence of a particular group of organism (termites) can significantly alter the decay rates of wood more than what might be predicted based on climatic factors alone. Biotic controls on wood decay might be more important predictors of wood decay in tropical regions, while abiotic constraints seems to be important determinants of decay in cold forested fragments.
4312252|The importance of the international rivers and river basins is growing in regard to their geographical extent, the complexity of their utilization, and the form and legislation of the cooperation among the basin countries, during socioeconomic growth and development. This cooperation should be based on a long-range planning of the international river basin development, the character of which is discussed in this article. The traditional and basic form of joint utilization generally is navigation, the practice of which is mainly discussed in a study of the Danube. International navigation is regulated by the Danube Commission along this river. New problems and possibilities have arisen with the advent of the Danube-Main-Rhine canal. The agreement on the conditions for the joint utilization of this canal is an important test of international cooperation.
25094585|Mountains as "Water Towers" play an important role for the surrounding lowlands. This is particularly true of the world's semiarid and arid zones, where the contributions of mountains to total discharge are 50-90%. Taking into account the increasing water scarcity in these regions, especially for irrigation and food production, then today's state of knowledge in mountain hydrology makes sustainable water management and an assessment of vulnerability quite difficult. Following the IPCC report, the zone of maximum temperature increase in a 2 
4315471|European otters declined dramatically from the 1950s, disappearing from many rivers. We report here on long-term monitoring (from 1977) in 3 catchments in western Britain that were recolonized naturally and in 2 catchments in eastern England that were reinforced by captive-bred otters. A minimum of 16-years data was collected on each river until 2002. At a series of sites in each study river, the percentages which were positive for otters and the number of spraints per sprainting site were recorded and combined to produce an annual index of population. One western river, naturally recolonized, showed rapid early population growth for 5 years, followed by slower growth, while growth was steadier in 2 catchments which already held some otters at the beginning of the study. Colonization on the eastern rivers was slower, with greater fluctuations over time. Annual population growth rates were estimated at 1-7%, higher in the earlier years. A strategy for annual monitoring of otters is recommended.
4312235|The earth's hydrologic cycle sets the hydrosphere in motion and continuously renews freshwater reserves. In compiling maps of different water resources, the six-component method (equation) of water balance, suggested by the author, is used instead of the three-component one. Water resources transformation carried out on a large scale with the help of different methods, assists in preserving these reserves for the future. On the basis of an analysis of the present state of world water resources and alternative forecasts for the year 2000, the author concludes that it is of primary importance to reduce and eventually to cease the dumping of wastewaters into rivers and bodies of water and to isolate polluted water from the naturel hydrologic cycle.
4315120|The purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential toxic effects of chronic sublethal polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) exposure on feral fish, using histopathology as an endpoint. Histopathological study of bream (Abramis brama) and asp (Aspius aspius) living in a PCB-polluted freshwater lake revealed abnormal cellular changes in the renal corpuscle of both species. Dilation of glomerular capillaries (DGC), mesangial edema (ME), an adhesion between visceral and parietal layers of Bowman's capsule (ABC), and filling of Bowman's space (FBS), were highly prevalent features in lake fish. The prevalence of each of these lesions was significantly lower, or totally absent in fish caught from reference locations. Cellular alterations in liver, gill, gonads, spleen, and intestine were all linked to seasonal changes. The results suggest that some of the observed histopathological changes in renal glomeruli, particularly DGC and ME, could possibly indicate a prolonged chemical stress caused by PCBs and related compounds. It is also possible that chronic PCB exposure may have suppressed and weakened the immuno systems of exposed fish making them more vulnerable to secondary parasitic infections.
4314664|Environmental managers manage without prices. In resolving day to day conflicts decisions are normally made without appeal to monetary values or any other single common measure. However, this is not how the neoclassical economic theory says it should be. A gap exists between the actual practice of management and the ideal practice offered by economists. Hence, the development of methods for placing monetary values on biodiversity and other environmental goods. This paper examines three arguments for monetary valuation: that it provides a way of arriving at a decision that maximizes well being; that it provides a way of trading off objectives; that it is effective since it speaks in the economic language to which policy makers listen. It shows that none of these arguments is satisfactory. While there may be problems in existing procedures for environmental decision making, these do not include the failure to use monetary values.
4313837| Cladophora glomerata (L.) Ktz is a useful bioindicator for heavy-metals and is the most abundant species of periphyton (Aufwuchs) in the meso- and eutrophic waters at the Hungarian reach of the River Danube. A floating artificial substrate was used to obtain quantitative samples for heavy-metal analysis. Long-term surveys, not only the final tips but whole plants, were used to study accumulation of Ag, Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Hg, K, Mg, Mn, Na, Ni, Pb, Zn. The structure of the artificial substrate allowed simulation of the vertical differentation of periphyton. The upper layer represented the part of periphyton that was situated near to the water surface ("supratidal zone") and the lower layer represented the part of periphyton permanently covered by water ("permanent in-water zone"). There were significant differences in accumulation and levels of heavy-metals in Cladophora between the two layers of periphyton. The biomass of Cladophora in the upper layer was twice as high as biomasses in the lower layer, while higher metal concentrations and slighter changes over time were observed in the lower layer. The enrichment factor was calculated from the values of the dissolved phase because this more adequately characterizes the biologically available fraction than the total amount of a metal. 
25547861|High-resolution digital photography and graphical image analyses systems have been used to define external morphometric characters of shell deformations in four populations of the Baltic clam Macoma balthica from the Gulf of Gdansk (southern Baltic Sea). The proposed shell deformation indices (SDI), which were based on the relationship of selected dimensions in the posterior and the anterior part of the shell, showed at least three morphological features that provide a distinctive diagnosis of "regular" and "deformed" clams: the presence of flexure on the posterior side (SDI1), elongated posterior region (SDI2), and shell growth (SDI3). The degree and prevalence of deformed clams varied locally over space. Increase in percentage contribution of aberrated shells with depth, corresponding to oxygen depletion profile in the Gulf, suggests low oxygen concentrations as the main agent exerting a deforming influence. The observed morphological aberrations developed with age (size) of a bivalve, suggesting a long-term effect of causal factors, and were accompanied by lightening shell weight, possibly due to decalcification of previously deposited calcareous material during anaerobic metabolism. It is hypothesized that hypoxic/anoxic conditions and a subsequent presence of hydrogen sulfide on a deep organic-rich sea bottom induce shell form alterations that enable the pumping of oxygenated water from above the anoxic layer. Such a morphological modification highlights the functional significance of shell deformations in protective response to the ambient low-oxygen concentrations. Sediment organotin concentrations fall within moderate to high contamination range and, therefore, may also have an adverse impact on the shell form. DNA analyses of the fragment of mitochondrial gene cytochrome oxidase I (COI, 393 base pairs) showed homogenous genetic structure of regular and deformed clams, indicating that shell deformations in M. balthica are primarily driven by acclimatization to the ambient environmental conditions.
4315285| In 1997, as part of a national program to determine and map critical loads, a lake survey was carried out in the Republic of Ireland. In total 200 lakes were sampled, which represents approximately 3.3% of the total lake population. The majority of lakes were situated in remote, high-altitude, acid-sensitive areas along the coastal margins of the country. Lake chemistry was dominated by marine inputs. Approximately 50% of the lakes had DOC > 5 mg L
4315675|Manifold linkages exist between climate change and sustainable development. Although these are starting to receive attention in the climate exchange literature, the focus has typically been on examining sustainable development through a climate change lens, rather than vice versa. And there has been little systematic examination of how these linkages may be fostered in practice. This paper examines climate change through a sustainable development lens. To illustrate how this might change the approach to climate change issues, it reports on the findings of a panel of business, local government, and academic representatives in British Columbia, Canada, who were appointed to advise the provincial government on climate change policy. The panel found that sustainable development may offer a significantly more fruitful way to pursue climate policy goals than climate policy itself. The paper discusses subsequent climate change developments in the province and makes suggestions as how best to pursue such a sustainability approach in British Columbia and other jurisdictions.
4315207|This study addresses the difficulties surrounding effective implementation of the Montreal Protocol in Botswana and provides a general under-standing of how best we might advise policy makers when implementing international agreements in the developing world. A questionnaire survey administered to both the formal and informal users of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODSs) revealed that disseminated information on ODSs has little effect on choices that users make about refrigerant gases and this information is skewed in favour of the conventional users of ODSs. As a result, annual statistics of ODS use are probably underestimated. Difficulties exist in changing from old to new technologies in the short term due to high costs associated with the change over. The infrastructure to recover gases and to dispose of unusable hardware is absent or inadequate. Solutions to these difficulties include a comprehensive policy that caters for all users of ODSs and the integration of economic and environmental aspirations.
4313663|Apart from the need to develop cost-effective energy supply strategies, the rapidly growing energy demand in Turkey results in increasing importance of the control of air pollution. Turkey's request for admission into the European Community (EC) in 1987 makes the present activities to harmonize air pollution control strategies within the EC of major interest. For the development of an optimal future energy supply for Turkey, with respect to both cost-efficiency and air pollution control, the energy and environment optimization model EFOM is being applied as a methodological decision support tool in close collaboration with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Gazi University, Ankara. The project is supported by the Foundation Volkswagenwerk, Hannover. This paper presents the results of an analysis of the actual energy and environmental situation in Turkey and the methodology and first results of the model application.
41417419|The efficiency of electron injection ( inj ) in dye-sensitized nanocrystalline films was studied through transient absorption (TA) and time-resolved microwave conductivity (TRMC) measurements. Here, I show the absolute value of  inj for several dye-sensitized nanocrystalline films and discuss the relationship between  inj and the free energy change (G inj ) for the injection process. Some systems exhibited lower  inj values even whenG inj was sufficiently large to promote electron injection. Recent experimental findings are used to propose possible explanations for this phenomenon. Quantitative evaluation of  inj using TA and TRMC will give us new insights for developing high-performance solar cell devices.
4315379|This paper describes a project in northern Chile aimed to promote the development of appropriate green areas and gardens for arid regions under prevalent conditions of shortage of water and high salt content in soil and water. Field studies were conducted to test the suitability of selected salt-tolerant native and introduced plants for ornamental use. Plant growth, water and soil quality, marine spray, climate, wastewater treatment and irrigation operating problems were the subject of specific studies and discussion.
4315209| Three years after most corals died on the central Indian Ocean reefs of Chagos, erosion and recovery were studied to 30 m depth. Mortality was near-total to 15 m deep in northern atolls, and to > 35 m in central and southern atolls. Some reef surfaces have 'dropped' 1.5 m due to the loss of dense coral thickets. Coral bioerosion is substantial, reducing 3-D reef 'structure' and forming unconsolidated rubble. Juvenile corals are abundant, though mostly on eroding or unstable substrates, and are of less robust species. Reef fish abundance and diversity at 15 m depth remains high; species dependent on corals have diminished, while some herbivores and detritivores have increased. A new-sea surface temperature (SST) data set shows that mean SST has risen 0.65C since 1950. The critical SST causing the mortality in Chagos was 29.9C. 
4313184|Freshwater fish, Tilapia mossambica (Peters), were acclimated to sublethal acidic (pH 5.0) and alkaline (pH 9.0) waters and the changes in the white muscle protein metabolism were studied. Tissue acidic proteases were activated in acidic water, while alkaline proteases were activated in alkaline water. Soluble and structural protein fractions were depleted in acidic water; in alkaline water the soluble protein fractions were elevated. The activities of aminotransferases were inhibited in both media. Glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) activity was elevated in the acidic water but inhibited in the alkaline water. Evidently the acidic stress induced amino acid catabolism, while the alkaline stress inhibited it. The responses of fish muscle tissue to acidic and alkaline media were correlated with the buffering mechanisms in the tissue.
25547834|Statistical and spatial analyses of both historical time series and remotely sensed data show a link between the spatial distribution and growth of gold production across the Guiana Shield in northeast Amazonia. Results indicate that an exponential rise in production across an expanding area is primarily a delayed response to the 1971-1978 market flotation of international gold prices. The subsequent 10-fold (2-fold) average nominal (real) price increase has provided a compelling economic incentive to mass exploitation of lower-grade gold deposits. The ground-based and remotely sensed distributions of mining activity are strongly attached to these deposits that dominate the region's gold geology. The presence of these gold-bearing formations in conservation and sustainable timber zones has sparked social conflict and environmental degradation across the region. Left unmanaged, more than a quarter-million square-kilometer area of tropical forest zoned for protection and sustainable management could ultimately be compromised by the price-driven boom in gold mining through poorly integrated resource use planning, lack of reclamation effort, and control of illegal operations. Serious public health issues propagated through the unregulated mining environment further erode the financial benefits achieved through gold extraction. This study demonstrates in part how international economic policies successfully stabilizing more conspicuous centers of the global economy can have unintended but profound environmental and social impacts on remote commodity frontiers.
4314484|This article presents data on the destruction of the montane forests on Mount Kenya. The material was obtained during fieldwork for a phytosociological study in 1992-1994. Special emphasis was given to the observation of regeneration patterns and succession cycles within the different forest communities, with regard to the impact of humans and big game. Although private tree planting is reducing the fuelwood deficit in Kenya, large parts of the 200 000 ha of Mount Kenya's forests-the largest natural-forest area in the country-are heavily impacted by among other things illegal activities. The wet camphor forests of the south and southeast mountain slopes are being destroyed at an alarming speed, by large-scale selective logging of Ocotea usambarensis and marihuana cultivation. The drier Juniperus procera forests are also logged, but are even more endangered by the new settlement schemes. The large elephant population does not affect forest regeneration; whereas browsing and chafing by buffaloes inhibits regeneration of the dry forests, and damages many trees. Suggestions are presented for better management of the forest resources.
4313747|Present day systems of livestock production in both industrialized and Third World countries are subjected to political, economic and environmental pressures that infer the need to introduce new production technologies which are more sustainable. Foreign exchange shortages present an opportunity for developing new production systems using local resources which are less dependent on fossil-fuel derived inputs. Environmental pressures will force a decreasing role for fossil fuel and an increasing reliance on renewable biomass. Concern for animal welfare and natural food quality is leading to deintensification of production systems and incentives for organic agriculture. Tropical regions are in a strong position to take advantage of these changes, being richly endowed with natural resources in the form of solar energy, soil and water, and biological diversity. Correctly harnessed, these resources can form the basis of production systems which will confer a real competitive advantage to livestock production in these regions. An example of this latter approach is presented, designed specifically for tropical zones, the widespread adoption of which will help to close the production-utilization gap for carbon dioxide with a more than tenfold reduction in emission of methane per unit meat production, compared with traditional tropical systems based exclusively on cattle ranching. Such technologies are sustainable and especially appropriate for use on small-scale family farms in tropical regions. They create innovative research possibilities for use of nonconventional feed and animal resources.
4313072|In 1973, large-scale clear-felling of lowland tropical rainforest for woodchips and saw logs began in the Gogol Valley in Papua New Guinea. This was the first time that a lowland rainforest was logged on such a scale anywhere in the tropics. After many difficulties, small-scale agricultural developments are taking place on cleared land, but reforestation is unlikely to be commercially viable Environmental costs are high, and the central government has had to carry substantial redevelopment costs, but there have also been significant returns in royalties, port facilities, roads, better communications and services. Social benefits and costs are both high.
4312207|A fluorometric method was used to determine lignin sulfonates and to follow the dispersion and flow of sulfite wastewater in Idefjord and its vicinity. The influence of the pollution from the paper and pulp mills in the town of Halden, Norway, was estimated. The wastewater could be traced far out into the Skagerrak. The distribution pattern of lignin products was complicated by the additional inflow from the Glomma River north of the area under study.
25094581|High-mountain areas suffer from increasing environmental threats. The causes are often global in dimension but lead to specific impacts under conditions of steep and/or high-altitude terrain with strong effects from snow and ice. This paper presents a global perspective, focussing primarily on observed and projected changes in climate and then goes on to discuss key messages of greatest relevance to the highest belts of mountain regions. The paper finishes with a brief discussion of mitigation strategies
4315386|The traditional agricultural landscape of Japan, known as satoyama, consists of a mixture of forests, wet rice paddy fields, grasslands, and villages. This landscape supports a great diversity of plant and animal species, many of which are significant to the Japanese culture. The satoyama landscape is currently being rapidly converted to residential and industrial uses in Japan's expanding metropolitan areas, with the local loss of many species. Only 7% of the land in the Yokohama area remains as satoyama. City residents and older farmers have become key participants in programs to protect examples of satoyama. Many urban residents value the experience of participating in agricultural and conservation activities once they are made aware of the threat faced by the satoyama landscape. In one particularly successful program, conservation efforts and fund-raising are linked to "Totoro", an imaginary forest animal featured in a popular animated film.
23322916|Mercury levels in sediment and predatory fish were measured for 53 localities in Suriname. The average mercury level in bottom sediment surpassed the Canadian standard for sediment in most localities, except the coastal plains. Of the predatory fish, 41 % had a mercury level above the European Union standard for human consumption of 0.5 g g -1 . Highest mercury levels were found in fish from the Brokopondo Reservoir and from the Upper Coppename River. High levels of mercury in fish in pristine areas are explained by atmospheric transportation of mercury with the northeastern trade winds followed by wet deposition. Contrary to gold mining areas, where mercury is bound to drifting sediments, in "pristine" areas the mercury is freely available for bio-accumulation and uptake. Impacts on piscivorous reptiles, birds, and mammals are unknown, but likely to be negative.
4315066|Although they may have been studied less extensively than those in developing nations, mature mountain tourism communities such as Banff, Canada, potentially have useful insights to offer the international community regarding principles and practices for developing sustainable, community-based mountain tourism. Toward that end, this paper focuses on the Banff Community Plan in order to highlight 'made-in-Banff' solutions to issues of governance in sustainable mountain tourism. Banff's approach to balancing tourism development and environmental protection may be unique, given its complex 115-year history of association with Banff National Park. Nevertheless, the town now employs innovative principles such as 'no net negative environmental impact' and 'appropriate development and use' in its efforts to become a balanced and sustainable national park community. Such principles may contribute to implementation of Chapter 13 (the Mountain Agenda) of Agenda 21 and to resolution of governance issues in achieving sustainable mountain communities.
41417279|Payments for Environmental Services (PES) can encourage projects that enhance restoration, production, and rural development. When projects promote differentiated systems by paying farmers for the provision of services, the application of PES requires evaluation of the environmental services provided by each system. We present evaluations of carbon stocks and biodiversity in pure and mixed native tree plantations in Costa Rica. To illustrate how monetary values can be assigned, we discuss a project that awarded PES to silvopastoral systems in Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Colombia based on carbon stocks and biodiversity. PES can promote positive environmental attitudes in farmers. Currently this project is being scaled up in Colombia based on their positive experiences with PES as a tool to promote adoption. Compared to PES systems that include only one environmental service, systems that incorporate bundling or layering of multiple services can make sustainable land uses more attractive to farmers and reduce perverse incentives.
4314926|This paper illustrates the need for a revival and renewal of landscape analysis in order to identify, evaluate and predict environmental change in environmental impact assessment (EIA) and development perspectives. An initial focus on the landscape, rather than on individual systems or processes, makes it possible to widen the scope of study, to assess change in different temporal and spatial perspectives and thereafter to converge on key issues of relevance for specific areas or development projects. This approach can be seen as a process rather than a method, which calls for intradisciplinary competence in data collection and evaluation as well as an interdisciplinary assessment capability. A combination of such scientific competence, local knowledge, and experiences of the local environment is used to widen the assessment perspectives and the prediction competence. The approach is illustrated by its application in two Tanzanian studies. The Southern Highland study emerged from two feasibility environmental impact assessments (EIAs) of proposed hydropower projects whilst the Babati study was initiated as a result of previous sectorial research on land management, which had to be analyzed in broader perspectives. In both cases, a need to define environmental baselines to assess land use and project related environmental change had been defined by different donor agencies. One conclusion from our study is, however, that there is no such thing as an environmental baseline, rather a baseline that has to be extended in different temporal and spatial perspectives to fully understand and predict environmental and related social change. This study can therefore be seen as a contribution to a new understanding of environmental change that is required for strategic environmental impact assessments and long-term natural resource-use planning.
4312002|The plankton communities in Lake Trummen, Sweden, have been studied before and after the restoration of the lake. The changes in the plankton communities are discussed in relation to decreased concentrations of plant nutrients. The biomass of phytoplankton in summer has been reduced by ca 60 percent and the troublesome bloom of blue-green algae has nearly disappeared. The annual production of phytoplankton decreased with ca 30 percent and due to better light conditions the productive layer increased The number of zooplankton, especially cladocerans, has decreased drastically.
4313618|The hypothesis of a "nuclear winter" following a major nuclear exchange has been confirmed in comprehensive scientific assessments by the United Nations, the International Council of Scientific Unions, the World Meteorological Organization and the World Health Organization, as well as by the National Academy of Sciences of the United States and the Royal Society of Canada. The nuclear-winter theory forecasts worldwide human casualties one to two orders of magnitude larger than previous estimates based on the prompt effects or nuclear detonations alone. The catastrophic and now well-established prospect of nuclear winter suggests the following fundamental policy changes: Joint establishment by the superpowers of Canonical Deterrent Forces (CDFs) of 100-300 single-warkead hardened and/or mobile delivery systems on each side; dismantling of most existing strategic nuclear systems including all MIRVed land-based and submarine forces and nuclear-armed bomber fleets wherever possible, using appropriate elements of the existing forces to construct the CDFs; dismantling of all tactical nuclear weapons and reduction and balancing of conventional military forces in Europe, with emphasis on defensive postures; and abandonment of space-based strategic defense, and firm institutionalization of the existing ABM Treaty. These actions are highly stabilizing with respect to the deterrence of international conflict, and are far more affordable than the customary arms race.
4314808|Coral reefs are a resource of immense importance for a large number of people, especially the coastal populations of the developing world. Available information on coral reefs in Sri Lanka and Southeast Asia has been used to evaluate the ecological services provided by coral reefs and to assess the long-term economic benefits derived from some of the ecosystem functions. The minimum economic value of coral reefs in Sri Lanka is estimated at USD 140 000-7 500 000 km
4314764|Many African river floodplains are disappearing or being modified as the result of water management activities, in particular large-scale irrigation schemes. Often any resulting impact on downstream wetland benefits is ignored. By combining hydrological and economic analyses we simulate different scenarios for large-scale irrigation schemes in the Hadejia-Jama'are River Basin in northern Nigeria. We compare the agricultural, fishing and fuelwood benefits lost through reduced flooding downstream against the gains from increased irrigation production upstream. Our analysis suggests that the irrigation benefits can only partially replace the lost benefits from reduced floodplain inundation. Given that several upstream irrigation schemes are completed or currently under construction, our simulations show that the introduction of regulated flood releases is the best hope of minimizing further losses of floodplain benefits. Further expansion of large-scale irrigation within the river basin should also be avoided.
4315486| We present Arctic atmospheric boundary-layer modeling with a regional model COAMPS, for the Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic Ocean (SHEBA) experiment. Model results are compared to soundings, near-surface measurements and forecasts from the ECMWF model. The near-surface temperature is often too high in winter, except in shorter periods when the boundary layer was cloud-capped and well-mixed due to cloud-top cooling. Temperatures are slightly too high also during the summer melt season. Effects are too high boundary-layer moisture and formation of too dense stratocumulus, generating a too deep well-mixed boundary layer with a cold bias at the simulated boundary-layer top. Errors in temperature and therefore moisture are responsible for large errors in heat flux, in particular in solar radiation, by forming these clouds. We conclude that the main problems lie in the surface energy balance and the treatment of the heat conduction through the ice and snow and in how low-level clouds are treated. 
4312241|Freshwater fish can significantly supplement the world's supply of dietary protein, although they now form only 15 percent of the total fish protein used for human consumption. Most of the potential increase will probably come from intensively managed fish ponds. Tilapia, trout and carp are the "big three" groups of freshwater species now in cultivation. The future success of a fish pond venture on a large scale depends upon intensive training of pond managers and public acceptance of the product. Fish production in larger bodies of water-lakes, rivers, and reservoirs-will always be important, although water pollution of various types threatens fish populations in many regions of the world.
4312823|Although New Zealand has more than 1500 protected areas, extending over 16 percent of the total land area and encompassing a wide range of management objectives, the system is biased ecologically toward upland forested terrain. Recent developments in legislation, policy-making, administration and information-gathering reflect a commitment to extend the protected area network to lowland and non-forested environments, thereby protecting a fully-representative range of the country's natural biota and landscapes.
4314663|The article considers how the preservation of biodiversity is morally justified in some of the key texts on environmental ethics, i.e. whether or not biodiversity can be justified as a moral end in itself. The views are classified according to the criteria which they hold to be the ultimate moral beneficiaries; positions are named as anthropocentrism, biocentrism and ecocentrism. In general, they are not in favor of regarding biodiversity as intrinsically valuable, but think its moral value as derivative. This means that the myriad characters of life on Earth are to be maintained as diverse because of their instrumental value for the constituents. It seems that Naess's deep ecology is the only major position that argues for biodiversity's intrinsic value, but this view has proved to be problematic.
4315083|Based on land-use/land-cover (LU/LC) maps for the 1970s and satellite imagery for the 1990s we estimate LU/LC change and associated C fluxes in 3 subregions of the Selva Lacandona, Chiapas, Mexico. The total area of closed forest was reduced by 31%, whereas secondary forests expanded more than ninefold, secondary shrubs by almost sixfold, and cultivated land and pasture areas expanded 21% and 92%, respectively. However, the LU/LC change was not uniformly distributed over the entire study area. Total mean C densities ranged from 452 Mg C ha
4314901|Atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (AD-N) to the North Atlantic Ocean (NAO) basin arises from pollution sources in North America and Western Europe; these sources have increased drastically (5-10-fold) since the Industrial Revolution and continue to increase in both geographic and depositional magnitude. Based on the estimates in this study, AD-N flux (11.2 Tg N yr
4314619|The geogenic background load via wet deposition is estimated for As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb and Zn, while the total atmospheric deposition in the 1990s was quantified to excel the background by 5 to more than 20-fold. The element input via rivers is separated in a geogenic and an anthropogenic part with a rather heterogeneous distribution. The total river input (including diffuse sources) is estimated to be for As 200, Cd 60, Co 200, Cr 440, Cu 1300, Hg 50, Ni 300, Pb 1500 and Zn 6000 (t yr
41417246|Time series of abundance estimates are commonly used for analyses of population trends and possible shifts in growth rate. We investigate if trends in age composition can be used as an alternative to abundance estimates for detection of decelerated population growth. Both methods were tested under two forms of density dependence and different levels of environmental variation in simulated time series of growth in Baltic gray seals. Under logistic growth, decelerating growth could be statistically confirmed after 16 years based on population counts and 14 years based on age composition. When density dependence sets in first at larger population sizes, the age composition method performed dramatically better than population counts, and a decline could be detected after 4 years (versus 10 years). Consequently, age composition analysis provides a complementary method to detect density dependence, particularly in populations where density dependence sets in late.
41510597|Physical obstructions are becoming increasingly recognized as major factors influencing the migrations, population structures, spawning success and recruitment of freshwater organisms. This paper presents a simple but effective method, intended for use by environmental managers, government agencies and conservation bodies, of rapidly assessing and prioritizing barriers to the migrations of diadromous fishes and lampreys for passage improvements. A prioritization matrix was developed using information on fish stock status, the passage efficiency of fishes at individual structures, the distance from the tidal limit and the passability of downstream barriers, and the quantity and quality of habitat upstream of each structure. Importantly, the 'Likelihood of access' was incorporated into the matrix to account for passage efficiency at downstream barriers. Barriers ranked as the highest priority for passage improvements were those characterized by poor fish stocks upstream, low passage efficiency, easy passage from downstream, and a large quantity and high quality of habitat upstream. Prioritization of migration barriers should ensure that access improvements are targeted to achieve optimum benefits.
4311974|Remote sensing was assigned an important role in the Recommendations of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm, 1972). Remote sensing can be of importance as an instrument of global monitoring and resource management. There is some hesitation about remote sensing because there are no appropriate international institutions to handle this new technique. Without these institutions, remote sensing might be used for environmental exploitation and could lead to the widening of the gap between the poor and the rich. It is recommended that the USA and the USSR jointly contribute to development of remote sensing techniques for international use, i e for land use assessment in arid and semi-arid areas. This article was adapted from the keynote address given at the Eighth International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, Ann Arbor, Michigan, October 1972.
4313023|The projected continuing increase in use of fossil fuels and the associated increase in atmospheric CO
25547879|Environmental changes and their transboundary influences on the Mekong watercourse system have been an international research focus in recent years, but the opinions and results related to the impacts of upper Mekong River dams are quite different. In this paper, based on the records of water levels from 1960 to 2003 at three mainstream sites in the upper Mekong River, a quantitative examination has been undertaken into characteristics of the mainstream water-level process at multiple timescales and its response to cascade development. The major results are: i) Annual mean, wet period mean, and the mean water levels during the period between March and April (PBMA period) exhibit a significant increasing trend at Jiuzhou and Yunjinghong sites, which are influenced by large-scale factors such as climate change and solar activity. ii) The interdecadal and interannual variations of annual mean, annual maximum, and wet period mean water levels at three sites show similar features during the dam construction period. iii) The interdecadal variations of PBMA period water level show a gradual increase at Gajiu and Yunjinghong sites but a falling trend at Jiuzhou; these trends confirm that there is some regulation on the flow in the dry season caused by the two existing dams. iv) The downstream effects of the present dams on water levels are very limited at the annual mean and wet season mean levels, not apparent at the monthly and yearly timescales, and relatively significant at daily and hourly timescales.
4315345|Industrial tree plantations in the tropics usually follow short rotations and intensive site management including slash and burn, and the use of heavy machinery. We attempt to quantify the implied nutrient losses (harvest export, erosion, slash and burn, leaching) in order to give plantation managers a chance to understand the significance of their planning and decisions. We used the scarce globally available information and a case study plantation in East Kalimantan, Indonesia (Acacia mangium and Eucalyptus deglupta). Adaptation involves problems and is discussed in some detail. Results are approximate only. Assuming a harvest volume of 200
25547919|This article analyzes the relationship between the configuration and spatial reorganization of land-use and land-cover in the Pujal-Coy project area, Huasteca Potosina region, eastern San Luis Potos, Mexico, as well as the relationship between these changes and the environmental conditions prevailing in the area. Land-use and land-cover changes were determined through the analysis and interpretation of satellite images from different dates. The changes identified in the different study periods were correlated with the prevailing physical factors. The results show that the spatial configuration of farming activities, initially induced by the implementation of a regional development project, is highly correlated to the presence of limiting factors such as soil type, slope, and climate. Particularly, the former represents the element that has led to the establishment of the current distribution pattern of farming activities.
4314987|Recent investigations by the International Decade for the East African Lakes (IDEAL) have significantly advanced our knowledge on the history of Lake Victoria. Seismic reflection profiles confirm the origin of the lake as a result of regional tilting and provide an estimated age of 400 000 years for the lake basin. Three major desiccation events are recorded in the seismic records that may reflect the 100 000 year Milankovitch cycle of climate forcing. The most recent arid period resulted in complete desiccation of the pre-existing lake. Lake Victoria arose from a dry landscape 14 600 calendar years ago (14.6 ka). Primary production was extremely high as lake level rose in its first 500 years, nourished by the high input of nutrients from the flooded landscape. A few species of cichlids and other fish swam out of their fluvial refugia to colonize the new lake, generating hundreds of new endemic species over the ensuing 14 000 years. Lake level rose until a brief overflow event at about 14.2 ka to 13.6 ka. Closed-basin conditions returned during the Younger Dryas until 11.2 ka, when major outflow and open-basin conditions were permanently established. The lake experienced progressively stronger stratification and water-column stability through the first half of the Holocene, and diatom productivity dropped to a minimum from 9.8 to about 7.5 ka. This period coincides with, but is much longer than, the 8.2 ka climatic event that has been observed in many Holocene records from throughout the world. The degree of water-column mixing appears to have steadily increased over the last 6000 years. Short cores from the open lake, document a shift in lake conditions beginning in the 1930s that progressed to the major ecosystem collapse of the early 1980s. The coincidence of the shift in sediment properties in the 1930s with the beginning of rapid expansion of human population and agricultural activity suggests cause and effect. It is conceivable that the lake experienced similar conditions due to natural causes between about 9800 and 7500 years ago.
41418335|There is widespread concern that anthropogenic global warming will trigger Arctic climate tipping points. The Arctic has a long history of natural, abrupt climate changes, which together with current observations and model projections, can help us to identify which parts of the Arctic climate system might pass future tipping points. Here the climate tipping points are defined, noting that not all of them involve bifurcations leading to irreversible change. Past abrupt climate changes in the Arctic are briefly reviewed. Then, the current behaviour of a range of Arctic systems is summarised. Looking ahead, a range of potential tipping phenomena are described. This leads to a revised and expanded list of potential Arctic climate tipping elements, whose likelihood is assessed, in terms of how much warming will be required to tip them. Finally, the available responses are considered, especially the prospects for avoiding Arctic climate tipping points.
4314200|The influence of the environment on incidence of dieback, stem and leaf blights in three Amaranthus cruentus cultivars-
4315275|The objectives of conservation have been focused ever more intensively for two decades on the preservation of "biodiversity." Emphasis has been on the losses of species through extinction. The cure has been the establishment of parks and reserves to protect "hot spots," especially in the tropics, where the diversity of species is high. The efforts in preservation have often extended to the development of connecting links among reserves to allow movements among them. The approach has been codified in law in the form of the Endangered Species Act in the United States and the Biodiversity Treaty, both of which address the issue species by species and each of which has obvious weaknesses. Such efforts may be appropriate but they are totally inadequate as the sum of activities in conservation in a world of 6 billion people with exploding technologies for exploiting virtually all of the earth for immediate human benefit. The biosphere is decaying rapidly as a habitat for all life, including people, not because of the extinction of species, but because of the progressive impoverishment of natural communities through human-induced chronic disruption that is now global and ubiquitous. The impoverishment leads to progressive environmental dysfunction that is cumulative, but only in its later stages leads to extinction of species. Long before extinction becomes important, genetically distinct, local ecotypes are lost and the natural communities in which they were developed become impoverished and dysfunctional. The most conspicuous disruption is that of climate, a global change in the environment of every ecosystem. The most elaborate and carefully interlinked array of natural reserves will succumb as climate is moved out from under them...and biodiversity will suffer the very extinctions the parks were established to avoid. But long before that, the human environment will suffer conspicuous and progressive impoverishment. The objective of conservation is the preservation of the integrity of function of landscapes (and waterbodies). Emphasis falls on forests in the normally naturally forested parts of the earth because forests are so large in area globally and have such a large influence on virtually every aspect of environment. Functional integrity requires structural integrity over 85% or more of the naturally forested zone in most areas. It also requires objective measurement and definition by the scientific community. Suddenly, conservation has become, not the preservation of biodiversity, honorable as that may be, but the preservation of the functional integrity of the human environment. That purpose is the central purpose that we assign to the governments that we establish in democracies to define and defend the public interest. It is past time for the scientific and conservation communities to recognize the urgency of this transition, join in defining competent new objectives for conservation, and to convey to the public the urgency of the need for governmental responsibility in protecting the public interest in a habitable biosphere.
4314017|The retention of individual polychlorinated biphenyls (CBs) and persistent metabolites of CBs; methylsulfonyl CBs ( MeSO
4312243|The construction of dams and the creation of large impoundments continue to be subjects of controversy because of certain adverse environmental impacts. The paper looks at the ecological changes caused by dams, using the Volta Lake of Ghana as a case study to examine the benefits and the problems. It is urged that a revised approach which will utilize data now available on dam projects to devise precautions for future schemes may contribute to minimizing adverse environmental effects. It appears that as long as certain countries possess no alternative source of energy, where feasible, hydroelectric power will be required and dams will be built.
4312205|Growing concern and awareness of chemical hazard has caused a number of governments to revise their approach to the control of chemical substances and products. The approaches chosen by eight different countries are examined in this article. It also draws attention to the many problems in attempting to anticipate and thereby reduce the effects that a chemical may have both on man and on the environment. International cooperation in this complex and difficult field is of utmost importance in order to avoid trade complications as well as wasteful use of resources.
41417265|Marine governance of oil transportation is complex. Due to difficulties in effectively monitoring procedures on vessels en voyage, incentives to save costs by not following established regulations on issues such as cleaning of tanks, crew size, and safe navigation may be substantial. The issue of problem structure is placed in focus, that is, to what degree the specific characteristics and complexity of intentional versus accidental oil spill risks affect institutional responses. It is shown that whereas the risk of accidental oil spills primarily has been met by technical requirements on the vessels in combination with Port State control, attempts have been made to curb intentional pollution by for example increased surveillance and smart governance mechanisms such as the No-Special-Fee system. It is suggested that environmental safety could be improved by increased use of smart governance mechanisms tightly adapted to key actors' incentives to alter behavior in preferable directions.
4315558|A global three-dimensional Lagrangian chemistry-transport model STOCHEM is used to describe the European regional acid deposition and ozone air quality impacts along the Atlantic Ocean seaboard of Europe, from the SO
25547944|This paper presents a summary of the forest fire reports in the insular Caribbean derived from both management reports and an analysis of publicly available Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrodiometer (MODIS) satellite active fire products from the region. A vast difference between the amount of fires reported by land managers and fire points in the MODIS Fire Information for Resource Management System data can be observed. Future research is recommended to better understand the nature of these differences. While there is a general lack of available statistical data on forest fires in the Caribbean, a few general observations can be made: Forest fires occur mainly in dry forest types (500 to 1000 mm of mean annual rainfall). These are also the areas where most human settlements are located. Lowland high forests and montane forests with higher rainfall (1000 and more mm y) are less susceptible to forest fire, but they can burn in exceptionally dry years. Most of the dry forest ecosystems in the Caribbean can be considered to be fire-sensitive ecosystems, while the pine forests in the Caribbean (Cuba, Dominican Republic, and the Bahamas) are maintained by wildfires. In fire-sensitive ecosystems, uncontrolled burning often encourages the spread of alien invasive species. A Caribbean Fire Management Cooperation Strategy was developed between 2005 and 2006 under auspices of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. This regional strategy aims to strengthen Caribbean fire management networking by encouraging closer collaboration among countries with similar ecological conditions. The strategy for the Caribbean identifies a number of research, training, and management activities to improve wildfire management capacity in the Caribbean.
25547813|There is a need for a better understanding of the status of the environment. At the same time, concerns have been raised regarding alienation of the local populace from environmental decisions. One proposed solution is participatory environmental monitoring. When evaluating the usefulness of environmental monitoring, the focus may be on accuracy, as is usually done by scientists, or on efficiency in terms of conservation impact. To test whether investment in participatory biodiversity monitoring makes economic sense for obtaining data for management decisions, we compared the cost efficiency of participatory and conventional biodiversity monitoring methods in Philippine parks. We found that, from a government perspective, investment in monitoring that combines scientific with participatory methods is strikingly more effective than a similar level of investment in conventional scientific methods alone in generating conservation management interventions. Moreover, the local populace seemed to benefit from more secure de facto user rights over land and other resources. Participatory biodiversity monitoring not only represents a cost-effective alternative when conventional monitoring is impossible, but it is also an unexpectedly powerful complementary approach, capable of generating a much higher level of conservation management intervention, where conventional monitoring already takes place.
4312391|TCDD contamination of the area surrounding the TCDD contamination of the area surrounding the ICMESA chemical factory at Seveso is examined in light of the obvious stumbling blocks to an effective environmental policy: responsibilities for poorly controlled industrial plants, difficulties in designing and conducting a proper epidemiological surveillance, and the influence of political and professional biases on the general outcome. To date, the absence of extensive pathological findings in humans can only be partially reasurring; new waves of chloracne document a persistence of exposure which confirms the need and the importance of a long-term surveillance.
4312750|Bleaks (Alburnus alburnus) were given three different chlorinated paraffins (CPs) in food for a period of three months. Differences uptake were noted. During a subsequent elimination period of about ten months, it was found that the retention of the formulations differed considerably and that one formulation was not eliminated at all. Two of the three tested CP formulations also changed the swimming behavior of the bleaks.
40801531|During the first 35 years of the Green Revolution, Chinese grain production doubled, greatly reducing food shortage, but at a high environmental cost. In 2005, China alone accounted for around 38% of the global N fertilizer consumption, but the average on-farm N recovery efficiency for the intensive wheat-maize system was only 16-18%. Current on-farm N use efficiency (NUE) is much lower than in research trials or on-farm in other parts of the world, which is attributed to the overuse of chemical N fertilizer, ignorance of the contribution of N from the environment and the soil, poor synchrony between crop N demand and N supply, failure to bring crop yield potential into full play, and an inability to effectively inhibit N losses. Based on such analyses, some measures to drastically improve NUE in China are suggested, such as managing various N sources to limit the total applied N, spatially and temporally matching rhizospheric N supply with N demand in high-yielding crops, reducing N losses, and simultaneously achieving high-yield and high NUE. Maximizing crop yields using a minimum of N inputs requires an integrated, interdisciplinary cooperation and major scientific and practical breakthroughs involving plant nutrition, soil science, agronomy, and breeding.
4313165|Brazil has a history of producing ethanol from sugarcane, a primary crop. Recent technological advances have enabled the ethanol program in Brazil to achieve substantial progress. Today, for example, ethanol-powered automobiles represent 90 percent of new car sales in Brazil. An analysis of ethanol production costs shows that the process has been relatively cost-efficient.
23322892|Marine protected areas (MPAs) are critical to the well-being of threatened ecosystems and thus can be highly beneficial to humans, especially to those residing nearby. We explore the qualities of 117 MPAs in the Mediterranean basin and develop a taxonomy of their characteristics. We relate the spatial distribution of the MPAs to the various characteristics of the taxonomy (size, distance from shore, protection levels, management regimes, etc.) and to areas of high human impact and influence levels. To do this we use information on biogeographic regions and information from two different human influence models; one model developed for the marine environment and one covering the littoral terrestrial environment. Our analysis provides insights to planners and managers working in a regional capacity and trying to build MPA networks. Generally, current MPAs have not been established in high impact areas despite their being close to shores containing intense human activity. Decision-makers wishing to design and establish new MPAs may seek out areas of high cumulative human impacts (near the marineterrestrial interface) or avoid them depending on marine conservation objectives, including the desire to vary types of MPAs within a network. Limitations of our analysis and methodology indicate areas for further research.
4313729|The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is a piece of global legislation around which environmentalists from many nations have organized an international campaign to protect the ozone layer. In order to strengthen the protocol, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are mobilizing citizens, using scientific arguments, and lobbying governments. As coordination among NGOs grows more sophisticated, this citizens lobby can be expected to influence the negotiation of agreements to combat other global environmental problems, such as global warming.
4315366|We identify littoral microcrustacean indicators of acidification in 2 surveys of Canadian Shield lakes conducted 10 years apart. We found a total of 90 cladoceran and copepod species with richness increasing severalfold from acidic to nonacidic lakes. The fauna of the nonacidic lakes differed between the surveys. The 1987 survey employed activity traps, and caught more littoral taxa than the more recent, net-haul-based survey. Similar faunas were identified in the acidified lakes in both surveys, and several good indicator species were identified. For example, Acanthocycops vernalis was restricted to lakes with pH < 6. Sinobosmina sp. was very common but only in lakes with pH > 4.8. Tropocyclops extensus, Mesocyclops edax, and Sida crystallina were commonly found but only at pH > 5, and Chydorus faviformis only at pH > 5.9. These indicators showed promise in gauging the early stages of recovery from acidification in 3 lakes that were included in both surveys.
25547900|Dengue is a serious public health problem in Metro Manila, Philippines. Increasing dengue incidence has been attributed to climate change; however, contradicting reports show inconclusive relationships between dengue and climatic factors. This study investigates temperature and rainfall as climatic factors affecting dengue incidence in Metro Manila from 1996 to 2005. Monthly dengue incidence and climatic data for Metro Manila were collected over a 10-y period (1996-2005). Climatic factors temperature and rainfall were linked with dengue incidence through regression analysis. A predictive model equation plots dengue incidence (Y) versus rainfall (X), which suggests that rainfall is significantly correlated to dengue incidence (r = 0.377, p < 0.05). No significant correlation between dengue incidence and temperature was established (p > 0.05). Evidence shows dengue incidence in Metro Manila varies with changing rainfall patterns. Intensified surveillance and control of mosquitoes during periods with high rainfall are recommended.
41418323|Analysis of in situ and satellite data shows evidence of different regional snow cover responses to the widespread warming and increasing winter precipitation that has characterized the Arctic climate for the past 4050 years. The largest and most rapid decreases in snow water equivalent (SWE) and snow cover duration (SCD) are observed over maritime regions of the Arctic with the highest precipitation amounts. There is also evidence of marked differences in the response of snow cover between the North American and Eurasian sectors of the Arctic, with the North American sector exhibiting decreases in snow cover and snow depth over the entire period of available in situ observations from around 1950, while widespread decreases in snow cover are not apparent over Eurasia until after around 1980. However, snow depths are increasing in many regions of Eurasia. Warming and more frequent winter thaws are contributing to changes in snow pack structure with important implications for land use and provision of ecosystem services. Projected changes in snow cover from Global Climate Models for the 2050 period indicate increases in maximum SWE of up to 15% over much of the Arctic, with the largest increases (1530%) over the Siberian sector. In contrast, SCD is projected to decrease by about 1020% over much of the Arctic, with the smallest decreases over Siberia (<10%) and the largest decreases over Alaska and northern Scandinavia (3040%) by 2050. These projected changes will have far-reaching consequences for the climate system, human activities, hydrology, and ecology.
23322909|Cities are rapidly increasing in importance as a major factor shaping the Earth system, and therefore, must take corresponding responsibility. With currently over half the world's population, cities are supported by resources originating from primarily rural regions often located around the world far distant from the urban loci of use. The sustainability of a city can no longer be considered in isolation from the sustainability of human and natural resources it uses from proximal or distant regions, or the combined resource use and impacts of cities globally. The world's multiple and complex environmental and social challenges require interconnected solutions and coordinated governance approaches to planetary stewardship. We suggest that a key component of planetary stewardship is a global system of cities that develop sustainable processes and policies in concert with its non-urban areas. The potential for cities to cooperate as a system and with rural connectivity could increase their capacity to effect change and foster stewardship at the planetary scale and also increase their resource security.
4315363|It has been widely speculated that controls of SO
4314195| Global sea-surface temperature maps show that mass coral-reef bleaching episodes between 1983 and 1991 followed positive anomalies more than 1C above long-term monthly averages ("hot spots") during the preceding warm season. Irregular formation, movement, and disappearance of hot spots make their detailed long-term prediction impossible, but they can be tracked in real time from satellite data. Monitoring of ocean hot spots and of coral bleaching is needed if the Framework Convention of Climate Change is to meet its goal of protecting the most temperature-sensitive ecosystems. 
4315038|Temporal trend studies of PCBs and DDTs in two annually laminated sediment cores from the offshore NW Baltic proper and the Stockholm archipelago demonstrate that studies of laminated sediments are useful tools for detecting time trends of HOCs. The concentration trends of PCBs and DDTs, on a dry weight basis, from the two cores show quite large similarities to trends reported in pelagic biota from the NW Baltic proper, although the reduction in concentrations from the 1970s and onwards is approximately half of the reductions seen in biota. The sediment accumulation trend for these substances was not coupled to the concentration trend in biota but is closely linked to climate-related erosion/resuspension dynamics. The gross accumulation rate in the archipelago area proved to be 8 times higher compared to that of the offshore NW Baltic proper (885 and 108 g m-2 water area yr-1, respectively). Since PCB and DDT concentrations were similar in offshore and coastal areas, and the burial rates of PCB and DDT were closely linked to gross accumulation rates, the sediment burial of contaminants in relation to water area was severalfold higher in the archipelago compared to the offshore area. The high burial of sPCB and sDDT in the archipelago indicated an import of contaminants from the open sea to the archipelago. Although eutrophication-induced scavenging of contaminants may have occurred in the Baltic Sea, natural processes have obscured evidence of this.
4314711|Our globe consists of a mosaic of crustal plates, which move in different directions. The direct connection from the mantel through fissures of the crust reveal interesting ecological processes. In two places, the rifting apart of crustal plates is of particular interest for limnology: In Iceland on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, and within the Rift Valley systems of East Africa. In Africa, the geological process has been in progress above sea level for millions of years, but in Iceland for only thousands. Recent studies have linked nature to history. This paper discusses resource polymorphism in Arctic charr in Thingvallavatn, in relation to the role of habitat formation. Thingvallavatn is the only known lake in the world with four Arctic charr morphs utilizing the different food resources of the lake. Among the morphs, a clear differentiation in life history characters, morphology, habitat, and food ecology, has occurred within 10 000 years. The morphs also demonstrate a partial genetic differentiation, suggesting a separation into three reproductively semi-isolated gene pools. Conservation and management of this unique lake ecosystem and its catchment area are in progress.
4315813|Eutrophication of the Baltic Sea has potentially increased the frequency and magnitude of cyanobacteria blooms. Eutrophication leads to increased sedimentation of organic material, increasing the extent of anoxic bottoms and subsequently increasing the internal phosphorus loading. In addition, the hypoxic water volume displays a negative relationship with the total dissolved inorganic nitrogen pool, suggesting greater overall nitrogen removal with increased hypoxia. Enhanced internal loading of phosphorus and the removal of dissolved inorganic nitrogen leads to lower nitrogen to phosphorus ratios, which are one of the main factors promoting nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria blooms. Because cyanobacteria blooms in the open waters of the Baltic Sea seem to be strongly regulated by internal processes, the effects of external nutrient reductions are scale-dependent. During longer time scales, reductions in external phosphorus load may reduce cyanobacteria blooms; however, on shorter time scales the internal phosphorus loading can counteract external phosphorus reductions. The coupled processes inducing internal loading, nitrogen removal, and the prevalence of nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria can qualitatively be described as a potentially self-sustaining "vicious circle." To effectively reduce cyanobacteria blooms and overall signs of eutrophication, reductions in both nitrogen and phosphorus external loads appear essential.
4314419|Among the issues that deserve attention in the setting of global environmental policy in the near future are three that require both nongovernment and government examination. They are: i) finding adequate means to define new problems; ii) carrying out incisive and comprehensive audits of the effectiveness of programs completed or under way; and iii) developing means of reconciling the diverse communities and values involved in designing and evaluating new programs of study and action.
23253249|This article reports a dataset on 8 years of monitoring carbon fluxes in a subarctic palsa mire based on micrometeorological eddy covariance measurements. The mire is a complex with wet minerotrophic areas and elevated dry palsa as well as intermediate sub-ecosystems. The measurements document primarily the emission originating from the wet parts of the mire dominated by a rather homogenous cover of Eriophorum angustifolium. The CO 2 /CH 4 flux measurements performed during the years 20012008 showed that the areas represented in the measurements were a relatively stable sink of carbon with an average annual rate of uptake amounting to on average -46 g C m 2 y 1 including an equally stable loss through CH 4 emissions (1822 g CH 4 C m 2 y 1 ). This consistent carbon sink combined with substantial CH 4 emissions is most likely what is to be expected as the permafrost under palsa mires degrades in response to climate warming.
4315287|This paper makes three points relevant to the application of the precautionary principle to the regulation of GMOs. i) The unavoidable arbitrariness in the application of the precautionary principle reflects a deeper epistemological problem affecting scientific analyses of sustainability. This requires understanding the difference between the concepts of "risk", "uncertainty" and "ignorance". ii) When dealing with evolutionary processes it is impossible to ban uncertainty and ignorance from scientific models. Hence, traditional risk analysis (probability distributions and exact numerical models) becomes powerless. Other forms of scientific knowledge (general principles or metaphors) may be useful alternatives. iii) The existence of ecological hazards per se should not be used as a reason to stop innovations altogether. However, the precautionary principle entails that scientists move away from the concept of "substantive rationality" (trying to indicate to society optimal solutions) to that of "procedural rationality" (trying to help society to find "satisficing" solutions).
4314158| Information on the history of the Earth system is an important element in assessing global change. Analysis of air trapped in natural ice has provided data on the pre-industrial concentrations of greenhouse gases like CO
4312974|As the big commercial whale species are getting a respite, thanks to the moratorium on whaling which goes into effect by 1986, their smaller "cousins" have been largely overlooked. Porpoises, dolphins and smaller whales are facing mounting threats to their survival through increased fishing, shrinking habitats and toxic pollutants. But perhaps their most deadly enemy is scientific ignorance-we simply know too little about most of them to institute rational and effective conservation measures.
4312069|Climatic consequences of a doubled population in the year 2015 can be foreseen more firmly on a local than global level. Heat islands encompassing population and industrial centers will expand and become more numerous and marked. Existing weather anomalies within and downwind of cities such as reduced ventilation rates and more showery conditions will become more widespread unless mankind's present practices of migration to cities and growing industrialization cease. While climatic changes could be significant on a global scale as well, predictions on this scale are currently unreliable. Growing fossil fuel consumption increases atmospheric carbon dioxide and its "greenhouse" warming. More particles in the air can lead to a variety of potential changes in climate. The uncertainty in global consequences of pollution suggests that mankind would be wise to minimize the impact on the atmosphere until more is known of its effects.
4315328|In rural Africa, wild foods provide diversity, vitamins and minerals in the diet. They are also important at times of food shortage. This paper discusses issues concerning wild food use in semiarid West Africa, and presents the results of a study of the use of wild plant foods in northeast Nigeria. Interviews with farmers and herders identified a total of 67 wild foods, coming from 53 species of plant. Knowledge of wild foods varied according to ethnic group and gender. Some wild foods caused side effects if eaten in excess. Land-use change due to agricultural expansion seems to be increasing the areas where wild foods are most commonly found. Wild foods are important as a supplement to daily diet, and at times of food scarcity. In addition, they provide an opportunity to generate income when they are collected and traded. The paper concludes that wild foods are an important coping strategy for rural communities. Further research is needed to determine whether local institutions and community-based natural resource management regimes are sufficient to conserve this resource.
4313019|Only in the past few decades has the attention of the world community been drawn to the social, economic, political, and scientific questions raised by the phenomenon of aging on a massive scale. While aging trends were already marked in more developed regions, the less developed were exceedingly youthful. This current youthfulness-a product of high fertility and reduced mortality-has strongly focused the attention of policy-makers on such issues as birth control and the provision of health care, education, and other services to growing numbers of the young. Relatively little attention has been given to the long-term consequences of successful birth control programs and improved life expectancy at birth namely, the growing number and proportion of persons surviving to reach old age. Policy-makers must start anticipating aging on a massive scale as today's youth pass through the life cycle to old age. Such forward planning is particularly crucial in developing countries which will have to adjust to the transition from a youthful to an aging population much more rapidly than did more developed countries in the past.
40801588|Nuclear energy can play a role in carbon free production of electrical energy, thus making it interesting for tomorrow's energy mix. However, several issues have to be addressed. In fission technology, the design of socalled fourth generation reactors show great promise, in particular in addressing materials efficiency and safety issues. If successfully developed, such reactors may have an important and sustainable part in future energy production. Working fusion reactors may be even more materials efficient and environmental friendly, but also need more development and research. The roadmap for development of fourth generation fission and fusion reactors, therefore, asks for attention and research in these fields must be strengthened.
4315739|The plant family Orobanchaceae includes many parasitic weeds that are also impressive invaders and aggressive crop pests with several specialized features (e.g. microscopic seeds, parasitic habits). Although they have provoked several large-scale eradication and control efforts, no global evaluation of their invasive potential is as yet available. We use tools from ecological niche modeling in combination with occurrence records from herbarium specimens to evaluate the global invasive potential of each of 10 species in this assemblage, representing several of the worst global invaders. The invasive potential of these species is considerable, with all tropical and subtropical countries, and most temperate countries, vulnerable to invasions by one or more of them.
4315649| The HBV-NP model is a newly developed water quality model that describes the turnover and fluxes of both nitrogen and phosphorous. It is based on the conceptual precipitation/runoff HBV model. The HBV-NP model was applied for simulation of nitrogen for the Rnne catchment in southern Sweden. The catchment was divided into 64 subcatchments in the model. Discharge measurements from six stations and nitrogen measurements from 12 stations were used in the calibration of parameters in the model. Eight automatic calibrations were performed with different combinations of time periods, objective functions, and levels of the nitrogen load in the model. A regionally extended interpretation of the Nash-Sutcliffe R
24708972|This paper describes solute transport modeling carried out as a part of an assessment of the long-term radiological safety of a planned deep rock repository for spent nuclear fuel in Forsmark, Sweden. Specifically, it presents transport modeling performed to locate and describe discharge areas for groundwater potentially carrying radionuclides from the repository to the surface where man and the environment could be affected by the contamination. The modeling results show that topography to large extent determines the discharge locations. Present and future lake and wetland objects are central for the radionuclide transport and dose calculations in the safety assessment. Results of detailed transport modeling focusing on the regolith and the upper part of the rock indicate that the identification of discharge areas and objects considered in the safety assessment is robust in the sense that it does not change when a more detailed model representation is used.
4315419| Concentrations of 34 trace elements in hair have been determined in 47 females from an acid region in southern Sweden, who were compared with 43 females from an alkaline area. The concentrations of these elements in hair and drinking water were determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. The hair concentrations of boron and barium were significantly higher (p < 0.001) in hair samples from the acid region, the hair levels of calcium, strontium, molybdenum, iron, and selenium were significantly higher (p < 0.001) in the alkaline region. For some metals, e.g. calcium, lead, molybdenum, and strontium, there were positive correlations between the concentrations in hair and water (rs = 0.34-0.57; p  0.34-0.57; p  0.001), indicating the importance of intake from minerals in water. The increased ratio of selenium/mercury concentrations in hair samples obtained in the alkaline district (p < 0.001) indicates that these subjects may have better protection against the toxic effects of mercury. 
25094547|Based on the intensive hydrochemical measurements of the Gulf of Bothnia Year 1991, we present descriptions of the regional variations of freshwater and nutrient inputs and hydrographic and nutrient conditions in these basins for this particular year. These data are then used to construct nutrient budgets for the Bothnian Sea and Bay, for silicate, inorganic and organic nitrogen and phosphorus. The seasonal variations of internal sources and sinks and advective transports between the basins and with the Baltic proper, show the relative importance and magnitude of biogeochemical and physical processes for the development of nutrient concentrations in these basins. Annual budget estimates show that the Bothnian Sea appears to function as a very efficient sink for nitrogen and phosphorus. There is a very small exchange of nitrogen with the Baltic proper, in contrast to the large amounts of phosphorus imported and silica exported. Overall N:P ratios show the high rates typical of the Bothnian Bay, which are drastically reduced in the Bothnian Sea, particularly for inorganic nutrients. In spite of the highly variable N:P ratios of the different pools, the calculated net transfers of inorganic nutrients into organic matter follow classical Redfield ratios in both basins.
25547932|Initial studies on the pressure from environmental contaminants on raptor populations in Spain date back to the 1980s, and they have been carried out from a range of viewpoints using a range of sentinel raptor species. However, there is no national monitoring scheme, and therefore the research carried out has been sporadic both spatially and temporally. The exposure to metals has not varied over time, except in the case of lead, whose concentration in eggs and tissues has diminished. In general, the concentrations of metals detected in raptor samples from Spain are generally low and not sufficient to produce toxic effects. Excepting DDT and DDE, most organochlorine-based pesticides in raptors from Spain have diminished over the last 2 decades. The concentrations of DDE found in the eggs of various species could in part explain problems in the reproductive success of raptors in Spain.
25094582|The personal safety and well-being of one fifth, and water supply for almost half of all people depend directly or indirectly on the functional integrity of mountain ecosystems, the key component of which is a robust vegetation cover. The green 'coat' of the world's mountains is composed of specialized plants, animals and microbes, all nested in a great variety of microhabitats. Because a single mountain may host a series of climatically different life zones over short elevational distances, mountains are hot spots of biodiversity and priority regions for conservation. With their diverse root systems, plants anchor soils on slopes and prevent erosion. Both landuse and atmospheric changes such as elevated
4313932|This paper seeks to show how the conservation of natural habitats and protected areas contributes to sustainable development, with special emphasis on economic arguments. The role of environmental economics and valuation of natural resources, as analytical tools that facilitate the avoidance of adverse environmental impacts, is discussed. An integrated environmental economic framework is outlined, and some practical case studies of environmental impact valuation in developing countries are summarized. The paper goes on to discuss the links between economy-wide policies (both macroeconomic and sectoral) and natural-resource degradation, and explains the important role of environmental accounting. Issues that arise in the practical implementation of efforts to conserve biodiversity in developing countries are delineated, and the status of international dialogue on agreements to protect the environment is summarized. The role of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) is described, and key issues in recent GEF projects are highlighted. In-country issues arising from the implementation of policy for the protection of biodiversity are reviewed. Recent integrated conservation development projects (ICDPs) are examined, which have attempted to link protected area management with social and economic development in local communities. The final section contains the principal conclusions.
4314478|A greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory was compiled for Mongolia according to the methods in the IPCC/OECD Guidelines for CO
4313854|Multiple-use forests should be managed to provide a mix of social values for current and future generations. Taking a Western-world orientation and a historical approach, this article examines how forest values originate in society and are communicated to forest managers. For most of the last 200 years, the benefits of public and private forests in the Western world were predominately utilitarian and their immediate social value expressed primarily in market prices. As these countries industrialized and urbanized, romantic and symbolic forest values increased. Today the social values of forest recreation, landscape amenity, biological diversity, cultural heritage and environmental protection are of increased importance. These forest social values are not well communicated by the economic system. They rely on social and political systems to express their values. Utilitarian social values are often in conflict with romantic and symbolic forest values today; thus foresters increasingly are placed in the role of conflict managers. In what they do and do not do, foresters can reduce or increase social conflict
4313864|Savannas are highly dynamic, and reactions to particular events, such as fire or temporary drought, are transmitted through the ecosystem by interactions between different components. Indigenous herbivores respond to spatial and temporal variations in the vegetation by selectivity of forage on scales from landscape to a single bite, and by demographic changes. Herbivory itself induces changes in plants and vegetation, which in turn may promote or deter further foraging. Domestic herbivores are less mobile than many wild species, impeding large-scale selectivity, and are kept at less variable and usually higher densities, which prevents small-scale selectivity. Livestock numbers decrease following fodder shortage, only after a considerable timelag. Herbivores may interact with competitive patterns between woody and herbaceous vegetation as well as with fire regimes, and may thus be involved in large-scale physiognomic dynamics of savannas.
4313665|The feasibility of applying particle-induced X-ray emission spectroscopy (PIXE), using a scanning proton microprobe (SPM), to trace-element analysis in wood and bark samples is demonstrated. Detection limits of the order of 1-10 ppm are reached for several elements. Elemental X-ray images of the analyzed sections show the patterns of several elements; e.g. Cl, K, Ca, Mn, Fe, Cu and Zn. Some of these patterns can be related to the annual tree-ring structure. It is observed that the variation in elements that have environmental influence can be rather large within a single tree-ring, thus illustrating the possible difficulties of using tree-ring sections as a pollution monitor. The variations in elemental concentrations when crossing from bark to wood are also shown to be smooth for some elements but rather abrupt for others.
4312344|Alternative energy sources, like wind, solar, and geothermal energy, are being considered in the Soviet Union mainly for solving local energy supply problems, particularly in the sparsely populated regions of Central Asia, Siberia, the Far North, and the Far East. Whereas providing conventional forms of energy for space heating and cooling, and for the generation of electricity in these fringe areas is often expensive and complicated, favorable conditions exist for the exploitation of alternative sources of energy. Equipment based on wind and solar energy is being developed chiefly for use in agriculture and livestock breeding. Geothermal energy will be utilized for heating buildings and hot-houses, and tidal energy is being developed for large-scale electricity production.
40928399|Southern Chile encompasses one of the most extensive fjord regions of the world, the Patagonia, currently exposed to natural and anthropogenic perturbations. These fjord ecosystems provide important services to humans, which have not been adequately measured and valued. As a consequence, ecosystem services are commonly ignored in public policy design and in the evaluation of development projects. Here we tackle questions that are highly relevant for the nation's development, namely (1) understanding fjord functioning, and (2) developing management strategies based on ecosystem services, in order to secure simultaneous and adequate use of these ecosystems which area influenced by ecological (e.g., biogeochemical) and productive (e.g., aquaculture, fisheries) processes. We also seek to strengthen the analysis of fjord ecosystem value from the economical (including coastal zoning), socio-cultural, institutional, and governmental points of view. In addition, the investigation of current and future effects of climate change on this large region offers a unique opportunity to understand the social and economic consequences of a global phenomenon at local to regional scales. Biogeochemical and socio-economic models will be used to simulate future scenarios under a gamut of management options.
4315457|Densely occupied drainage basins and coastal zones in developing countries that are facing economic growth are likely to suffer from moderate to severe environmental impacts regarding different issues. The catchment basins draining towards the Atlantic coast from northeastern to southern Brazil include a wide range of climatic zones and diverse ecosystems. Within its borders lies the Atlantic rain forest, significant extensions of semiarid thorn forests (caatinga), vast tree and scrub woodlands (cerrado) and most of the 6670 km of the Brazilian coast and its marine ecosystems. In recent decades, human activities have increasingly advanced over these natural resources. Littoralization has imposed a burden on coastal habitats and communities. Most of the native vegetation of the cerrado and caatinga was removed and only 7% of the original Atlantic rainforest still exists. Estuaries, bays and coastal lagoons have been irreversibly damaged. Land uses, damming and water diversion have become the major driving forces for habitat loss and aquatic ecosystem modification. Regardless of the contrast between the drought-affected northeastern Brazil and the much more prosperous and industrialized southeastern/southern Brazil, the impacts on habitat and communities were found equally severe in both cases. Attempts to halt environmental degradation have not been effective. Instead of focusing on natural resources separately, it is suggested that more integrated environmental policies that focus on aquatic ecosystems integrity are introduced.
25547798|Site investigations of contaminated land are associated with high costs. From a societal perspective, just enough economic resources should be spent on investigations so that society's limited resources can be used optimally. The solution is to design investigation programs that are cost effective, which can be performed using value of information analysis (VOIA). The principle of VOIA is to compare the benefit at the present state of knowledge with the benefit that is expected after an investigation has been performed. A framework for VOIA of site investigations is presented based on Bayesian risk-cost-benefit decision analysis. The result is an estimate of the value of an investigation program and, for specific problems, the optimal number of samples. The main strength of the methodology is that it promotes clear thinking and compels the decision maker to reflect on issues that otherwise would be ignored. The main weakness is the complexity of VOIA models.
4314142|From 1990 to 1992, an epizootic produced a massive die-off of striped dolphins in the Mediterranean Sea. The event started in mid-Spain but extended, through three apparently interconnected outbreaks, to finally cover the whole western Mediterranean and the Tyrrhenian and Aegean Seas. Although more than 1000 carcasses of striped dolphins were collected during the event, the total toll remains unknown because of fragmentary coverage of rescue networks and because many carcasses never reached the shore. The primary cause of the episode was identified as an infection by a morbillivirus, the origin of which could not be ascertained. The dolphins affected were found to carry concentrations of pollutants higher than normal for the general population. This difference could not be explained by variation in nutritive condition or by sex or age composition. The dolphins that died at the beginning of the outbreak were in abnormally poor nutritional condition, and had increased prevalence of ectoparasites and epizoits. This suggested that these dolphins had recently undergone a period of restricted mobility, during which the ectoparasites had found attachment easier than under normal conditions. Abnormal weather conditions, leading to depressed marine productivity, may have been the cause of some of these anomalies.
4313559|Forest soils in southern Sweden have become more acid during the last decades, partly due to deposition of acidifying substances. The top soil pH has decreased by up to 1.5 units over a period of 35 years (average decrease 0.8 units). The decreases occurred not only in the root zone but throughout the whole soil profile, and were particularly marked in the originally less acid soils. The pH decrease has been accompanied by considerable losses of exchangeable Na, K, Mg and Ca, as well as of Zn and Mn ions. The species diversity of the vascular plants in the field layer increased over a 15-35-year period in spite of the acidification of the forest soils. Among species that increased were the nitrophiles, e.g. Rubus idaeus, Aegopodium podagraria and Chamaenerion angustifolium, probably an effect of the increased N-deposition. A few species decreased on a majority of sites, Polygonatum multiflorum, Pulmonaria officinalis, Dentaria bulbifera, while Mercurialis perennis, Lamium galeobdolon, Galium odoratum and Oxalis acetosella decreased at the lower pH levels. The greater abundance of several species is probably caused by the increased nitrogen deposition. The most common species appeared to respond very clearly to the acid properties of the humus layer. Acidification gradients, caused by large stemflow volumes from beech trees, showed that the species cover was closely related to the variation in soil pH. The cover curves of species growing in the narrow stemflow gradients were congruent with those of beech stands with different acidity, spread over a geographical area.
4315189| Riverine phosphorus (P) concentration and P-transport to Lake Mlaren, the third largest lake in Sweden, has been monitored for 35 years in 12 major tributaries. During a period of 15 months, complementary assessments of particulate P, suspended matter and dissolved reactive P were made. Particulate P comprised 64%, dissolved unreactive P 23% and dissolved reactive P 13% as flow-weighted means, with high seasonal variability. "Background" or "reference" P-transports in the streams were estimated by different methods and the anthropogenic contribution to P-transport was shown to be reduced over time. Potential algal availability of particulate P showed a mean availability of c. 45% for water draining arable and forested land, while the availability was higher for sewage discharge particulate P and algal P. Calculated total bioavailable P in tributaries was shown to equal reactive P measured on coarsely filtered water and it was indicated that the proportion of bioavailable P was higher during the period with high anthropogenic P-contribution than with a lower contribution. 
4312962|Marine fishery resources of the Southwest Indian Ocean are generally limited by low primary productivity and narrow coastal shelf areas. Traditional fisheries account for 90% of landings but suffer from lack of fishing gear and distribution channels. Industrial fisheries for crustaceans and for tuna are largely controlled from foreign countries and are overcapitalized. Marine environments are little spoiled except in densely populated areas and near rivers carrying pollutants and sediments.
4314557|Several village-based preserves have been established in Western Samoa that are owned, controlled and managed by the villagers. Although these preserves appear to be a robust approach to rainforest conservation, their establishment resulted in significant conflicts between the villagers and the Western NGOs that assisted in raising funds for the preserves. The principles of indigenous control were unexpectedly difficult to accept by western conservation organizations who, ultimately, were unwilling to cede decision-making authority to indigenous peoples. Conversely, ecocolonialism, the imposition of western conservation paradigms and power structures on indigenous peoples, proved to be incompatible with indigenous concepts of conservation and human dignity. Even well-intentioned conservation efforts by NGOs may fail if there is an unwitting disparagement of the traditional knowledge, culture, political systems, and integrity of indigenous peoples. Similar conflicts may occur in other areas with traditional land-tenure systems and strategies are needed to avoid such problems in the future.
4314744|The Cairngorm Mountains are outstanding for nature conservation and recognized to be of national and international importance for geomorphology, woodlands and montane (alpine) environments. The climate is unique in the mix of oceanic and continental influences, and this is reflected in the arctic-like character of the high montane zone, notably in its arctic-alpine plant communities, species, geomorphological processes and soils. There is a range of near-natural and semi-natural habitats from valley mire and pine wood, through a transition of dwarf-shrub heaths and alpine grasslands to stony fell-field. These habitats occur within an assemblage of geomorphological features which are of exceptional value for research on the changes which have shaped the mountains of Britain. A range of human activities has produced locally significant impacts on the montane zone, as well as an overall reduction in environmental quality. Various statutory and voluntary measures are in place under a range of conservation designations to mitigate these impacts and to provide for environmental protection and enhancement. Impacts from global sources, notably atmospheric pollution and climate change may, potentially have greater and more widespread effects on the montane zone, but lie outside local management controls. Research is in place or planned to monitor future changes.
4312020|Meiofauna (0.1-1 mm), macrofauna (>1 mm) and zooplankton (>0.16 mm) in four Swedish estuaries were sampled with piston corer, Smith-McIntyre grab and Nansen net, respectively. The faunal communities were evaluated by some indices. The diversity of the meiofauna reflected differences in pollution rather than differences in salinity. A combined effect of pollution and reduced salinity gave a lower macrofaunal diversity outside river mouths. The meio- and macrofaunal composition was often more similar between the various estuaries than within individual estuaries, reflecting the steep gradient caused by river outflow with effluents. The zooplankton fauna was almost uniform in all the estuaries.
4312093|Air containing vinyl chloride was passed through liver cell preparations from rat containing microsomes, cytosol and all necessary cofactors for the mixed function oxygenase detoxication system and fortified with 3,4-dichlorobenzenethiol in order to trap reactive metabolites of the gas. In parallel experiments, an air - vinyl chloride mixture was passed through a cofactor fortified liver microsome preparation freed from cytosol, into a methanol solution of the same thiol. In experiments of both types 3,4-dichlorophenylthioacetaldehyde, accompanied by other products, was identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry through comparison with an authentic sample. These results are consistent with the formation of either or both chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde as volatile reactive metabolites of vinyl chloride, although the latter is considered less likely.
4312957|This article examines the major causes of disease in the East African Region. The author links most of the serious diseases directly to lack of potable water and proper sanitation. These two factors are cited as the principal causes of disease in the Region. More specific information is given, breaking down the disease patterns in each country and offering suggestions for remedial action.
4313502|Acute toxicity data developed over 20 years at one laboratory (Columbia National Fisheries Research Laboratory, US Fish and Wildlife Service, Columbia, Missouri) were analyzed by various statistical approaches for taxonomic comparisons and to assess the degree to which various factors (formulation, pH, hardness, temperature, diet, source of fish, and life stage and size) affected toxicity. The data base consisted of 4901 tests with 410 chemicals (75 percent pesticides) and 66 species of freshwater animals. Frequency distributions of chemical toxicity were generally bimodal with insecticides occurring mainly in the $\leq 1000\ \mu {\rm g}\cdot {\rm L}^{-1}$, and herbicides, fungicides, industrials, and other chemicals in the $\geq 1000\ \mu {\rm g}\cdot {\rm L}^{-1}$ mode. Formulations of pesticides increased toxicity of technical material 32 percent of the time, and decreased toxicity 11 percent of the time. Although pH affected toxicity of only 20 percent of the chemicals tested, it caused the greatest average change in toxicity of any factor examined. Hardness had little if any effect on the toxicity of organic chemicals, and any effects observed were probably due to pH differences. Toxicity generally increased with temperature increases, but decreased with a few chemicals (DDT, dimethrin, and methoxychlor). The effect of temperature on toxicity conformed to the Q10 concept. Temperature increased the toxicity of most chemicals by a factor of 3 per 10C rise in temperature while that for organophosphate insecticides was higher (5). Regression slopes were consistent among species within a chemical for both pH and temperature, indicating chemical rather than biological differences in toxicity. Overall, insects were the most sensitive group, followed by crustaceans, fishes, and amphibians. Diet, fish source, life stage, and size, altered toxicity 5 or less most of the time.
4315225|Nitrogen was the most commonly yield-limiting nutrient in all pre-industrial agricultures. Only the Haber-Bosch synthesis of ammonia broke this barrier. The rising dependence on nitrogenous fertilizers, which represents the largest human interference in the biospheric N cycle, has two different roles. In affluent nations it helps to produce excess of food in general, and of animal foods in particular, and it boosts agricultural exports. But for at least a third of humanity in the world's most populous countries the use of N fertilizers makes the difference between malnutrition and adequate diet. Our understanding of human N (protein) needs has undergone many revisions and although some uncertainties still remain it is clear that average protein intakes are excessive in rich countries and inadequate for hundreds of millions of people in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. More dietary protein will be needed to eliminate these disparities but the future global use of N fertilizers can be moderated not just by better agronomic practices but also by higher feeding efficiencies and by gradual changes of prevailing diets. As a result, it could be possible to supply adequate nutrition to the world's growing population without any massive increases of N inputs.
40390416|Ozone concentrations are generally considerably lower over northern Europe as compared with continental and southern Europe. However, ozone becomes toxic for vegetation mainly after it has been taken up into the leaf interior through the stomata. The rates of ozone uptake into the leaves are, somewhat simplified, the product of the air ozone concentrations and the degree of stomatal opening. The phytotoxic impacts of ozone can be almost as important in northern Europe as they are in continental and southern Europe. The long daylight hours as well as the rather humid environment conditions, both in the air and soil, promote stomatal openings in northern Europe. This article summarizes scientific evidence that supports the conclusion that ozone abatement policies regarding vegetation in Europe, as well as in the rest of the world, should be based on estimates of the leaf ozone uptake and not only on the ozone concentration in the air.
4313475|A Geographic Information System (GIS) was constructed for the island of Saint Lucia to study the relationship between land use, land capability, and human settlements. An overlay of land use with land capability shows the extent to which rural development is sustainable over the long term. For Saint Lucia, only 13 percent of the land devoted to farming occurs on good quality land where long-term farming can be sustainable. The shortage of good quality land forces farmers to develop plots with poor soil quality on steep slopes. This practice increases the risks of erosion, threatening the good agricultural land located downstream. Unfortunately, the data reveal that all of the land currently being farmed is sufficient to support only 40 percent of the rural population. Until Saint Lucia's urban-based economy grows significantly, overexploitation of poor quality hill-side land can be expected to continue. The GIS has provided detailed information on specific locations and quantification of critical trouble spots. It may also help local planners assign priority to future land-conservation efforts.
4314024| The persistent DDT metabolite 3-methylsulfonyl-DDE ( MeSO
41418340|Climate change incurs costs, but government adaptation budgets are limited. Beyond a certain point, individuals must bear the costs or adapt to new circumstances, creating political-economic tipping points that we explore in three examples. First, many Alaska Native villages are threatened by erosion, but relocation is expensive. To date, critically threatened villages have not yet been relocated, suggesting that we may already have reached a political-economic tipping point. Second, forest fires shape landscape and ecological characteristics in interior Alaska. Climate-driven changes in fire regime require increased fire-fighting resources to maintain current patterns of vegetation and land use, but these resources appear to be less and less available, indicating an approaching tipping point. Third, rapid sea level rise, for example from accelerated melting of the Greenland ice sheet, will create a choice between protection and abandonment for coastal regions throughout the world, a potential global tipping point comparable to those now faced by Arctic communities. The examples illustrate the basic idea that if costs of response increase more quickly than available resources, then society has fewer and fewer options as time passes.
4312220|Long-term deposition of acid precipitation (pH 4.0-4.4) on poorly buffered areas in southern Scandinavia and northeastern North America is apparently responsible for the acidification (to below pH 5) of soft-water lakes in these areas. Chemical weathering and ion-exchange processes in terrestrial watersheds appear inadequate to neutralize all of the incoming acid. Stream and lake waters thus are acidified and lose their bicarbonate buffer. Relatively few lakes have pH levels in the poorly buffered pH 5.5-6.0 region. Sulfate supplied by acid precipitation becomes the major anion. Concentrations of Al, Mn and several heavy metals are higher in acid lakes than in unaffected soft-water lakes, apparently due to enhanced mobilization of these elements in acidified areas.
4313913|In any management strategy designed to protect the marine environment and human health from the effects of waste disposal, the prediction of the transport and fate of contaminants is essential. Most work so far has treated wastes as passive, dissolved contaminants but this can be far from reality. This paper presents a conceptual model to describe the transport and fate of a range of contaminants in coastal marine systems. Also presented is a description of the components of the conceptual model and a discussion of how effects models influence the choice of a dispersion-transport model appropriate to particular applications.
4315365|Despite reductions in atmospheric SO
4312202|In order to settle transfrontier pollution problems, a number of procedures have been introduced. They include consultation and negotiation at various levels and the handling of complaints by appropriate tribunals or authorities in either country. Among those, actions before courts or authorities of the polluting country could ensure speedy and smooth solutions when countries accept the principles of non-discrimination in matters of transfrontier pollution. In such case all victims of pollution having effects inside and outside a country would enjoy the same legal protection. Activities are under way in the OECD towards wide implementation of such an approach for the solution of transfrontier pollution problems.
4313159|This paper examines some of the factors influencing the evolution of conventional fuel and wood fuel demands in the developing world. It shows that the resource and balance-of-payments constraints against the use of conventional fuels are less than commonly assumed. It examines the dynamics of wood-fuel resource depletion and discusses the problems of estimating the future demand for wood fuel. The need for a disaggregated analysis that takes into account the differences between categories of domestic fuel consumers is emphasized.
4314791|The Stockholm 1998 Conference covered broad aspects of the Aral Sea crisis, in particular the health consequences for women and children. It was recognized that the situation is unique and severe in terms of environmental health, and that it is important to engage the whole international community to resolve the issues at stake. It was felt that one of the main objectives of the Conference, namely to raise public interest and awareness in Sweden and in the broader international community about the nature and consequences of the Aral Sea catastrophe, had been achieved. Furthermore, it was clear that efficient action, to improve the situation would involve all stakeholders in and outside of the region. An important element is to establish cooperative projects at the local level, designed to support major projects involving international donors.
4313936|Australia is the only megadiversity nation which is not, in terms of economic development, part of the global south. This paper describes the major features of terrestial biodiversity in Australia, and the record of the last two hundred years in regard to biodiversity losses. Possible causes of such losses are discussed. Native forests are used to describe some current problems and controversies. The situation in regard to conservation areas, policy, institutions and research is reviewed. The paper concludes by considering future prospects and the lessons that can be learned from Australian experience to date. On current trends it appears that significant biodiversity loss will continue into the future. Prevention of this would require extensions of the reserve system and changes to off-reserve land-management practices, as well as increased research efforts directed at understanding more fully the proximate and underlying sources of biodiversity losses.
4314922|There is a major omission in the considerable literature on environmental problems, and the threat these problems present in the South. Little is known about how the population in the South perceive these threats. Similarly, we have little understanding of people's attitudes towards environmental problems. This paper draws on studies carried out in 1993 and 1996. It draws on empirical material taken from a sample of households in the city of Goulimine, located in the pre-Saharan region of Anti-Atlas Mountains. The aim is to identify inhabitants' attitudes to environmental problems and the extent to which these attitudes and opinions correlate with actual household energy consumption. The results show a high level of concern about environmental issues, particularly among migrant groups. But closer analysis reveals an inconsistency between environmental concern and actual consumption of household energy. This is explained by the fact that certain energy sources have been, and still are, crucial in people's lifestyles and, thus, difficult to change. The paper concludes by suggesting that central, regional, and local authorities have both a responsibility and an opportunity to assist in environmental management. Moreover, it is suggested that environmental actions should become proactive, rather than reactive or responsive.
4315758|Climate change is likely to act as a multiple stressor, leading to cumulative and/or synergistic impacts on aquatic systems. Projected increases in temperature and corresponding alterations in precipitation regimes will enhance contaminant influxes to aquatic systems, and independently increase the susceptibility of aquatic organisms to contaminant exposure and effects. The consequences for the biota will in most cases be additive (cumulative) and multiplicative (synergistic). The overall result will be higher contaminant loads and biomagnification in aquatic ecosystems. Changes in stratospheric ozone and corresponding ultraviolet radiation regimes are also expected to produce cumulative and/or synergistic effects on aquatic ecosystem structure and function. Reduced ice cover is likely to have a much greater effect on underwater UV radiation exposure than the projected levels of stratospheric ozone depletion. A major increase in UV radiation levels will cause enhanced damage to organisms (biomolecular, cellular, and physiological damage, and alterations in species composition). Allocations of energy and resources by aquatic biota to UV radiation protection will increase, probably decreasing trophic-level productivity. Elemental fluxes will increase via photochemical pathways.
4312038|Desulfurization of flue gases is one among many different methods to cope with the emissions of sulfur dioxide and through this with the acidification in sensitive areas. There are many desulfurization methods but only a few are suitable for commercial purposes. Cost estimates for the lime/limestone processes are presented and compared to costs for oil desulfurization. The by-products obtained from flue gas desulfurization are in many cases difficult to market and their disposal might cause environmental problems.
41417337|By mainly targeting larger predatory fish, commercial fisheries have indirectly promoted rapid increases in densities of their prey; smaller predatory fish like sprat, stickleback and gobies. This process, known as mesopredator release, has effectively transformed many marine offshore basins into mesopredator-dominated ecosystems. In this article, we discuss recent indications of trophic cascades on the Atlantic and Baltic coasts of Sweden, where increased abundances of mesopredatory fish are linked to increased nearshore production and biomass of ephemeral algae. Based on synthesis of monitoring data, we suggest that offshore exploitation of larger predatory fish has contributed to the increase in mesopredator fish also along the coasts, with indirect negative effects on important benthic habitats and coastal water quality. The results emphasize the need to rebuild offshore and coastal populations of larger predatory fish to levels where they regain their control over lower trophic levels and important links between offshore and coastal systems are restored.
4312963|This article gives a brief history of efforts to conserve cetaceans and profiles the events which resulted in the formation of the Indian Ocean Whale Sanctuary in 1979 by the IWC. The importance of the region for scientific research is discussed and recommendations for further action given.
4315771| Studies of carbon fluxes in marine ecosystems are often done by using box model approaches with basin size boxes, or highly resolved 3D models, and an emphasis on the pelagic component of the ecosystem. Those approaches work well in the ocean proper, but can give rise to considerable problems when applied to coastal systems, because of the scale of certain ecological niches and the fact that benthic organisms are the dominant functional group of the ecosystem. In addition, 3D models require an extensive modeling effort. In this project, an intermediate approach based on a high resolution (2020 m) GIS data-grid has been developed for the coastal ecosystem in the Laxemar area (Baltic Sea, Sweden) based on a number of different site investigations. The model has been developed in the context of a safety assessment project for a proposed nuclear waste repository, in which the fate of hypothetically released radionuclides from the planned repository is estimated. The assessment project requires not only a good understanding of the ecosystem dynamics at the site, but also quantification of stocks and flows of matter in the system. The data-grid was then used to set up a carbon budget describing the spatial distribution of biomass, primary production, net ecosystem production and thus where carbon sinks and sources are located in the area. From these results, it was clear that there was a large variation in ecosystem characteristics within the basins and, on a larger scale, that the inner areas are net producing and the outer areas net respiring, even in shallow phytobenthic communities. Benthic processes had a similar or larger influence on carbon fluxes as advective processes in inner areas, whereas the opposite appears to be true in the outer basins. As many radionuclides are expected to follow the pathways of organic matter in the environment, these findings enhance our abilities to realistically describe and predict their fate in the ecosystem. 
4315245| This study reviews the major changes in global distribution of croplands during the 20th century. During the 20th century, the cropland base diminished greatly (from  0.75 ha
4314697|This paper presents emissions estimates of nitrous oxide ( N2 O) from The Netherlands (1980-2015), investigates technical mitigation options and compares results to possible goals. Projections based on reference policies result in increasing emissions: by 2000, 2010, and 2015 Dutch N2 O emissions will exceed the 1990 level by 1%, 6% and 10%, respectively. This is a net effect of decreasing agricultural and "other" emissions, and increasing emissions from energy, industry, and waste. In particular, emissions from transport increase due to introduction of 3-way catalytic converters. The results indicate that implementation of National Environmental Policy Plan 2 (NEPP-2) will not result in stabilization of emissions at the 1990 level after 2000. Additional policies are calculated to reduce Dutch emissions to about 25% below the 1990 level, most of which results from catalytic N2 O reduction in industrial nitric acid production. A much further reduction, in line with long-term policy targets, would require new technologies, or reductions in energy use, transportation, and fertilizer use.
4315018|Development planning and resource management in the Irish coastal zone have traditionally followed sectoral, top-down models, with limited opportunities for public participation or concertation of administrative effort. Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) is often proposed as an appropriate policy response in cases where these approaches have been seen to fail. In this paper, we argue that ICZM may be more sustainable if first introduced at a small scale. Local-level initiatives, designed to produce demonstrable benefits at an early stage, are perhaps more likely to engender long-term support for ICZM. This is particularly relevant where baseline data are lacking and coastal processes are poorly understood. Using seven county Donegal beach and dune systems as demonstration sites, the potential of this approach to provide scientifically-founded, locally-agreed management plans was tested over a range of coastal issues, such as progressive shoreline erosion, habitat loss, tourist development, conflicting recreational activities and traffic management. Progress at each of the sites was partially dependent on the existence, coherence and activity of existing community organizations. In the best example, a local development group already employing many of the central principles of ICZM (e.g. inclusive participation, working with natural processes) was identified. By focussing on local problems, practical solutions and relatively small numbers of stakeholders, agreement was reached on the majority of issues and strategies covered by the management plans. Implementation of the plans will begin in early 2000.
24708814|Policies on economic use of natural resources require considerations to social and cultural values. In order to make those concrete in a planning context, this paper aims to interpret social and cultural criteria, identify indicators, match these with verifier variables and visualize them on maps. Indicators were selected from a review of scholarly work and natural resource policies, and then matched with verifier variables available for Sweden's 290 municipalities. Maps of the spatial distribution of four social and four cultural verifier variables were then produced. Consideration of social and cultural values in the studied natural resource use sectors was limited. The spatial distribution of the verifier variables exhibited a general divide between northwest and south Sweden, and regional rural and urban areas. We conclude that it is possible to identify indicators and match them with verifier variables to support inclusion of social and cultural values in planning.
4312389| The copper smelter at Rnnskr in northern Sweden emits a number of toxic substances into the environment. These emissions have caused great public concern and "the Rnnskr case" has been well covered in the Swedish news media, where the smelter has sometimes been referred to as "Sweden's dirtiest industry". This article is an attempt to describe the emissions and their effects on the health status and reproductive patterns of the employees and the population living close to the industrial plant. The article also touches upon the debate in the news media and the attitudes and reactions of the various parties involved. 
4313060|At the end of the Second World War, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (TTPI)-which includes the Mariana, Caroline, and Marshall Islands-was set up. Since then it is has been administered by the United States under a UN-backed arrangement. Now these islands are in the process of evolving a new relationship with the US which will give them more political and economic independence.
4313728|Chlorofluorocarbons will be replaced by other chemicals under the Montreal Protocol to Protect the Ozone Layer. While replacements have been found for virtually every use, they are not necessarily best in terms of greenhouse potential, energy efficiency, or other performance objectives. Additional possibilities have been identified, however, which could greatly reduce global warming and also provide superior performance. New working' fluids and cycles for refrigerators coupled with advanced insulations could, for example, reduce global warming by more than one percent while saving consumers billions of dollars worldwide. Whether such advanced options come into play depends on how well industry and government can accelerate research and development and overcome institutional problems that could block acceptance.
41417262|The protection of the Baltic Sea ecosystem is exacerbated by the social, environmental and economic complexities of governing European fisheries. Increased stakeholder participation and knowledge integration are suggested to improve the EU's Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), suffering from legitimacy, credibility and compliance problems. As a result, the CFP was revised in 2002 to involve fisheries representatives, NGOs and other stakeholders through so called Regional Advisory Councils (RACs) in the policy process. We address the RAC's task to incorporate stakeholder knowledge into the EU's fisheries governance system in empirical and theoretical perspectives. Drawing on a four-stage governance concept we subsequently suggest that a basic problem is a mismatch between participation purpose (knowledge inclusion) and the governance stage at which RACs are formally positioned (evaluation of management proposals). We conclude that, if the aim is to broaden the knowledge base of fisheries management, stakeholders need to be included earlier in the governance process.
4315113|Copper production in Falun, central Sweden, has emitted sulfur dioxide ( SO
41417422|The world needs new, environmentally friendly and renewable fuels to allow an exchange from fossil fuels. The fuel must be made from cheap and 'endless' resources that are available everywhere. The new research area on solar fuels, which are made from solar energy and water, aims to meet this demand. The paper discusses why we need a solar fuel and why electricity is not enough; it proposes solar energy as the major renewable energy source to feed from. The present research strategies, involving direct, semi-direct and indirect approaches to produce solar fuels, are overviewed.
40928416|Decision makers responsible for natural resource management often complain that science delivers fragmented information that is not useful at the scale of implementation. We offer a way of negotiating complex problems by putting forward a requisite simplicity. A requisite simplicity attempts to discard some detail, while retaining conceptual clarity and scientific rigor, and helps us move to a new position where we can benefit from new knowledge. We illustrate the above using three case studies: elephant densities and vegetation change in a national park, the use of rules of thumb to support decision making in agriculture, and the management of salt in irrigation. We identify potential requisite simplicities that can allow us to generate new understanding, lead to action and provide opportunities for structured learning.
4314889|We summarize the results of a circumarctic study on biogeographic patterns in genetic diversity within asexual clones of the water flea, the Daphnia pulex complex (a freshwater crustacean). The complex is shown to consist of several thousands of distinct clones, which can be grouped into 2 major lineage groups based on molecular markers. The main groups and their component subgroups differ markedly in their distributions, and hybrids are common in 2 zones of overlap (Northern Europe and Canada). Clonal diversity is at least as high in the Arctic as in the temperate zone. Moreover, the genetic structure of all the subgroups is extremely fragmented, implying that clonal composition in the Arctic differs conspicuously among regions. This extraordinary diversity with its spatial structure on local to continental geographic scales defies the general notion of the Arctic tundra as a homogenous biome of low biodiversity.
4315410| A predictive model for gas-phase PCBs and trans-nonachlor over Lake Michigan has been constructed and the resulting data examined for trends. In this paper, we describe the model results to show how the magnitude and variability of a plume of contaminants from the Chicago area contributes to a highly variable region of net contaminant deposition over the entire lake. For the whole lake, gross annual deposition of PCBs is  3200 kg, although the net annual gas exchange is not significantly different from zero. The data-driven model illustrates that on a daily basis, the net exchange of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) can change from net deposition to net volatilization depending on the area of plume impact. These findings suggest that i) control of urban areas can accelerate the rate of volatilization from lakes; and ii) release of POPs from urban areas is largely a result of volatilization processes. 
40801590|Prof. Ulgiati stresses that we should always use an ecosystem view when transforming energy from one form to another. Sustainable growth and development of both environmental and human-dominated systems require optimum use of available resources for maximum power output. We have to adapt to the laws of nature because nature has to take care of all the waste products we produce. The presentation addresses a much needed shift away from linear production and consumption pattern, toward reorganization of economies and lifestyle that takes complexityof resources, of the environment and of the economyinto proper account. The best way to reach maximum yield from the different kinds of biomass is to use biorefineries. Biorefinery is defined as the sustainable processing of biomass into a spectrum of marketable products like heat, power, fuels, chemicals, food, feed, and materials. However, biomass from agricultural land must be used for the production of food and not fuel. Prof. Voss focuses on the sustainability of energy supply chains and energy systems. Life cycle analyses (LCA) provides the conceptual framework for a comprehensive comparative evaluation of energy supply options with regard to their resource requirements as well as the health and environmental impact. Full scope LCA considers not only the emissions from plant operation, construction, and decommissioning but also the environmental burdens and resource requirements associated with the entire lifetime of all relevant upstream and downstream processes within the energy chain. This article describes the results of LCA analyses for state-of-the-art heating and electricity systems as well as of advanced future systems. Total costs are used as a measure for the overall resource consumption.
4312126|Field and laboratory tests have been performed in search of physical, chemical and biological means of accelerating oil degradation in soil. Irrigation, inorganic fertilization, addition of fertilized peat, and addition of oil-degrading bacterial cultures proved ineffective. Adding 0.25 to 1 percent brewery waste yeast invariably accelerated oil decomposition rate substantially. Aeration had a positive influence, and low soil pH value seemed advantageous.
4314120|The organic carbon pool in the upper 1 m of the world's soils contains 1220 Gt organic carbon, 1.5 times the total for the standing biomass. In the widespread deep soils in the tropics the carbon stored below 1 m may add about 50 Gt C. The contributions of charcoal, roots and soil fauna should be added to these totals. The much less dynamic carbonate-carbon pool amounts to 720 Gt C. Changes in land use, particularly by clearing of forests, reduce organic carbon by 20 to 50% in the upper soil layers, but little in deeper layers. On the other hand, there are indications that a human-induced enrichment of soil organic matter can be maintained over centuries. Research on the causative soil processes should be supported, because an improved understanding of this phenomenon might lead to better management strategies and sound programs to stimulate organic carbon storage and fertility levels in tropical and subtropical soils. Recent research data on the CO
25547877|It has been claimed that Tonle Sap Lake is rapidly filling with sediment as a result of increasing sediment yields from the catchment. Infilling of the lake basin would have serious implications for the magnitude of flooding in central Cambodia and the Mekong Delta region and threaten the lake's unique ecosystem. In this article, we synthesize the results of radiocarbon dating of sediment cores and hydrodynamic modeling results to provide an empirically based assessment of this issue. We find that current sedimentation rates within the lake basin proper are low and have been for several millennia. However, sedimentation at the lake margin and in its floodplain is relatively high, which presents a range of issues for riparian communities.
41510591|Natural ecosystems perform fundamental lifesupport services upon which human civilization depends. However, many people believe that nature provides these services for free and therefore, they are of little or no value. While we do not pay for them, we pay significantly for their loss in terms of wastewater treatment facilities, moratoriums on greenhouse gases, increased illnesses, reduced soil fertility and losses in those images of nature that contribute to our basic happiness. Little is understood about the well-being benefits of the natural environment and its ecosystem services. The interwoven relationship of ecosystems and human well-being is insufficiently acknowledged in the wider philosophical, social, and economic well-being literature. In this article, we discuss an approach to examine human well-being and the interactions of its four primary elementsbasic human needs, economic needs, environmental needs, and subjective wellbeingand ecosystem services.
4315254|This paper summarizes those factors that have contributed to the degradation of the mangroves in El Salvador, and examines the implications of proposed changes in property rights to the mangroves for poor coastal communities. Current patterns of extraction and conversion in the mangrove ecosystem in El Salvador can be viewed through an entitlement lens that confers property rights upon some actors, for certain uses, and denies them to others. Unfortunately, the present system of laws and regulations that governs resource use in the mangroves is contradictory and confusing. A number of laws currently are active that give entirely different directives about the use and transformation of the ecosystem. The rational and sustainable management of the mangroves cannot be secured without a redefinition of entitlement rights. This redefinition of entitlements, however, should take into account the needs of those whose livelihoods are intimately connected to the health of the ecosystem.
4315110| Climate warming by ca. 0.8C between the late-19th and late-20th century, although with some fluctuations, has forced multispecies elevational tree-limit advance by > 100 m for the principal tree species in the Swedish part of the Scandinavian mountain range. Predominantly, these processes imply growth in height of old established individuals and less frequently upslope migration of new individuals. After a slight retardation during some cooler decades after 1940, a new active phase of tree-limit advance has occurred with a series of exceptionally mild winters and some warm summers during the 1990s. The magnitude of total 20th century tree-limit rise varies with topoclimate and is mainly confined to wind-sheltered and snow-rich segments of the landscape. Thickening of birch tree stands in the "advance belt" has profoundly altered the general character of the subalpine/low alpine landscape and provides a positive feedback loop for further progressive change and resilience to short-term cooling episodes. All upslope tree-limit shifts and associated landscape transformations during the 20th century have occurred without appreciable time lags, which constitutes knowledge fundamental to the generation of realistic models concerning vegetation responses to potential future warming. The new and elevated pine tree-limit may be the highest during the past 4000
4314252|The paper presents the first results of a European overview of urban innovations, undertaken by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. Projects have been chosen which improve urban metabolism; have a collective aim; resist time; favor local democracy, and participation at the conception, decision and execution phase; and produce models that are transferable to different places. Projects concerned with urban environmental auditing or social justice in cities are extremely important as they can lead to new planning to achieve the European sustainable city.
40390240|In marine sediments, the major anaerobic mineralization processes are Fe(lll) oxide reduction and sulfate reduction. In this article, we propose that the two alternative microbial mineralization pathways in sediments exert decisively different impacts on aquatic ecosystems. In systems where iron reduction dominates in the recently deposited sediment layers, the fraction of Fe(lll) oxides that is dissolved to Fe(ll) upon reduction will ultimately be transported to the oxic layer, where it will be reoxidized. Phosphorus, which is released from Fe(lll) oxides and decomposing organic matter from the sediment, will be largely trapped by this newly formed Fe(lll) oxide layer. Consequently, there are low concentrations of phosphorus in near-bottom and productive water layers and primary production tends to be limited by phosphorus (Stete 1). By contrast, in systems where sulfate reduction dominates, Fe(lll) oxides are reduced by sulfides. This chemical reduction leads to the formation and permanent burial of iron as solid iron sulfides that are unable to capture phosphorus. In addition, the cycling of iron is blocked, and phosphorus is released to overlying water. Owing to the enrichment of phosphorus in water, the nitrogen : phosphorus ratio is lowered and nitrogen tends to limit algal growth, giving an advantage to nitrogenfixing blue-green algae (Stete 2). A major factor causing a shift from Stete 1 to Stete 2 is an increase in the flux of labile organic carbon to the bottom sediments; upon accelerating eutrophication a critical point will be reached when the availability of Fe(lll) oxides in sediments will be exhausted and sulfate reduction will become dominant. Because the reserves of Fe(lll) oxides are replenished only slowly, reversal to Stete 1 may markedly exceed the time needed to reduce the flux of organic carbon to the sediment. A key factor affecting the sensitivity of a coastal system to such a regime shift is formed by the hydrodynamic alterations that decrease the transport of O to the near-bottom water, e.g., due to variations in salinity and temperature stratification.
4315576|This article confronts present main stream planning approaches against the perspective of ecological sustainability, as relevant for Rule of Law countries and based on a modern environmental law approach. It discusses the setting and implementation of environmental goals against the general experience of massive implementation deficits regarding environmental policies all over the world. In this confrontation, environmental planning, with at least some principles picked up from New Zealand's Resource Management Act, and much more taken from modern environmental law theory on legal operationalisation, is compared to adaptive management approaches which also allow for modifying the environment related goal if implementation fails or seems very difficult. The concept of adaptive environmental planning (AEP) is suggested as a possible road to choose for planning for sustainability, while maximizing development within the framework legally defined by means of environmental limits. This article presents five criteria, all of which must be met by AEP planning. One of these relates to a planning hierarchy which, among other things, leads to the conclusion that coastal planning, if it is intended to aim at sustainability, can not be dealt with in isolation, although such planning might have to meet very complex problems at the regional level.
4314022|Effects on liver histology were studied in 13 groups of female mink after treatment, for 79-96 days during the reproductive season in 1988 and 1989, with the commercial polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), Clophen A50 and Aroclor 1254, to 4 fractions prepared from the commercial PCBs, to combinations of these fractions, and to a synthetic chlorobiphenyl (CB) mixture. Three fractions contained CB congeners with a different number of chlorines in ortho-position to the biphenyl bond, viz. two to four (2-4-), one (1-), and no (0-) ortho CB congeners, while the fouth contained bi- and tricyclic contaminants mainly representing polychlorinated dibenzofurans and polychlorinated naphthalenes. Fractions of congeners and contaminants were given in doses equivalent to those in the doses of commercias PCBs. Some histological changes, viz. fatty changes in hepatocytes, hemosiderosis of Kupffer cells, frequency of polymorphonuclear cells and of mononuclear cells, were selected and used as parameters in semiquantitative estimations of the effects on liver histology. High incidences of change were found in groups exposed to commercial PCBs and in combinations of 3 and 4 different fractions, and on exposure to a combination of 1-ortho and 2-4 ortho CBs. The least marked effect in animals treated with combinations of CB fractions was found on exposure to 2-4-ortho and 0-ortho CBs. Following treatment with single CB fractions, certain effects were observed in the groups given 0-ortho and 1-ortho CBs while very slight effects on the liver were observed in the group treated with 2-4-ortho CBs. No effects at all were observed in the group given bi- and tricyclic contaminants. The degree of liver changes was ascribed to the combined effects of different compounds rather than to specific effects of individual compounds present in the commercial PCB products.
4315510|The arctic tundra and boreal forest were once considered the last frontiers on earth because of their vast expanses remote from agricultural land-use change and industrial development. These regions are now, however, experiencing environmental and social changes that are as rapid as those occurring anywhere on earth. This paper summarizes the role of northern regions in the global system and provides a blueprint for assessing the factors that govern their sensitivity to social and environmental change.
25547859|Eutrophication is an ongoing process in most parts of the Baltic Sea. This article reports on the changes during recent decades of several eutrophication-related variables in the open sea areas surrounding Finland (wintertime nutrient concentrations, wintertime nutrient ratios, and summer time chlorophyll  concentrations at the surface). The sum of nitrate- and nitrite-nitrogen ([NO+NO]-N) was observed to increase nearly fourfold in the Northern Baltic Proper and the Gulf of Finland and almost double in the Bothnian Sea from the 1960s until the 1980s or 1990s. The increase was followed by a decrease, which was modest in the two former subregions. Phosphate-phosphorus (PO-P) concentrations followed a similar pattern in the Northern Baltic Proper (threefold increase and subsequent slight decrease) and Bothnian Sea (30% increase and subsequent decrease), but increased throughout the study in the Gulf of Finland, with the present concentration being threefold to the measurements made in the early 1970s. The PO-P concentration decreased throughout the study in the Bothnian Bay. Silicate-silicon (SiO-Si) concentrations decreased 30-50% from the early 1970s to the late 1990s and increased 20-40% thereafter in the Northern Baltic Proper, the Gulf of Finland, and the Bothnian Sea. Chlorophyll  showed an increase of over 150% in the Northern Baltic Proper and the Gulf of Finland from the 1970s until the early 2000s. In the Bothnian Sea the chlorophyll  concentration increased more than 180% from the late 1970s until the late 1990s, and decreased thereafter. According to these long-term observations, the Gulf of Finland and Northern Baltic Proper show clear signs of eutrophication, which may be emphasized by hydrographical changes affecting the phytoplankton communities and thus the algal biomass.
4313909|Today, large anthropogenic emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere have a profound influence on the chemical climate of Europe and N. America, with subsequent harmful effects on aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems in these regions. A similar acidification problem is also emerging in China. Calculations using a global atmospheric chemistry model indicate that if the per capita emission of sulfur in Asian countries-including India and China-were to increase even moderately, very large emissions would occur and be likely to result in widespread acidification problems.
4313846|A geographic information system (GIS) database was developed for Langtang National Park, Nepal. This database was used to study the habitat, population, and risk of local extinction for red pandas (Ailurus fulgens). GIS capabilities most relevant to park managers included area measurements, easy updating of digital data, overlay, distance measurements, terrain modeling, scale change, attribute selection, density analysis, buffering and corridor analysis, and the ability to facilitate 'what if' planning. The results of the study suggest a population of 24 pandas isolated into four or five groups by physical barriers such as rivers and high ridges. Unless these patches of core habitat are protected from cattle grazing and other human disturbances, red pandas are destined for extinction in Langtang National Park.
4313683|The siliceous microfossil composition has been determined in a superficial sediment core (0-34 cm) from the northwestern part of the Baltic proper. The results are shown in three diagrams. Four stratigraphical zones have been established and described. The lithostratigraphy shows a sequence with laminated clay-gyttja (2.5-5 cm) containing high abundancies of the ebridian Ebria tripartita (Schumann) Lemmermann and the diatoms Actinocyclus ehrenbergi v. crassa (W. Smith) Hustedt and Coscinodiscus asteromphalus (Ehrenberg). In the uppermost layers of sediment there is a mass occurrence of Chaetoceros spp. resting spores and Achnanthes taeniata Grunow. Other diatoms, together with Chrysophyceae stomatocysts and ebridians, show trends of decreasing relative abundance. In general, the autochthonous planktonic taxa have played a more important role during the last 100 years with a peak about 20-years ago. The changes in the siliceous microfossil composition have been interpreted as mainly reflecting an increased input of nutrients into the Baltic basin. However, other parameters such as current pattern variations, both temporal and spatial, and erosional changes in the littoral zone and on coastal land areas can affect the composition of siliceous microfossils within the sediments.
4314095|Observations of ultraoligotrophy and decreasing phosphorus concentrations in acidified clear-water lakes in southwestern Sweden led to hypotheses regarding oligotrophication as a result of acidification. Reviewing the literature it appears that several hypotheses are questionable and have not yet been validated. Experimental lake acidification and field observations indicated that acidification, generally, did not result in significantly decreased phosphorus concentrations or phytoplankton production. Phosphorus concentrations are naturally low in runoff from areas sensitive to acidification, which makes it difficult to quantify the potential importance of acidification in low phosphorus leaching. According to physiological indicators of phosphorus deficiency the phytoplankton community of acidified lakes may be adapted to an oligotrophic environment. At high aluminum concentrations, often found in acidified lakes, the algal utilization of phosphorus may be impaired.
4313336|Forestry institutions provide the human resources, the structure, and the tools to serve current programs and to anticipate and address the problems of tomorrow. Failure in forestry programs in the developing world can generally be traced to a failure in some institutional aspect. A renewed determination is required to link institutional development with action programs; to consider these aspects in comprehensive forest-sector planning; and to face realistically the costs of building institutions (estimated to be 15-25 percent of total project funding).
4315433| Vegetation cover-change analysis requires selection of an appropriate set of variables for measuring and characterizing change. Satellite sensors like Landsat TM offer the advantages of wide spatial coverage while providing land-cover information. This facilitates the monitoring of surface processes. This study discusses change detection in mountainous dry-heath communities in Jmtland County, Sweden, using satellite data. Landsat-5 TM and Landsat-7 ETM+ data from 1984, 1994 and 2000, respectively, were used. Different change detection methods were compared after the images had been radiometrically normalized, georeferenced and corrected for topographic effects. For detection of the classes change - no change the NDVI image differencing method was the most accurate with an overall accuracy of 94% (K = 0.87). Additional change information was extracted from an alternative method called NDVI regression analysis and vegetation change in 3 categories within mountainous dry-heath communities were detected. By applying a fuzzy set thresholding technique the overall accuracy was improved from of 65% (K = 0.45) to 74% (K = 0.59). The methods used generate a change product showing the location of changed areas in sensitive mountainous heath communities, and it also indicates the extent of the change (high, moderate and unchanged vegetation cover decrease). A total of 17% of the dry and extremely dry-heath vegetation within the study area has changed between 1984 and 2000. On average 4% of the studied heath communities have been classified as high change, i.e. have experienced "high vegetation cover decrease" during the period. The results show that the low alpine zone of the southern part of the study area shows the highest amount of "high vegetation cover decrease". The results also show that the main change occurred between 1994 and 2000. 
4312209| This paper describes the proceedings of the International Conference held on November 2-6, 1975 at the University of Petroleum and Minerals, Drahran, Saudi Arabia, with the main theme "Heliotechnique and Development". The Conference was sponsored by La Coopration Mdirettanenne Pour L'Energie Solaire" (COMPLES). About 120 papers were presented in 15 sessions. 
4314989|Tropical regions, with their high biological activity, have the potential to emit large amounts of trace gases and aerosols to the atmosphere. This can take the form of trace gas fluxes from soils and vegetation, where gaseous species are produced and consumed by living organisms, or of smoke emissions from vegetation fires. In the last decade, considerable scientific effort has gone into quantifying these fluxes from the African continent. We find that both biogenic and pyrogenic emissions have a powerful impact on regional and global atmospheric chemistry, particularly on photooxidation processes and tropospheric ozone. The emissions of radiatively active gases and aerosols from the African continent are likely to have a significant climatic effect, but presently available data are not sufficient for reliable quantitative estimates of this effect.
4314610|This chapter revisits the major problems relating to man-made disturbances in the global nitrogen (N) cycle, and links the local findings from the project to the large-scale effects. The human transformation of atmospheric N
4312934|In August and September 1982, two cruises were made in order to investigate the extent and effects of O
4312226|The corroson rate of several metals and painted surfaces is significantly higher in polluted urban atmospheres than in rural atmospheres, and this is chiefly ascribed to the sulfur pollutants in urban atmospheres. The influence of absorpiton of sulfur dioxide, impaction of acid sulfate particles and of acid rain is reviewed. Economically serious atmospheric corrosion is restricted to the vicinity of sources of pollution, ie mainly to large, built-up areas. The annual corrosion costs ascribable to elevated concentrations of sulfur pollutants have been estimated in the USA and in Sweden to be US $7.10 and $5.30 per person and year, respectively.
4313448|This paper identifies some of the major problems and issues surrounding the development of the coastal and marine resources of the Strait of Malacca. The Strait serves as an international route between the Indian Ocean and the Southeast Asian Seas. Crude oil is a major cargo carried by tankers transiting the Strait, and the perceived hazards of a major oil spill have prompted the littoral states to impose controls over tanker movements. Exploitation of renewable resources from coastal and marine environments in the Strait supports a wide range of activities, from fisheries to agriculture. The long-term, sustainable development of the Strait's resources is endangered by low standards of environmental assessment, planning and management. This is leading to problems of misallocation and overexploitation of resources; agricultural, urban and industrial pollution; and a reduction in the ability of environmental systems to support development. Solutions to many of these problems could be achieved through improved management of land-based activities. Available principles, concepts and techniques of coastal-area management and planning would assist in resolving problems faced by individual nations and help to establish regional solutions to common problems. Concerted efforts by the international community are needed to assist in the development of manpower and to strengthen the information base for integrated management of coastal, and marine systems.
4312036|Rising demand for oil will soon collide with declining world oil supply capability. Skyrocketing prices of clean fuels of natural origin will hold only at costs of synthetic clean fuels: power gas and industrial gas from coal gasification (with air and oxygen respectively); liquids from coal; and heat from fluidized-bed combustion. Even with the world's "fabulous" reserves of coal, industrial nations must quickly learn to make do with less.
4315413|Alachlor, metolachlor and their respective environmentally stable aniline degradation products, 2,6-diethylaniline and 2-ethyl-6-methylaniline were analyzed in water and sediment samples from 9 sites along River Nzoia, Kenya using gas chromatography. The degradation products were detected in > 90% of the sediment and water samples, while the parent compounds occurred in < 14% of the water samples. Much higher concentrations of the pesticides and their degradation products occurred in the sediment than in the water (1.4 up to 10 800-fold), indicating an accumulation of the compounds in the sediment. The constant occurrence of the degradation products in the sediment during the study period infers a persistence of these compounds. It is hypothesized that the prevailing tropical climatic conditions favor a quick breakdown of the pesticides to their environmentally stable degradation products, thereby making the latter more important pollutants than their parent products in the study area.
4315084|The central part of the Kola Peninsula, severely affected by emissions from a nickel-copper smelter at Monchegorsk, represents a perfect object for environmental studies. We survey the information collected in this region, with special attention paid to earlier works by Russian researchers. Although some sources are difficult to access, and some of the data should be used with caution, the benefits to be derived from the inclusion of the already collected information in forthcoming environmental projects are obvious; it provides a historical (dynamic) view of landscape deterioration and eliminates redundant work. The perception of environmental contamination by local communities changed from acceptance in the 1950s to ignorance in the 1970s and 1980s; the active protests of the early 1990s have been terminated by economic factors, which have drawn public attention away from problems of the environment and of public health.
4314919|African and Asian mountains and highlands are ecoregions of particular importance for sustainable development due to their intensive land-use systems, their generally low economic productivity and integration, and the increasing rates of land degradation and mountain hazards. Opportunities for sustainable development exist, if ways to overcome land degradation can be found. The percentage of people who are engaged in subsistence agriculture can be reduced in favor of the secondary and tertiary sectors, protected areas can be better managed, access to remote areas improved, mountain waters utilized in a more integrated highland-lowland interaction, and mechanisms to manage conflicts developed. Research in support of sustainable development needs to focus on transdisciplinary approaches in order to develop appropriate technologies, improve land-management systems, and most importantly, create an enabling institutional environment. International cooperation is an essential tool for exchanging and communicating successful experiences from the local level to regional levels.
25547895|The loss of forest area globally due to change of land use, the importance of forests in the conservation of biodiversity and in carbon and other biogeochemical cycles, together with the threat to forests from pollution and from the impacts of climate change, place forestry policy and practice at the center of global environmental and sustainability strategy. Forests provide important economic, environmental, social, and cultural benefits, so that in forestry, as in other areas of environmental policy and management, there are tensions between economic development and environmental protection. In this article we review the current information on global forest cover and condition, examine the international processes that relate to forest protection and to sustainable forest management, and look at the main forest certification schemes. We consider the link between the international processes and certification schemes and also their combined effectiveness. We conclude that in some regions of the world neither mechanism is achieving forest protection, while in others local or regional implementation is occurring and is having a significant impact. Choice of certification scheme and implementation of management standards are often influenced by a consideration of the associated costs, and there are some major issues over the monitoring of agreed actions and of the criteria and indicators of sustainability. There are currently a number of initiatives seeking to improve the operation of the international forestry framework (e.g., The Montreal Process, the Ministerial Convention of the Protection of Forests in Europe and European Union actions in Europe, the African Timber Organisation and International Tropical Timber Organisation initiative for African tropical forest, and the development of a worldwide voluntary agreement on forestry in the United Nations Forum on Forests). We suggest that there is a need to improve the connections between scientific understanding, policy development, and forestry practice, and also the cooperation between the various international initiatives and processes, so that the international framework is more effective and its influence is extended geographically.
4312300|Cadmium, lead, and zinc distributions and cycling were determined in a mixed deciduous forest in eastern Tennessee (USA). Major points of accumulation were litter and small roots, while soil was the long-term sink. Biogeochemical cycles of Cd, Pb, and Zn were conservative with respect to inputs (inputs >> losses) and total quantities in the system (losses << standing pools). Transport of Cd, Pb, and Zn through vegetation was rapid (turnover times averaging 3.3 years), but the slow response of soil and the potential for recycling from soil to vegetation acted to effectively retain these elements within the ecosystem.
4313414|Recent studies have suggested that mercury levels in fish are elevated in acidic lakes. The purpose of this study was to determine if negative relationships between lake pH and fish mercury content, which have been reported for several areas, are consistent over a wide range of lake conditions. Samples of crayfish, fish, mink and otter from different sites in Ontario, Canada, were analyzed for total mercury and selenium in some tissues. Concentrations of mercury were lowest in specimens from watersheds near the smelters at Sudbury. Crayfish mercury levels displayed a positive correlation with lake pH. Crayfish and perch mercury levels increased linearly with distance from Sudbury. We suggest that selenium, and possibly other heavy metals emitted from the smelters, are inhibiting mercury methylation and uptake by aquatic biota in lakes near Sudbury.
4314141|To support a Dutch national integrated policy with respect to climate change an inventory was made of the emissions around 1990 of all the trace gases that contribute both directly and indirectly to the greenhouse effect. In addition to present emissions, the study evaluates the future effects of existing policies on the emissions and evaluates possible additional measures. Since emissions of carbon dioxide, CFCs, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and volatile organic compounds are relatively well known and policies aimed at controlling these gases are already in place, the study focuses on methane and nitrous oxide. The most important contribution to the total emissions of methane (1080 kton yr
4314753| Remediation of Lake Jrnsjn in Emn (a river in southeastern Sweden) is a part of the Swedish National Site Remediation Action Plan. Jrnsjn contained approx.. 400 kg PCB that were slowly leaching out from the sediments into Emn. Without remedial action the sediments would have caused problems for many decades. Several investigations and studies were carried out to determine how and under what limitations cleanup could be performed. An alternative for the remediation was selected that included vacuum dredging within a protective barrier of geotextile screens. Dredged material was to be dewatered and disposed of in a landfill. Remedial activities in Jrnsjn could, however, lead to an additional burden on Emn. Restrictions on and protective measures against such releases during remediation of Jrnsjn were therefore important issues. Dredging was carried out in 1993 and 1994. When dredging was completed, an amount of about
4313631|Over the last two years a number of multilateral environmental mediation meetings were held with representatives of the main societal sectors responsible for acid-rain reduction. Besides giving a concise overview of the Dutch acidification situation this paper describes a theoretical background of environmental mediation on the level of national policy making and the proceedings of the mediation effort. It is concluded that this approach deserves wider application as an instrument to increase mutual understanding about sectoral efforts and achievements. A major spin-off of the forum process is the facilitation of the direct negotiations between the regulating authorities and the social stakeholders.
40390244|Zinc deficiency is a problem in developing countries and not least so in Africa. This concerns both agriculture and human food provision. Zinc deficiency in soils may severely decrease yields, whereas insufficient zinc in food intake primarily affects the immune defense, notably in children. The present investigation concerned zinc availability in soils, crops, and food in the Niger inland delta in Mali. Agricultural soils are largely deficient in plant-available zinc, however, soils in close vicinity to habitation show elevated zinc concentrations. The zinc concentrations in crops are low; in rice, they are about half of reference ranges. Zinc intake assessed from a number of sampled meals was about half the recommended requirement. When zinc concentration is higher phytate was also high, which made the zinc less available. In spite of a recorded sufficient intake of iron, anemia is common and is most likely because of the high phytate concentration in the cereal-dominated diet. Increasing zinc and iron availability would be possible through the use of malting, fermentation, and soaking in food preparation. Finally, in the long run, any trace element deficiency, especially that of zinc in agricultural soils needs to be amended by addition of appropriate amounts in commercial fertilizers.
4312206|The total content of organic bound chlorine, bromine and iodine was determined prior to and after treatment of lipids from marine organisms with hexane/sulfuric acid. They were similarly measured in volatiles isolated from the same organisms by cyclohexane/steam codestillation. The results obtained were compared to the level of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) for these organisms. In both untreated and sulfuric-acid-treated lipids, most of the chlorine could not be accounted for as known compounds.
4311954|The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment is a major step toward producing a programme of concerted global action to deal with the most universal and pervasive issue the world community has ever faced-the environmental crisis. The Stockholm Conference stands at the interface between science and politics; a partnership between the two is needed in order to preserve and protect the human environment now and in the future.
4313911|It appears essential for the success of international climate protection negotiations to separate the assignment of responsibility for climate protection (who pays for it) from the opportunities to reduce or prevent emissions (who does it). This separation requires a mechanism to transfer resources, when necessary, from nations with unfulfilled responsibility to those with unexploited opportunities. International carbon emission offsets (ICEOs) could provide such a mechanism, by creating a currency for investing in carbon-saving services as a way to comply with national policies to reduce carbon emissions. An example of a transaction using the ICEO currency compares the costs to an electric utility of reducing its CO
25094544|The Gulf of Bothnia contains about 29% of the whole water volume of the Baltic Sea. The water exchange between the Baltic proper and the Gulf is good, which results in a water renewal time of about 4 to 5 yrs. The dynamics and thermodynamics of the Gulf of Bothnia are guided by hydrological, meteorological and, partly, topographical factors, such as freshwater supply, wind over sea, sun radiation, sea ice and sill depth between the sub-basins. The water mass is vertically divided into two layers with a halocline at 50 to 60 m depth. The deep water, below 60 m, mainly originates from the upper layer of the Baltic proper and has a salinity of 6-7 psu. In the surface layer, a thermocline develops each summer. This upper well-mixed layer is, on average, 15 m deep. The north to south water transport mainly occurs in this surface layer along the coasts, with a tendency to cyclonic circulation. It is, however, strongly wind-dependent and thus intermittent in time. On a long time scale, pulse-like wind events produce on average an eastbound current drift in the open sea. The river runoff causes a slow southbound current drift of diluted freshwater along the western region of the Bothnian Sea. Distribution and deposition of dissolved and particulate matter occurs with several types of transport mechanisms. Our measurements during 1991 show that in the surface water, substances can be distributed right across the Bothnian Sea in about one to two weeks, but perhaps more normally in about one month. The geographical extension of the accumulation bottoms is most often limited to areas deeper than 40 m. Transport of particulate matter can however also occur below this critical depth especially during periods of strong winds, forcing wind waves of sufficient wave length and amplitude to erode bottom particulate matter.
4315046|All harvesting of biomass results in a loss of plant nutrients from the soil. The impact of this loss on forest productivity can be determined only if the total amounts of plant nutrients in logs, other biomass and soil are known. In investigations of tropical rainforest ecosystems the total analysis of calcium is common with regard to logs and other biomass, whereas for soils only the content of exchangeable calcium has been determined. This study, involving a calcium-poor bedrock area in Sabah, Malaysia, shows that the contents of total calcium in the soil can be estimated from figures of exchangeable calcium. In the state of Sabah, these estimated amounts were lower in 19 out of 115 soil profiles compared with the amount measured at our research area at Mendolong in Sabah where a sustainable forestry is not possible with the present rotation period without compensating for the harvest-related loss of calcium.
4314010|Blubber samples from 109 specimens of ringed (Phoca hispida botnica), grey (Halichoerus grypus) and harbour (Phoca vitulina vitulina) seals from Swedish waters were analyzed for concentrations of sDDT and PCB. Seven juvenile grey seals from the northeast coast of Scotland were analyzed for comparison. The Swedish material was divided into groups according to sampling areas, species, sex, age and signs of diseases. In general, variations in contaminant concentrations within groups and between subgroups were not substantial. Concentrations did not differ significantly between juvenile harbor seals found dead during the 1988 virus epizootic and animals collected before the outbreak of the disease or in unaffected areas. Starved females, however, showed very high concentrations of both sDDT and PCB. No significant difference was found between adult female grey seals suffering from hyperadrenocorticism and apparently healthy females. Starved females, however, showed very high concentrations of both sDDT and PCB. No unambigous relationship between age and concentrations of these organochlorine com-pounds in blubber was indicated in the material studied. Studies on juvenile specimens indicate that the concentration of PCB in harbor seals from the Baltic is twice as high as in the same species along the Swedish west coast, while the concentration of sDDT is about four times higher. Ringed seals from the Baltic show PCB concentrations equal to those of the harbor seals from the west coast, but sDDT concentrations are about three times higher. Grey seals from the Baltic show the highest concentrations of both sDDT and PCB. Comparison of the present results with earlier studies on grey seals shows that a considerable decrease in concentrations of sDDT has taken place since the early 1970s. In ringed seals the concentrations of both sDDT and PCB have decreased.
23253254|Precipitation amounts and patterns at high latitude sites have been predicted to change as a result of global climatic changes. We addressed vegetation responses to three years of experimentally increased summer precipitation in two previously unaddressed tundra types: Betula nana-dominated shrub tundra (northeast Siberia) and a dry Sphagnum fuscum-dominated bog (northern Sweden). Positive responses to approximately doubled ambient precipitation (an increase of 200 mm year -1 ) were observed at the Siberian site, for B. nana (30 % larger length increments), Salix pulchra (leaf size and length increments) and Arctagrostis latifolia (leaf size and specific leaf area), but none were observed at the Swedish site. Total biomass production did not increase at either of the study sites. This study corroborates studies in other tundra vegetation types and shows that despite regional differences at the plant level, total tundra plant productivity is, at least at the short or medium term, largely irresponsive to experimentally increased summer precipitation.
4312221|Acid precipitation affects organisms at all trophic levels in affected freshwater ecosystems. The numbers of species are reduced and changes in the biomass of some groups of plants and animals have been observed. Decomposition of leaf litter and other organic substrates is hampered, nutrient recycling appears to be retarded and nitrification inhibited at pH levels frequently observed in acid-stressed waters. Currently available information is primarily qualitative, and studies of effects on interactions among the biota are lacking.
4312059|Problems attending population size and increase are now worldwide; they effect both industrialized and non-industrialized countries, though generally in different ways. A special problem is the fact that a variety of social, economic, and demographic differences distinguishes countries experiencing rapid population increases, today, from countries at a similar stage of demographic development, 75-150 years ago: 1) more rapid declines in mortality; 2) gains in longevity primarily through the application of medicine and public health, rather than through general improvements in levels of living; 3) far higher fertility; 4) far larger populations; 5) overpopulation; 6) little opportunity for emigration; 7) little social and economic change of a sort conducive to the exercise of control over family size. The prognosis is hardly favorable for human well being.
4314733| Glacier mass balance measurements in combination with ice coring provide detailed information on present and past climatic changes. In this study, a 27.5 m long ice-core record from the Little Ice Age (1600-1900), sampled at Mrmaglaciren in northern Sweden, is described and analyzed in the light of present climatic and glacier dynamic changes. Presently increased accumulation rates indicate a more maritime influence on climate in the mountains of Northern Scandinavia compared to earlier this century. Due to the strong east-west climatic gradient and to local climatic effects, glaciers have reacted differently on present changes. On the west side of massives glaciers are growing significantly, while glaciers on the east side of the mountain range have not increased their mass during the last decade, as their mass basically is governed by summer temperatures, which have not changed. Assuming that past climatic changes can be described as changes in climatic gradient and east west movement in the boundary between maritime and continental climates, we have very good proxy temperature archives in east lying glaciers. The coring at Mrmaglaciren was preceded by a radar survey of the temperature distributions within 35 Swedish glaciers. Dry ice, e.g. ice below freezing point, was found down to depths of 80-120 m on 43% of the investigated glaciers. The potential for finding useful paleorecords in other Swedish glaciers is therefore very good. 
4315147|The aim of this study is to present a historical continuum of nearly 100 years of environmental investigations and changes in trophic levels in the sea area of Helsinki. The survey is based on a re-examination of original planktological and meteorological data; the principle being that eutrophication can be detected in plankton assemblages despite changes in methodology. The bays around Helsinki were found to be moderately eutrophic to hypereutrophic at the beginning of the 20th century. There were considerable differences in the development of the bays both in terms of degradation and recovery. The efficiency of wastewater treatment and especially the introduction of sea outfall have played an important role in decreasing eutrophication in the bay area of Helsinki.
4312604|On the night of March 16-17, 1978, the supertanker Amoco Cadiz ran aground, spilling into the sea almost 223 000 tons of oil with a volatile fraction of 30 to 40 percent. A program to assess the ecological impact of the spill was begun immediately, to run for three years. It includes: chemical monitoring of the water, the sediments and the marine organisms; study of ecological effects on flora and fauna, including acute mortality and re-establishment of heavily damaged communities; studies of microbial degradation of the oil. Major results of these studies have been presented at a special symposium and are reviewed here. The recovery of areas exposed to waves, currents and wind energy is almost complete, but there is still oil in areas more protected from the physical energy of the sea. The ecological impact was extremely complex; in addition to the direct loss in biomass (acute mortality) and the corresponding loss in production, there are sublethal long-term effects especially on reproduction.
4313847|Lake sediments are natural archives that can provide environmental information when ordinary monitoring data are incomplete or missing. We have used surface sediment samples (0-1 cm) collected from 114 lakes to survey the geographical distribution of spheroidal carbonaceous particles (SCP) deposited from the atmosphere during recent years in Sweden. SCP are generated during oil and coal combustion and are mainly composed of elemental carbon. The results show a general pattern of higher concentrations in the south and declining values towards the north. Lakes in the most polluted areas have particle concentrations hundreds of times higher than lakes in the least polluted areas. The SCP distribution pattern is similar to the deposition patterns for many other air pollutants, such as wet deposited excess ${\rm SO}_{4}{}^{-2}$ and lead.
4312840|Observations of correlation between mercury content in fish and heavy metal contamination of sediments in lakes polluted by mine water are presented. In spite of high mercury levels in sediments the concentrations of mercury in pike are very low, even compared with pike from noncontaminated areas. At the same time the sediment concentrations of other heavy metals, especially zinc and lead, are extremely high. Work in progress will provide better comprehension of the mechanism behind this phenomenon.
25094574|The intuitive and logical answer to the question of how the tundra-taiga interface will react to global warming is that it should move north and this is mirrored by many models of potential treeline migration. Northward movement may be the eventual outcome if climatic warming persists over centuries or millennia. However, closer examination of the tundra-taiga interface across its circumpolar extent reveals a more complex situation. The regional climatic history of the tundra-taiga interface is highly varied, and consequently it is to be expected that the forest tundra boundary zone will respond differently to climate change depending on local variations in climate, evolutionary history, soil development, and hydrology. Investigations reveal considerable stability at present in the position of the treeline and while there may be a long-term advance northwards there are oceanic regions where climatic warming may result in a retreat southwards due to increased bog development. Reinforcing this trend is an increasing human impact, particularly in the forest tundra of Russia, which forces the limit of the forested areas southwards. Local variations will therefore require continued observation and research, as they will be of considerable importance economically as well as for ecology and conservation.
4314771|The Baltic Sea is suffering from eutrophication and attempts are being made to reduce nutrient loads. This article focuses on nitrogen transport from southern Sweden
4312475| Total mercury was determined in water and edible fish from the So Vicente estuary using substoichiometric radioisotope dilution analysis. The water was found to contain 0.01-10 g Hg/l with average values of 2.14, 1.80, and 1.66 g/l at three sampling sites situated 30-35 km downstream from a large industrial region. These figures indicate gross mercury pollution. The fish were found to contain from 3 to 860 g Hg/kg in muscle tissue; the large majority were well below tolerance limits for human consumption (500 g/kg). A future increase in the mercury content of the fish is indicated. 
4315616|This paper employs a choice experiment to obtain consumer preferences and willingness to pay for food product quality attributes currently not available in Sweden. Data were obtained from a large mail survey and estimated with a random parameter logit model. We found evidence for intraproduct differences in consumer preferences for identical attributes, as well as interproduct discrepancies in ranking of attributes. Furthermore, we found evidence of a market failure relating to the potential use of genetically modified animal fodder. Finally, we found support for the idea that a cheap-talk script can alleviate problems of external validity of choice experiments. Our results are useful in forming product differentiation strategies within the food industry, as well as for the formation of food policy.
4314804|The coastal areas of Eastern African are the centers for economic growth in most of the countries in the region. Migration toward the coast and population growth, together with overuse of resources and widespread poverty, contribute to the degradation of coastal environments. During the last decade a number of local-level projects have been carried out in the region to improve coastal development and management. This article discusses the experiences and lessons learned from many of these projects. Overall, the degree of success of these projects has been mixed. Projects focusing on biodiversity protection, but neglecting local development are often only successful in the short term. An important concern is that most projects are completely dependent on donor support and are thus far from sustainable. To be successful over the long term, local and national ownership is critical and has to be improved. Legal and regulatory frameworks are still poorly developed and enforcement of regulations is weak at best. The article discusses the need for research and capacity building to support coastal management projects; the role of monitoring and evaluation; and the importance of better communication. Project experiences with community participation are presented. It is noted that coastal managers have not yet fully recognized that private enterprise is the single most important factor driving change along the coastline of the region. In conclusion, the experiences gained over the last 10 years of ICZM in Eastern Africa indicate that projects directly targeted at the local level with activities planned and carried out in cooperation with local stakeholders have a relatively high degree of success.
4315290|Mercury emissions from the coal smoke is the main source of anthropogenic discharge and mercury pollution in atmosphere. The calculated total amount of mercury emissions of China in 1995 is approximately 213.8 tonnes, which accounts for c. 5% of estimated total global discharge of 4000 tonnes in the same period. From 1978 to 1995, total coal consumption increased fourfold. Based on these data it is estimated that the mercury emissions will increase at a rate of 5% a year, and the predicted emissions will be 273 tonnes in China in 2000. Controlling and solving mercury emissions from coal combustion are among the most important environmental tasks facing China.
4314519|The direct-use values of tropical moist forest foods are quantified from 12 consecutive months of data of their harvesting by the Huottuja (Piaroa) Amerindians of Venezuela. Alternate months were spent in a large and small village to investigate the effects of development on harvesting. Local market prices were applied to the weights of plant and animal foods collected by households to calculate their market values. Labor opportunity costs were also calculated and subtracted from the market values to give the net monetary values of forest foods. These net values for all wild plants and animals were USD 1902
4312011| Concentrations of suspended particulate Cu, Zn and Pb in the waters of Srfjord range from <0.1-2.04 g/l, 1.32-51.29 g/l and 0.7-58.05 g/l respectively. Their spatial distribution in surface water and at depth suggest that the high concentration of metals is due to metal discharge from industries situated at the southern extremity of the fjord. Considering the hydrography of the fjord and the relationship of Zn and Pb, two distinct bodies of water are thought to outflow from the fjord. 
4315647|A hydrological-based model (HBV-NP) was applied to a catchment (1900 km
4314450|Since the last deglaciation, 300-500 Pg carbon have accumulated in northern peatlands (346 mill. ha). While sequestering carbon dioxide ( CO
4313991|There are huge losses of harvested crops in the tropical and subtropical countries due to the activities of storage insects. These losses have been related to the high temperatures and relative humidities prevalent in these areas. Infestation begins during the growth period and the insects are then carried into the storage premises with the grain. Within 6 months of storage, losses may be as high as 100%. Most physical and cultural methods used in the control of insect pests in the tropics and subtropics have been unsuccessful and chemical control methods may introduce toxic residues into the stored grains. In many tropical countries, the prohibitive cost of these chemicals, and technical know-how required for their application, tend to limit their use to a few government-owned farms. The shortcomings of other insect control methods have generated much interest in the use of resistant varieties in stored-insect pest control. Several varieties of different grain types have been screened for resistance. Resistant genes have been translocated to high-yielding varieties. This article presents examples of screening trials carried out in the tropics and subtropics with particular reference to Nigeria. The huge quantity of grains lost to storage insects in the tropics has resulted in instituting measures aimed at reducing these losses.
25515841|The Canadian horticultural peat industry generates carbon emissions through various methods of peat extraction, processing, and land-use changes. This study provides a carbon emissions analysis comparing the traditional vacuum harvest (VH) and block-cut (BC) extraction techniques to a new acrotelm transplant (AT) method that restores natural peatland function by preserving and replacing the surface layer vegetation as part of the extraction process. The relative global warming potential for each extraction method was determined by estimating carbon dioxide (CO) and methane exchange for each phase of peat extraction, including emissions from land-use change and machinery fuel consumption. Preliminary findings, based on 1 y of measurements, indicate that the AT technique has the lowest annual carbon emissions compared to the VH and BC methods. Projected total carbon emissions from a 75-ha peatland after 50 y of extraction using the AT technique produced a sink of approximately 3300 t CO equivalents (CO-e). This represents a marked reduction in total carbon emissions estimated for the VH (19 000 t CO-e) and BC (29 000 t CO-e) extraction techniques. This analysis suggests that the AT method reestablishes peat accumulation and peatland carbon storage function more effectively than the VH and BC methods, which are associated with delayed restoration efforts. Consequently, the AT technique has the potential to greatly reduce the carbon footprint of the Canadian horticultural peat industry.
4315699|The Gulf of Finland is regularly affected by inflows of anoxic deep-water masses from the northern Baltic proper. These dense water masses advance over large areas with a decline of benthic life in affected areas as a result. Such events have been regularly repeated over decades and centuries. The archipelago, however, is well protected, because the inflows of anoxic deep waters do not enter such shallow waters. The situation could thus be better for benthic life in the archipelago, but in many areas this is not true. In areas where the bottoms are sheltered from storms and currents, permanent anoxia can persist for decades. Such areas were found in the western archipelago of the Gulf of Finland. Examination of surface cores revealed that many of these basins have been continuously anoxic for almost 40 y. A deeper coring showed that, at least locally, shallow water sea-floor anoxia has been a fact in the area for thousands of years.
4313886|The rate at which the population of Bangladesh is increasing, and the present level of technology, make it impossible to produce enough food for its population in the future. Population pressure has already begun to affect the environment and agricultural sustainability. Because of the intensive land use and biomass shortage cultivated soils are now being depleted of essential nutrients and organic matter. Fisheries, livestock and forestry resources are also under increasing environmental strain. With current technology it would be possible to produce 25.52 and 31.95 mill. tonnes of foodgrain by the year 2000 and 2010 AD. The current level is 18.5 mill. tonnes although greater potential exists. The production of oilseeds, sugar and fish could be doubled by the year 2010 AD. Increasing production would not be enough in view of population increases from 115 mill. today to 145, 177 and 232 mill. by the years 2000, 2010 and 2030, respectively. Unless, Bangladesh controls its population growth more effectively, regenerates already depleted agricultural resources and brings about a major breakthrough in agricultural technology, it will not be able to produce enough food to feed its own people after 2010 and continues to move towards major ecological disaster. In view of this critical situation, some measures have been recommended to control population, to regenerate agricultural resources, and future areas of research thrust.
4313065|Fiji, the most developed of the Pacific Islands states, is experiencing considerable stress on its coastal and marine environment. While these impacts have not reached the disturbing levels of the more industrialized countries, activities such as reclamation, agriculture, tourism, urban development and industrialization are leading to localized pollution and degradation of mangrove, seagrass and coral reef ecosystems. These impacts are accentuated by a heavy emphasis on economic development and the lack of clear cut institutional responsibility for coastal zone planning and management.
4312929|More than 133 000 miles (215 000 km) of pipelines are either operating, underway or planned, and together represent an investment of over $200 billion. Yet pipelines, as the author points out, are much more than just pipes in the ground. Many social, economic, and environmental considerations must be taken into account, from the planning stage through construction to final operation.
4312744|Proliferation of nuclear weapons is the decisive issue which must be confronted in the subtle synergism between nuclear energy for electric power and the resulting generation of fissile explosive materials. Societal structures smaller than national states may be expected to achieve access to devastating nuclear devices with the growing numbers of nuclear reactors for power. Ethical and public health issues, though ultimately dominated by the proliferation question, also are incompletely resolved in matters of radioactive waste management, the transportation of spent reactor fuel, and the siting of nuclear power plants.
4314824| The distribution of soil organic carbon in a mangrove forest partly contaminated with raw sewage shows that a high proportion of the carbon in the landward zones of the forest was organic. Relative content of inorganic carbon increased seawards. Carbonate from the shells of gastropods, oysters, and corals contribute to the inorganic carbon pool. The vertical profiles of organic carbon showed a general surface enrichment and subsurface depletion. An extremely high organic carbon content up to 19% of sediment (dry weight) was found at the sewage dump site. Peat formation was not evident and the organic carbon content decreased with depth of burial in the sediment. The interstitial water at the terrestrial mangrove fringe with sewage waste was relatively more acidic (pH 4-5) and strongly reducing (Eh  300 mV). The pH in the terrestrial fringe that had no sewage influence was close to neutral values (pH > 6). There was no significant difference between the rates of organic matter remineralization in the forest zones. Relative values, however, indicate that mineralization was slowest in sewage-contaminated areas compared to areas without exposure to sewage. The rate of remineralization was high in the frequently inundated mangrove areas. 
40928389|The imperative to further constrain extractive uses of natural resources will strengthen as resources degrade through over-use or exposure to climate changes. Here, we explore an approach to increase the support for marine conservation among coral reef fishers. We explore the proposition that resource dependency in the Egyptian Red Sea can act as a barrier to conservation. We administered face-to-face surveys to 49% of the fishing industry to: (i) identify the level of compliance to the local marine protected area (MPA), (ii) assess the level of dependency on marine resources in the region and (iii) examine the relationship between resource dependency and conservation attitudes. Only 11.4% of fishers were aware of the MPA. Fishers were mostly limited in their social flexibility and livelihood options. Results suggest that resource dependency is highly and negatively correlated with conservation attitudes suggesting that management efforts need to seriously focus on reducing dependency if conservation goals are to be met.
4315291|This research used knowledge of the indigenous practice of timing nontimber forest product harvest with the full moon to demonstrate that chemicals controlling the decomposition rate of foliage fluctuate with the lunar cycle and may have developed as a result of plant-herbivore interactions. Indigenous knowledge suggests that leaves harvested during the full moon are more durable. Palm leaves harvested during the full moon had higher total C, hemicellulose, complex C and lower Ca concentrations. These chemical changes should make palm leaves less susceptible to herbivory and more durable when harvested during the full moon. This study proposes a mechanism by which plants in the tropics minimize foliage herbivory and influence the decomposition rates of senesced leaves and their durability, especially during the full moon. This research supports the need to use natural life cycles in managing forests and provides a scientific basis for an indigenous community's harvesting practice.
4314161|The global atmosphere is a chemically complex and dynamic system, interacting both internally, mostly within the troposphere and stratosphere, and with the oceans, land, and living organisms. Its composition is changing today, and has also changed markedly over the last 160 000 yr. Environmentally-significant chemical processes occurring in the atmosphere include those affecting the ozone layer and the levels of radiatively active gases and particles. CH4, a very important greenhouse gas, has major natural and anthropogenic sources; it is destroyed largely by reaction with the hydroxyl radical in the troposphere. Both its sources and sink are strongly influenced by human activity. Nitrous oxide, with a similar range of sources, and chlorofluorocarbons, purely anthropogenic, are also greenhouse gases; however, their potency is offset partially by the ozone they destroy. Ozone, a key chemical and protective ultraviolet shield, has a complex chemistry influenced by many other trace species and is also an important greenhouse gas. Many other trace gases play a key role through their influence on the concentrations of ozone, the hydroxyl radical, and CH4. Gaseous sulfur compounds, both natural and anthropogenic, are oxidized to particulate sulfates which have an important effect on albedo, counteracting the influence of the greenhouse gases. Atmospheric chemistry is therefore closely linked to industrial activity, climate, and land use through many complex environmental processes; these interactions cannot be realistically described by single numbers such as potentials for ozone depletion or global warming. The International Global Atmospheric Chemistry (IGAC) project is underway and dedicated to understanding this complex system through a combination of observations, theory, and laboratory and modelling studies.
4312725|The blow-out of the Ixtoc I exploratory well in the Bay of Campeche on June 3, 1979, resulted in the release of about 475 000 metric tons of oil to the waters of the Gulf of Mexico. The authors calculate that approximately 24 000 metric tons of oil landed on Mexican beaches, about 4000 metric tons landed on Texas beaches, and about 120 000 metric tons, or 25 percent of the total, sank to the bottom of the Gulf. Since thorough studies of the ecological damage in Mexico have either not been carried out or the results have not been released, the authors estimate biological damage from the spill on the basis of data in the literature, laboratory experiments, and experience with similar spills elsewhere. They calculate that some 15 000 km
4315458|This paper describes the environmental characteristics and situation of aquatic habitats and communities in southern continental and maritime areas of southeastern South America (Patagonian Shelf GIWA Subregion), resulting from an overall assessment carried out within the framework of a GIWA project, mostly on the basis of publicly available data. The main focus of the analysis was on the current situation of transboundary water resources and anthropogenic impacts. In the inland waters, habitat and community modifications result, principally, from dams and reservoirs built in the main watercourses for hydroelectric power generation and other uses. The transformation of lotic environments into lentic ones have affected habitats and altered biotic communities. In the La Plata River basin, invasive exotic species have displaced native ones. Habitats in the ocean have been degraded, as their biodiversity becomes affected by overfishing and pollution. This article includes a discussion on the causal chain and the policy options elaborated for the Coastal Ecosystem of Buenos Aires province and the Argentinean-Uruguayan Common Fishing Zone, where fishing resources are shared by both countries.
24709001|The North Water polynya ( 76N to 79N and 70W to 80W) is known to be an important habitat for several species of marine mammals and sea birds. For millennia, it has provided the basis for subsistence hunting and human presence in the northernmost part of Baffin Bay. The abundance of air-breathing top predators also represents a potential source of nutrient cycling that maintains primary production. In this study, aerial surveys conducted in 2009 and 2010 were used for the first time to map the distribution and estimate the abundance of top predators during spring in the North Water. Belugas (Delphinapterus leucas) were not detected north of 7720N but were found along the coast of West Greenland and offshore in the middle of the North Water with an abundance estimated at 2245 (95 % CI 18112783). Narwhals (Monodon monoceros) were widely distributed on the eastern side of the North Water with an estimate of abundance of 7726 (376115 870). Walruses (Odobenus rosmarus) were found across the North Water over both shallow and deep (>500 m) water with an estimated abundance of 1499 (10772087). Bearded (Erignathus barbatus) and ringed seals (Phoca hispida) used the large floes of ice in the southeastern part of the North Water for hauling out. Most polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were detected in the southern part of the polynya. The abundances of bearded and ringed seals were 6016 (332210 893) and 9529 (546016 632), respectively, and that of polar bears was 60 (12292). Three sea bird species were distributed along the Greenland coast (eiders, Somateria spp.), in leads and cracks close to the Greenland coast (little auks, Alle alle) or widely in open water (thick-billed guillemots, Uria lomvia).
4314033|A budget, based on an extensive sampling program quantifying concentrations of extractable chlorinated hydrocarbons (EOCI) in input sources, in water and sediment, shows that large amounts of chlorinated organic matter have accumulated in the Baltic Sea. The total amount corresponds to over half of the effluents produced by the pulp-mill industry since chlorine bleaching was introduced in the early 1940s. A numerical model, that also considers possible transport and decay processes, is in agreement with the observed distribution pattern. The model also demonstrates that the Baltic will contain large amounts of chlorinated organic matter for many decades, in spite of the recent reductions in the effluents from industry. However, the chemical composition and toxic effects of the measured bulk parameter EOCI remains largely unknown. The major challenge for environmental science is to develop ecotoxicological concepts and methods to determine the effects of these substances.
4312429|The environmental problems of the developing societies, in contrast to those of the developed societies, are aggravated by a lack of technology rather than from technological affluence. Industrialization is urgently needed to ward off threatening socio-economic-environmental spectres. Technology is a social process causally related to social change. Appropriate technology is the "second best" technology on socio-economic-organizational criteria. It will create marginal environmental damage in the secondary (industrial) sector but will reduce current excessive and increasing environmental degradation in the primary (agricultural) sector. In view of the low intensity of technology the impact will be marginal and will be redressed over the course of time when more sophisticated technology becomes feasible. Taking everything into account, the most appropriate strategy for development is Scenario three.
4312094|The geographical distribution of arsenic and selenium in Norwegian forest soils has been studied. The concentration of selenium shows a distinct decrease with increasing distance from the sea, while a similar trend is not evident for arsenic. This implies that a considerable input of selenium to the soils takes place through the precipitation. The origin of this air-borne selenium may in part be marine, but terrestrial sources of volatile selenium compounds may also play a certain role. There are indications that the observed selenium distribution is possibly of biological significance.
25547858|Baltic grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) alternate between land and ice breeding, depending on ice conditions. We show that the fitness of grey seal females in terms of pup mortality and quality is reduced when breeding on land as compared with ice. The mean preweaning mortality rate on land was 21.1% (range 0% to 31.6%), and correlated with birth density (range 0.5-5.2 pups 100 m). The mean mortality rate on ice was 1.5%, where the highest density was 0.2 pups 100 m in particularly dense breeding groups. Mean weights of pups born on ice were significantly greater (48.3  8.1 kg) at the onset of moult as compared with pups born on land (37.4  7.8 kg). Because indices of life-time net reproductive rate (pup survival) and pup quality (weaning weight and health) were more auspicious on ice as compared with land, diminishing ice fields will lower the fitness of Baltic grey seal females and substantially increase the risk for quasi-extinction.
23257419|The objective of this study is to present an efficiency-perception impact assessment based upon the integration of fuzzy logic (FL) of the "Productive Reconversion" conservation program (PRP) instituted by the Mexican government, in the upper Gulf of California and the Colorado Delta Biosphere Reserve. This approach enables environmental analysts to deal with the intrinsic imprecision and ambiguity associated with people's judgments and conclusions. The application of FL to the assessment of program efficiency is illustrated in this work, demonstrating how subjective perceptions can be converted into quantitative values easy to evaluate during the decision-making process.
4315768|Ecosystem budgets of matter contribute to the assessment of transport and accumulation of bioavailable contaminants in a landscape, since flows of matter and energy ultimately determine the rates at which contaminants will be partitioned in the environment. This study compares ecosystem properties, such as net primary production (NPP), sequestration of matter and fluxes to food sources for humans, which are of potential interest to describe fluxes and accumulation of bioavailable radionuclides in 14 catchments within a larger catchment area in southeast Sweden. The carbon budgets, used as a proxy for organic matter, are mainly based on local estimates of pools and fluxes, which have been distributed across a landscape mosaic of different vegetation types and management regimes using a geographical information system (GIS). NPP varied by a factor close to two (432 - 709
4314811|The harvesting of reef building corals has a negative impact on coral reefs. This pressure is likely to increase with the growing human population along the tropical coasts and, therefore, alternative sources of livelihood and sustainable methods for resource extraction are needed. This paper presents the results of two experiments on coral culturing and one study on temporal patterns in the coral recruitment near Zanzibar, Tanzania. The survival and growth of cultured coral fragments of different sizes was compared for several species of corals, and the effects of lesions on coral fragments were examined. Temporal patterns in recruitment were assessed through regular deployment and sampling of terracotta tiles. The results show that within 1 year, fragments as small as 1-2 cm can be reared into coral colonies that can be sold to the aquarium market or used for reef rehabilitation. Lesions had no negative effect on the growth of the fragments, while a larger initial size had a positive impact on the fragment's growth rate. Coral recruitment was seasonal, with two annual peaks in February-April and November-December. This information could be of use for the timing of deployment of artificial settlement substrata for coral-culturing purposes, as well as for the planning of potentially disturbing coastal development.
4312030|Macroscopic minimodels of the flows of energy in producing the structural basis of our world of man and nature help the simple mind of man see the reasons for the rapid changes coming as we shift from a growth economy to a declining economy and finally to a steady state pattern. Twenty points are made to explain the energy control of our economy and the relationship of environment. Inflation is driven by increasing energy expended in getting energy; Environmental protection is an ally rather than antagonist of energy conservation; marginal energy sources become less useful as main energy sources decline; There is little potential in solar technology as it competes poorly with solar work in natural environments, agriculture, forestry, and other ancient ways of utilization; Net reserves of energy are much smaller than gross energies, and the cresting of world urban technological growth may be much closer than predicted by most government advisors. There are great hazards for the country that attempts to continue a growth economy when the time has come for reconversion to the steady state. If inferences from natural ecosystems in steady state are correct, the steady state for man may be a golden era of stability and individual fulfillment.
4313253|The concept of assimilative capacity has been suggested as a basis for permitting the controlled disposal of anthropogenic wastes in the ocean. It is suggested in this study that the term assimilative is a misnomer since there is no benefit for the receiving body of water from the addition of pollutants. The term accomodative capacity (AC) is suggested in its place. This procedure has been applied to the disposal of radioactive wastes, mercury and bacteria. In addition, two examples where the AC approach has been extended to the overall health of the ecosystem are considered: PCB's in the New York Bight and the disposal of sewage effluent off the coast of Southern California. From these examples, three schemes are put forward to implement the concept of AC on the basis of a) public health considerations, b) effects on the marine ecosystem and c) experimental strategies.
25434348|The forest hunter-gatherers of the middle Yangtze River basin, who were the first to invent pottery and led a sedentary lifestyle, may have begun to cultivate rice during the Blling-Allerd interstadial global warming period. The earliest rice cultivation may have dated back to 14 000 calibrated (cal.) years before present (YBP). The global warming at 9000 cal. YBP in the early Holocene brought the development of the rice cultivation to the middle Yangtze River basin. On the other hand, ancient rice-cultivating and piscatorial society met a crisis at 4200-4000 cal. YBP that was characterized by a significant cooling of the climate. This climate deterioration led the northern wheat/barley-cultivating pastoral people to migrate to the south and invade, ultimately bringing about the collapse of the rice-cultivating and piscatorial society in the Yangtze River basin.
4315764|To provide information necessary for a license application for a deep repository for spent nuclear fuel, the Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste Management Co. has started site investigations at two sites in Sweden. In this paper, we present a strategy to integrate site-specific ecosystem data into spatially explicit models needed for safety assessment studies and the environmental impact assessment. The site-specific description of ecosystems is developed by building discipline-specific models from primary data and by identifying interactions and stocks and flows of matter among functional units at the sites. The conceptual model is a helpful initial tool for defining properties needed to quantify system processes, which may reveal new interfaces between disciplines, providing a variety of new opportunities to enhance the understanding of the linkages between ecosystem characteristics and the functional properties of landscapes. This type of integrated ecosystem-landscape characterization model has an important role in forming the implementation of a safety assessment for a deep repository.
4314672|Sedimentary habitats cover most of the ocean bottom and therefore constitute the largest single ecosystem on earth in spatial coverage. Although only a small fraction of the micro-, meio- and macroscopic benthic organisms that reside in and on sediments have been described and few estimates of total species numbers and biogeographic pattern have been attempted, there is sufficient information on a few species to suggest that sedimentary organisms significantly impact major ecological processes. Benthic organisms contribute to regulation of carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur cycling, water column processes, pollutant distribution and fate, secondary production, and transport and stability of sediments. Linkages between groups of organisms and the level of functional redundancy is poorly known, however, there is probably substantial redundancy within groups. There is little evidence that biodiversity per se is necessary for benthic systems to contribute to ecosystem services, but because linkages are so poorly known and predictive knowledge confined to a few species, it is not presently possible to predict exactly how species loss will impact these services and ecosystem health. Thus, a precautionary approach of "assume the worst" is advised, and every effort should be made to curtail the species and genetic diversity loss resulting from fishing, pollution, habitat destruction, introduction of non-native (exotic) species, and global warming. Concurrently, scientists must take advantage of exciting, rapidly evolving technology and a rejuvenated interest in biodiversity to provide more concrete and thorough information on benthos and ecosystem processes.
4315002|Vertical upflow wetland systems have shown high nutrient removal efficiencies. The removal of nutrients (N and P) from wastewater was investigated in a vertical upflow wetland system in Piracicaba, Brazil. The concentration removal was 93% for phosphate, 78% for nitrate and 50% for ammonia. Effective phosphate removal was observed in the top soil layer which has a high surface adsorption area. Nitrate was removed satisfactory at low loading rates due to plant uptake and denitrification. Removal of ammonia was concentration dependent and decreased at high inflow concentrations. Spatial sampling through the bed showed that the treatment efficiency was not uniform. The possibility of the recycling of nutrients as a soil improver or animal feed is an important feature of this type of vertical flow wetland system.
4313528|The article deals with motivations and the practice of polar research, with special reference to the Antarctic. It introduces a concept of institutional motives, reviews some of the driving factors in modern polar research and considers some similarities and differences between Arctic and Antarctic science, mainly to highlight the latter. External political conditions that form the framework within which polar research is done today, differ considerably in the two regions. In the Arctic the exertion of national sovereignty, as well as military and economic interests in a number of countries have hindered the far-reaching international cooperation in science found in the Antarctic. At the same time these factors have contributed to a fragmentation of knowledge production, while in the Antarctic, an international treaty arrangement which suspends territorial claims and emphasizes research has created conditions favorable to basic research. The focus is mainly on the tradeoff between science and politics in the Antarctic, and it is suggested that research there has a symbolic instrumental function, as distinct from a practical instrumental function in the Arctic.
25547936|The globally threatened Eastern Imperial Eagle Aquila heliaca has been one of the flagship species of Hungarian bird conservation efforts since the 1980s. Due to these conservation activities and positive land-use changes during the last 2 decades, the Hungarian Imperial Eagle population increased from as few as approximately 20 pairs in the early 1980s to 81 pairs by 2006. Between 2002 and 2005 as part of a LIFE-Nature project, MME/Birdlife Hungary carried out particularly intensive monitoring, conservation, research, and public awareness actions. The main goal of the project was to secure the long-term sustainable increase in the Imperial Eagle population after Hungary's European Union accession in 2004. New methods were developed and applied to census and monitor the breeding and wintering population sizes. Standardized baseline land-use mapping and surveys were introduced to detect long-term land-use and prey density changes in priority areas for Imperial Eagles and to monitor the effects of key mortality factors, such as electrocution. Historical information and data gathered before and during the project period were assimilated using a Geographic Information System and incorporated into a comprehensive set of Imperial Eagle Management Guidelines.
4315014|The rural people in India, particularly the tribals and poor, depend on forest resources for meeting their energy needs, forest products, and for employment. This paper gives details of one estimation of dependency of people on forests in villages in the Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Gujarat states of India. Benefits derived by the people were reflected as a percentage of the total income of the household. The dependency on forests varies from 37% to 76% in these villages. This kind of assessment would create a data base and provide indicators of sustainable forest management, especially for an understanding of the intricacies of Joint Forest Management. This information can be very useful in deriving the overall contribution of the forestry sector in the national economy and thus help the planners, administrators and foresters in evolving better management practices.
4315329|Prior to construction of the Aswan High Dam, the annual Nile flood delivered about
4315230|At 81.7 million tonnes (Mt), commercial fertilizer nitrogen (N) accounts for approximately half of all N reaching global croplands today and supplies basic food needs for at least 40% of the population. The challenge is to continue to help meet that need while minimizing the risk of negative environmental impacts through improved N-use efficiency. Fertilizer-N efficiency on corn in the US has increased more than 30% over the last 20 years, but additional progress can be made for corn and other crops. Current N efficiency and productivity are generally lower in most of Asia than in North America, but they are improving. The fertilizer industry recognizes its crucial role in meeting basic human needs, now and in the future. It stands ready to meet the challenge of adopting new practices and technologies that will allow it to do so with greater efficiency and in a way that not only sustains life, but also sustains the quality of life. Higher crop production normally demands higher nutrient application rates and consequently increased mineral nitrogen use. With food demand for 2030 estimated around 2800 million tonnes (t) yr
4315607|In many European countries, milk production per cow has more than doubled in the last 40 years. The increase in production has been accompanied by declining ability to reproduce, increasing incidence of health problems, and declining longevity in modern dairy cows. Genetic selection for increased milk yield increasingly is viewed as increasing profit at the expense of reducing animal welfare. The economic future of the dairy industry is related directly to public acceptance of its breeding and production practices. It is important to the dairy industry that welfare problems should be addressed before there is widespread condemnation of breeding and management practices. A new breeding goal aimed at improving fitness and tolerance of metabolic stress is necessary to prevent the decrease in the quality of life of dairy cows and instead, perhaps, enhance it.
4312900|The World Heritage Convention was adopted by the UNESCO General Conference in November 1972. Its origins lay in the increasing awareness by all nations of the world that parts of the world's cultural and national heritage, wherever they are located, belonged to mankind's common heritage. Associated with this awareness is a sense of concern and shared responsibility for the protection and conservation of the heritage and its transmission to future generations. The Convention has now become the international instrument by which parts of the world's heritage of outstanding universal value can be identified and protected for present and future generations.
4313741|Cereal crops are the basis of the human diet; any important losses in the production of these crops will affect human populations. Diseases and pests cause significant losses in grain production throughout the world. This paper describes the resistance mechanisms of barley and wheat to aphids which are based on the presence of natural chemical compounds in the plants. These mechanisms could help increase grain production and in addition decrease the need for pesticides.
4312068|Water pollution is a major problem in the world today, with thousands of polluting substances being discharged into the waters. It seems that no river, no lake, no part of the oceans is entirely free from pollution. Both pollution caused by lack of development and pollution caused by development worsen increasingly, due to population growth and urbanization, and to increasing industrialization and bad land management. International co-operation and national pollution-abatement policies are essential if catastrophes are to be avoided in the future.
4313330|The most important forest formation classes, in relation to area, biospheric (especially climatic) effects and socioeconomic value, are the predominantly evergreen, humid tropical forests and the cold-temperate, predominantly evergreen, (boreal coniferous) forests. The two classes have many fundamental features in common. Both consist of complex and dynamic biocybernetically organized and regulated ecosystems that follow the same basic natural laws to which such systems are subject. The species richness and diversity of the tropical forest may appear redundant, but is probably an essential safety factor for survival under stress.
41417353|Surface water concentrations of dissolved organic carbon ([DOC]) are changing throughout the northern hemisphere due to changes in climate, land use and acid deposition. However, the relative importance of these drivers is unclear. Here, we use the Integrated Catchments model for Carbon (INCA-C) to simulate longterm (1996-2008) streamwater [DOC] at the four Swedish integrated monitoring (IM) sites. These are unmanaged headwater catchments with old-growth forests and no major changes in land use. Daily, seasonal and long-term variations in streamwater [DOC] driven by runoff, seasonal temperature and atmospheric sulfate (SO) deposition were observed at all sites. Using INCA-C, it was possible to reproduce observed patterns of variability in streamwater [DOC] at the four IM sites. Runoff was found to be the main short-term control on [DOC]. Seasonal patterns in [DOC] were controlled primarily by soil temperature. Measured SO deposition explained some of the longterm [DOC] variability at all sites.
4315757|Arctic freshwater and diadromous fish species will respond to the various effects of climate change in many ways. For wide-ranging species, many of which are key components of northern aquatic ecosystems and fisheries, there is a large range of possible responses due to inter- and intra-specific variation, differences in the effects of climate drivers within ACIA regions, and differences in drivers among regions. All this diversity, coupled with limited understanding of fish responses to climate parameters generally, permits enumeration only of a range of possible responses which are developed here for selected important fishes. Accordingly, indepth examination is required of possible effects within species within ACIA regions, as well as comparative studies across regions. Two particularly important species (Arctic char and Atlantic salmon) are examined as case studies to provide background for such studies.
4313989|Bass (Dicentrarchus labrax (L.)) are highly prized as sport and table fish in England and Wales. Adult bass undertake extensive migrations, whereas sexually immature bass shoal in confined estuarine nurseries where they are vulnerable to exploitation by the bass fishery. New laws, which require the seasonal closure of specific nursery areas to the bass fishery, were introduced to safeguard the recruitment of bass to the adult stock. However, the availability of suitable estuarine nursery areas is decreasing rapidly as habitats are destroyed, claimed, polluted or altered by barrage construction and water abstraction. Numerous regulations control these developments, but their requirements are inadequately co-ordinated and they rarely provide effective protection within a complex estuarine ecosystem. For the purposes of managing bass nurseries, it is concluded that future strategies must regulate both the fishery and the fishes' environment.
41805973|In this study, a consistent basin-wise monthly time series of the atmospheric nutrient load to the Baltic Sea during 1850-2006 was compiled. Due to the lack of a long time series (1850-1960) of nutrient deposition to the Baltic Sea, the data set was compiled by combining a time series of deposition data at the Baltic Nest Institute from 1970 to 2006, published historical monitoring data and deposition estimates, as well as recent modeled Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) emission estimates. The procedure for nitrogen compounds included estimation of the deposition in a few intermediate reference years, linear interpolation between them, and the decomposition of annual deposition into a seasonal deposition pattern. As no reliable monitoring results were found for the atmospheric deposition of phosphorus during the early period of our study, we used published estimates for the temporal and spatial pattern of the phosphorus load.
4313568| Lake Vttern is one of the largest oligotrophic clear-water bodies in Europe. It is highly valued for recreation, fisheries, and as a drinking water reservoir. The lake is susceptible to pollutants derived both from the atmosphere and from tributaries and has been threatened by eutrophication and other pollution. Advanced sewage treatment reduced phosphorus inputs in the mid-1970s and the biotic communities are now recovering from eutrophication symptoms. The nitrate concentration in the lake has more than doubled in 20 years and is still constantly increasing, the reasons for which are discussed. Present day salt concentrations are 30% higher compared to concentrations before World War II and deposition of acid pollutants have changed the ionic composition in favor of sulfate. The lake sediments are contaminated by zinc, cadmium, lead, and mercury, mainly from a mining operation at the lake and by chlorinated organic compounds from the bleach-plant effluents of a pulp mill. Laboratory tests indicated toxic effects of the sediments on a benthic organism. Levels of mercury, DDT and PCB in fish were approaching legislative criteria for human consumption in the late 1960s, but are now well below recommended levels. Relatively high concentrations of dioxins have recently been found in arctic char. 
4313177|Large portions of the rain forests of Borneo (mainly in Indonesian Kalimantan and in the Malaysian state of Sabah) were heavily damaged by fire in 1982 and 1983. The unusual magnitude of the fires should be related to the intense drought in tropical Southeast Asia during the second part of 1982 and early 1983. Because of their ecological and economic significance, those events have attracted wide attention. They have raised new questions regarding the management and preservation of tropical ecosystems experiencing intensified population pressures. Accurate and timely assessments of the extent and dynamics of the "Borneo fires" have been difficult, however, owing to the size and geography of the area. The authors report on a series of observations made using the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) carried on-board the NOAA-7 satellite. Such observations obtained daily by this sensor provide valuable information on the occurrence of the fires and on their impact on the vegetation.
4315140|Grave environmental problems, including contamination of biota by organochlorines and heavy metals, and increasing deep-water oxygen deficiency, were discovered in the Baltic Sea in the late 1960s. Toxic pollutants, including the newly discovered PCB, were initially seen as the main threat to the Baltic ecosystem, and the impaired reproduction found in Baltic seals and white-tailed eagles implied a threat also to human fish eaters. Countermeasures gradually gave results, and today the struggle to limit toxic pollution of the Baltic is an international environmental success story. Calculations showed that Baltic deep-water oxygen consumption must have increased, and that the Baltic nutrient load had grown about fourfold for nitrogen and 8 times for phosphorus. Evidence of increased organic production at all trophic levels in the ecosystem gradually accumulated. Phosphorus was first thought to limit Baltic primary production, but measurements soon showed that nitrogen is generally limiting in the open Baltic proper, except for nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria. Today, the debate is concerned with whether phosphorus, by limiting nitrogen-fixers, can control open-sea ecosystem production, even where phytoplankton is clearly nitrogen limited. The Baltic lesson teaches us that our views of newly discovered environmental problems undergo repeated changes, and that it may take decades for scientists to agree on their causes. Once society decides on countermeasures, it may take decades for them to become effective, and for nature to recover. Thus, environmental management decisions can hardly wait for scientific certainty. We should therefore view environmental management decisions as experiments, to be monitored, learned from, and then modified as needed.
4314576|We estimated the ecological footprint of cities in Baltic Europe and globally. The 29 largest cities of Baltic Europe appropriate for their resource consumption and waste assimilation an area of forest, agricultural, marine, and wetland ecosystems that is at least 565-1130 times larger than the area of the cities themselves. Of the global human population, 20% (1.1 billion), living in 744 large cities worldwide, appropriate for their seafood consumption as much as 25% of the globally available area of productive marine ecosystems. The same cities' appropriation of forests for assimilation of CO
4312821|This case study reviews the nature and extent of natural grasslands in Canada and how it was impacted by human settlement. It summarizes the conservation measures that were implemented between 1900-1950 to protect the faunal elements of the Canadian grasslands from extinction due to habitat destruction and over-hunting. The social, economic and political constraints associated with the establishment of a national park in southwestern Saskatchewan to conserve one of the last remnants of the grasslands biogeographic province in North America, and the actions taken to resolve them, are highlighted.
4314244|This article presents official statistics on the Siberian forests, encompassing the Asian part of Russia, from the Urals to the Pacific. The concerns relating to the deterioration of the forest resources in all regions of Siberia are addressed. Emphasis is given to the need to develop sustainable utilization policies.
4313986|This paper illustrates the complexity of the assessment of different agricultural production practices. It is argued that any assessment of agricultural production should address the type of interaction between human society and its ecosystem. In fact, the characteristics of the society in which the farming system is operating and of the natural ecosystem that is altered, influence the perception and meaning of the agricultural production process. Assumptions adopted in the assessment, such as optimizing strategy and boundaries of the production system, are as important for the significance of the analysis as the availablility and reliability of data. A numerical illustration of the problems inherent in the assessment of agricultural production is provided by comparing the performance of four different systems of livestock production: (i) beef feed-lot closed; (ii) beef feed-lot importing feed; (iii) beef feed-lot organic system; (iv) beef nomadic pastoral system. Some numerical indicators used in the assessment are derived from models of energy analysis, such as: the level of technological capitalization of society; the quantity of biophysical capital altered by agricultural production activities and the degree of alteration; and the ratio between densities of energy throughput in ecosystem and society.
4312187|Potentialities for energy conservation in the developed world are large even assuming continued growth and little change in life-styles. The energy-extravagant changes of the past are not hard to reverse and there is only a tenuous connection between energy consumption and "wealth" in countries at similar developmental stages. The potentialities for renewable energy sources are reviewed with particular stress on solar energy and its relevance to development at village level in the Third World.
4314618|It has been observed that successful cooperation among states to protect the regional or global environment is dependent on a high level of concern among the participating nations. International decision-makers' concern for the environment, in turn, depends partly on their perception of ecological and human health risks. Risk perception was analyzed in a negotiation between Sweden and Finland to restrict emissions of organochlorines from the sulfate pulp and paper industry. Data analysis from participants' surveys indicated that Swedes and Finns possessed significantly different views about the level of environmental hazard posed by kraft mill-generated organochlorines. The disagreement about environmental risk was influenced more by historical, political, and market-oriented forces than by disagreement over the technical evidence in the case. These findings indicate that risk perception is complex and that simple remedies, including "educating" decision-makers about relevant scientific evidence, are not necessarily the best means for harmonizing nations' concern for the environment.
41805981|Before climate change is considered in longterm coastal management, it is necessary to investigate how institutional stakeholders in coastal management conceptualize climate change, as their awareness will ultimately affect their actions. Using questionnaires in eight Baltic Sea riparian countries, this study examines environmental managers' awareness of climate change. Our results indicate that problems related to global warming are deemed secondary to short-term social and economic issues. Respondents agree that problems caused by global warming will become increasingly important, but pay little attention to adaptation and mitigation strategies. Current environmental problems are expected to continue to be urgent in the future. We conclude that an apparent gap exists between decision making, public concerns, and scientific consensus, resulting in a situation in which the latest evidence rarely influences commonly held opinions.
4314813|Shrimp farming is rapidly expanding over a coastal belt of about 120 km in the northwestern province of Sri Lanka. The Dutch Canal Mundel lagoon system, a shallow semienclosed coastal water system with very limited tidal mixing due to sandbar formation, act as the major brackish water source and a receiving body for the effluents discharged for 70% of the shrimp farms in Sri Lanka. Farms are mainly developed on intertidal areas in land-use categories of mangroves, salt marsh and scrubland; occupying more than 60% of the natural flood plains. Floods during intermonsoons have affected 40% of the farms directly and retension of flood water in lagoons has resulted in unusually low salinities (2 ppt) for 2-5 weeks, restricting water exchange in farms. Concentrations of sulfides (5.2-8.0 mg L
4312046| Until a few years ago cadmium was thought by most researchers to be of toxicological importance only in industry. In the late 1960s it was established as the cause of an epidemic of osteomalacia in Japan (Itai-Itai disease) and recent investigations indicate that it may be causally associated with an increase in prevalence of proteinuria in several areas in Japan where the general environment has been contaminated by cadmium. The high chronic toxicity of cadmium is explainable on the basis of its long retention time (biological half-time in the order of decades) in the human kidney, giving rise to an accumulation of cadmium, especially in the renal tubules. This accumulation, when reaching a level of about 200 g Cd/g, may cause renal dysfunction. Based on experience of the toxicity of cadmium for animals and humans, a metabolic model has been established describing the accumulation of cadmium in the kidney, and from this model calculations of critical daily intakes by food and inhaled air have been made. A comparison of these calculated effect values with existing safety values for industry shows that the latter are far too high. 
4315164|Joint Implementation under the Climate Change Convention and Clean Development Mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol require a scientific understanding of current carbon stocks, fluxes, and sequestration potential, especially in tropical ecosystems where there are large carbon reservoirs, significant carbon emissions, and large land areas available for reforestation. Central Africa contains 10% of the world's remaining tropical moist forests and has received little attention in carbon studies. In 1980, aboveground carbon stocks in the central African ecosystem were 28.92 Pg and were reduced to 24.79 Pg by 1990. Improved forest management aimed at increasing biomass density could sequester 18.32 Pg of carbon, and over
4312263|The protein eaten in the developed countries is far in excess of body needs, with no known benefits from the excess. A halt to wasteful consumption of animal protein will help to release the resources so freed for the common well-being of all-rich and poor.
25547793|This paper discusses some recent advances in spectrometric methods and approaches for mercury speciation analysis of environmental samples with focus on isotope dilution techniques for determination of mercury species' concentrations in gaseous samples and reaction rates in soils and sediments. Such analytical data is important inter alia in fundamental research on mercury biogeochemistry and for risk assessments of mercury-contaminated soils and sediments and for designing effective remedial actions. The paper describes how the use of enriched stable isotope tracers in mercury speciation analysis can improve the traceability and accuracy of results, facilitate rational method developments, and be useful for studying biogeochemical processes, i.e. rate of reactions and fluxes, of mercury species. In particular the possibilities to study and correct for unwanted species transformation reactions during sample treatment and to study "natural" transformations of species in environmental samples, or micro- and mesocosm ecosystems, during incubations are highlighted. Important considerations to generate relevant data in isotope tracer experiments as well as reliability and quality assurance of mercury speciation analysis in general are also discussed.
25094588|In the late
4313182|We describe the fate of arsenate added at a low (non-toxic) concentration over a three-month period to an outdoor flow-through system containing Baltic Sea Fucus vesiculosus with associated algae and invertebrates. The distribution of the mass of arsenic showed that the system retained about 27 percent of the arsenic made available over the three months. Of this, 90 percent was equally divided between the Fucus and the sediment. The invertebrates exhibited little or no bioaccumulation but, apparently via grazing and filter-feeding, processed and excreted much of the arsenic taken up by the benthic algae and suspended particles. Fucus, which grows slowly and experiences only limited grazing, accumulated relatively high levels of arsenic. About 95 percent of the arsenic provided in this experiment was accounted for from analyses of sediment, organisms and water.
4315714|Despite their generally isolated geographic locations, the freshwaters of the north are subjected to a wide spectrum of environmental stressors. High-latitude regions are especially sensitive to the effects of recent climatic warming, which have already resulted in marked regime shifts in the biological communities of many Arctic lakes and ponds. Important drivers of these limnological changes have included changes in the amount and duration of snow and ice cover, and, for rivers and lakes in their deltas, the frequency and extent of spring floods. Other important climate-related shifts include alterations in evaporation and precipitation ratios, marked changes in the quality and quantity of lake and river water inflows due to accelerated glacier and permafrost melting, and declining percentages of precipitation that falls as snow. The depletion of stratospheric ozone over the north, together with the clarity of many Arctic lakes, renders them especially susceptible to damage from ultraviolet radiation. In addition, the long-range atmospheric transport of pollutants, coupled with the focusing effects of contaminant transport from biological vectors to some local ecosystems (e.g., salmon nursery lakes, ponds draining seabird colonies) and biomagnification in long food chains, have led to elevated concentrations of many persistent organic pollutants (e.g., insecticides, which have never been used in Arctic regions) and other pollutants (e.g., mercury). Rapid development of gas and oil pipelines, mining for diamonds and metals, increases in human populations, and the development of all-season roads, seaports, and hydroelectric dams will stress northern aquatic ecosystems. The cumulative effects of these stresses will be far more serious than those caused by changing climate alone.
4312784|The disturbances of behavior and mental activity to be expected in the survivors of a nuclear attack will mainly be associated with the emergence of acute anxiety reactions. The immediate effects may include acute brain syndromes, protracted anxiety states, and reactive psychoses. It is to be expected that one-third of the survivors or more will suffer more-or-less severe mental and behavioral disturbances, and the psychological reactions of the survivors will continue for months or years after the attack. No adequate treatment would be available for the vast majority of these casualties, and it follows that the only rational alternative is to prevent the occurrence of a nuclear war. The psychological disturbances arising from the continuing arms race are also discussed.
40730870|Animal populations are exposed to large-scale anthropogenic impact from e.g. climate change, habitat alteration and supplemental stocking. All of these may affect body condition in wintering dabbling ducks, which in turn may affect an individual's survival and reproductive success. The aim of this study was to assess whether there have been morphometric changes in Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and Teal (Anas crecca) over the last 30 years at a major wintering site. Body mass and condition increased from the 1950s-1960s to the 2000s in both species. The increase in body mass amounted to as much as 11.7%, with no corresponding change in body size. Improved body condition was maintained from early to mid-winter, but then converged with historical values for late winter. Our interpretation is that increasingly benign ambient winter conditions permit ducks to maintain better energetic "safety margins" throughout winter, and that converging spring departure values may be related to evolutionary flight energetic optima. The observed changes are consistent with large-scale climate amelioration and local/regional habitat improvement (both anthropogenic).
4313433|Governance arrangements are evolving to transcend interjurisdictional boundaries in the Baltic and in the Great Lakes. In each of these basins, two commissions are leading the way, one related to environmental concerns and the other to fishery interests. The two commissions will collaborate in the context of an ecosystem approach. The governance arrangements in the two basins have closer similarity with respect to function than to form. Progress toward sustainable redevelopment of degraded waters and fisheries in these basins has as a prerequisite the further evolution of trans-boundary research, communication and involvement by nongovernmental personnel. Next steps are being proposed.
4312173|The interrelationship between general or customary international law and treaty or convention law in the environmental field is examined. Many conventions are concluded with the aim of protecting nature. It usually takes a long time for states to bring these conventions into force by ratification, and when they do come into force, usually only a few states have adhered to them. If this trend continues, international environmental law may never develop beyond the foundation that has already been established. If conventions concluded in this field are going to have real influence on the law-making process in international law, states must accede to the conventions now existing. A number of international conventions and agreements are examined in this article.
4315835| Mangroves, a predominant coastal habitat in the tropics, are constantly threatened by various anthropogenic pressures that are deteriorating the mangroves to a great extent. Global emissions of greenhouse gases are likely to raise the world temperature and the sea level at the rate of 0.3C and 6 mm 10 <tex-math>${\rm y}^{-1}$</tex-math> by the year 2100. Mangrove habitats would be more vulnerable to climatic changes and resultant sea level rise (SLR) because of their unique location at the interface of the sea. By altering ecobiological processes, the intertidal and supratidal zones may extend further inland, resulting in changes in the existing ecological setup. The limitation of the landward margin would cause vertical rise, resulting in water-logging and ultimately killing the mangroves and dependent biota. The present document describes mangrove habitats and related issues from the Indian subcontinent in the context of climate variations and SLR, and recommends integrated long-term monitoring. 
4314005|Results from aerial surveys of hauled-out harbor seals, Phoca vitulina, in the entire Kattegat-Skagerrak, the Limfjord and the western part of the Baltic Sea in 1989-1991 are compared with results from surveys conducted soon after the seal epizootic in 1988. The results suggest that an increase in relative abundance of seals occurred between 1988 and 1991 in the Limfjord and in most parts of the Kattegat-Skagerrak. Pup production was assessed at selected localities in the Kattegat-Skagerrak during 1978-1991. Lowered rate of pup production occurred in 1989, the year after the epizootic. However, the pup production resembled expected values in 1990-1991. The decline in 1989 was probably due either to perturbations of the reproductive cycle caused by the morbilli virus infections in 1988, or to the shortage of mature males in some areas in the 1988 mating season. The lowered pup production was also evident in the aerial surveys where no increase in relative abundance was detected during 1988-1990. Simulations based on a matrix model of the Kattegat-Skagerrak population suggest that skewed sex and age distributions will persist for decades, but a high rate of increase should enable the population to recover by 1995-1996 to a size similar to that before the epizootic.
4313181|Organochlorine pesticides, due to low cost and high efficiency, are essential for the control of pests in developing countries like Nigeria. The rate of degradation of organochlorines is probably higher in the tropics than in the temperate zones, a possibility not considered by authorities such as WHO and FAO, which recommend very limited use of such pesticides. On the other hand, the erroneous and unsafe use of pesticides in such areas is very common. Control measures, including regulation and field research conducted over time, are needed.
4314236|Forests in southern Sweden are receiving nitrogen depositions that are about twice the critical load. There are indications that nitrogen losses from forest land are increasing. Forest wetlands may in this perspective become important traps for nitrogen, thus, protecting streams, lakes and marine environments from eutrophication. A number of forest wetlands in southwestern Sweden have been investigated with the aim of assessing their efficiency as nitrogen traps. Nitrogen retention is small in undisturbed upland forest. However, increased nitrate flux from a clearcut area was largely retained in one of the studied wetlands. In the spruce, which is the dominating tree in southern Sweden, the large-scale damages due to soil acidification or climatic causes cannot be excluded and it is advocated that forest wetlands should not be subject to drainage.
4315263|We argue that all aspects of demographic change, including migration, impacts on the social resilience of individuals and communities, as well as on the sustainability of the underlying resource base. Social resilience is the ability to cope with and adapt to environmental and social change mediated through appropriate institutions. We investigate one aspect of the relationship between demographic change, social resilience, and sustainable development in contemporary coastal Vietnam: the effects of migration and remittances on resource-dependent communities in population source areas. We find, using longitudinal data on livelihood sources, that emigration and remittances have offsetting effects on resilience within an evolving social and political context. Emigration is occurring concurrently with, not driving, the expansion of unsustainable coastal aquaculture. Increasing economic inequality also undermines social resilience. At the same time diversification and increasing income levels are beneficial for resilience.
4314051|Undesirable changes in rangelands have mostly been brought about by applying the wrong ecological model(s) of rangeland dynamics. Early, oversimplistic models are giving way to a more realistic interpretation involving spatial variation and dynamics, event-driven changes, lag effects and thresholds, and changes and variation in production. The state-and-transition approach allows for inclusion of such factors. The differences between the old and developing models have significant policy and management implications.
4313000|During the past decade, a number of industrialized countries have passed laws to control chemicals. The control of both new and existing chemicals is a scientifically complex, administratively difficult, and politically sensitive problem. Because of international trade, expenses involved in testing of chemicals, and the threat of pollution across national boundaries, international organizations, especially the EEC and OECD, are working towards harmonization of chemical regulation and for mechanisms for international exchange of data and information among member countries. The United Nations, concerned with the implications of international trade in hazardous chemicals for the developing countries, has established several programs to collect and disseminate scientific, regulatory and commercial information on toxic chemicals.
4314063|"Ecosystem people" of the world subsist by producing or gathering a diversity of biological resources from their immediate vicinity. Their quality of life is intimately linked to the maintenance of modest levels of biodiversity in their own circumscribed resource catchments. Their resource base has been extensively degraded by pressures created by "biosphere people"; i.e. the Third World elite and citizens of industrial countries, who can draw resources from all over the world and are thus, indifferent to environmental degradation in the Third World. Because "ecosystem people" have a genuine stake in biodiversity mantenance in their immediate surrounding, it is important that conservation efforts include maintenance and restoration of at least modest levels of biodiversity throughout the Third World. In the case of India this may be achieved by (a) dedicating the bulk of reserve forests to production of nontimber forest produce (NTFP), to support rural economy; (b) organizing effective community-based management systems to fulfill subsistence biomass requirements of peasants and tribals; (c) encouraging a switchover from shifting cultivation to horticulture; (d) supporting traditional practices of growing a variety of plant species, including keystone resources like Ficus spp, in rural habitats and on roadsides, farm and canal bunds; and (e) promoting tree farming on private lands to fulfill commercial needs.
4315208|This study presents 4 scenarios relating to the environmental futures of electricity generation in Mexico up to the year 2025. The first scenario emphasizes the use of oil products, particularly fuel oil, and represents the historic path of Mexico's energy policy. The second scenario prioritizes the use of natural gas, reflecting the energy consumption pattern that arose in the mid-1990s as a result of reforms in the energy sector. In the third scenario, the high participation of renewable sources of energy is considered feasible from a technical and economic point of view. The fourth scenario takes into account the present- and medium-term use of natural-gas technologies that the energy reform has produced, but after 2007 a high and feasible participation of renewable sources of energy is considered. The 4 scenarios are evaluated up to the year 2025 in terms of greenhouse gases (GHG) and acid rain precursor gases (ARPG).
4311985|Chinese methods of treating human and industrial wastes are described. The primitive recycling of human wastes (night soil) stands in strong contrast to the high technology pollution control applied to industrial wastes. In Canton night soil is collected and dispatched to adjacent areas where it is used as fertilizer. Schistosomiasis is a serious health problem associated with this practice. In Japan, wastes are incinerated and thus sterilized before being used as fertilizer. In China, advanced methods of industrial wastewater treatment and chemical reclamation and recycling are practiced.
4315809|This article focuses on the ecological role of benthic macrofauna on nutrient dynamics and benthic-pelagic coupling in the Baltic Sea with relation to eutrophication. Generally, benthic macrofaunal activities have large effects on sediment biogeochemistry and often with stimulatory effects on processes that counteract eutrophication, i.e., denitrification and increased phosphorus retention of the sediment. The degree of faunal impact on such processes varies depending on faunal density and functional group composition. The effect of macrofaunal activities on sediment nutrient dynamics can also result in a higher nitrogen: phosporus ratio of the sediments efflux compared with sediments without macrofauna. Increased internal nutrient loading during eutrophication-induced anoxia is suggested to be caused both by altered sediment biogeochemical processes and through reduced or lost bioturbating macrofauna and thereby a reduced stimulatory effect from their activities on natural purification processes of the Baltic Sea ecosystem.
4315180|The article elaborates on the role of international environmental regimes and multilateral environmental agreements in the process of development of environmental policy in the 3 Baltic countries; Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Comparison of emission trends and changes in the state of the environment with reference to international environmental regimes allow one to conclude that there is no clear link between the official accession to environmental conventions and changes in environmental fields. The Baltic countries first joined international environmental regimes dealing with global or regional environmental security, while acceptance of the agreements and accession to regimes seen as more important from the point of view of solving their own environmental problems, took place later. Therefore, it can be concluded that the Baltic countries have seen the international legal instruments in their environmental policies as preventive, rather than curative instruments. Active participation in multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs) has, on the other hand, substantially contributed to the readiness of the Baltic countries to take the next step in their environmental policy-taking over the environmental policies (Acquis Communautaire) of the European Union.
4314382|Tropical sea-grass ecosystems are among the most productive submerged systems to be found. This productivity supports, through dependent species of epiphytes and associated fauna, large numbers of fish which are important protein sources for the inhabitants of tropical coastal areas. In Puttalam Lagoon, Sri Lanka, one such ecosystem, with an important fish harvest to support the coastal population, was studied in two consecutive years during the monsoon season, October 1993 and November 1994. The meadows consisted predominantly of two species of sea grasses, Cymodocea rotundata and Enhalus acoroides. Oxygen production and consumption measurements using benthic chambers placed over the sea-grass communities revealed gross production to be between 574 and 1518 g C m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. All measurements showed community P:R ratios to be > 1.0, suggesting net export and/or burial of carbon in the system. The two years showed different patterns, but the variation in production rates was best explained by light penetration and salinity. Nutrient measurements showed phosphate uptake (17-82 mg P <tex-math>${\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm day}^{-1}$</tex-math>) while nitrogen fluxes displayed both release and uptake (-110 to 207 mg N <tex-math>${\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm day}^{-1}$</tex-math>). Analyses of nutrient dynamics as related to production rates indicated a dependency of the communities on sediment nutrient sources and internal nutrient recycling, despite elevated levels of water column nutrients (42-168 g N L<sup>-1</sup>, 57-184 g P L<sup>-1</sup>). Production levels were low compared to other similar ecosystems and this is thought to be due to factors including dense epiphytic growth and high water turbidity resulting from the high nutrient levels, and seasonality.
4315653| Starting from six regional climate change scenarios, nitrogen leaching from arable-soil, water discharge, and nitrogen retention was modeled in the Rnne catchment. Additionally, biological response was modeled in the eutrophic Lake Ringsjn. The results are compared with similar studies on other catchments. All scenarios gave similar impact on water quality but varied in quantities. However, one scenario resulted in a different transport pattern due to less-pronounced seasonal variations in the hydrology. On average, the study shows that, in a future climate, we might expect: i) increased concentrations of nitrogen in the arable root zone (+50%) and in the river (+13%); ii) increased annual load of nitrogen from land to sea (+22%) due to more pronounced winter high flow; moreover, remote areas in the catchment may start to contribute to the outlet load; iii) radical changes in lake biochemistry with increased concentrations of total phosphorus (+50%), total nitrogen (+20%), and planktonic algae such as cyanobacteria (+80%). 
4313757|The anaerobic fermentation of various organic refuses such as animal dung and cellulosed substances produces a mixture of CH
4313836|The effects of an increased nitrogen deposition to the forest floor on fruit body production and species richness of the macrofungal flora of a Swedish beech forest were simulated by applying small amounts of ammonium nitrate (12 and 36 kg N per ha) on 22 occasions over a period of 4 years. Within 3-4 years all mycorrhizal species practically ceased producing fruit bodies even at the lower treatment rate, which corresponded to about 3 times the ambient deposition rate at this site situated in an area with no major sources of pollution. Several decomposer taxa, on the contrary, increased their sporophore production in the treated plots, e.g. Mycena pura, M. pelianthina, Clitocybe dicolor, C. gibba, C. phyllophila, Lepista inversa, Agaricus spp. and Lycoperdon spp. Most wood decomposers showed no obvious reaction to treatment.
40928391|Participatory research has not been a conspicuous methodology in developing nations for studying invasive pests, an increasing threat to the sustainable development in the tropics. Our study presents a community-based monitoring system that focuses on three invasive potato tuber moth species (PTM). The monitoring was developed and implemented by young farmers in a remote mountainous area of Ecuador. Local participants collected data from the PTM invasion front, which revealed clear connection between the abundance of one of the species (Tecia solanivora) and the remoteness to the main market place. This suggests that mechanisms structuring invasive populations at the invasion front are different from those occurring in areas invaded for longer period. Participatory monitoring with local people may serve as a cost-effective early warning system to detect and control incipient invasive pest species in countries where the daily management of biological resources is largely in the hands of poor rural people.
4312067|The expected doubling of the world population is often regarded as evidence that there will be a corresponding increase in the pace of environmental degradation and of the depletion of resources, especially energy. However, this view ignores an important factor in the relationship between the production needed to support the population and the resultant effects on environmental quality and on resource availability. This factor is resource productivity, that is, the amount of goods or services produced per unit expenditure of resources such as energy and per unit impact on the environment. This paper discusses how this concept can be used to work out ways of improving the total world output of goods such as food, or of services such as freight movement, without a corresponding increase in the use of necessary resources such as fertilizer or fuel or in environmental impact.
24708850|Large-scale, monoculture production systems dependent on synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, increase yields, but are costly and have deleterious impacts on human health and the environment. This research investigates variations in banana production practices in Costa Rica, to identify alternative systems that combine high productivity and profitability, with reduced reliance on agrochemicals. Farm workers were observed during daily production activities; 39 banana producers and 8 extension workers/researchers were interviewed; and a review of field experiments conducted by the National Banana Corporation between 1997 and 2002 was made. Correspondence analysis showed that there is no structured variation in large-scale banana producers' practices, but two other banana production systems were identified: a small-scale organic system and a small-scale conventional coffee banana intercropped system. Field-scale research may reveal ways that these practices can be scaled up to achieve a productive and profitable system producing high-quality export bananas with fewer or no pesticides.
4314301| The rate at which soil and surface-water acidification can be reversed by reducing atmospheric deposition is of great importance for Fenno-Scandia where so many lakes and streams are already acidified. Some models predict that recovery of aquatic ecosystems may take over a century in severely acidified areas even after major reductions in acid deposition. Predictions of a protracted recovery from acidification are being tested on a severely acidified forest catchment near Lake Grdsjn in SW Sweden. Atmospheric deposition to the entire 6300 m
25515856|Climate variability and change is projected to have significant effects on the physical, chemical, and biological components of northern Canadian marine, terrestrial, and freshwater systems. As the climate continues to change, there will be consequences for biodiversity shifts and for the ranges and distribution of many species with resulting effects on availability, accessibility, and quality of resources upon which human populations rely. This will have implications for the protection and management of wildlife, fish, and fisheries resources; protected areas; and forests. The northward migration of species and the disruption and competition from invading species are already occurring and will continue to affect marine, terrestrial, and freshwater communities. Shifting environmental conditions will likely introduce new animal-transmitted diseases and redistribute some existing diseases, affecting key economic resources and some human populations. Stress on populations of iconic wildlife species, such as the polar bear, ringed seals, and whales, will continue as a result of changes in critical sea-ice habitat interactions. Where these stresses affect economically and culturally important species, they will have significant effects on people and regional economies. Further integrated, field-based monitoring and research programs, and the development of predictive models are required to allow for more detailed and comprehensive projections of change to be made, and to inform the development and implementation of appropriate adaptation, wildlife, and habitat conservation and protection strategies.
4314006|The prevalence of skull-bone lesions in adult grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) was significantly higher in a late Baltic sample collected after 1960 compared with the prevalence found in grey seal skulls in an early Baltic sample, collected before 1950, and in a sample from the British Isles. The lesions were consistent with those present in severe periodontitis, quite often with substantial loss of alveolar bone in the mandible and maxilla. A suggested cause of the high prevalence of skull-bone lesions in the Baltic sample collected during the last decades is the toxic influence of environmental pollutants such as organochlorines.
4315562| The research program Sustainable Coastal Zone Management (SUCOZOMA), which was started in 1996 by the Swedish Foundation of Strategic Environmental Research, was motivated by the recognition of increasingly severe global, regional and national coastal problems. The program approached the complex issues of coastal eutrophication, fishing practices, and overexploited coastal resources, with a concerted effort involving multidisciplinarity, stakeholder cooperation, and a focus on the problems perceived as most serious by the public and decision-makers. As the program was concluded in 2004 it had resulted in the completion or near-completion of 22 doctoral dissertations and approximately one hundred publications. More than 40 scientists were involved in the program. Gteborg University was the host university, but important research teams have also been located at Stockholm University, the Beijer Institute, and the Kristineberg Marine Research Station of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and within the National Board of Fisheries. During the program, networks of stakeholders were established and SUCOZOMA had contributed to numerous political and administrative processes relevant for integrated coastal zone management (ICZM). SUCOZOMA program results can be grouped into different categories. Many of the projects in the two phases of the program produced results which can be defined as technical or practical and available for direct implementation in, e.g. mussel cultivation, restoration and safeguarding of spawning areas, seal-safe fishing gear or sustainable fishing of underexploited species. Other results can be characterized as policy oriented, and the impact of these can only be fairly evaluated as new policies are put into effect. SUCOZOMA resulted in important new knowledge regarding coastal science and management, but also concerning the organization required to conduct an end-user oriented multidisciplinary program effectively. 
4313777|Wetland ecosystems are among the most threatened of all environmental resources. The overutilization of the total wetlands stock has been the result of a combination of economic development pressure, information failure and market and intervention failure. There is an urgent need for a balance to be struck between wetland conservation, sustainable utilization and wetland conversion. Sustainable utilization and the maintenance of a sustainable flow of income derived from the wetlands stock is the key issue for developing economics. Economic valuation of the multifunctional wetland resource is required, principles and methods used in the assessment of temperate wetlands in developed countries can aid the analysis of tropical wetlands in developing countries. Because of the extent and urgency of the threats to wetlands a rapid assessment procedure is essential. Extended cost benefit analysis can play an important role in the formulation of a sustainable management strategy for wetlands.
25434344|This paper distinguishes three major "revolutions" in the socio-environmental interactions that reflect growth in the extent to which human beings invest in and modify their environments. As people settled in villages during the Neolithic, interactions between more people became an important element in survival strategies, shifting the emphasis in survival strategies from mobility to sociality. The emergence of cities changed human societies by: i) creating dependencies between more and more distant regions, ii) increasing the degree of aggregation of human populations, iii) narrowing the range of subsistence resources on which people depended, and iv) increasing further their investment in the natural environment and in material culture. Altogether, urbanization drove human social systems further and further away from flexibility and rapid adaptation to environmental change, while increasing the demands on the social system, including major increases in energy and matter to support urban populations. This was achieved by linking together larger and larger hinterlands for these cities, in effect creating Empires. The fundamental change is one from humans responding to environmental change and disruption by migration to humans investing in the environment, and therefore responding to environmental change by problem solving. One therefore needs to look at the combined socio-environmental systems over the longer term that reflect the buildup and culmination of the shifts in the social and environmental risk spectra due to the human-environmental interactions in periods before the "crisis" occurs, which are a fact of life in any society's interaction with its environment, and should be seen as "social" challenges rather than "environmental" ones. These are generally due to the fact that the society in question has invested so much in a particular way of life that it cannot innovate itself out of difficulty before time runs out. This implies that we have to shift our thinking about socio-environmental issues, from "population thinking" to "organization thinking." In this perspective, a crisis does not imply the disappearance of the people involved, but a transformation of the organization that links them.
4312208|The levels of DDT and PCB in blubber of Ringed Seal (Pusa hispida Schreb) from the Bothnian Bay have been studied in relation to the reproductive success of the individual females. Significantly higher levels of both compounds were found in non-pregnant females than in pregnant ones. In the non-pregnant females signs of abortion or resorption were found in uteri.
40730882|The environmental targets of the recently agreed Baltic Sea Action Plan (BSAP) targets are likely associated with a considerable cost, which motivates a search for low-cost policies. The following review shows there is a substantial literature on cost-efficient nutrient reduction strategies, including suggestions regarding lowcost abatement, but actual policies at international and national scale tend to be considerably more expensive due to lack of instruments that ensure a cost-efficient allocation of abatement across countries and sectors. Economic research on the costs of reducing hazardous substances and oil spill damages in the Baltic Sea is not available, but lessons from the international literature suggest that resources could be used more efficiently if appropriate analysis is undertaken. Common to these pollution problems is the need to ensure that all countries in the region are provided with positive incentives to implement international agreements.
4315582|Thirty-six polychlorinated biphenylols (OH-PCBs) congeners were characterized in Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) eggs collected from the Faroe Islands. The seven most abundant congeners were quantified in 19 samples, and the OH-PCB concentrations ranged between 0.92 and 4.0 ng g-1 fresh weight (f.w.). These eggs constitute a part of the traditional diet for at least a part of the population on the Faroe Islands and may contribute to the high levels of these contaminants found in the blood of pregnant Faroese women. Because the metabolites are present in the nonhatched fulmar egg, it is concluded that the OH-PCBs are transferred to the egg before laying. High levels, 3300-18 000 ng g-1 l.w., of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) were determined in the fulmar eggs, which are a considerable source for human exposure. The high PCB levels are a source for metabolic formation of hydroxylated PCBs.
4315650| The EU Water Framework Directive will require river-basin management plans in order to achieve good ecological status and find the most cost-efficient nitrogen (N) leaching abatement measures. Detailed scenario calculations based on modeling methods will be valuable in this regard. This paper describes the approach and an application with a coefficient method based on the simulation model SOILNDB for quantification of N leaching from arable land and for prediction of the effect of abatement scenarios for the Rnne catchment (1900 km
40390419|This review summarizes the main results from a 3-year open top chamber experiment, with two silver birch (Betula pendula Roth) clones (4 and 80) where impacts of 2x ambient [Co ] (EC) and [Co ] (EO) and their combination (EC + EO) were examined. Growth, physiology of the foliage and root systems, crown structure, wood properties, and biological interactions were assessed to understand the effects of a future climate on the biology of silver birch. The clones displayed great differences in their reaction to EC and EO. Growth in clone 80 increased by 40% in EC and this clone also appeared Co -tolerant, showing no growth reduction. In contrast, growth in clone 4 was not enhanced by EC, and EO reduced growth with root growth being most affected. The physiological responses of the clones to EO were smaller than expected. We found no O effect on net photosynthesis in either of the clones, and many parameters indicated no change compared with chamber controls, suggesting active detoxification and defense in foliage. In EO, increased rhizospheric respiration over time and accelerated leaf senescence was common in both clones. We assumed that elevated O offsets the positive effects of elevated Co when plants were exposed to combined EC + EO treatment. In contrast, the responses to EC + EO mostly resembled the ones in EC, at least partly due to stomatal closure, which thus reduced O flux to the leaves. However, clear cellular level symptoms of oxidative stress were observed also in EC + EO treatment. Thus, we conclude that EC masked most of the negative O effects during long exposure of birch to EC + EO treatment. Biotic interactions were not heavily affected. Only some early season defoliators may suffer from faster maturation of leaves due to EO.
4314577|Recreational scuba diving has generally been perceived as an activity with low environmental impact. With the rapid growth in popularity of diving, concerns have arisen that some heavily-dived sites may have diver visitation rates approaching the limit of ecological sustainability. The potential impacts of divers were assessed in underwater surveys at four major dive-sites in Eastern Australia. Recreational divers were followed for 30 minutes, and all contacts with and damage to the substratum or biota were recorded. Information on diver qualifications and experience was collected. The mean number of contacts with the substratum per 30 minute dive at each site ranged from 35 to 121, with a maximum of 304 in a single dive. The majority of contacts were made with fins. Breakage of coral ranged from an average of 0.6 per dive to 1.9 per dive. Most divers damaged no coral, but a small minority of divers broke between 10 and 15 corals each per 30 minute dive. The level of damage to the sites studied appeared to be sustainable at present levels of use by divers. However, at intensively dived, coral-dominated sites, the potential exists for considerable environmental impact as the number of recreational divers increases beyond present levels.
4311986|A model describing the phosphorus and oxygen flows of the Baltic is presented. Different perturbations of these flows have been simulated on a computer and the results are discussed. The aim of the model is to get a better understanding of which processes are the most critical for the behavior of the Baltic as a whole. The release of phosphate from reduced sediments and the water exchange with the Kattegatt were shown to be perhaps the most vital features of the simulated system.
41417305|This paper aims to identify challenges, and threats, and further explore opportunities for a new Biodiversity Friendly Fisheries Management Regime on the Issyk-Kul Lake in the Kyrgyz Republic. This lake is the second largest high-altitude lake in the world providing recreational and small-scale fishing activities as well as cage culture of introduced species. The populations of several indigenous species are seriously threatened, because many of the introduced species are potential predators. We examine the root causes for overfishing and relationships of alien and endemic fish species in Issyk-Kul Lake and give possible policy options that can help remediate or mitigate the biodiversity degradation. This analysis focuses on necessary legal modifications, institutional cooperation, the protection of selected endemic fish species, control of the alien species, the sustainable extension services and management offish ponds. Fisheries co-management is one option to explore shared stewardship and empowering user groups on the lake. A comprehensive fisheries management plan is also needed, in addition to immediate action and further studies on the following wider aspects: water management/irrigation issues, water-quality assessment near cage cultures, sociocultural issues, resource inventory, and assessing fish biology and the lake ecosystem.
4315121|An evaluation of the negative effects caused by anthropogenic influence on lake ecosystems was performed, using data from 143 catchments in Uppsala County, Sweden. The study included i) technical encroachments; i.e. construction of dams, dikes, etc. as well as effects of drainage of land; ii) pollution, i.e. eutrophication, acidification, and contamination by toxic substances; iii) introduction of nonnative species; and iv) exploitation of species populations. Severe damage was caused mostly by drainage of land followed by pollution by toxic substances and, to a smaller extent, introduction of nonnative species and eutrophication. Most lakes were subject to several types of disturbances, interacting in a complex pattern, which made it difficult to link the visible effects to the true causes of the disturbance. Future lake management should include analyses of all disturbances to the lake catchments, taking into account the historical perspective, in order to balance the threats/damages, in an analysis of the possibilities for maintaining biodiversity and sustainability in the ecosystems.
4312407|Age was the major variable determining the cadmium content of the land snail Cepaea hortensis at a roadside site. Body burdens increased with age, but within a year class cadmium concentrations in whole body and digestive gland were lower in larger animals. Thus samples of molluscs used for monitoring biologically persistent pollutants should be matched for age structure and growth rate, as well as body size.
25547837|In the dry forest of southern Madagascar, a region of global conservation priority, formally protected areas are nearly totally absent. We illustrate how the continued existence of unique forest habitats in the Androy region is directly dependent on informal institutions, taboos, regulating human behavior. Qualitative interviews to map and analyze the social mechanisms underlying forest protection have been combined with vegetation analyses of species diversity and composition. Of 188 forest patches, 93% were classified as protected, and in Southern Androy all remaining forest patches larger than 5 ha were protected. Eight different types of forests, with a gradient of social fencing from open access to almost complete entry prohibitions, were identified. Transgressions were well enforced with strong sanctions of significant economic as well as religious importance. Analyses of species diversity between protected and unprotected forests were complicated because of size differences and access restrictions. However, since, for example, in southern Androy >90% of the total remaining forest cover is protected through taboos, these informal institutions represent an important, and presently the only, mechanism for conservation of the highly endemic forest species. We conclude that social aspects, such as local beliefs and legitimate sanctioning systems, need to be analyzed and incorporated along with biodiversity studies for successful conservation.
4312565|This article deals with the impacts of different kinds of human activities on the Baltic Sea: physical impacts, introduction of new species, eutrophication, effects of environmental chemicals, oil pollution problems etc. Scientific knowledge of the structure and function of the Baltic ecosystem is based on one hundred year old research traditions. Since the late 1960s this research has become more and more relevant for the protection of the Baltic Sea and its living resources. Some examples on recovery of Baltic environments following disturbances are presented.
4315003|Specialists in tropical rain forest conservation have recently begun to suggest that forests facing imminent destruction in deforestation 'hot spots' can not be saved, and that conservation organizations would use their resources more effectively if they focused on preserving 'cold spots', remote places with intact rain forests. The advocates of the cold spot strategy contend that sustainable development efforts in deforestation 'hot spots' are ineffective. A case study of sustainable development in a rapidly deforesting region of coastal Ecuador questions this contention. Sustainable development in this region takes two organizational forms, one focused on the adoption of sustainable forestry techniques in a small set of villages and the other centered around the creation of a civic arena for discussing and resolving regional sustainable development issues. This two-pronged effort has achieved some success and may provide a model for sustainable development in places experiencing rapid tropical deforestation.
4313296|Dry season base flow is an important source of water in the miombo woodland biome of southern Africa. During the six-month dry season, surface water can be scarce. Hydrological evidence suggests that active manipulation of vegetation can significantly increase dry season base flow. Management alternatives for protected areas such as national parks, which go beyond water catchment protection to active promotion of dry season base flow, are discussed. The control and management of fire plays a key role.
4314418|Coastal-zone management in Tanzania has seen little success to date with habitat loss and degradation continuing unchecked. The problems with past management strategies are addressed and a new management strategy is developed for the protection of the southern region of Mafia Island. The strategy chosen is designed specifically to account for past management failings and is based upon the multiuser concept. Three years of research work have been conducted towards the subsequent development of a management plan. The design of the research program, the resultant survey results, and their application towards the formulation of this management plan are described and discussed. Finally, future plans for research and monitoring within the proposed area are presented.
25547893|Coastal wetlands reduce the damaging effects of hurricanes on coastal communities. A regression model using 34 major US hurricanes since 1980 with the natural log of damage per unit gross domestic product in the hurricane swath as the dependent variable and the natural logs of wind speed and wetland area in the swath as the independent variables was highly significant and explained 60% of the variation in relative damages. A loss of 1 ha of wetland in the model corresponded to an average USD 33 000 (median = USD 5000) increase in storm damage from specific storms. Using this relationship, and taking into account the annual probability of hits by hurricanes of varying intensities, we mapped the annual value of coastal wetlands by 1km  1km pixel and by state. The annual value ranged from USD 250 to USD 51 000 ha yr, with a mean of USD 8240 ha yr (median = USD 3230 ha yr) significantly larger than previous estimates. Coastal wetlands in the US were estimated to currently provide USD 23.2 billion yr in storm protection services. Coastal wetlands function as valuable, selfmaintaining "horizontal levees" for storm protection, and also provide a host of other ecosystem services that vertical levees do not. Their restoration and preservation is an extremely cost-effective strategy for society.
25094587|The lands surrounding the North Atlantic Region (the SCANNET Region) cover a wide range of climate regimes, physical environments and availability of natural resources. Except in the extreme North, they have supported human populations and various cultures since at least the end of the last ice age. However, the region is also important at a wider geographical scale in that it influences the global climate and supports animals that migrate between the Arctic and all the other continents of the world. Climate, environment and land use in the region are changing rapidly and projections suggest that global warming will be amplified there while increasing land use might dramatically reduce the remaining wilderness areas. Because much of the region is sparsely populated-if populated at all-observational records of past environmental changes and their impacts are both few and of short duration. However, it is becoming very important to record the changes that are now in progress, to understand the drivers of these changes, and to predict future consequences of the changes. To facilitate research into understanding impacts of global change on the lands of the North Atlantic Regions, and also to monitor changes in real time, an EU-funded network of research sites and infrastructures was formed in 2000: this was called SCANNET-SCANdinavian/North European NETwork of Terrestrial Field Bases. SCANNET currently consists of 9 core sites and 5 sites within local networks that together cover the broad range of current climate and predicted change in the region. Climate observations are well replicated across the network, whereas each site has tended to select particular environmental and ecological subjects for intensive observation. This provides diversity of both subject coverage and expertise. In this paper, we summarize the findings of SCANNET to-date and outline its information bases in order to increase awareness of data on environmental change in the North Atlantic Region. We also identify important gaps in our understanding and identify where the roles of existing infrastructures and activities represented by SCANNET can facilitate future research, monitoring and ground-truthing activities.
4312914| Over the centuries, Llibal has had an enormous influence as the traditional center of Coptic Christianity in Ethiopia, even if these architectural marvels were known only to the small Coptic community. Exactly when they were built is still disputed but it is commonly believed that they were carved out of solid rock in the 13th Century. It was declared a world Heritage Property in 1980 but the fight to save the 11 churches from the ravages of man and nature continues. 
4313398|There are approximately 25 pulp and paper mills situated along the Baltic coast of Sweden. Local environmental effects of discharge from these mills are considerable. This article summarizes effects on littoral fish community structure in nine polluted areas in the Gulf of Bothnia. Gill net catches were dominated by perch, roach and ruffe (Perca fluviatilis L., Rutilus rutilus (L.) and Gymnocephalus cernua (L.)). Catches of roach and ruffe increased in the vicinity of pulp and paper mills, regardless of the production process of the mill (sulfite, sulfate, bleaching, nonbleaching). Catches of perch did not change significantly. These changes in abundance are qualitatively similar to those associated with eutrophication and the mechanisms involved are probably the same, since both kinds of pollution increase the organic loading in the receiving area. Dietary components for perch, roach and ruffe were analyzed from five of the pollution gradients. No diet effect that could explain species distribution was observed.
4314334|The presence of 1-hydroxypyrene in human urine was confirmed with gas chromatography/mass spectrography (MS). Moreover, a comparative study was made on the database of measurements of the level of urinary 1-hydroxypyrene of young residents in 11 Chinese cities, which revealed that the significant variation of urinary content of 1-hydroxypyrene was well correlated with the extent of pollution of the ambient air by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the urban environment. It was also demonstrated that the concentration of urinary 1-hydroxypyrene varied significantly from population, to population with different occupations, for various degrees of exposure to environmental PAHs. Data showed that the concentration of 1-hydroxypyrene in human urine correlated positively with the content of BaP in the ambient air. Considering these facts, it is proposed that urinary 1-hydroxypyrene be adopted as a biomarker for human exposure to the environmental PAHs. The role of this sensitive and reliable biomarker in environmental risk assessment is also discussed.
24708778|The ecosystem services concept is used to make explicit the diverse benefits ecosystems provide to people, with the goal of improving assessment and, ultimately, decision-making. Alongside material benefits such as natural resources (e.g., clean water, timber), this concept includesthrough the 'cultural' category of ecosystem servicesdiverse non-material benefits that people obtain through interactions with ecosystems (e.g., spiritual inspiration, cultural identity, recreation). Despite the long-standing focus of ecosystem services research on measurement, most cultural ecosystem services have defined measurement and inclusion alongside other more 'material' services. This gap in measurement of cultural ecosystem services is a product of several perceived problems, some of which are not real problems and some of which can be mitigated or even solved without undue difficulty. Because of the fractured nature of the literature, these problems continue to plague the discussion of cultural services. In this paper we discuss several such problems, which although they have been addressed singly, have not been brought together in a single discussion. There is a need for a single, accessible treatment of the importance and feasibility of integrating cultural ecosystem services alongside others.
4312356|The International Field Year for the Great Lakes (IFYGL) is described in terms of the need for such a program, the manner in which the program evolved, the field operations, and the utility of the program. The unique characteristics of the IFYGL include its scope in terms of funding and the involvement of a great number of scientists of many disciplines from Canada and the United States. Also many government agencies, universities, and private organizations worked together on a well-coordinated and centrally managed effort.
4315019|This paper discusses the history of atmospheric lead pollution, the past geographic distribution of atmospheric lead deposition in Sweden, and the fate of the pollution lead in boreal forest soils. The paper is based on analyses of
4312559|At the early stage of urbanization in the Baltic, human activity was well adapted to natural conditions. During recent decades the regional systems of human activity have developed independently of the natural order, and environmental problems have emerged. Recent population trends give indications that the gravitational center of population growth will be moved to medium-sized and small cities, which is also to be hoped for from the standpoint of the future development of the Baltic Sea.
25547800|Investigations of polluted brownfield sites and sample analyses are expensive, and the resulting data are often of poor quality. Efforts are needed, therefore, to improve the methods used in investigations of brownfield sites to both reduce costs and improve the quality of the results. One approach that could be useful for both of these purposes is the triad strategy, developed by the US Environmental Protection Agency, in which managing uncertainty is a central feature. In the investigations reported here, a field study was conducted to identify possible ways in which uncertainties could be managed in practice. One example considered involves optimizing the uncertainty by adjusting the sizes of samples and the efforts expended in analytical work according to the specific aims of the project. In addition, the potential utility of several toxicity assessment methods for screening sites was evaluated. As well as presenting the results of these assessments, in this contribution we discuss ways in which a flexible work strategy and screening methods inspired of the triad philosophy could be incorporated into the Swedish approach to remediate brownfield sites. A tiered approach taking advantage of field and screening methods is proposed to assess brownfield sites focusing on the response and acceptable uncertainty that are required for the task.
4315538| High levels of DDT residues and hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCHs) were found in soil, well water, and surface water around a collapsed pesticide storage shed at Vikuge Farm, Tanzania. Residues of DDT and HCHs were found at three soil depths down to 50 cm. Surface soil samples contained up to 28% total DDT and 6% total HCH residues. Water samples had concentrations of up to 30 g L
4313339|Australia has temperate, subtropical, and tropical rain forests. The lowland forests in particular have been extensively removed, and today only about a quarter of the preEuropean-settlement coverage remains. The tropical rain forests of North Queensland are largely confined to the coastal zone between Townsville and Cooktown. This zone includes the Greater Daintree wilderness, one of the last remaining large blocks of continuous tropical rain forest in Australia. The region's lowland forests (and fringing coral reefs), however, are seriously threatened by the Cape Tribulation to Bloomfield road, most of which was completed in 1984. The nature and course of the prolonged controversy surrounding the construction of the road is examined, particular attention being given to the activities of pressure groups, the positions adopted by political parties and how the dispute was influenced by federal-state relations. The region's forests are of great biological, scientific, aesthetic and intrinsic value and the urgent need to preserve them is underscored.
4312029|Food is generally accorded a low ranking in the energy budget of industrialized countries. This notion is submitted to critical scrutiny and revision. Main attention is devoted to the energy expenditure in modern mechanized agriculture with special emphasis on fertilizers and direct use of fuel on the farms. These matters are placed into historical perspective as a reminder of the persistent acceleration of this process. In advanced nations this growing energy subsidization has in several instances reached the dimensions of surpassing the sun energy collection of the respective crops. This pattern is in the long run not applicable on a global scale.
4315751|Changes in climate and ultraviolet radiation levels in the Arctic will have far-reaching impacts, affecting aquatic species at various trophic levels, the physical and chemical environment that makes up their habitat, and the processes that act on and within freshwater ecosystems. Interactions of climatic variables, such as temperature and precipitation, with freshwater ecosystems are highly complex and can propagate through the ecosystem in ways that are difficult to project. This is partly due to a poor understanding of arctic freshwater systems and their basic interrelationships with climate and other environmental variables, and partly due to a paucity of long-term freshwater monitoring sites and integrated hydro-ecological research programs in the Arctic.
4315452|The complex interactions between human activities and the environment at the interface of land and water is analyzed with a focus on the Somali Current (East Africa), and Indian Ocean Island States, subregions of the Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA). These 2 subregions contain some of the world's richest ecosystems, including the high biodiversity forests of Madagascar and the diverse coastal habitats of the eastern African coast. These ecosystems support local communities and national and regional economies. Current and future degradation of these systems, from water basins to continental shelves, affects the livelihoods and sustainability of the countries in the region, and long-term efforts to reduce poverty. The assessments determined that pollution and climate change are the primary environmental and social concerns in the Islands of the Indian Ocean, while freshwater shortage and unsustainable exploitation of fisheries and other living resources are the primary environmental and social concerns in East Africa. The GIWA approach, through assessing root causes of environmental concerns, enables the development of policy approaches for mitigating environmental degradation. This paper explores policy frameworks for mitigating the impacts, and reducing the drivers, of 3 environmental concerns-freshwater shortage; solid waste pollution; and climate change-addressing social and institutional causes and effects, and linking the subregions to broad international frameworks. The common theme in all 3 case studies is the need to develop integrated ecosystem and international waters policies, and mechanisms to manage conflicting interests and to limit threats to natural processes.
4312234| The hydrologic cycle, driven by energy from the sun, is a unique process for distributing water between the oceans and land and between low and high latitudes. The energy released by condensation of water vapor primarily in equatorial latitudes, provides much of the fuel that drives the general circulation of the atmosphere. Especially prominent are the thermal Hadley circulations of low latitudes which interact with oceanic circulations to produce anomalous phenomena such as El Nio. Man may have a direct effect on the hydrologic cycle and climate through overgrazing of semi-arid regions and by diverting rivers that would normally flow into the Arctic Ocean. It seems likely, however, that man's most significant contribution will arise indirectly through thermal and aerosol pollution of the atmosphere. 
4314655|It is widely accepted that the increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations in the atmosphere, due to human activities, will result in warming of the Earth's surface. The worldwide project within the Framework Convention on Climate Change was generated by the initiative of United Nations, to examine this effect and better understand how the GHG increase in the atmosphere might change the climate in the future, how ecosystems and societies in different regions of the world should adapt to these changes and what must policymakers do for the mitigation of that effect. Estonia is one of more than 150 countries which signed the Framework Convention on Climate Change at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992. In 1994, a new project, Estonian Country Study, was initiated within the U.S. Country Studies Program. The project will help to compile the GHG inventory for Estonia, investigate the impact of climate change on Estonian ecosystems, and the economy, as well as to formulate national strategies for Estonia to address global climate change.
4313721|The idea of pollution prevention has emerged in the mainstream of environmental protection efforts. This paper examines the question of whether pollution prevention can be applied to global environmental problems like stratospheric ozone depletion. Early efforts to limit CFCs by their specific use-a ban on aerosols independently adopted by several nations in the 1970s-failed to discourage the increase of CFCs in other applications, and thus failed to safeguard the ozone layer. Because the primary ozone-depleting chemicals are so widely used, and the chlorine in the stratosphere cannot simply be cleaned up, pollution prevention seems to be an effective means of protecting the stratospheric ozone layer. An international treaty, the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, places limits on the production of ozone-depleting chemicals rather than their uses and so exemplifies pollution prevention on a global scale. Moreover, the Montreal Protocol provides a model for future international efforts to deal with the greenhouse effect.
4312127|The acute toxic effects of a crude oil, either alone or dispersed by two commonly used oil spill dispersants, are tested on newly hatched herring larvae. The results show that if the oil is dispersed with a dispersant, the toxicity increases 50 to 100 times compared to the oil without the dispersant. It is also shown that a natural oil dispersion without the dispersant loses much of its toxicity in 24 and 72 h. If however, the oil is dispersed by a dispersant, the high toxicity remains almost unchanged in the same time.
4314952|This paper describes empirical work on risk perception and some related dimensions, in particular with regard to radiation and nuclear power hazards. Most of the data cited come from a current CEC project in which 5 countries in Western Europe have participated. Models of risk perception are discussed and some generally valid findings concerning risk perception are summarized. Risk is seen to be a primary factor in many policy matters and clearly, to the public, more important than utility considerations. Previously formulated models (the Psychometric Model and Cultural Theory) are found to be deficient and a much more efficient alternative is suggested. It is stressed that risk perception is of interest foremost because it can be of value to decision makers in making difficult policy decisions in matters of risk. Hence, it is important to ask what facets of perceived risk are most strongly related to demand for risk mitigation. It is found that expected severity of consequences of an hazard is the clearly most important dimension. The paper concludes with a brief summary of a case study of Swedish experience with high-level nuclear waste repository siting.
4314491|The flow of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) in an eutrophied fjord system on the Swedish west coast has been studied. The aim was to identify possibilities for improving water quality through mussel cultivation. It is suggested that off-bottom mussel farms should be introduced in the fjords as extra filters, to convert passing particulate-bound nutrients into mussel meat and into mussel faeces that will form sediment under the farms. Nutrients will be removed from the fjords when the mussels are harvested, and the enriched sediments under the farms can be dredged up. Mussels are produced commercially in Sweden and the nutrient removing process could become more effective and economically viable than the methods used today. Using an empirical model it was shown that mussel farms covering 1%-2.4% of the fjord surface water DIN concentrations in the water flowing out of the fjords will be lowered by 20%, i.e. almost to the same level as DIN levels in the Skagerrak. The biological oxygen demand (BOD) in the deep basin waters, below sill depth, could be lowered by 26%. Decreased BOD could imply improved survival opportunities for higher life in the deep basins if oxygen concentrations are increased. It is also shown that if mussel farms are located so that faeces from the farms accumulate in the deep basins for more than a decade, the net effect of the farms will be increased BOD in the basin water. In addition to this type of extreme situation, the impact on the ecosystem due to mussel cultivation appears to be positive even when mussel sediments are not dredged up.
41417244|Surface sediments of the lagoons of Lom, Togo, were analyzed for mercury, methylmercury, and trace elements. Concentrations were greater than typical for natural lagoon sediments, and with greater variability within the Eastern lagoon compared to the Western one. The Eastern lagoon is larger and has been dredged in the past, while the Western lagoon, which also receives major waste inputs, has not been dredged and shows less tidal flushing. Accordingly, one naturally believes that the Eastern lagoon is cleaner and probably safe to use due to its natural resources, including fishes to eat. Unexpectedly, we describe here that mercury methylation was greater in the Eastern lagoon, indicating increased bioavailability of mercury, as probably facilitated by past dredging that decreased solid-phase retention of inorganic mercury. Urbanization has historically been more developed in the southern part of the lagoons, which is still reflected in contamination levels of sediment despite dredging, probably because sources of contamination are still more important there today. Such urban contamination emphasizes the need to regulate waste discharges and possible airborne contamination in growing cities of developing countries, and implements environmental and public health monitoring, especially in relation to misbelieves systematically associated with the cleansing effect of dredging activity.
4314030|Organochlorine chemicals, including chlorinated pesticides and polychlorobiphenyls, are found at appreciable concentrations in the polar regions, presumably as a result of long-range atmospheric transport. Concentration data in arctic and antarctic air, snow, atmospheric deposition, fish and seals, measured by various investigators, are compiled and interpreted to determine latitudinal and temporal trends. It is suggested that the often surprisingly high concentrations are explained in part by the temperature-dependent partitioning of these low volatility compounds. A process of global fractionation may be occurring in which organic compounds become latitudinally fractionated, "condensing" at different ambient temperatures dependent on their volatility. We suggest that compounds with vapor pressures in a certain low range may preferentially accumulate in polar regions. Possible adverse effects of these potentially toxic compounds on the indigenous population and on the arctic ecosystem are discussed. It is concluded that there is a need to control or even ban certain chemicals which have a tendency to fractionate into the polar ecosystems.
4315150|The main source of pollution in the inner Oslofjord in the 20th century has been municipal sewage discharges from the city of Oslo. At the beginning of the 20th century, pollution was limited to the coastal waters and the harbor area of Oslo, in the vicinity of sewer outlets. High bacteria content caused a health hazard that city authorities attempted to reduce by constructing a sewerage system, including intercepting sewers and wastewater-treatment plants. Due to population growth, the impact area of increasing wastewater loading expanded. The entire inner Oslofjord was found to be affected in the 1930s. Scientific studies linked municipal sewage discharges to an increase in the algal production. In the 1940s, the bottom layers were found to be anoxic. The Oslo sewerage authorities were aware of the fjord's pollution, but regarded organic matter as the major problem and the activated sludge method as the best solution. The role of nutrients was not commonly acknowledged until in the late 1960s. Phosphorus removal was taken into use in the 1970s, and nitrogen removal was introduced in the late 1990s. Removal of nutrients has resulted in the slow recovery of the fjord.
4313540|Levels of
4313457|The Indonesian archipelago covers an area of 7.7 million km
4313031|This article summarizes what is known of the development of biota on Rakata, the remnant of Krakatau, since the cataclysmic eruption of 1883, and the colonization of the new island, Anak Krakatau, since its emergence in 1930. Surveys of animals and plants made in the century since 1883 are reviewed and questions of turnover and the achievement of biotic equilibrium are discussed in the light of present knowledge.
4315630|There is an increasing call for stronger interdisciplinary studies in the Baltic Sea to find solutions to the environmental and social problems associated with eutrophication. Cooperation between experts from the natural sciences, socioeconomics, and management is needed. One way to solve communication problems is to develop a broad conceptual model that comprehensively describes eutrophication and links causes, effects, and the multiple relationships of eutrophication in a visual way. In the present conceptual model, the eutrophication process is divided into i) causes, ii) primary effects, iii) secondary effects, and iv) socioeconomic responses. Each part is described and discussed separately, with links to the other levels and compartments. Possible pathways are shown through the model from natural science to human society, thus inducing management options. Examples of key publications where the causes and effects are observed and studied in the Baltic Sea are listed as examples, and their implications are discussed.
4313119|A comprehensive analysis of environmental radiation doses to the population around the Savannah River Plant (SRP), based on environmental data, thus far does not exist. Available data on external gamma radiation have here been analyzed, and show an unusual cumulative dose of 2200 mrem as the average for the plant perimeter locations from July, 1954, to December, 1969. This is approximately 130 percent higher than the dose expected from natural background radiation. Measurement errors do not explain the magnitude of the observed increase, and fallout from nuclear weapons tests can account for only about 30 percent of the increase. Although releases by SRP may be responsible for the excess dose, the lack of significant differences between the doses at the 40-km radius and those at the plant perimeter remains a major puzzle. An accidental release of radioactivity could be the reason for the high contaminations observed around the plant on March 4, 1955; these are presently claimed by plant authorities to be fallout from the Nevada weapons test. The examined evidence cannot rule out SRP as the major source of the environmental contamination. As it is conceivable that this plant has given rise to a significant number of adverse health effects, a cohort survey of people who have lived near SRP is recommended.
24708985|To increase the awareness of society to the challenges of global food security, we developed five contrasting global and European scenarios for 2050 and used these to identify important issues for future agricultural research. Using a scenario development method known as morphological analysis, scenarios were constructed that took economic, political, technical, and environmental factors into account. With the scenarios as a starting point future challenges were discussed and research issues and questions were identified in an interactive process with stakeholders and researchers. Based on the outcome of this process, six socioeconomic and biophysical overarching challenges for future agricultural were formulated and related research issues identified. The outcome was compared with research priorities generated in five other research programs. In comparison, our research questions focus more on societal values and the role of consumers in influencing agricultural production, as well as on policy formulation and resolving conflicting goals, areas that are presently under-represented in agricultural research. The partly new and more interdisciplinary research priorities identified in Future Agriculture compared to other programs analyzed are likely a result of the methodological approach used, combining scenarios and interaction between stakeholders and researchers.
4315219| We analyzed nitrogen budgets at national and regional levels on a timeline from 1961-2030 using a model, IAP-N 1.0. The model was designed based upon the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) methods using Asia-specific parameters and a Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) database. In this paper we discuss new reactive-nitrogen and its various fates, and environmental nitrogen enrichment and its driving forces. The anthropogenic reactive nitrogen of Asia dramatically increased from  14.4 Tg N yr
4312792|Energy Planning in developing countries must be rethought in the context of a more general crisis of development planning. The separation of "modern" and "traditional" energy sectors by conventional planning is criticized as well as its inappropriate emphasis on fuel conservation in developing countries. An alternative approach is suggested featuring biomass and commercial fossil fuels as twin pillars of a strategy that takes full account of the political and ecological character of rural economies.
25547929|In Finland, Comprehensive Surveys to monitor numbers and productivity of four endangered species of birds of prey were started in the early 1970s. In 1982, the Ringing Center launched the Raptor Grid, a nationwide monitoring program for all other bird-of-prey species based on 10  10 km study plots of the Finnish National Grid. The annual total of study plots surveyed by voluntary raptor ringers has averaged 120. Since 1986, additional information on breeding performance has been collected using the Raptor Questionnaire. In 2006, more than 44 262 potential nest sites of birds of prey were inspected, and 12 963 occupied territories, including 8149 active nests, were found and reported by ringers. The population trend during 1982-2006 has been significantly negative in six species and positive or neutral in 18 species. Statistical power of the time series of numbers and productivity has been adequate for all species except the microtine specialists.
4315587|The giant Amazon river turtle (Podocnemis expansa) nests on extensive sand bars on the margins and interior of the channel during the dry season. The high concentration of nests in specific points of certain beaches indicates that the selection of nest placement is not random but is related to some geological aspects, such as bar margin inclination and presence of a high, sandy platform. The presence of access channels to high platform points or ramp morphology are decisive factors in the choice of nesting areas. The eroded and escarped margins of the beaches hinder the Amazon river turtle arriving at the most suitable places for nesting. Through the years, changes in beach morphology can alter nest distribution.
4313985| Although DDT and other persistent pesticides are now banned in most industrialized countries, they are still used or have only recently been discontinued in many developing countries. Organochlorine pesticides, mainly DDT and metabolites were analyzed in fish, mussels, prawns and birds from different localities and trophic levels and are compared to two other Zimbabwean man-made lakes. sDDT seemed to be both bioaccumulating and biomagnifying and levels were generally relatively high, but did not differ much from temperate lakes. The algae feeder, Redbreast Tilapia (Tilapia rendalli) had 1900 ng sDDT  g
4313558|This paper briefly discusses some aspects of air pollution, including acid deposition, and its effects on terrestrial ecosystems. Data on precipitation chemistry at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire shows declines in concentrations of hydrogen ion, sulfate, ammonium, and chloride since 1964. Using these long-term trends, predictions of sulfate deposition in the year 2000, using different SO
4314865|Endogenous growth models have revived the debate over the role of technological innovation in economic growth and development. The consensus view is that institutional and policy failures prevent poor countries from generating or using new technological ideas to reap greater economic opportunities. However, this view omits the important contribution of natural resource degradation and depletion to institutional instability. Rather than generating automatic market and innovation responses, worsening resource scarcities in poor countries can lead to social conflicts and frictions that disrupt the institutional and policy environment necessary for successful innovation, including appropriate market responses to scarcity. This indirect constraint of resource scarcity may help explain the disappointing growth performance of many poor countries.
4314736|Lakes in mountainous areas are of special interest in environmental studies because such lakes are generally particularly sensitive to inputs of atmospheric pollution and to changes in climate. Mountain lakes provide, therefore, an early warning of more widespread environmental changes. Surveys of lake-water chemistry in mountain areas in Norway, and mountain areas elsewhere in Europe which have crystalline bedrock, clearly show that such lakes are generally very dilute with low concentrations of base cations, alkalinity and SO
4314156|In its second decade, the study of global change will require increased research on the interactions of physical, biological and anthropogenic processes. The absence of prior substantive collaboration across the natural and social sciences has resulted in the delineation of a well-articulated global change research agenda that calls for, but does not yet encompass, significant interdisciplinary collaboration. There are few models of the kind of successful collaboration that is needed, and little concrete evidence of how it should be attempted. This paper makes a distinction between cooperative, but partitioned multidisciplinary research, and collaborative interdisciplinary research. The latter will only be possible if scientists from collaborating fields begin to alter the way they think about global data, and prepare to take the time needed to address the problems.
25547930|This article summarizes results from raptor monitoring and contamination studies in Norway of the golden eagle, gyrfalcon, white-tailed sea eagle, osprey, peregrine, and merlin. Golden eagle and gyrfalcon populations have been monitored since 1990 as part of the "Monitoring Programme for Terrestrial Ecosystems" (TOV). No long-term trend in the population size or productivity of golden eagle has been shown in any of the 5 study areas. The reproductive output of gyrfalcon is monitored in 3 areas. It is positively correlated with the populations of its main prey species, the rock ptarmigan and the willow ptarmigan. The white-tailed sea eagle population has been monitored since 1974 by the Norwegian Ornithological Society, and the population is increasing. The levels of pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls are low in the eggs of both the golden eagle and the gyrfalcon, but elevated levels and effects on reproduction have been indicated for a coastal subpopulation of golden eagle. The pollutant levels in white-tailed sea eagle are lower than in the Baltic population of sea eagles, and shell thinning was never severe overall, but individual eggs have contained pollutant concentrations above critical levels. The levels of pollutants in the bird-eating falcons, peregrine, and merlin were higher than in other species. New emerging pollutants, like brominated diphenylethers and perfluorinated organic compounds, could be detected in all species. By incorporating available published and unpublished data, we were able to produce time trends for pollutants and shell thickness over 4 decades.
4311935| Lake Mlaren and other large Swedish lakes have been the objects of a long-term investigation. Evidence of progressive deterioration is presented in this article. Various changes in concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus, in the composition and quantity of phytoplankton, in maximum chlorophyll a values, in amounts of macrophyte vegetation and in bottom fauna have been recorded. 
25547935|Fail-to-hatch kestrel (Falco tinnunculus) eggs collected at the end of the 1999 and 2005 breeding seasons from nest boxes in and around the city of Rome, Italy, were analyzed by gas chromatography with electron capture detection for their PCB content and for the presence of DDT derivatives and other organochlorines. Among the various PCBs, congeners 153 and 180 were detected in all the eggs and showed the highest concentrations. Eggs collected from the same nest from a polluted location in Rome during 2 different years showed similar type and number of PCB congeners. These data and the fact that eggs from another nest near a sulphate mine had, atypically, low-chlorinated congeners support the conclusion that eggs of this species, whose adults in the Mediterranean and continental Europe perform only short or no migration movements, might be indicative of local pollution. When multiple eggs in the same clutch were analyzed, the PCBs were similar in type but their concentration decreased within clutch, likely in parallel to the laying order.
4315738|One of the least understood aspects of aquatic ecology is the role of riparian zones of lakes, and how these habitats and their functions are impacted by human development of lakeshores. We investigated the effects of residential lakeshore development on littoral coarse woody debris (CWD) distribution and on riparian forest characteristics by comparing 18 lakes in the U.S. Pacific Northwest with 16 previously surveyed lakes in the U.S. Upper Midwest. Residential development had a strong negative effect on CWD and riparian forest characteristics at both local and whole-lake scales. There was a strong positive correlation between riparian forest density and littoral CWD abundance in both regions. We found regional variation in CWD and riparian forest characteristics, mostly owing to differences in native forests. Our results suggest the role of local processes in determining CWD distribution and point to potential regional differences in littoral habitat structure associated with forest composition and lakeshore development that may have consequences for littoral-pelagic coupling in lakes.
4313485|From 1984 to early 1986. WWF-US conducted a series of case studies of conservational aspects of major hydroelectric, mining and forestry development in Brazilian Amazonia. Forest fragmentation as a result of cattle-ranching and of shifting agriculture, and effects of subsistence and commercial hunting, were also examined. A subsequent report summarized the scale of economic development projects at the time and discussed their impact upon Amazonian wildlife. This article reconsiders the main findings of the report in the light of current developments in Amazonia, the political problems facing wildlife conservationists, and the pressing need for further research work.
4314938|This paper presents a study of the 1997 fires in Indonesia, which was undertaken during October and November 1997, partly to assess the extent and nature of fires during August and September, and partly to undertake real-time monitoring of the fires. Data, mainly in the form of satellite imagery and image products, was obtained from local receiving stations and through the Internet. The distribution of fires in time and space has been assessed, mainly using indicative "hot-spots" from NOAA AVHRR and ERS-2 ATSR imagery. A rough assessment of areas burnt in southern Sumatera up to the end of September 1997 has been undertaken using SPOT digital quicklook imagery, and vegetation classes burnt assessed by interpretation of preburn satellite imagery, where available. Major fires started in southern Sumatera and southern Kalimantan in early August 1997 and continued to burn until the second week of November, when they appear to have been extinguished by the arrival of substantial rain. Fires have also burnt for much of this period in southeastern Irian Jaya. The total area burnt in Sumatera Selatan and Lampung provinces of southern Sumatera alone is estimated to be about 1 mill. ha, and the total in all of Indonesia is in excess of 2 mill. ha. Most of this area was not forest, but scrub, grassland and agricultural lands. The most persistent fires, and the source of probably 90% of the smoke haze which blanketed parts of Indonesia and surrounding countries, were 7 clusters of fires along the edges of degraded peat-swamp forests in southern Sumatera and Kalimantan. Almost no fires occurred deep within undisturbed primary forest, and most were associated with land-clearing for new settlements or plantations, or with logging operations.
4313622|Recent research has shown that a nuclear war in the Northern Hemisphere during the northern spring or summer would lead to the advection overhead in Australia of a high altitude layer of smoke capable of absorbing of the order of 20% of the sunlight, and lasting for up to 12 months or more. We have used three different modelling approaches to estimating the effects of such a smoke layer on the surface climate, and here present a summary of the results, and a preliminary assessment of the possible impact on Australian food production. The possible additional impact of various other environmental stresses are discussed. It is concluded that the climatic and other stresses, combined with a possible large influx of refugees, may be sufficient to threaten the ability of Australia to adequately feed its own population. Nevertheless, the physical survival of most of the population is likely in Australia provided cities are not targeted.
25515792|Changes in temperature and moisture resulting from climate change are likely to strongly modify the ecosystem carbon sequestration capacity in high-latitude areas, both through vegetation shifts and via direct warming effects on photosynthesis and decomposition. This paper offers a synthesis of research addressing the potential impacts of climate warming on soil processes and carbon fluxes at the forest-tundra ecotone in Scandinavia. Our results demonstrated higher rates of organic matter decomposition in mountain birch forest than in tundra heath soils, with markedly shallower organic matter horizons in the forest. Field and laboratory experiments suggest that increased temperatures are likely to increase CO efflux from both tundra and forest soil providing moisture availability does not become limiting for the decomposition process. Furthermore, colonization of tundra heath by mountain birch forest would increase rates of decomposition, and thus CO emissions, from the tundra heath soils, which currently store substantial amounts of potentially labile carbon. Mesic soils underlying both forest and tundra heath are currently weak sinks of atmospheric methane, but the strength of this sink could be increased with climate warming and/or drying.
41417318|Results of research into climate and glacier dynamics in the Altai Mountains (Russia) over the period of instrumental observations (1952-2008) are presented in this article. About 1030 glaciers with a total area of 805 km and volume of 42.5 km have been recorded in the Altai Region. The average summer air temperature in different regions of the Altai has increased during the study period from about 0.2C (Aktru) to 1.1C (Akkem). The annual atmospheric precipitation rate has also increased, by 8-10%. Since 1952, the glacier area in different regions of the Altai has decreased by 9-27%, and volume by 12-24%. By 2008, as a result of degradation, the total number of glaciers was 953 with an area of 724 km and volume of 38 km.
41417302|Climate change scenarios concerning the Baltic Sea predict increase in surface water temperatures. Pikeperch (Sander lucioperca (L.)) inhabits the coastal areas of the northern Baltic Sea and is an important fish species for the Finnish fisheries. The year-class strength of pikeperch varies strongly between years and significantly depends on water temperature. We aimed to study the effects of changing temperature conditions on pikeperch fisheries and distribution based on commercial catch data from the period 1980-2008 in the Finnish coastal areas of the Baltic Sea. The results indicated that warmer summers will produce stronger pikeperch year-classes that consequently contribute significantly to the future catches. The average temperature in June-July explained 40% of the variation in the year-class catches in the Gulf of Finland and 73% in July-August in the Archipelago Sea. During the study period, the distribution of pikeperch catches expanded toward north along the coasts of the Bothnian Sea.
4312517|A new procedure for testing the physiological effects of pollutants in seabirds in their natural environment is described. With this procedure it was found that a single 0.1-0.5 ml oral dose of weathered crude oil caused a transient rise in plasma sodium, nasal and adrenal gland hypertrophy and an overall decrease in body weight gain in nestling black guillemots (Cepphus grylle).
24708791|Sustainable provision of seafood from wild-capture fisheries and mariculture is a fundamental component of healthy marine ecosystems and a major component of the Ocean Health Index. Here we critically review the food provision model of the Ocean Health Index, and explore the implications of knowledge gaps, scale of analysis, choice of reference points, measures of sustainability, and quality of input data. Global patterns for fisheries are positively related to human development and latitude, whereas patterns for mariculture are most closely associated with economic importance of seafood. Sensitivity analyses show that scores are robust to several model assumptions, but highly sensitive to choice of reference points and, for fisheries, extent of time series available to estimate landings. We show how results for sustainable seafood may be interpreted and used, and we evaluate which modifications show the greatest potential for improvements.
4312172| A relationship between the scattering properties of the atmosphere and the sulfate content of the air is shown to exist. The haze clouds produced by man over the eastern US and Western Europe consist to a considerable degree of sulfate particles. The change of the albedo for solar radiation caused by these would be equivalent to a temperature drop of several degrees over these areas if ventilation did not occur, or a decrease of the mean temperature of the Northern Hemisphere approaching 0.1C. 
4314018|Biochemical parameters in blood and urine of pregnant mink fed commercial PCB, CB fractions and mixtures of the latter were examined. Mink were fed PCB fractions starting about 35 days before mating and continuing for 50 days thereafter. In 1990, mink were exposed to PCB for 53-69 days and were sacrificed 10, 17 and 26 days after mating. Blood samples were obtained at the time of sacrifice. No significant alterations were registered for the urinary parameters. Animals fed commercial PCB, but not fractions of CBs, all had elevated alanine aminotransferase (S-ALAT) (p < 0.05). Mink fed commercial PCB, individual or combined CB fractions had lowered (p < 0.05) alkaline phosphatase (S-ALP). Lowered (p < 0.05) serum bile acids (S-BA) were recorded in animals fed commercial PCB or 2-4-ortho + 1-ortho + 0-ortho and 2-4-ortho + 0-ortho. The presence of bi-and tricyclic contaminants counteracted some of the observed biochemical changes, in particular decreases in S-fructosamine and in S-cholesterol. This protective effect and the lack of reponse in animals fed the contaminants could be attributed to induction of catalytic enzymes. Patterns of S-ALAT, S-ALP, S-BA, S-cholesterol and S-fructos-amine for animals fed 2-4-ortho resembled the pattern for the control groups, whereas the combination of 2-4-ortho + 0-ortho CBs resulted in a pattern which was similar to that in animals fed commercial PCB. Significant differences from control animals were more frequent in animals given 0-ortho than 1-ortho CBs. The patterns of biochemical changes for groups of animals fed 0-ortho CBs alone or in combination with other CBs best reproduced the pattern of the animals fed commercial PCB. The biochemical changes observed indicate the feeding of PCB or fractions of CBs causes a disturbance in hepatocytes.
4313033|The pollution of the atmosphere by massive amounts of smoke and dust following a large scale nuclear exchange could greatly decrease sunlight reaching the earth's surface in Northern Hemisphere midlatitudes, and perhaps globally. Simulations with two different three-dimensional global climate models show subfreezing land surface temperatures underlying the hypothesized dense Northern Hemisphere smoke cloud, particularly in continental interiors. The accompanying profound changes in atmospheric circulation would tend to transport the smoke upwards and towards the tropics and Southern Hemisphere, possibly bringing those areas into the severe climatic disruption spawned by a Northern Hemisphere war.
4312224|Information is reviewed concerning the effects of acid precipitation on forest ecosystems, with particular attention to forests on coarse-textured soils with a low base status, such as those typical for large parts of Scandinavia. While decreases in forest growth due to acid precipitation have not yet been convincingly demonstrated, certain soil organisms and biological processes (ia soil respiration and nitrogen mineralization) are sensitive to acid applications at levels comparable to the amounts received in a 5-10 year period in southern Scandinavia. A model is presented describing some possible mechanisms by which acid inputs might affect forest growth.
4314603|Soil mineral nitrogen and nitrogen runoff losses were studied in three small agricultural catchments (10-40 ha) in southeastern Norway during the period 1992 to 1995. Soil and crop management, and temporal variability in weather conditions were given special attention in the study. Nitrogen runoff losses on the catchment scale correlated reasonably well with soil mineral nitrogen content within the catchment area. The losses appeared to be negatively correlated with crop yields. Thus, major reductions in crop yields resulted in substantial increases in nitrogen runoff losses during the subsequent autumn and winter periods. Crop yields and factors related to contents and management of soil organic matter seem to explain a substantial part of the variations in soil mineral N. Since transformation of organic matter is largely a biological process, weather conditions can be expected to be of great importance for nitrogen mineralization. This study indicates that a major part of the leached nitrogen originates from the mineralization of organic matter rather than from applied fertilizers. Crop systems, crop management and soil organic matter management are thus considered as key factors influencing nitrogen losses from agricultural fields.
4312066|Attempts to model the future evolution of the human society, even on a time scale as short as half a century, are limited by a number of uncertainties. Some of these uncertainties are due to our unsatisfactory knowledge of the magnitude of the actual resources of energy and materials and of the complex feedback systems that affect their uses. We shall here briefly discuss some of the resource aspects which have only recently come into focus. This discussion of new possibilities does not imply that we should not be rationally concerned about the rapidly increasing load on the Earth's resources and its effects on the structure of society and on the quality of the environment. Instead the purpose is to add some further detail to the web of information that one would need in order to realistically evaluate this and related problems.
4314410|The littoral wetland in northern China refers to the coastal area on the north of the Yangtze River, including the beaches as well as the estuary wetlands of some large rivers. The total area of the northern littoral wetland amounts to 2.1 mill. ha. The littoral wetland area is particularly rich in biological resources and is an important land area. With its high prime production, the wetland offers a variety of habitats for birds, crabs, shellfish, and other animals, including a number of rare species. The littoral wetland is a vulnerable ecosystem. Due to intensive human activities, the natural environment has been greatly changed, especially in the Yellow and Liaohe River deltas, as a result of oil exploitation and wasteland cultivation. However, wetland can with care be used as a purification field for oil pollutants.
4313929|As the UNCED process draws global attention to the potentially enormous welfare implications of biodiversity loss, it is useful to take stock of what is and is not known about the problem. Combining the insights from the disciplines of economics and ecology, this paper outlines the most urgent questions for research in the area. Regarding humans less as managers than as co-actors with other species in complex self-organizing systems, we focus on the sustainability of resource use. In the context of biological conservation this implies the maintenance of sufficient biodiversity to assure the resilience of ecosystems delivering ecological services of fundamental value to human societies. The paper identifies four sets of research issues: the first comprises a set of ecological questions about the nature, measurement and con-sequences of change in biological diversity, both globally and at the level of particular ecosystems. The second concerns the economic valuation of ecological services as a means of judging the economic significance of biodiversity loss. The third concerns the driving forces behind biodiversity loss. It deals with both the proximate and underlying causes of change in the level of biodiversity. The fourth concerns the scope for changing the human behavior which threatens biodiversity, whether through the destruction of habitat, through specialization in production, or through harvesting strategies. The nature of the linkage between ecological and economic systems is discussed in the context of informational, institutional, ethical and cultural conditions. The paper takes a systems perspective emphasizing the importance of an interdisciplinary approach to biodiversity, and the gains from collaborative research.
4312751| Clophen A 50 (a mixture of polychlorinated biphenyls, PCBs, with 50 weight % chlorine), 2, 3, 4, 4-tetrachlorobiphenyl and 2, 3, 4, 4, 5-pentachlorobiphenyl were injected below the sediment surface in sediment/water systems. In systems containing macroorganisms (Chironomus sp and/or Tubifex sp), and in anaerobic systems a transport of PCBs occurred to the water column. PCBs were also transported to the surface microlayer in the systems and were recovered on jetdrop impactors 7 cm above the surface of the water. Particles generated from the sediment by macroorganisms or by gas bubbles were of major importance in distributing PCB compounds within the systems. All the PCB compounds studied behaved similarly. 
40390425|We used an off-line, regional, model of atmospheric transport and chemistry to investigate current and future levels of near-surface ozone and accumulated ozone exposure over a threshold of 40 ppb(v) (AOT40) in Europe. To describe the current situation and enable an evaluation of the model's performance we simulated a number of years around 2000. To assess changes in ozone concentrations due to possible emission changes in Europe, the model was run with the meteorology of the early 2000s and precursor emissions from a set of Clean Air for Europe (CAFE) emissions scenarios. By extrapolation of the observed increase in near-surface O at coastal locations in northwest Europe we constructed model boundaries that were used to simulate the impact of increasing hemispheric background in 2020. To assess changes in ozone concentrations due to climate change, the model was run with recent (2000) emissions but using meteorology from a regional climate model simulating a control (1961-1990) and a future (2021-2050) climate. The results indicate that climate change will have a small impact on ozone concentrations and AOT40 in the Nordic countries. Changes in hemispheric background concentrations and changes in precursor emissions in Europe will have a larger effect on ozone in Northern Europe. The situation is quite different in southern Europe, where climate change is expected to result in a very large increase in near-surface ozone concentrations.
4312727|The physical beauty of the Caribbean tends to obscure the real social and economic problems the region faces. Health is a major concern, and great emphasis is placed on such environmental services as water supply, sewage, and waste disposal. The incidence of various environmental diseases is outlined, and progress in the provision of more adequate water supplies is described, as well as improvements which are still necessary in waste disposal and sewage systems. International aid programs bearing on the environment are briefly noted.
4313831|Modern farming practices have had an important effect on both the structure of bird communities on farmland and the abundance of key species. Many species have been declining on farmland over the past 20 years. The most pervasive, yet least studied effect, has operated through a reduction in the birds food supplies as a consequence of increased farm intensification. Three broad landscape changes are described and their impact on birds identified. The effect of declining food resources and the farming practices which bring them about are discussed. The claimed benefits to wildlife of organic farming are outlined and the longer-term prospects for integrating wildlife with farming are considered against various policy initiatives such as Set-aside, the Countryside Premium Scheme and Extensification.
4314988|Nine hydrological issues relating to land use and climate change are identified from a southern Africa perspective, each illustrated by an example based on field observations or simulation modelling. The nine issues are that (i) southern Africa's hydrological regime is already so variable that climate change will be difficult to detect; (ii) fluctuations in the hydrological regime are amplified by fluctuations in climate; (iii) hydrological responses are highly sensitive to land use changes; (iv) local scale abrupt land use changes may be hydrologically more significant than regional scale gradual changes; (v) land use change frequently exacerbates already variable flow regimes; (vi) detailed spatial information is vital in assessing impacts of critical land uses; (vii) major components of the hydrological system respond very differently to climate change; (viii) in developing countries inter-seasonal climate change may be more important than that at decadal time scale; and (ix) there is need to identify the hydrologically sensitive areas of a region.
4313245|Among several species of otters that forage in the sea, only two, the chungungo and the sea otter, live largely in a marine environment. Recent developments in monitoring technologies have resulted in increased knowledge about their population dynamics and behavioral characteristics. Ecosystem studies have discovered important relationships between sea otters and kelp beds. Sea otters eat sea urchins which would normally eat the kelp, thus allowing it to grow. Further data shows a tentative relationship between this phenomenon and increased fish species that live on the kelp. Other ongoing studies are attempting to document changes in coastal ecosystems that occur over time as sea otters are reestablished in new habitats and eventually grow to equilibrium population levels.
24708995|Invasion ecology has much advanced since its early beginnings. Nevertheless, explanation, prediction, and management of biological invasions remain difficult. We argue that progress in invasion research can be accelerated by, first, pointing out difficulties this field is currently facing and, second, looking for measures to overcome them. We see basic and applied research in invasion ecology confronted with difficulties arising from (A) societal issues, e.g., disparate perceptions of invasive species; (B) the peculiarity of the invasion process, e.g., its complexity and context dependency; and (C) the scientific methodology, e.g., imprecise hypotheses. To overcome these difficulties, we propose three key measures: (1) a checklist for definitions to encourage explicit definitions; (2) implementation of a hierarchy of hypotheses (HoH), where general hypotheses branch into specific and precisely testable hypotheses; and (3) platforms for improved communication. These measures may significantly increase conceptual clarity and enhance communication, thus advancing invasion ecology.
4313740|The increasing demand for sources of protein in developing countries, coupled with the relatively high cost of imported proteins, has led to a search for alternatives, particularly novel legumes indigenous to the tropics. Canavalia ensiformis (jackbean) is an annual which has shown promise both as a source of forage and seed. The seed contains up to 30% crude protein. But, as in a number of other tropical legumes, the raw seed contains toxic substances. Jackbean is currently grown in Nigeria as an ornamental plant. These studies were designed to determine ways of improving the nutritional value of the jackbean to make it acceptable as livestock feed. Phytochemical studies showed that the raw jackbean seed contains growth-inhibiting substances which can be removed by heat treatment. However, heat treatment alone improved the nutritive value of jackbean for rats up to 20% dietary level but not for broilers or laying hens, beyond 10% dietary level. Soaking the raw seed in urea solution for a few days followed by boiling for an hour or so improved nutritive value to the point where a dietary mix containing 20% jackbean was tolerated by laying hens and a mix of up to 30% jackbean by broilers.
4315258|Shrimp aquaculture in Vietnam is in the process of being transformed into a major industry around the intensification of the production system. The experiences of other countries in the region, especially in Thailand where high input production systems dominate, suggests that now is a critical time for intervention to re-direct industry into pathways that are more sustainable ecologically, socially, and economically. In Thailand, years of experience with intensified systems and a complex industrial organization has not led to sustainable solutions. The challenge here is for society to regain control and then to re-direct the transformation along more efficient and benign pathways. Our analyses suggest that current pathways in both countries are unlikely to lead to a sustainable industry. A complete transformation of the way shrimp are grown, fed, processed, distributed, and regulated is needed.
4315592|In 1998, the Vietnamese National Assembly approved a Five Million Hectare Reforestation Program, (5MHRP) 1998-2010. It would increase forest cover by some 45%, use barren hills, produce wood, and generate socioeconomic development. It would, however, also put demands on Vietnamese planning. Experiences from a former development project and two case studies from a commune and village are used as a basis for analyzing the planning system. The study describes the objectives and strategies of government and farmers in one commune and one village and analyzes how planning data influence scenarios on future development. Official planning data do not reflect reality but are derived through negotiations. In the commune and village studied, it would be difficult for the 5MHRP to materialize, as most of the forest land, officially not yet used, is actually used for food production. The approach and method used by the study offers alternatives to current planning practices.
41417386|We use economic analysis to evaluate grandfathering, auctioning, and benchmarking approaches for allocation of emissions allowances and then discuss practical experience from European and American schemes. In principle, auctions are superior from the viewpoints of efficiency, fairness, transparency, and simplicity. In practice, auctions have been opposed by important sectors of industry, which argue that carbon pricing without compensation would harm international competitiveness. In the European Union's Emissions Trading System, this concern led to grandfathering that is updated at various intervals. Unfortunately, updating gives industry an incentive to change behavior to influence future allocation. Furthermore, the wealth transferred to incumbent firms can be significantly larger than the extra costs incurred, leading to windfall profits. Meanwhile, potential auction revenues are not available to reduce other taxes. By circumscribing free allocation, benchmarking can target competitiveness concerns, incur less wealth transfer, and provide a strategy consistent with transitioning to auctions in the long run.
25515799|In the Langcang (Upper-Mekong) watershed, degraded watershed ecosystems in upland areas threaten cultivation practices, water resources, and dam development downstream. Assessment of ecosystem services and the factors that threaten them is an important first step to support watershed management. This, however, requires detailed information that is often missing in mountainous regions. To overcome this, in this paper, we adopt a decision tree approach to assess protection, biodiversity, and production services in two mountainous watersheds (Fengqing and Xiaojie) of the Lancang River Basin. Decision tree rules were built on the basis of field surveys, available references, ecosystem maps derived from remote sensing, expert knowledge, basic topographic information, and community interviews. Decision tree results showed that forest cover and agro-forestry practices contribute greatly to improved ecosystem functioning in the Fengqing Catchment compared to the Xiaojie Catchment. The results were consistent with field observations. The decision tree method proved to be a suitable and flexible tool for the rapid assessment of watershed ecosystem services, for highlighting those areas that need more in-depth research, and for guiding watershed and ecosystem management.
4313491|The problems of community forestry are not related to technical-production questions, but to issues of distribution and equity. To date most studies have emphasized strategies for halting deforestation and planting more trees, often to the exclusion of strategies for maintaining the plantations and meeting the needs of the poor. A classification of forestry programs will help to clarify objectives, strategies, and project concepts. Community-forestry programs need to stress different actors, activities, and level of analysis when comparing these programs with those of farm forestry and social forestry. The form such strategies take will depend on local conditions. However, it is possible to lay down some broad rules for relating patterns of organization to performance, and to conceptualize alternatives to existing bureaucratic arrangements.
4314092|This paper presents an integrated response of abiotic and biotic factors to the acidification process in littoral communities in Swedish forest lakes. In structuring the acidified community three major forces can be recognized. Firstly, abiotic variation, including changed water chemistry and habitat structure, has a strong impact on all trophic levels. Low pH and increased toxicity of metals, especially aluminum, are ultimate causes of the extinction and succession of species during acidification. In the acidified community, the abiotic factors affect both the top-down and bottom-up forces, and changes can be triggered at all trophic levels. The second force structuring the community is a bottom-up effect caused by reduced nutrient cycling and a shift in plant heterogeneity. This shift, mainly resulting from a shift in the CO
4314842|Early mortality syndrome or EMS that affects salmonids in the Great Lakes exhibits many of the same clinical signs as Cayuga syndrome, that affects Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) in the New York Finger Lakes and the M74 syndrome that affects Atlantic salmon from the Baltic Sea. These similarities may reflect their shared characteristics of associated low thiamine concentrations in eggs and therapeutic responsiveness to exogenous thiamine treatment. When egg thiamine levels fall below a species-specific threshold clinical signs include loss of equilibrium, depression of respiration and reduced heart rate. Although feeding studies with thiamine deficient diets have yet to confirm a thiamine cause-effect relationship, EMS-like symptoms can be induced with thiamine antagonists. Patterns of temporal variability of EMS among Great Lakes' salmonids over the last 3 decades have been similar. In coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch), EMS was negatively correlated with alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus) abundance in Lake Michigan. We hypothesize that this may reflect quantitative or qualitative change in the alewives eaten because despite their fluctuating abundance they have remained the preferred diet item. The limited data available for other salmonids suggest similar trends.
4311987|Low pH levels in rivers of southern Norway have resulted in the mortality of trout and salmon. Experiments show that the lower pH limits for normal hatching and fry development are pH 5.0-5.5 for salmon, 4.5-5.0 for sea trout and ca pH 4.5 for brown trout. An examination of the relation between pH values in the rivers and lakes in question, and salmon and trout populations, shows that these fish populations generally decrease in size as the pH level decreases.
23253253|This study investigated the effects of long-term-enhanced UV-B, and combined UV-B with elevated CO 2 on dwarf shrub berry characteristics in a sub-arctic heath community. Germination of Vaccinium myrtillus was enhanced in seeds produced at elevated UV-B, but seed numbers and berry size were unaffected. Elevated UV-B and CO 2 stimulated the abundance of V. myrtillus berries, whilst UV-B alone stimulated the berry abundance of V. vitis-idaea and Empetrum hermaphroditum. Enhanced UV-B reduced concentrations of several polyphenolics in V. myrtillus berries, whilst elevated CO 2 increased quercetin glycosides in V. myrtillus, and syringetin glycosides and anthocyanins in E. hermaphroditum berries. UV-B  CO 2 interactions were found for total anthocyanins, delphinidin-3-hexoside and peonidin-3-pentosidein in V. myrtillus berries but not E. hermaphroditum. Results suggest positive impacts of UV-B on the germination of V. myrtillus and species-specific impacts of UV-B  elevated CO 2 on berry abundance and quality. The findings have relevance and implications for human and animal consumers plus seed dispersal and seedling establishment.
4313038|The ecological changes in lakes damaged by acidification affect waterbirds in many different ways according to the feeding habits of each species concerned. In addition, birds which exploit food resources in acid lakes are increasingly exposed to metal pollutants. For some fish-eating birds, such as divers and osprey, the problem of acid lakes has an international aspect as a considerable proportion of the total populations in Europe breeds at waters susceptible to damage from acidification.
23253252|Winter climate and snow cover are the important drivers of plant community development in polar regions. However, the impacts of changing winter climate and associated changes in snow regime have received much less attention than changes during summer. Here, we synthesize the results from studies on the impacts of extreme winter weather events on polar heathland and lichen communities. Dwarf shrubs, mosses and soil arthropods were negatively impacted by extreme warming events while lichens showed variable responses to changes in extreme winter weather events. Snow mould formation underneath the snow may contribute to spatial heterogeneity in plant growth, arthropod communities and carbon cycling. Winter snow cover and depth will drive the reported impacts of winter climate change and add to spatial patterns in vegetation heterogeneity. The challenges ahead lie in obtaining better predictions on the snow patterns across the landscape and how these will be altered due to winter climate change.
4315272| In the 1980s, people in Sweden frequently responded to moose (Alces alces) found dead or in poor physical condition. The number of moose submitted for routine investigations to the National Veterinary Institute (SVA) increased tenfold and the hunters in lvsborg County were especially concerned. Later, a complex wasting syndrome was described and reports of moose suffering from the syndrome have been collected since 1991. Today, there is no definitive answer as to the underlaying causel(s) of the syndrome, but there are several plausible hypotheses that can be divided into two groups: food-related and host-parasite related. The food-related hypotheses are postulated to have any of the following ultimate causes: acidification/liming, browser density/food production or pollution. Our view is that few of the hypotheses have been critically tested. Most of the hypotheses are supported by some observations, which is to be expected because these are post-hoc attempts to explain these very observations. 
24708862|A coastal community vulnerability index (CCVI) was constructed to evaluate the vulnerability of coastal communities (Buhangin, Pingit, Reserva, Sabang, and Zabali) in the municipality of Baler, Aurora, Philippines. This index was composed of weighted averages of seven vulnerability factors namely geographical, economic and livelihood, food security, environmental, policy and institutional, demographic, and capital good. Factor values were computed based on scores that described range of conditions that influence communities' susceptibility to hazard effects. Among the factors evaluated, economic and livelihood, policy and institutional and food security contributed to CCVI across communities. Only small variations on CCVI values (i.e., 0.470.53) were observed as factor values cancelled out one another during combination process. Overall, Sabang received the highest CCVI, which was contributed mainly by geographical and demographic factors. This technique to determine factors that influenced communities' vulnerability can provide information for local governments in enhancing policies on risk mitigation and adaptation.
4315606| A systems analysis approach was used to assess farm-scale nutrient and trace element sustainability by combining full-scale field experiments with specific studies of nutrient release from mineral weathering and trace-element cycling. At the jebyn dairy farm in northern Sweden, a farm-scale case study including phosphorus (P), potassium (K), and zinc (Zn) was run to compare organic and conventional agricultural management practices. By combining different element-balance approaches (at farm-gate, barn, and field scales) and further adapting these to the FARMFLOW model, we were able to combine mass flows and pools within the subsystems and establish links between subsystems in order to make farm-scale predictions. It was found that internal element flows on the farm are large and that there are farm internal sources (Zn) and loss terms (K). The approaches developed and tested at the jebyn farm are promising and considered generally adaptable to any farm. 
25547865|Normal and abnormal levels of human participation in ecosystems can be revealed through the use of macroecological patterns. Such patterns also provide consistent and objective guidance that will lead to achieving and maintaining ecosystem health and sustainability. This paper focuses on the consistency of this type of guidance and management. Such management, in sharp contrast to current management practices, ensures that our actions as individuals, institutions, political groups, societies, and as a species are applied consistently across all temporal, spatial, and organizational scales. This approach supplants management of today, where inconsistency results from debate, politics, and legal and religious polarity. Consistency is achieved when human endeavors are guided by natural patterns. Pattern-based management meets long-standing demands for enlightened management that requires humans to participate in complex systems in consistent and sustainable ways.
4315303|Fishery resources are a vital source of food and make valuable economic contributions to the local communities involved in fishery activities along the 850 km stretch of the Tanzania coastline and numerous islands. Small-scale artisanal fishery accounts for the majority of fish catch produced by more than 43 000 fishermen in the country, mainly operating in shallow waters within the continental shelf, using traditional fishing vessels including small boats, dhows, canoes, outrigger canoes and dinghys. Various fishing techniques are applied using uncomplicated passive fishing gears such as basket traps, fence traps, nets as well as different hook and line techniques. Species composition and size of the fish varies with gear type and location. More than 500 species of fish are utilized for food with reef fishes being the most important category including emperors, snappers, sweetlips, parrotfish, surgeonfish, rabbitfish, groupers and goatfish. Most of the fish products are used for subsistence purposes. However, some are exported. Destructive fishing methods such as drag nets and dynamite fishing pose a serious problem as they destroy important habitats for fish and other organisms, and there is a long-term trend of overharvested fishery resources. However, fish pressure varies within the country as fishery resources are utilized in a sustainable manner in some areas. For this report more than 340 references about Tanzanian fishery and fish ecology were covered. There are many gaps in terms of information needed for successful fishery management regarding both basic and applied research. Most research results have been presented as grey literature (57%) with limited distribution; only one-fifth were scientific publications in international journals.
4315421|The inundated area of the Okavango Delta changes annually and interannually. The variability relates to regional precipitation over the catchment area in the Angolan highlands, and to local rainfall. The patterns of the wetland were captured using more than 3000 satellite images for the period 1972 to 2000, near daily NOAA AVHRR data for 1985-2000, and less frequent images of the Landsat sensors form 1972 onwards. One AVHRR image for every 10-day period was classified into land and water using an unsupervised classification method. Evaluation against Landsat TM and ERS2-ATSR data indicate an agreement of 89% for the size of estimated inundation area. Results show that the wetland area has varied between approximately 2450 km
4313743|In this paper the causes of the destruction of the tropical forests are analyzed. We propose remedies and we give the specific actions which have been proposed by the World Resources Institute for the years 1987-1991 and by the Silva Conference held in Paris in February 1986. Deforestation can be arrested if the developing and the developed countries change their current behavior. Research in tropical forestry can make contributions of major significance, even if research alone cannot solve all the problems. There is a requirement for research in forest production, in the economic use of wood and in the elimination of the use of what is treated as waste. It is an important duty of the International Foundation for Science to encourage increased applications in forestry.
4313833|Moringa stenopetala, is a multipurpose tree, native to the East African lowlands, that has been shown to be an even more promising coagulant crop for water clarification in the tropics than the "pantropical" horseradish tree Moringa oleifera. In Southern Ethiopia paleonigritic terrace builders introduced the species as a "cabbage tree" in their gardens and fields at altitudes up to 2000 m, whereby different ecotypes and new cultivars developed. During dissemination to the plains on the floor of the Rift Valley and other highlands up to Wolamo this leafy vegetable became popular among other ethnic groups, and new medicinal uses were detected. Traditional selection aimed to improve the taste of the leaves but also had a positive impact on seed size, as comparative studies of the cotyledon (white seed kernels) weights demonstrated. In the Konso highlands high yields of leaves and fruits, in spite of the marginal rainfall, are due to remarkable agricultural practices and acceptance of environmental limitations. The need for detailed chemical and pharmacological assessments of Moringa stenopetala and reasons for initial difficulties with local dissemination projects are discussed.
24708786|We analyzed the management, resource use and conservation of the Ankarafantsika National Park (Madagascar) to develop a management plan, which provides a sustainable development strategy of the area while empowering the local residents. Using qualitative methodology we performed interviews with villagers and local organizations to assess the park's successes and failures from local stakeholders' perspectives. People living in a village with a permanent Madagascar National Parks (MNP) agent are more favorable to and supportive of the park conservation. People living in the park are supportive but are more divided. On the other hand, people living on the periphery of the park see conservation as more of a burden. Strategies like more equitable distribution of wealth, environment improvement and decentralization of power are discussed to achieve a more sustainable management plan based on community natural resources management. Short-term, medium, and long-term interventions from park authorities are needed to ensure the cooperation of local people in conservation endeavors.
25515844|Information on the effects of global climate change on trends in global fisheries biomass yields has been limited in spatial and temporal scale. Results are presented of a global study of the impact of sea surface temperature (SST) changes over the last 25 years on the fisheries yields of 63 large marine ecosystems (LMEs) that annually produce 80% of the world's marine fisheries catches. Warming trends were observed in 61 LMEs around the globe. In 18 of the LMEs, rates of SST warming were two to four times faster during the past 25 years than the globally averaged rates of SST warming reported by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 2007. Effects of warming on fisheries biomass yields were greatest in the fast-warming northern Northeast Atlantic LMEs, where increasing trends in fisheries biomass yields were related to zooplankton biomass increases. In contrast, fisheries biomass yields of LMEs in the fast-warming, more southerly reaches of the Northeast Atlantic were declining in response to decreases in zooplankton abundance. The LMEs around the margins of the Indian Ocean, where SSTs were among the world's slowest warming, revealed a consistent pattern of fisheries biomass increases during the past 25 years, driven principally by human need for food security from fisheries resources. As a precautionary approach toward more sustainable fisheries utilization, management measures to limit the total allowable catch through a cap-and-sustain approach are suggested for the developing nations recently fishing heavily on resources of the Agulhas Current, Somali Current, Arabian Sea, and Bay of Bengal LMEs.
4312064|Energy growth at the rates officially projected will not occur over the next few decades, owing to a combination of geopolitical, technical, social, environmental, and economic constraints. Collisions with these constraints will have serious consequences. But whilst ways of increasing energy supply tend to be slow, costly, risky, and temporary, ways of reducing demand or increasing efficiency tend to be quick, cheap, safe, and permanent, and can buy enough time to create a sustainable economy of energy income. Attractive low-energy options and decentralized technologies are unlikely to be explored or pursued until it is widely appreciated that the most important energy issues are not technical and economic but social and ethical.
4313226|Seagrasses provide important food material, habitat and erosion control in coastal and estuarine areas, particularly in the tropics and subtropics. Man's activities have decimated tens of thousands of hectares of once-productive seagrass areas and concomitant fisheries. Seagrass restoration efforts, while still in their infancy, seem an effective solution.
4315373|During much of the 1900s, the lakes in Killarney Provincial Park have been exposed to high levels of acid deposition due to sulfur emissions from the nearby metal smelters in Sudbury. The sulfur emissions from this large point source have decreased to about 10% of what they were in the 1960s. Lake water quality in Killarney Park has greatly changed in response to reduced emissions, with noticeable declines in sulfate, aluminum and calcium concentrations. Here we apply the dynamic acidification model MAGIC to 3 lakes in Killarney Park. The lakes, which have different buffering capacities and response times, were selected to represent fast, intermediate and slow recovery from acidification. The model was calibrated to match observed data for the lakes and 4 different forecast scenarios for future sulfur deposition reductions were applied. The results indicate that there is still a large potential for improvement in the water quality in Killarney. The recovery time for the different lakes varies greatly. For the lake having the slowest response time several decades are needed for the chemistry to stabilize after implementation of deposition reductions.
4312773|At least 40 percent of the population of Hiroshima and 26 percent of the population of Nagasaki were killed in the nuclear attacks on those two cities, and 37 years later the survivors still suffer after-effects. Modern nuclear weapons are far more powerful. The effects of blast, heat and ionizing radiation are discussed and typical values for various sizes of nuclear weapons and different types of explosions are calculated.
4312052| DDT and PCB residues in airborne fallout were studied at three different localities in Iceland. Low levels of both  DDT and PCB were detected at lake Mvatn. Samples of animals from different trophic levels of aquatic ecosystems (chiefly Mvatn) were also analyzed. The lower trophic levels contained little or no residues but in several of the waterfowl low levels of  DDT and occasionally PCB were detected. Compared to the levels reported from some other parts of the northern hemisphere, those found in this study were lower by one or two orders of magnitude. 
4315085|Agricultural land expansion is almost eliminating the bamboo forests of Ethiopia, and the biological diversity associated with them. Several bamboo species are endemic to Africa and mainly found in Ethiopia. Consequently, their preservation is of international concern. Urgent and effective action is required to secure their future existence and for their use in systems managed on a sustainable basis. Utilization driven production could ensure their sustainability. Lack of awareness about their multiple use and a paucity of scientific knowledge about their production and main properties are impediments for conservation and utilization. Concerted efforts are needed to generate and adopt the required knowledge and technology in order to promote bamboo forest cultivation in Ethiopia as an economically viable crop, which is of environmental interest.
23322912|The climate in Timor Leste (East Timor) is predicted to become about 1.5C warmer and about 10% wetter on average by 2050. By the same year, the population is expected to triple from 1 to 2.53 million. This article maps the predicted changes in temperature and rainfall and reviews the implications of climate change and population growth on agricultural systems. Improved cultivars of maize, rice, cassava, sweet potato and peanuts with high yield performance have been introduced, but these will need to be augmented in the future with better adapted cultivars and new crops, such as food and fodder legumes and new management practices. The requirements for fertilizers to boost yields and terracing and/or contour hedgerows to prevent soil erosion of steeply sloping terrain are discussed. Contour hedges can also be used for fodder for improved animal production to provide protein to reduce malnutrition.
4315187| The four largest Swedish lakes Vnern, Vttern, Mlaren and Hjlmaren all have a tectonic origin with multidirectional fault fissures, which influence the topography of the bottoms and the creation of subbasins. All the four lakes have been subject to several glacials, the latest of which started to recede from central Sweden c. 10 000 years ago. The many differences between the four lakes can be explained by their shapes, sizes and the relation between the sizes of the drainage basins and the size of the lakes. This paper focuses on processes considered relevant to aquatic organisms of the lakes: water balance, water residence time, water temperature, water exchange between subbasins within the lakes, and other internal water movements. Links between pollution, water exchange and retention of nutrients are discussed with an example from Lake Vnern. 
4313821|This paper summarizes the severe dryland degradation (desertification) that occurred in central Sudan in the 1970s and 1980s. Degradation was interpreted to be the result of a combination of low rainfall and excess exploitation. It was found that site recovery occurred over a period of several years, apparently owing to a combination of somewhat increased rainfall and substantial reductions in exploitation.
4315507|This study summarizes findings of a visitor impact study conducted in the Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) National Park, Nepal. The effect of visitor use, and the influence of environmental characteristics on trail conditions are investigated. Seven trails divided into 208 trail segments, and with a total length of 90 kilometers were included in the assessment. A four-class rating system has been used for the assessment of trail conditions. Arc/Info and Arc/View geographic information system (GIS) are used to analyze spatial patterns of impacts. The study indicates a strong correlation between visitor use and trail degradation. However, locational and environmental factors are equally important variables. The study concludes that more systematic, and experimental studies are needed that can make a clear distinction between human-induced trail damage and the effects of natural factors.
4314843|The purpose of this study was to describe the histopathological findings during the progression of the M74 syndrome in the Atlantic salmon from the Baltic Sea. We also wanted to evaluate whether there were differences in the histopathological picture between yolk-sac fry from different categories of M74, i.e. family groups with early, intermediate, or late development of disease. In the preclinical stage of M74, no lesions were detected in the yolk-sac fry. In the clinical stage, the dominant findings were necrotic lesions in the brain and a depletion of glycogen in liver and skeletal muscle. Yolk-sac fry with an early development of disease also exhibited intracranial hemorrhages, hepatocellular lipid accumulation, and hydropic degeneration of sceletal muscle and proximal tubules of the excretory kidney. In the terminal stage, the brain lesions had become more severe and, furthermore, yolk-sac fry with early development of M74 also showed focal hepatocellular necrosis and sometimes hyaline degeneration of skeletal muscle. The findings in yolk-sac fry with intermediate development of disease were generally the same as in yolk-sac fry with early development, even though the lesions were of lesser magnitude. The only major histopathological findings in yolk-sac fry with late development of disease were brain lesions and, in the terminal stage, a dilatation of saccus vasculosis.
4314544|Svante Arrhenius's research in atmospheric physics extended beyond the recent past and the near future states of the Earth, which today are at the center of sociopolitical attention. His plan encompassed all of the physical phenomena known at the time to relate to the formation and evolution of stars and planets. His two-volume textbook on cosmic physics is a comprehensive synopsis of the field. The inquiry into the possible cause of the ice ages and the theory of selective wavelength filter control led Arrhenius to consider the surface states of the other terrestial planets, and of the ancient Earth before it had been modified by the emergence of life. The rapid escape of hydrogen and the equilibration with igneous rocks required that carbon in the early atmosphere prevailed mainly in oxidized form as carbon dioxide, together with other photoactive gases exerting a greenhouse effect orders of magnitude larger than in our present atmosphere. This effect, together with the ensuing chemical processes, would have set the conditions for life to evolve on our planet, seeded from spores spreading through an infinite Universe, and propelled, as Arrhenius thought, by stellar radiation pressure.
4315220|Nitrogen inputs to the US from human activity doubled between 1961 and 1997, with most of the increase in the 1960s and 1970s. The largest increase was in use of inorganic N fertilizer, but emissions of NO
4314008|This paper is a background presentation of seal material that has been analyzed for a number of elements and organohalogen compounds and presented elsewhere in this issue of Ambio. Altogether 13 groups of seals representing three species were studied: harbor seals (Phoca vitulina vitulina), grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) and ringed seals (Phoca hispida botnica). The material was further divided into collection areas, age classes and health status. Biological parameters such as age, sex, weight, length, collection area, etc. are presented. Preparation procedures are described as well as the extraction of organohalogen compounds.
4312200|Recovery processes of six polluted lakes were studied after reduction of nutrients. The decrease in phosphorus input due to advanced sewage treatment varied between 30-80 percent of the prediversion data. Two lakes showed improved water quality, while in two others no marked changes were observed. Two lakes showed lower transparency and higher chlorophyll values after diversion. In small, shallow and heavily polluted lakes, the annual internal phosphorus loading from the sediments varied between 20 percent and 400 percent of the external input. Restoration of lakes by removing nutrients via removal of algae is discussed.
4314532|Using McQueen-type portable rainfall simulators, we simulated rainfall on trail surfaces and adjacent, off-trail forest sites at two reserves in the humid neotropics. Our results confirm that rates of runoff generation and soil particle detachment are significantly higher on trails and that runoff occurs frequently on trails, but only rarely off-trail. We estimate that 15 mm of rain falling in 30 minutes would detach 3186 kg  km-2 of soil from trails at Jatun Sacha (11  104 kg  km-2) and 4716 kg on trails at La Selva (6.0  104 kg  km-2). Off-trail, the same rain would detach 0.075-1.1  104 kg  km-2 at Jatun Sacha and 0-1.1  104 kg  km-2 at La Selva. The high erosional potential of rainforest trails underscores the need for careful management of ecotourism and other trail-dependent rainforest activities.
4315441|We describe an approach to estimation of the spatial distribution of reindeer (Rangifer tarandus). Spatial autocorrelation, inherent to the data describing the distribution of wildlife species, contains information that can be utilized to improve the effciency of field inventories. Our data included reindeer fecal pellet counts, satellite imagery and a digital terrain model. We applied ordinary logistic regression, autologistic regression, and the Gibbs sampler to predict spatial distribution of reindeer based on the combined data. A training set was used to compare the outcome for different field sampling designs for each method. Results suggested the possibility to reduce the number of plots by up to 75% with a 15% reduction in prediction accuracy (quality). We also showed that the Gibbs sampler outperformed, in terms of accuracy, the logistic regression. The outcome, however, was dependent on the spectral homogeneity of the area and on the relative position of the sampling design to the elevation curves. Our results justify the incorporation of spatial information when modeling the distribution of reindeer at finer scales (< 1 km).
4312063|Based on crude calculations the authors try to relate the most basic future water needs to modern estimates of water resources. On a global scale there is enough water to meet forthcoming needs. A spectacular decrease of water pollution has, however, to take place. Irrigation constitutes the greatest water withdrawal need. Water is shown to be a limiting factor of the economic development in Africa, Europe and Asia. A super-effective water management will be needed in the future.
4312101|The number and amount of oncogenic agents in the general and occupational environment is rapidly and dramatically increasing, in parallel with increased industrialization and the growth of the consumer's market. Since the specific changes produced by oncogenic agents on body tissues are largely irreversible, the only way to prevent environmental and occupational carcinogenesis is to identify these agents before they are produced and diffused, thus avoiding human exposure. The recent story of VC carcinogenesis has paradigmatically demonstrated that experimental carcinogenicity bioassays are highly predictive of the potential effects on humans. Therefore such experimental testing should be performed on all new compounds and on all the ones already widespread, but whose effects we still ignore.
4312956|This article examines the origins and evolution of early man in East Africa. The different species of early hominids are described and the fossil record discussed. East Africa is considered the most important area on earth for discovering fossils of our distant ancestors.
4314021|A variety of biochemical and toxic effects are caused by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and toxicity varies considerably between animal species. No explanation is available for this variation and the precise mechanism of PCB action is unknown. Altered metabolism of vitamin A has been suggested to be involved in the toxicity of coplanar PCBs and related dioxin-like compounds. The results presented here are part of an extensive study aimed at assessing the effects of PCB congeners, differing in numbers of chlorines in the ortho-positions, on the reproduction in mink (Mustela vison). This paper reports the effects of two technical PCB preparations (Clophen A50 and Aroclor 1254), fractions thereof and a synthetic mixture of coplanar PCBs, on the hepatic, renal, and pulmonary vitamin A content in adult mink. The non- and 1-ortho-CBs in Clophen A50 reduced hepatic and pulmonary vitamin A concentrations in adult mink. Effects of the synthetic mixture of non-ortho-CBs were similar to those of the fraction from Clophen A50 containing non-ortho-CBs. Thus, the three coplanar congeners in the synthetic mixture, together with certain 1-ortho-CBs appeared to be largely responsible for the effects of Clophen A50 observed in this study. Data presented in this study also show that, similar to more commonly used experimental animals, the mink respond to PCB exposure with reduced tissue vitamin A content
4315503|Human activities can have a remarkable effect on land-cover patterns over time. This study characterized long-term (1930s-1998) land-cover changes in Dongting Lake area in the Central Yangtze River, China, by digitalizing historical topographical maps for the 1930s and 1950s and interpreting satellite remote sensing data for 1978, 1989, and 1998. The study indicates that land-cover patterns in Dongting Lake area have been greatly altered by impoldering and subsequent lake restoration activities in the past 70 years. There are two distinct periods of change characterized by impoldering (1930s-1978) and lake restoration (1978-1998). In the former period, cropland increased sharply at the cost of a drop in other land-cover types, which had resulted in significant negative consequences, while the pattern of land-cover changes reversed in the later period.
24708974|A particle-tracking model based on high-resolution ocean flow data was used to investigate particle residence times and spatial distribution of settling sediment for two geo-morphologically different Swedish coastal areas. The study was a part of a safety assessment for the location of a future nuclear-waste repository, and information about the particle-transport patterns can contribute to predictions of the fate of a possible leakage. It is also, to our knowledge, the first time particle-transport differences between two coastal areas have been quantified in this manner. In Forsmark, a funnel-shaped bay shielded by a number of islands, the average residence time for clay particles was 5 times longer than in the modeled part of Simpevarp, which is open to the Baltic Sea. In Forsmark, <10 % of the released particles left the domain compared to 6080 % in Simpevarp. These site-specific differences will increase over time with the differences in land uplift between the areas.
41417416|The photovoltaic conversion efficiency for nearinfrared (NIR) sunlight is improved successfully by dye sensitization of bulk heterojunction polymer solar cells, in which the active layer was prepared by a ternary blend of poly(3-hexylthiophene), a fullerene derivative (1-(3-methoxycarbony1) propy1-1-pheny1-[6,6]-methanofullerene), and an NIR dye, silicon phthalocyanine bis(trihexylsilyl oxide). The mechanism of the NIR-dye sensitization is studied by femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy.
4314231|Eutrophication due to excessive nitrogen loading has been a steadily increasing problem in southern Swedish coastal waters during the last fifteen years. Political decisions now aim at decreasing the anthropogenic nitrogen emissions by 50% before 1996. Nitrogen export from farmland is a major problem in this context. Therefore, the nitrogen retention capacity in different types of wetlands in agricultural areas in southern Sweden was studied in order to determine whether wetlands could be used to reduce nitrogen export from farmland to the coastal marine ecosystems. Nitrogen retention mechanisms were also investigated in lakes with increased nitrogen loading. The results demonstrate that nitrogen removal in wetlands depends mainly on denitrification. In addition to denitrification, sedimentation can be quantitatively important in lakes. The water retention time is the most critical singel factor for removal of nitrogen. Thus, lakes remove more nitrogen than small wetlands even though the specific nitrogen retention (N retention m
4315399|Qatar has serious water resource problems, following rapid socioeconomic development and massive population increase. Municipal water provision depends on costly and unsustainable desalination. There is little regulation. Native Qataris do not pay a water tariff and migrants pay a subsidized price-approximately one third of the cost of production-so there is little awareness of the true cost of water and use is profligate. This paper discusses trends in water use and identifies issues underlying sustainable water use in Qatar. A questionnaire of respondents chosen to represent Qatari social groups measured awareness and attitudes to water. The results show that previous efforts to control water demand in Qatar, using awareness campaigns, legal restrictions and tariffs, have been ineffectual. The questionnaire evaluated reactions to possible measures to limit uses by raising awareness, using legal restrictions and raising tariffs. From this, a number of policy changes can be suggested, to bring Qatar's water industry towards sustainability.
4312237|The chemistry of inland waters is determined by deposition of airborne salts, water balance, mineralogy of soils and rocks, land vegetation and the addition of human waste products. Ground water cycles are closely linked to many mineral cycles. Water quality as a term refers to all properties of water which are important to the user (consumer in a wide sense). Water quality is an integral part of comprehensive water resources planning, requiring proper understanding of hydrochemical processes.
4315512|Over the past decades, there has been an increasing interest in the development of forest management approaches that are based on an understanding of historical natural disturbance dynamics. The rationale for such an approach is that management to favor landscape compositions and stand structures similar to those of natural ecosystems should also maintain biological diversity and essential ecological functions. In fire-dominated landscapes, this approach is possible only if current and future fire frequencies are sufficiently low, comparing to pre-industrial fire frequency, that we can substitute fire by forest management. We address this question by comparing current and future fire frequency to historical reconstruction of fire frequency from studies realized in the Canadian boreal forest. Current and simulated future fire frequencies using 2 and
4313623|Studies on the environmental consequences of nuclear war have generally stopped short of investigating the complex impacts on human societies. In particular, the research of impacts on societies in noncombatant countries is very limited. Such a study has been completed on New Zealand, a country that is often assumed to be a noncombatant and widely perceived as having better chances of "surviving" nuclear war than many other countries. The study revealed pervasive, complex, long-term, and highly disruptive impacts on all aspects of society, even as a noncombatant. Loss of trade, growing technological dependence (on Northern Hemisphere manufactures), the collapse of interlinking sectors (energy, health, transport, communications) and lack of preparedness were the four major causes of the disruptions. In the unlikely event of an electromagnetic pulse (EMP), from a high altitude nuclear explosion, the impacts would be far more devastating for the survival of society. By implication, many other noncombatant countries (both developed and developing) could be severely affected by the disruptions to their societies, even without ionizing radiation or nuclear winter. The study of nuclear war impacts on societies is therefore an important research task. It should be done through national case studies, although some countries may be grouped into a single study unit. These studies should improve our understanding of the long-term consequences of nuclear war. Such studies are also valuable since they can show how countries could be affected by sudden shocks, such as economic collapse or major climate change. The global imperative of making greater progress on nuclear disarmament should also become more obvious.
4312404|Cost-benefit analysis and environmental effects is an attempt to elucidate the logic and meaning of cost-benefit analysis as an instrument to identify, estimate and balance all the effects of a given project. Special attention is devoted to the treatment of environmental effects since they are generally uncertain and irreversible. Three actual cases; one in the United States and two in France, are presented and analyzed with the objective of illustrating and clarifying the link between cost-benefit analysis and the management of the environment.
4315811|This study examined the efficiency of cotton grass fibers in removing diesel oil from the surface of water in conditions prevailing in the Baltic Sea. The effect of low temperature, salinity, and bacterial amendments were tested in laboratory-scale set-ups, whereas 600-L mesocosms filled with Baltic Sea water were used for testing the effects of diesel oil and rapid removal of the oil on microorganisms, phytoplankton, and mussels. Cotton grass proved to be an excellent sorbent for diesel oil from the water surface at a low temperature. Inoculation with diesel-enriched microorganisms enhanced degradation of oil significantly in laboratory-scale experiments. In mesocosm experiments, the addition of diesel oil (0.66 mg L<sup>-1</sup>, 0.533 L m<sup>-2</sup>) to the basins resulted in higher microbial density than in all other basins, including inoculated ones, suggesting that the Baltic Sea contains indigenous hydrocarbon degraders. The removal of oil with cotton grass significantly improved the survival of mussels in the mesocosm tests: 100% mortality in diesel basins versus 0% mortality in basins with cotton grass, respectively. However, the surviving mussels suffered from histopathological changes such as inflammatory responses, degenerations, and cell death. The observed rescuing effect was observable even when the cotton grass-bound oil was left in the water. The results underline the importance of rapid action in limiting damage caused by oil spills.
23257415|Reindeer grazing has been entitled as ecological keystone in arcticalpine landscapes. In addition, reindeer husbandry is tightly connected to the identity of the indigenous Smi people in northern Europe. Nowadays, reindeer husbandry is challenged in several ways, of which pasture degradation, climate change, conflicting land uses and predation are the most important. Research on reindeer-related topics has been conducted for more than half a century and this review illuminates whether or not research is capable to match these challenges. Despite its high quality, traditional reindeer-related research is functionally isolated within the various disciplines. The meshwork of ecology, socio-economy, culture and politics, however, in which reindeer husbandry is embedded by various interactions, will remain unclear and difficult to manage, if actors and relationships are kept separate. We propose some targets for new integrative research approaches that incorporate traditional knowledge and focus on the entire human-ecological system 'reindeer husbandry' to develop solutions for its challenges.
4315144|The Baltic Sea is one of the world's seas that is most severely affected by human activities. Although there is an international agreement that nutrient input to the Baltic should be reduced, the measures taken so far have not resulted in major reductions in nutrient inputs nor in environmental improvements. The reasons for this are partly due to lack of knowledge on large-scale relationships and couplings between physics, biogeochemistry and ecological properties. But there is also a lack of overall drainage basin-wide analyses on cost-effective measures. There is a danger in making the wrong decisions, e.g. implement reduction schemes that are at worst ineffective or at best, far from cost effective. Researchers from many disciplines are faced with a common challenge: To develop a decision-support system, which can be used as the scientific base for cost-effective measures for the entire Baltic Sea. Such an effort is now being made within the research program MARE (http://www.mare.su.se).
4315346|This paper uses examples from Kenya and the Sudan to argue that the scale at which we pitch our analysis when trying to identify the basic properties of pastoral ecosystems may not be appropriate when it comes to recommending policy measures to secure the continued viability of pastoral herding. Pastoral households are always parts of large-scale economic and social structures. In many cases, such integration has provided the basis for the continued viability of pastoral adaptations. In other cases, the changing nature of local economies and social relations following from integration into large systems, has threatened the viability of pastoral herding or led to increasing differentiation within and between local communities. This paper raises the issue of how we most fruitfully define and delimit ecological and social systems in different local settings. It also questions conventional approaches to community-based natural resource management, which are now attracting widespread international attention.
40801530|Distributions of arsenic and metals in surface sediments collected from the coastal and estuarine areas of the northern Bohai and Yellow Seas, China, were investigated. An ecological risk assessment of arsenic and metals in the sediments was evaluated by three approaches: the Sediment Quality Guidelines (SQGs) of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), the degree of contamination, and two sets of SQGs indices. Sediments from the estuaries of the Wuli and Yalu Rivers contained some of the greatest concentrations of arsenic, cadmium, copper, mercury, lead, and zinc. Median concentrations of cadmium and mean concentrations of lead and zinc were greater than background concentrations determined for the areas. All sediments were considered to be heavily polluted by arsenic, but moderately polluted by chromium, lead, and cadmium. Current concentrations of arsenic and metals are unlikely to be acutely toxic, but chronic exposures would be expected to cause adverse effects on benthic invertebrates at 31.4% of the sites.
41417418|The efficiency of conversion of light to electrical energy with the help of conjugated polymers and molecules is rapidly improving. The optical absorption properties of these materials can be designed, and implemented via molecular engineering. Full coverage of the solar spectrum is thus feasible. Narrow absorption spectra allow construction of tandem solar cells. The poor transport properties of these materials require thin devices, which limits optical absorption. Alternative device geometries for these flexible materials compensate for the optical absorption by light trapping, and allow tandem cells.
4315524|Environmental manipulation experiments showed that species respond individualistically to each environmental-change variable. The greatest responses of plants were generally to nutrient, particularly nitrogen, addition. Summer warming experiments showed that woody plant responses were dominant and that mosses and lichens became less abundant. Responses to warming were controlled by moisture availability and snow cover. Many invertebrates increased population growth in response to summer warming, as long as desiccation was not induced. CO
4313664|The Montreal Protocol provides the international community with an effective, equitable and dynamic mechanism for protecting the ozone layer. The paper uses the Protocol's negotiating history to describe how and why agreement on a particular issue was reached and provides an in-depth analysis of the Protocol's most innovative provisions. The paper discusses international implementation of the Protocol. It concludes with a brief description of recent developments leading up to the Protocol's possible modification in June 1990.
25515806|Coral reef ecosystems have been declining at an alarming rate during recent decades, despite increasing numbers of marine protected areas (MPAs) encompassing coral reefs. However, many MPAs have not met reserve objectives, inhibiting effective protection. This study focuses on the potential effectiveness of a Hotel Managed Marine Reserve (HMMR) at enhancing reef fish stocks. Biannual visual fish census surveys were conducted at two marine reserves adjacent to Whale Island Resort, Vietnam, October 2005 to April 2007. The 6-year protected Whale Island Bay Reserve (11 ha) showed significantly higher fish densities, richness, average size, and number of fish >15 cm compared with two unprotected control sites. Fish stocks at a second newer reserve, Whale Island Bay Peninsula (5 ha), quickly increased after protection. This study has demonstrated the effectiveness of HMMRs, suggesting a global network of such privately managed reserves could play a part in the conservation of the world's coastal resources, while alleviating financial pressure on governments.
4315192| Twenty alien species have become established in the lakes Mlaren, Vnern, Vttern and Hjlmaren. Intentional introductions include fish and the signal crayfish from North America, ornamental plants, and the Canada goose. Unintentional introductions include the crayfish plague introduced with infected crayfish, the zebra mussel, and Chinese mitten crab introduced with ballast water. The introduction of pathogens and parasites, in particular the crayfish plague, to the lakes has had the greatest environmental and socioeconomic effects and has contributed to the decimation of the indigenous noble crayfish. The stocking of brown trout and salmon with origins from different biogeographical regions has contributed to the extinction of relict indigenous fish species in L. Vnern. Although major ecosystem damage caused by the introduction of alien species, with the exception of the crayfish plague, has not occurred in the four large Swedish lakes, local problems of considerable dignity occur occasionally. 
4313002|Shortly after the Amoco Cadiz spill in 1978, the coast of Brittany in France was, once again, affected by oil pollution with the wreck of the Tanio on March 7th, 1980. The quantities discharged after this accident were not very large (about 9000 tons of Bunker C oil), but the ecological impact on the shoreline was severe, since this was the second spill within two years in the same area. The contamination of seawater and the evolution of oil after the Amoco Cadiz and Tanio spills were compared. During the following ten months hydrocarbon degradation in sediment was studied at the same sampling site under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The sedimentological factors controlling the amount of oil which a sediment can absorb and retain are briefly discussed.
23257423|Although mangroves dominated by Avicennia germinans and Rhizophora mangle are extending over 6000 ha in the Tanbi Wetland National Park (TWNP) (The Gambia), their importance for local populations (both peri-urban and urban) is not well documented. For the first time, this study evaluates the different mangrove resources in and around Banjul (i.e., timber, non-timber, edible, and ethnomedicinal products) and their utilization patterns, including the possibility of ecotourism development. The questionnaire-based results have indicated that more than 80% of peri-urban population rely on mangroves for timber and non-timber products and consider them as very important for their livelihoods. However, at the same time, urban households demonstrate limited knowledge on mangrove species and their ecological/economic benefits. Among others, fishing (including the oysterCrassostrea cf. gasar collection) and tourism are the major income-generating activities found in the TWNP. The age-old practices of agriculture in some parts of the TWNP are due to scarcity of land available for agriculture, increased family size, and alternative sources of income. The recent focus on ecotourism (i.e., boardwalk construction inside the mangroves near Banjul city) received a positive response from the local stakeholders (i.e., users, government, and non-government organizations), with their appropriate roles in sharing the revenue, rights, and responsibilities of this project. Though the guidelines for conservation and management of the TWNP seem to be compatible, the harmony between local people and sustainable resource utilization should be ascertained.
4311996|Fluorescent whitening agents are used in laundry detergents, textile finishing and dyeing, pulp and paper, and plastics and synthetic fibers. The problems of their disposal as waste and their effects on the environment have not been adequately studied. Whiteners are not carcinogenic by themselves, but when they occur together with ultraviolet radiation of wavelengths carcinogenic for the skin of animals and man, a pronounced synergistic effect may come into play.
