3881550|The heart in all mammals is composed of four separate chambers and in broad outline is very similar in monotremes, marsupials, and placental mammals. The functional anatomy of the chambers and valves of the dog's heart has been investigated by Rushmer (1961) and others. They concluded that the atria serve as reservoirs and the ventricles as reciprocating pumps, the right ventricle being a volume pump and the left ventricle a pressure pump. Similar investigations in man, horses, cattle, sheep, and goats suggest that other mammalian hearts act in the same way. However, there is a wide range of variation in heart weight relative to body weight, in heart shape, and in minor points of internal anatomy. The general contention in this paper is that these differences should be considered functionally significant unless proven otherwise. Certain morphological structures such as the valves of the posterior vena cava, Lower's tubercle, the atrial appendages, and the more extreme forms of double ventricular apex may not have functional significance. Verbal descriptive anatomy has probably reached the end of its usefulness and should be replaced with measurements. A correlation of quantitative anatomy and hemodynamics would seem to be the most promising line of future research.
3883059| 1) Large temperature differences have a measurable effect on ectothermic power consumption both at rest and during locomotion, yet this question remains to be satisfactorily addressed in ecological studies looking at optimal foraging strategy and performance. 2) Acclimation may influence the enzyme complement present in ectotherms and this could influence the energetic cost and efficiency of locomotion for ectotherms. 3) There may be an optimal temperature for ectothermic locomotion and this may vary from species to species, yet we measure power consumption during locomotion uniformly at 30C. 4) Endothermic locomotion as demonstrated by birds is temperature sensitive, as was shown by Paladino and King (1984). Although the locomotory cost may not change, thermoregulatory adaptations allow the bird to use the heat produced during locomotion in the cold to reduce thermoregulatory power requirements. 5) Avian hypothermia and inactivity is not a last ditch effort to save energy, but a strategy that allows endotherms to conserve energy reserves during inactivity or stressful environmental conditions. 
3881776|Populations of the Neodiprion abietis complex occur on firs and spruces in North America. A distinct western population on white fir differs greatly in appearance from the four eastern strains, of which two feed on balsam fir and one each on black and white spruce, respectively. Differences in developmental rates, larval survival on the various food plants, and host selection by the females supply the isolating mechanisms between the strains in the field. All populations cross-mated freely in the laboratory, and the resulting hybrids indicate the transmission of several morphological and physiological characters. It is speculated that the ancestral line of the complex fed on pine before a jump to spruce and then to balsam was made.
3884428| A G+C-rich satellite DNA (stDNA) in Gecarcinus lateralis with a repeat unit of 2.1 kbp makes up approximately 3% (16,000 copies/nucleus) of the land crab genome. We used sequences from conserved domains of the repeat unit to construct probes for exploring the possibility of the repeat units being transcribed into RNA, their distribution in genomic DNA, and their methylation status. A transcription product hybridizing with TRU-EXON, a region of the satellite bordered by possible exon splice junctions, was found only in land crabs, whereas transcription products that hybridized to 3END, a 368 bp fragment at the 3-end of the satellite, were also found in several other crustaceans. Transcription products that hybridized to AMPL-3, a probe from an amplified segment of the satellite, were not found in land crabs but were found in lobsters. In land crabs, several poly(A)+RNA transcripts that hybridized to 3END were specific for DNA strand, tissue, and intermolt stage. The diversity of transcripts suggests that transcription of the satellite is related to the organization of the repeated DNA in the crab genome, and that some satellite domains may be transcribed because of their position relative to functional genes. This observation is supported by the additional observation that the satellite is differentially methylated. Repeats organized in tandem in the satellite are methylated, whereas those interspersed in main component DNA (mcDNA) are not. Because DNA methylation is a means of silencing transcription, our results suggest that satellite sequences that are transcribed are those interpersed in mcDNA. DNA methylation patterns are also tissue-specific; of the seven tissues examined (gill, claw muscle, body muscle, limb buds, midgut gland, testis, and ovary), gill stDNA is the least methylated. The observed differences in methylation levels are not attributable to stage in the intermolt cycle or to sex. This is the first report indicating the presence of 5-methylcytosine
3883769|There exists a difference in oxygen affinity between fetal and maternal bloods in almost all vertebrates examined and this difference in affinities probably facilitates oxygen transfer to the fetus. It is likely that the high oxygen affinity of fetal blood represents a biochemical pre-adaptation from an ancestral oviparous embryo for oxygen uptake in a relatively hypoxic environment. In most cases, the maternal-fetal difference in blood oxygen affinities is due to the characteristics of the fetal red cell and not due to any changes in the adult red cell during pregnancy. These characteristics are based on the presence of a unique fetal hemoglobin with an intrinsically high affinity for oxygen or on the absence of high red cell concentrations of organic phosphates-allosteric modulators of hemoglobin function. However, in several species of snake, representing different families, it appears that pregnancy is associated with a pronounced decrease in the oxygen affinity of the adult red cell. This suggests that the blood of the pregnant female is better able to unload oxygen to the fetus than could the blood of the nonpregnant adult. The maternal-fetal difference in blood oxygen affinities in these species is probably due to the characteristics of the fetal red cell as well as to the change in the affinity of the adult cell during pregnancy. Nonetheless, although the magnitude of the pregnancy-associated change in oxygen affinity of the adult cell in these snakes suggests that it is physiologically significant, the actual significance remains to be determined.
3882696|Disparate rates of change in the surfaces and volumes of organisms with change in size combine with the interdependence of surface-limited and volume-limited functional attributes to define criteria for the size-dependency of shapes. Size contributes to the specification of types of structures required, limits to their functional range, and the scaling relationships among components of systems. Size-dependency may be stated in terms of a null hypothesis in morphology, with departures indicative of special adaptations which may be of particular interest. The study of size-dependency in shape and function is approaching a general theory of form with content comparable in scope to a general theory of diversity.
3881173|Corymorpha, like Porpita, exhibits a synchronous oral flexion, or "concert," of its proximal tentacles. As this is unlike the contractile writhings of siphonophoran zooids, the concert may be a significant character in linking the behavior of Porpita more closely to hydroids than to siphonophores. Except for this response the behavior of Corymorpha and Porpita are different. In Porpita a through-conducting system forms the only link between tentacles, whereas in Corymorpha both local and through-conducting systems connect tentacles. Corymorpha engages in rhythmic bottom-feeding using distal tentacles which have no homologue in Porpita. The mechanical properties of the musculo-skeletal system are different in the two, giving tentacle motions in Corymorpha a continuous appearance, and in Porpita a spasmodic appearance. Reduced glutathione, glycine, DL-serine, L-cysteine and L-glutamic acid can elicit a feeding response in Corymorpha. Sodium thioglycollate and sucrose elicit no response. Glycine is the most effective stimulant, ca. 5 10
3883717|Coral reefs, with their vast diversity of invertebrate, vertebrate and algal species, have undoubtedly been subjected to natural disturbance since their appearance millions of years ago. Anthropogenic disturbance has been a factor affecting reefs for a fraction of that time, yet in terms of overall impact, may be of greater concern. Data on habitat destruction, pesticide and heavy metal accumulation, nutrient loading, sedimentation, runoff and related impacts of man's activities indicate that many coastal reefs are endangered by these processes through alterations in animal-algal symbioses, shifts in competitive interactions, direct mortality, reproductive failure, and insufficient recruitment. The death of corals critically affects reef communities, as corals provide an important trophic link as well as the main habitat structure. While natural disturbance is an important factor affecting reef interactions, species diversity and evolution, chronic anthropogenic disturbances combined with unsuitable environments for recovery, are of great concern. Physiological stress can be measured in corals in addition to outright mortality, allowing the impacts of specific disturbances to be assessed. Sufficient data for distinguishing real problems from temporal variability are becoming available, allowing scientists to focus on practical solutions to problems in coral reef management and preservation.
3883233|This paper discusses the validity of hypotheses based on morphological data, and distinguishes between hypotheses, which are testable, and speculation, which is not. Specific examples from the mammalian auditory system are examined: a recently evolved, highly derived character (enlarged middle ears in desert rodents); and an older, more general character (the inner and outer hair cells of the mammalian organ of Corti). It is concluded that morphologically-based hypotheses are powerful and important when accompanied by experimental data.
3881389|Electron microscopic observations of the fine structure and ontogeny of melanin granules in various inbred strains of mice have provided new information about the origin and structure of these organelles. The general features of granule development, consisting of the aggregation of subunits into fibers and the cross-linking of these fibers to form a sheet-like matrix on which melanin is deposited, are shared by all but one of the genotypes examined. The formation of the matrix sheet is coincident with the deposition of melanin which begins at periodic intervals along the matrix sheet. The deposition of melanin continues until the details of the underlying matrix are obscured. The alleles at the B, C, and P loci alter the sequence of development of melanosomes in a manner suggesting that they are structural genes for different macromolecules contained in the subunits. This theory helps to integrate diverse observations on the origin of melanin granules and the genetic control of their fine structure. The effects of alleles at the D and Ln loci indicate that these loci alter the differentiation of the melanocyte by somehow altering the mechanisms controlling the location within the cell where matrix protein begins to be synthesized. The major effect of the Ru locus is to alter the time of onset of synthesis of melanin granules; thus, it may be a regulatory gene. These observations demonstrate the importance to cellular differentiation of genetic mechanisms that alter the expression of other genes by changing time and space relationships in protein synthesis. The A locus appears to act by altering the chemical environment in which the melanocyte of the hair follicle is differentiating. The effect of this alteration is on the aggregation of the matrix subunits which the melanocyte is producing. The altered aggregation leads to different enzymatic activity, and phaeomelanin is produced instead of eumelanin. Thus, the path along which a melanocyte from a hair follicle is differentiating may be altered at the level of aggregation of newly-synthesized protein, a fact which has interesting implications regarding embryonic induction.
3884019|Originally utilized or developed as human poisons, anticholinesterase compounds are among the most widely used pesticides in the world and non-target wildlife are frequently exposed. Because these compounds primarily act by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase at synapses within the central and peripheral nervous systems, the potential for altering physiological and behavioral responses essential for survival and reproduction in exposed animals is great. We review the effects of acute but sublethal exposure to organophosphates and carbamates on thermo-regulation (hypothermia), food consumption (anorexia and altered foraging behavior), and reproduction (altered hormone levels, reductions in clutch and litter size, and alterations in reproductive behavior), and the mechanisms believed to cause them. We believe these are the direct toxic effects most likely to reduce populations of free-living birds and mammals within treated areas. Data from studies of captive birds and laboratory mammals and free-living individuals given controlled dosages are included with an emphasis on information published within the last 5 years. The limitations of existing data for determining the biological and regulatory significance of these effects are discussed.
3881175|The contraction reponse of hydra to intermittent light stimulation may be inhibited by exposing the animal to reduced glutathione (GSH). Such inhibitory activity is dependent on: (1) the concentration of GSH; (2) the pH of the medium; (3) previous exposure to GSH; and (4) the nutritional state of the animal. Hydra adapt to 10
3884126|Sex determination and sex differentiation are two separate but related phenomena. Sex differentiation is a programmed cascade of events in which the indifferent gonad develops as a testis or an ovary with the appropriate urogenital and secondary sex characters. Sex determination is the event that sets this cascade in motion. In placental mammals, there is good evidence that sex is determined by a gene on the Y chromosome (SRY) that initiates testis formation. In the absence of SRY an ovary develops. There are, however, examples of placental mammals that develop as normal males with no detectable SRY. In reptiles, sex differentiation appears to be similar to mammals (i.e., the same genes and hormones act in a similar manner), but sex determination is clearly very different. Ovarian differentiation in placental mammals can occur in the absence of estrogen or an estrogen receptor. Ovarian differentiation in reptiles requires the presence of estrogen. In the absence of estrogen a testis develops. In TSD reptiles, embryos will develop as females when treated with estrogen even if eggs are incubated at male-inducing temperatures, and conversely, will develop as males when estrogen synthesis is blocked in eggs incubated at female-inducing temperatures. A number of other genes have also been shown to be important in mammalian sex determination. One of these genes, Sox9, which is expressed in differentiating mouse testis, has recently been found to be expressed in embryonic reptile testis. Other genes that appear to be common to both mammals and reptiles in the sex determining cascade are SF-1, MIH, and possibly DAX-1. Current research is now focused on how the gene that produces the enzyme necessary for estrogen synthesis (aromatase) is regulated in the embryos of reptiles with genetic or environmental sex determination. Controversial issues in reptilian sex determination are 1) the role of the brain in gonadal sex determination, and 2) the role of steroid hormones in the yolk prior to sex determination.
3883444|Pain and cognitive dissonance abounds amongst biologists: the plant-animal, botany-zoology wound has nearly healed and the new gash-revealed by department and budget reorganizations-is "molecular" vs. "organismic" biology. Here I contend that resolution of these tensions within zoology requires that an autopoietic-gaian view replace a mechanical-neodarwinian perspective; in the interest of brevity and since many points have been discussed elsewhere, rather than develop detailed arguments I must make staccato statements and refer to a burgeoning literature. The first central concept is that animals, all organisms developing from blastular embryos, evolved from single protist cells that were unable to reproduce their undulipodia. The second points to the usefulness of recognizing the analogy between cyclically established symbioses and meiotic sexuality.
3884209|The sea urchin embryo is known to show considerable powers of regulation. This developmental plasticity has been taken to indicate that many of the early events of determination are a result of cell interactions. We inquire here whether such interactions do in fact occur during normal development, what is their character, and possible mechanisms of these interactions. Attempts from our laboratory to answer these questions will be reviewed. Experiments in which marked cells are recombined with one another confirm the remarkable plasticity of the animal hemisphere cells of these early embryos. The effect of vegetal cells other than micromeres is to suppress formation of gut and spicules in animal hemisphere cells. Micromeres differentiate into spicules in any location and stimulate animal cells to form gut. Li ion stimulates the formation of gut and spicules in cells from the animal hemisphere. Experiments with phorbol esters and myo-inositol support the idea that the inositol tris phosphate second messenger cycle, acting on protein kinase C, is a key component of these cell interactions.
3884393|Many organisms whose body temperatures ( T
3882695|This essay presents a method for measuring the degree to which one biological outline form lies in between two others. The procedure does not measure forms separately, but rather compares pairs of tensors expressing D'Arcy Thompson's "Cartesian transformations" according to the biorthogonal formalism of Bookstein. In analogy with conventional methods, betweenness is computed as a similarity score, the cosine of a non-Euclidean angle between the tensors. The new quantities, size-betweenness and shape-betweenness, enable comparisons of form series against a priori orderings intra- and interspecifically.
3881334|Six varieties of Leishmaniasis are briefly described, namely, visceral leishmaniasis, oriental sore, Chiclero's ulcer, Panamanian cutaneous leishmaniasis, mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, and Uta. The natural foci of these disease are described, and the evolution of each infection from its original location in the animal reservoir to total humanisation is followed. In the main, the wild canidae form the reservoir of the visceral diseases, and rodents of the cutaneous form. Many fallacies exist in the interpretation of what constitutes a zoonosis in leishmaniasis, and each situation must be looked at very carefully to ascertain the precise epidemiology. The control measures depend entirely upon a correct assessment of the position.
3882931|Melanophores, xanthophores, and iridophores are fundamentally distinct chromatophores in their appearance, composition, and function. All migrate from their neural crest site of origin to populate the integument. Their respective pigments, melanins, pteridines, and purines are found in organelles designated respectively as melanosomes, pterinosomes and reflecting platelets. These organelles are all derived from an endoplasmic reticular vesicle. This is in keeping with a hypothesis about the common origin of pigment cells from a stem cell containing a primordial organelle with the potential of becoming any of the circumscribed pigmentary organelles. It is believed that chromatoblasts may not be specifically determined until they reach a final destination where they will differentiate in accordance with a pattern already specified in the integument. In leopard frogs, it appears that the initial induction of pattern in the skin is general, but later it becomes highly specific.
3882955|Analyses of papers published in General and Comparative Endocrinology from 1961 to 1981 were made from several aspects. Number of papers published has increased year after year. Molluscan endocrinology papers have increased and overtaken annelid publications. During the past 20 yr studies using crustaceans and insects have comprised 25-50% of all endocrine research on invertebrate groups. Papers on protochordates, elasmobranchs, and cyclostomes are few but constant in number, indicating that these three groups are important from phylogenic aspects. Studies on birds and teleosts have increased, while those on amphibians have decreased. Biochemical techniques were employed in 50% of all publications in this journal. Radioimmunoassay has replaced autoradiography. Immunohistochemistry increased in popularity. Studies on the pars distalis and gonads are predominant among all endocrine organs. Research at the molecular level is decreasing, but is increasing at the organismal level. Research at the organismal level may be characteristic of comparative endocrinology. Largely through the initiative of Aubrey Gorbman, General and Comparative Endocrinology was first published in 1961, and the International Committee of the Symposium on Comparative Endocrinology was formed in 1957. Gorbman has produced many students. His original and important contributions are in diversified areas: thyroid physiology and its evolution, hormones and the brain and behavior, cyclostome endocrinology and neurosecretory systems in lower vertebrates. In addition, he has influenced investigators through his ideas of evolution. He has had particular impact on the development of comparative endocrinology in Japan.
3881602|Snails are vectors of several important diseases and parasites of man, especially schistosomiasis. They can be killed with chemicals such as copper chloride, sodium pentachlorophenate, organic tin derivatives, or niclosamide. Biological control methods include the use of predators such as crayfish, leeches, other snails, ducks, or geese, and the use of parasites such as nematodes and certain Protozoa. Management practices have also been recommended. These include cleaning ditches, building them with concrete sides or covering them so that plants - the food of snails - will not grow in them, or draining ditches periodically to kill the snails. However, some molluscicides may kill the nitrogen-fixing algae which help fertilize rice paddies, and thermal pollution may raise the temperature of streams and estuaries in the temperate zone enough so that tropical and subtropical schistosomes may be able to propagate. More research is needed to develop the ideal methods of controlling snails.
3881403|Two aspects of metabolic adaptation to increased terrestrialism are considered: (1) respiratory adaptations as reflected by comparative cytochrome c oxidase activity in tissues of crabs from aquatic and terrestrial habitats, and (2) thermal acclimation patterns in cytochrome c oxidase activity in tissues from these crabs. Enzymatic assays were done spectrophotometrically on gill, muscle, and mid-gut gland tissues from two aquatic species, Libinia emarginata and Callinectes spidus, and the terrestrial Ocypode quadrata. Cytochrome c oxidase was chosen for this study since it is generally believed that the more aerobic the cells or tissues become, the more fully developed the cytochrome system will be. This enzyme is also thought to have a role in thermal acclimation. In gill tissue the activity of cytochrome c oxidase is enhanced with the advent of aerial respiration. Enzymatic activity of gill tissue from Ocypode quadrata was significantly greater than it was in tissue from the aquatic species. No correlation was observed with increased terrestrialism and enzymatic activity of muscle or mid-gut gland tissue. The thermal acclimation patterns of tissues of these three species of crabs indicate a clear-cut tendency for less enzymatic adaptation to temperature at the tissue level as these crabs evolve toward a land habitat.
3882807| Along a line of the four nemertean orders, Archi-, Palaeo-, Hetero-, and Hoplonemertea established by Iwata, formation of the foregut is described in detail on the basis of data hitherto recorded. The axiality of the egg, larva and adult worm of a species may change as a function of foregut morphogenesis in the embryo. During foregut formation the mouth moves from the vegetal pole to the ventral side of the body. In Archinemertea, the larva has an angle of 60 formed by the long axis of the body and the foregut, while in Palaeonemertea the angle is 45. This relationship is retained in the adult. The placement of the mouth thus obtained in the larva and adult worm seems to be important for the systematics of the Nemertea, especially for the Archinemertea and Palaeonemertea. 
3883583| Hemoglobins, found in members of almost all invertebrate phyla, display an extraordinary diversity of form and function. Although some are intracellular with chains and assemblies similar in size to those of vertebrates, others are giant extracellular proteins with masses as large as 8,000 kilodaltons. Two very different strategies have evolved for the stabilization of these large molecules. The first is the formation of both intra- and inter-chain disulfide bonds that effectively immobilize segments of the protein, and the second is the evolution by gene duplication of multi-domain chains with from two to eighteen myoglobin-like, heme-containing domains in a single polypeptide that may be as large as 260 kilodaltons. The genes for vertebrate globins have a characteristic two-intron, three-exon structure. The gene encoding chain c of the hemoglobin of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris has precisely the same organization and splice junction positions. This shows that these positions have been conserved for at least 600 million years, the estimated time of divergence of annelids and the ancestor to chordates. The gene encoding a hemoglobin (leghemoglobin) of higher plants shows exactly the same splice junctions as in the globin genes of vertebrates except that the middle exon is split by an additional intron which is believed to have been lost early in animal evolution. The occurrence of hemoglobins in diverse higher plants suggests that they might be present in all plants albeit at very low concentrations and perhaps serving an enzymatic function. Hemoglobin, broadly defined as a heme-containing protein capable of reversibel combination with oxygen, also occurs in bacteria and fungi. The discovery of a bacterial hemoglobin that is 26% identical with lupin leghemoglobin indicates a procaryotic origin. The possibility that hemoglobin may have evolved from a cytochrome is suggested by the presence of hemoglobins in the yeast, Candida, and the bacterium, Alcaligenes, that contain both heme and flavin. They must therefore have evolved by the fusion of the genes for two different proteins. However, the possible homology of the heme domains with plant or animal hemoglobins remains to be determined. The lactic dehydrogenase of yeast, cytochrome b
3884008|The biological world is full of systems whose component parts interact in a coupled non-linear fashion. As a result, studying any component of the system in isolation may not be representative of its natural behavior due to the coupling, and predicting the behavior of the entire system as a function of variation in any one parameter may be quite difficult due to the non-linear nature of the interactions. Swimming with whole body undulations is just such a system. The component parts of the swimming-system (muscle, skeleton, soft-tissue, and the surrounding fluid), are mechanically and physiologically coupled in a strongly non-linear manner. Therefore, to predict the outcome of the entire system, i.e., swimming behavior, or to understand the role any one component plays as a determinant of the outcome, a mechanistic approach encompassing the form of the component's interactions is required. This approach is essential for developing scaling arguments, or discussing the consequences of morphological and physiological variation on behavioral and evolutionary "performance." Below I outline an example of this method: a simplistic model of the mechanical interactions between the swimming-system components of a leech. The model is based on in vitro characterizations of these components and first principle descriptions of their interactions. Solving the model's governing equations generates swimming behavior in the model organism. In addition, the model can predict the behavior of the swimming-system's component parts, allowing calculations of swimming performance and parameter variation not possible with other approaches.
3882365|Middle and inner ear structure and auditory sensitivity have been studied in all five genera of the rodent family Heteromyidae. In the most xeric genera (Dipodomys and Microdipodops) the middle ears are greatly inflated, the tympano-ossicular system very efficient, the organ of Corti extremely modified, and low-frequency sensitivity extremely acute. In the most mesic genera (Heteromys and Liomys) the middle and inner ears show few modifications and the low-frequency sensitivity is rather poor. Perognathus is intermediate in habitat, structure, and low-frequency sensitivity. Experimental data demonstrate that the low-frequency sensitivity in Dipodomys is adaptive in predator avoidance.
3882312|Many sex differences in the regulation of reproductive function in rats are the result of a differentiation of the brain which occurs neonatally. Although injections of either androgens or estrogens are capable during the neonatal period of altering hypothalamic systems involved in reproductive behavior and gonadotropin regulation, the physiological role of each type of hormone has not been clearly established. In both sexes, circulating estrogens are normally kept from interacting with estrogen receptors in the limbic brain by the high levels of alpha-fetoprotein in the blood. The local aromatization of androgens in the brain could circumvent alpha-fetoprotein, since androgens do not bind to this serum protein. The "aromatization hypothesis" states that testosterone, which is abundant in neonatal male circulation but absent in females, is locally converted to estradiol in the limbic brain. There it binds to estrogen receptor proteins to produce tissue differentiation. The ontogeny of estradiol binding proteins in limbic areas is consistent with the aromatization hypothesis, with a rapid increase in receptor levels occurring shortly after birth. Also, the presence of endogenous estradiol-receptor complexes has been demonstrated in the cell nuclei of male neonates but not female neonates. Furthermore, the presence of estradiol binding proteins in other regions of the neonatal male and female brain suggests an additional role of estradiol, unknown as of yet. Several studies with agents which block the aromatization of androgens to estrogens or the binding of estrogens to their receptors are consistent with the aromatization hypothesis, since these agents prevent the differentiation of intact neonatal males. However, specific androgen binding proteins are also present in neonatal brains, and androgen-receptor complexes can be found in cell nuclei of neonates after an injection of tritiated androgen. The possible involvement of these receptors in sexual differentiation of the brain is suggested by the finding that an antiandrogen inhibits both the binding of androgens (but not estrogens) and the differentiation of males.
3882300|Following the isolation, synthesis and subsequent development of specific and sensitive radioimmunoassays for the hypothalamic hormones thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) and growth hormone release-inhibiting hormone (somatostatin), it was recognized that these peptides were not localized solely in the hypothalamus, but were widely distributed throughout the mammalian nervous system. Somatostatin occurs outside the nervous system altogether, being located in the gastrointestinal tract of vertebrates where it may have a physiologic role in the secretion of gastrointestinal hormones. TRH, also, has been located outside the nervous system, occurring in large quantities in the skin of Rana species where it may be of physiologic importance in skin function. This tripeptide is found throughout the nervous system of vertebrate and invertebrate species in situations where it has no pituitary-thyroid function. These peptides are present in brain synaptosomes and enzymatic degrading systems have been recognized for each in brain tissue. For TRH, specific receptors and synthesizing activity have been detected outside the hypothalamic-pituitary system. The anatomic location, phylogenetic distribution, neurophysiologic and behavioral effects strongly support a role for these substances in neuronal regulation, apart from control of pituitary secretion. Evolutionary studies, especially of TRH, suggest that their primary function may be as neurotransmitters.
3884458|Much attention has been paid to the role of developmental information in estimating phylogenetic relationships and, more recently, to the use of phylogenies in understanding the evolution of development. At the moment, however, we lack a sufficiently general theory connecting phylogenetic patterns of character evolution to properties of developmental systems. Here we outline a simple model relating homoplasy to the rate of character change and the number of evolvable states, both of which may reflect developmental constraints. Given a particular rate of character change, the fewer the evolvable states the more homoplasy is expected, and vice versa. The repeated evolution of a limited number of forms of bilateral flower symmetry may reflect constraints imposed by overall flower orientation and underlying mechanisms of differentiation.
3882464|Cladistic analysis of free-living soil nematodes of the Leptonchoidea (Nematoda: Dorylaimida) resulted in groupings different from those obtained by traditional methods. We can interpret distributions of species groups obtained by phyletic analysis in relation to plate tectonic events. Similar techniques are applicable to plant parasitic nematodes. Grouping on the basis of synapomorphies produced a cladogram of genera of the family Heteroderidae (Nematoda: Tylenchida) in which Meloidodera and Cryphodera appear to be the most ancestral genera and the cyst forming genera the most derived. A cladogram of groups of species in Heterodera sensu lato showed a major division, with the round cyst nematodes and the Cacti group in one grouping and the rest of the Heterodera species in the second. I interpret present-day distributions by a strict vicariance view and suggest potential falsifiers; and also discuss ancient dispersal routes as alternative ways of thinking about nematode distribution.
3882757|Virtually all animals swim unsteadily. They oscillate appendages, undulate, and produce periodic propulsive forces so that the velocity of some part of their bodies changes in time. Because of their unsteady motion, animals experience a fluid force in addition to drag-the acceleration reaction. The acceleration reaction dominates the forces resisting rapid accelerations of animals and may be responsible for generating thrust in oscillating appendages and undulating bodies. The ever-present unsteady nature of animal swimming implies diverse applications of the acceleration reaction.
3881854|The enteric plexuses of the automatic nervous system may be considered, on the basis of both function and morphology, to be a simple integrative nervous system of vertebrate animals. Microelectrode studies of single-unit activity within enteric ganglia reveal four distinct types of ganglion cells distinguished on the basis of pattern of spike discharge. These are (i) burst-type units which spontaneously discharge bursts of spikes at periodic intervals; (ii) fast- and slowly-adapting mechanoreceptors; (iii) tonic-type units which respond to mechanical stimulation with prolonged, all-or-nothing trains of spikes; (iv) single-spike units which spontaneously discharge single action potentials at variable intervals. The enteric plexuses are adapted for control of the intestinal musculature which behaves as an electrical syncytium activated by myogenic pacemaker potentials. The mechanism of neural control is integration of continuous neurogenic inhibition of the inherently excitable musculature.
3882866|Deep ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm excised from gastrulating amphibian embryos spontaneously undergo liquid-like movements in organ culture. Cell populations of these tissues on nonadhesive substrata will round up into spheres, spread over one another and segregate (sort out) from one another just as immiscible liquid droplets do. In ordinary liquids, movements like these are controlled by surface tensions; perhaps surface tensions also control the similar movements of liquid-like tissues. One necessary condition for tissue surface tension analysis is that the tissue must be able (just as ordinary liquids are able) to spontaneously relax internal stretching forces (shear stresses). When cellular aggregates of the germ layers were deformed by gentle compression between parallel glass plates, cells within the aggregates were initially stretched. However, the cells soon returned to their original undistorted shapes. Thus, cell stretching forces were gradually relaxed by cell rearrangements. The in vitro spreading movements of the deep germ layers imply that the surface tension of ectoderm should be greater than the surface tension of mesoderm which should be greater than the surface tension of endoderm. Quantitative measurements of tissue surface tensions made by parallel plate compression confirm precisely that relationship. Furthermore, the surface tensions of these tissues remain constant regardless of the amount of aggregate flattening-another necessary condition for valid surface tension measurements. These results demonstrate that amphibian deep germ layers possess fundamental liquid properties which are sufficient to direct their liquid-like rearrangements in organ culture. Furthermore, I also report that one of these properties, surface tension, displays a preliminary correlation with density of cell surface charge (assessed by electrophoretic mobility) and with the onset of in vivo mesodermal involution.
3883329|Axial muscles used for oscillatory swimming are found not only in fish and other vertebrates but also in some protochordates and invertebrates. Chaetognaths have unsegmented locomotor musculature with some unusual features, but larvacean tunicates and the tadpole larvae of ascidians show the simplest variant of the chordate segmented axial muscle arrangement for flexing a notochordal column, where all muscle cells along one side are electrically coupled. With amphioxus, the basic fish myotomal layout is established, with two main fibre types probably used for different patterns of swimming (as in fish). There are, however, several unique features, including the flattened fibre shape and the paramyosin system of the notochord. Agnatha have two fibre types in the myotomes, a third type perhaps being a developmental stage in the ontogeny of fast fibres. In lampreys, the central fibres of the characteristic fibre sandwiches in the myotomes are flattened (though less so than in amphioxus); they have a dual innervation of unknown function seen also in the fast fibre system of many Gnathostome fish groups. Hagfish fast fibres are not flattened nor do they have a dual innervation. Gnathostome fish axial muscles are strikingly uniform in design with two possible exceptions: (1) higher teleost fast fibres which, unlike those of other groups, are multiply-innervated and (2) tonic fibres in a few fish, which seem not to be involved in locomotion.
3883117|This article summarizes the role of cell contact in regulation of gene expression in the neural retina. It reviews evidence that contact-dependent communication between Muller glia cells and neurons, mediated by cell-membrane molecules, plays an important role in the expression and stability of the phenotype of Muller glia cells. Disruption of glia-neuron cell contacts and continued cell separation elicit changes in the glia cells that lead to their transformation into lens-like (lentoidal) cell type. It is proposed that, deprivation of normal contacts with neurons brings about changes in the cell membrane of the glia cell which are signalled internally and result in altered gene expression and phenotype modification.
3882646|Mechanisms of two constituent steps of the hatching process, i.e., secretion of hatching enzyme from the gland cells and enzymatic choriolysis, in the Medaka, Oryzias latipes, are described. The ultrastructural changes of the hatching gland cells occurring at the initiation of electrically induced secretion as well as of natural secretion were the swelling of each gland cell and the separation of joints of the epithelial cells covering the gland cells, followed by a resultant exposure of the apical part of the gland cells. These changes, though their triggering mechanisms are not sufficiently clarified, suggest an intervention of some mechanical stimuli in the initiation of secretion. Decrease in electron density of the secretory granules also occurred immediately prior to the initiation of secretion. The secreted hatching enzyme was found to dissolve the inner layer of chorion by attacking the scleroprotein of the inner layer at some restricted sites and liberating a group of soluble glycoproteins of high molecular weights. This selective digestion appears to be the reason why choriolysis proceeds efficiently during a short period of time at hatching.
3883473|Many species of insects exhibit wing dimorphism, one morph having fully developed wings and the other morph having reduced wings and being incapable of flight. These wing dimorphisms provide visible manifestations of migratory polymorphisms. Since winged individuals do not, in principle, have to fly, the existence of forms with reduced wings suggests that there is a tradeoff between flight capability and other fitness components. Comparisons of the life histories of the fully winged and wing reduced morphs demonstrate that this tradeoff is most commonly expressed as a decrease in the age of first reproduction and increased fecundity in the morph with reduced wings. Given these tradeoffs, the evolution of wing dimorphism will depend upon its genetic basis, including correlations with other life history components. A review of the recent literature suggests that the heritability of wing morphology is high, and we suggest that this high heritability could be maintained, in part, by antagonistic pleiotropy. In dimorphic species, the winged morph is generally considered to be the migrant form. However, there are significant correlations, both within and among species, between the proportion of winged individuals, the proportion of winged individuals with functional flight muscles, and the flight propensity of those individuals. This suggests that the proportion of winged individuals and the propensity of the winged morph to migrate are intimately connected at both the physiological and population level. Therefore, the study of the evolution of wing dimorphism is important not only in its own right but also as a model of how migratory propensity evolves in monomorphically winged species.
3883974|At Eastern Pacific hydrothermal vents, alvinellid polychaetes are among the first metazoans to colonize newly formed surfaces of sulfide chimneys. In this environment of rapid mineral precipitation, alvinellids are confronted by steep physico-chemical gradients and high temporal variability. This paper examines the interaction of alvinellids with chimney mineralization processes and then reviews what is known of mechanisms that could enable these worms to deal with potentially toxic levels of sulfide in their environment. Studies of sulfide chimneys consistently show mineralogy to be locally modified around alvinellid tubes. This may be linked to sulfide oxidation products that accumulate in tube material or to the circulation of seawater through the tube. At high worm densities, these local effects may have a significant influence on larger scale sulfide accretion processes that determine chimney morphology. Alvinellid polychaetes may have several lines of defense against sulfide. Tubes and mucous layers could act as passive barriers to reduce inward diffusion of sulfide across posterior surfaces. Colonization of epidermal and tube surfaces by bacteria that might be sulfide oxidizing, could create an active external barrier in some species. Sulfide oxidation by tissue homogenates has been demonstrated in two Paralvinella species, where it may serve to protect oxidative respiration from sulfide entering worm tissues. Sulfide binding in blood has not been studied in any of the alvinellids.
3884129|The day 13-14 chicken embryo is a useful model for studies on prenatal stress responses. Free dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine in its plasma, amniotic and allantoic fluid respond to a variety of stresses. The allantoic fluid also contains conjugated catecholamines and conjugated steroids. However, a blood/allantois barrier excludes free thyroid hormones and free steroids, and insulin. On the other hand, the allantoic fluid contains at least 40 amino acids (including six excitatory amino acids) and related compounds. Most, possibly all, components of the allantoic fluid are regulated at specific blood/allantois and amnion/allantois barriers, and they respond to ethanol stress and metabolite loading differentially. The avian allantois is a depot for important metabolites and messenger substances which seems to be controlled by as yet unidentified hormones.
3883881|A study of common snapping turtles conducted from 1975 through 1992 in southeastern Michigan provided sufficient demographic data to examine how life history characteristics may constrain population responses of long-lived organisms. Females reached sexual maturity between 11 and 16 years of age. Minimum reproductive frequency was less than annual (0.85), and nest survivorship over 17 years ranged from 0 to 64% and averaged 23%. Survivorship of yearlings had to be estimated since hatchlings can pass through the mesh on traps. Actual survivorship of juveniles was over 0.65 by age 2 and averaged 0.77 between the ages of 2 and 12 years. Annual survivorship of adult females ranged from 0.88 to 0.97. A life table for the population resulted in a cohort generation time of 25 years. Population stability was most sensitive to changes in adult or juvenile survival, and less sensitive to changes in age at sexual maturity, nest survival or fecundity. An increase in annual mortality of 0.1 on adults over 15 years of age with no density-dependent compensation would halve the number of adults in less than 20 years. The results from the present study indicate that life history traits of long-lived organisms consist of co-evolved traits that severely constrain the ability of populations to respond to chronic disturbances. Successful management and conservation programs for long-lived organisms will be those that recognize that protection of all life stages is necessary. Without protection of adults and older juveniles, programs that protect nests and headstart hatchlings have a low probability of success. Carefully managed sport harvests of turtles or other long-lived organisms may be sustainable; however, commercial harvests will certainly cause substantial population declines.
3882032|The nature and rate of gas exchange in intertidal organisms is variable and is the product of an extremely complex environmental situation. Such influences may be grouped into tidal-dependent factors such as the proportion of time spent exposed to air, the magnitude of environmental temperature fluctuations, and the availability of food. Factors which may be regarded as generally operating independently of tidal level include latitudinal variations in environmental temperature. Superimposed upon such spatial environmental variations are seasonal factors such as temperature and photoperiod, which impose a temporal cycle upon the metabolic rate. Finally, there are numerous endogenous factors such as body size, activity level, and stage of development which profoundly influence the rate of respiration. It can be shown that some factors, such as aerial or aquatic conditions, may affect respiration qualitatively. Under aquatic conditions gas exchange is with the surrounding sea water, but with increasing exposure to air intertidal invertebrates are able to respire aerially and to withstand the water loss associated with this process. Many are also able to respire anaerobically under conditions of stress. In contrast, factors such as activity level, body size, nutritional conditions, and exposure temperature affect respiration quantitatively and are often interdependent. The metabolism of intertidal animals is then endowed with considerable flexibility between the extremes set by the active and standard rates of respiration. This active rate of respiration is markedly temperature-dependent in most instances, whereas the standard rate, which is characteristic of quiescent animals, is not only lower but often has a low temperature coefficient. A reduction in respiration conserves metabolic reserves during periods of stress, and the low temperature coefficient further minimizes depletion of such reserves despite the high environmental temperatures which often prevail during the intertidal period.
3881493| Sticky silk from webs of the spiders, Uloborus diversus and Filistata arizonicus, were examined by electron microscopy. The silk of U. diversus contains long fibrils, 200-300  in diameter, consisting of an electron-dense central filament, 30-60  across, embedded in a lighter matrix. Transverse banding is distinguished in the matrix at intervals from over 200 to less than 50 . Similar features are observed in the silk of F. arizonicus. Extended fibrils have an altered structure. 
3884299|Crustaceans have the remarkable ability to regenerate limbs. Unlike insects, crustaceans also continue to increase in body size with age, and new limb regeneration must occur in concert with the growth and reproductive activities of the adult. In the fiddler crab, Uca pugilator, regeneration consists of the formation of a blastema (limb primordium) from cells migrating into the site of the wound. Over a time course related to the physiology and growth cycle of the animal, these cells proliferate and differentiate into an intact miniature limb, which will then increase in size and emerge as a functional appendage with the next molting of the body exoskeleton. In arthropods, changes in gene expression mediating both growth (e.g., cuticular molting) and differentiation (e.g., insect metamorphosis) are regulated by ecdysteroids. We hypothesize that ecdysteroids and their receptors are also involved in the regulation of limb regeneration in crabs. To investigate this hypothesis, clones representing the crustacean ecdysteroid receptor have been isolated and are providing the basis for the development of nucleic acid and immunological probes to identify, at the tissue level, the pattern of receptor expression relative to changes in hormone titer during all stages of regeneration. In support of this hypothesis, we have detected the expression of the nuclear receptor genes encoding the ecdysteroid receptor at the earliest stages of blastemal development. We have also shown that receptor transcript synthesis can be influenced by external factors (retinoid exposure) which disrupt Uca blastemal differentiation. These studies allow us to identify and characterize putative ecdysteroid target tissues. They begin to address the goal of defining how a common signal (e.g., circulating hormones) can influence a variety of discrete developmental programs.
3882767|The role of carbonic anhydrase (CA) in ion transport processes of aquatic and terrestrial arthropod species is reviewed. In both insects and crustaceans CA is found in a variety of ion transporting tissues. The bulk of CA activity in crustaceans is concentrated in the posterior gills, which are morphologically and biochemically adapted for ion transport. The enzyme can be specifically localized to gill lamellae which contain large populations of salt transporting chloride cells. Enzyme activity in the posterior gills of species having the ability to regulate blood ion concentrations increases when these organisms are acclimated to environmental salinities in which they ion regulate. In stenohaline, ion conforming species branchial CA activity is uniformly low, being only 5-10% that in regulating species. Studies on the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, using the specific CA inhibitor acetazolamide have shown that the enzyme is indeed important in blood ion regulation. Blood Na
3882311|We have demonstrated and partially characterized putative estrogen and androgen receptors from mouse hypothalamus for a range of perinatal ages. For the first time, estrogen and androgen receptors from embryonic mouse and rat hypothalamus are described and characterized; they display similar parameters as the receptor proteins of adult mice and rats. The ontogeny of these proteins is discussed in the context of models for the control of the "critical period" of sexual differentiation of the brain. The androgen-binding proteins, presumed to be receptors, are compared for hypothalamus and kidney and for the androgen-resistant mutant mouse, testicular feminization (Tfm). The putative receptor forms that are observed help to define the possible function of brain androgen receptors during sexual differentiation. Development and modification of DNA-cellulose chromatography for the affinity separation of steroid receptors of brain is described. The methods allow complete separations of receptor proteins from non-receptor, steroid-binding proteins and subsequent analysis of the resultant receptors.
3881616|In reptiles, there is adequate evidence to indicate environmental control of the ovarian cycle through hypothalamic pathways and the subsequent release of tropic hormone (s) from the anterior pituitary. The role of the pineal-parietal complex still remains to be elucidated. In the hypothalamus there appear to be steroid sensitive areas, and both progesterone and estrogen appear to have important feedback influences upon gonadal growth, ovulation, and ovarian steroid production. Cytological studies of the reptilian pituitary indicate similar cell types to those observed in mammalian pituitaries, but thus far, two gonadotrophs cannot be identified with any certainty. Chemical and biological studies of the action of mammalian gonadotropins suggest that in reptiles hormones which are FSH-like in mammals are able to stimulate gonadal development, ovulation, and steroid biosynthesis under certain conditions. Preliminary studies of the chemistry of turtle gonadotropins have so far demonstrated only one active principle, which is chemically similar to mammalian LH, but is far more active than the latter hormone in reptilian systems. Further, the hormone also has FSH-like activity in the reptile. Thus, reptilian gonadal development can be stimulated by treatment with a variety of mammalian gonadotropins. Recent studies have indicated an important role for growth hormone, acting in concert with gonadotropin and estrogen in the regulation of vitellogenesis and ovarian growth. Prolactin appears to be an antigonadal agent in reptiles, as does progesterone. The exact manner in which these hormones exert their antigonadal action remains to be clarified, but at least one site of action is the central nervous system; other sites may be the liver and the fat depot. Ovarian tissue from reptiles is able to synthesize and secrete steroid hormones by pathways similar to those present in mammalian ovaries. Circulating levels of estrogen have not been measured, but progesterone levels in the blood show distinct changes associated with pregnancy and the presence of corpora lutea in the ovary.
3883953|The primitive, or ancestral reproductive mode for Recent amphibians involves a complex, biphasic life history. Yet evolutionarily derived, alternate modes are seen in all three living orders and predominate in some clades. Analysis of the consequences and mechanistic bases of one such mode-direct development-can provide insights into the evolutionary opportunities and constraints conferred by the ancestral metamorphic ontogeny. Direct development in the anuran genus Eleutherodactylus involves fundamental alterations to many features of embryonic and posthatching development. At hatching, young emerge as fully formed, albeit tiny versions of the adult; most larval features are absent. Pervasive changes in ontogenetic timing, in particular the precocious (embryonic) formation of many adult structures, appear to be correlated with early development of the thyroid axis, although responsiveness to exogenous thyroid hormone is diminished or even lacking in at least some peripheral tissues. Changes in cranial patterning are likely mediated by the embryonic neural crest, although many gross features of crest biology are highly conserved. Laboratory-based analyses of direct development and other derived reproductive modes in amphibians, using contemporary methods developed for more standard, "model" organisms, may contribute important insights into life-history evolution that complement those derived from analyses of morphology, ecology and phylogeny.
3883081|Two points are evident from a review of the literature describing feeding territoriality in aquatic insects. First, feeding territoriality is much more common in this group than was previously recognized. Second, most of the examples involve species that have small foraging areas and harvest rapidly renewing resources, such as filterable particles and attached microalgae. To interpret these patterns, I discuss how the net benefits of territorial defense vary as a function of several components of food availability. I present the results of recent laboratory and field experiments testing cost-benefit models that predict patterns of territory size and defense frequency. Feeding-territory size in grazing caddisfly larvae increases with the resident's body size and is inversely related to food abundance, which agrees with the predictions of several models of optimal territory size. Two kinds of stream insects that rely on food items delivered by water currents (i.e., surface-feeding water striders and filter-feeding larval black flies) respond to increases in food abundance by reducing their allocation of time to territorial defense. In black flies, complex interactions between competitor density and food abundance also influence the amount of time spent defending a territory. I consider several connections between territorial behavior and interspecific competition. The distribution and abundance of both territorial species and their competitors may depend in part upon how the costs and benefits of feeding territoriality vary along resource abundance gradients. The tendency of some territorial grazers to settle preferentially near conspecifics may occur because animals living in groups exclude interspecific competitors more efficiently than isolated individuals, which suggests some simple tests of optimal group size models. I conclude by summarizing the strengths and weaknesses of these study systems, both as a source of new and broader theories of feeding territoriality, and as a testing ground for those theories. An important strength of these consumer-resource systems is the ability to conduct realistic experimental studies examining the causes and consequences of territoriality. One important weakness is the lack of information on the time-energy budgets of these insects. The acquisition of such information deserves a high priority, since it will permit more rigorous tests of cost-benefit models that evaluate the adaptive significance of territorial behavior.
3883317|The sarcoplasmic reticulum is the intracellular membrane system in skeletal muscle fibers which regulates the Ca
3882153|A comparative analysis of the known types of homoeotic mutants in insects uncovers the existence of invariants in the homoeotic transformations. Mutations change individual segments and individual compartments into one another leaving other developmental coordinates unchanged. Clonal analysis of some favorable mutants shows that the homoeotically transformed organ or region (allotype) and the organ or region it mimics (telotype) are developmentally identical. From this it is concluded that the function of the wildtype allele is to repress the developmental characteristic of the telotype in the affected organ or region (autotype). Since homoeotic mutations are specific to compartments and double mutants show an additive effect, it is concluded that their wildtype genes act in a combinatorial way, defining a given developmental pathway. The establishment and maintenance of a given step in this pathway may be affected by mutations in different loci. Genetic and developmental analyses of these mutations suggest that they are related in a sequence of regulatory steps. The consideration of these findings leads to an operational model for explaining genetic control of developmental pathways during ontogenesis and evolution.
3884072|Crayfish are the dominant macrocrustacean in many aquatic ecosystems and are the largest crustacean aquacultural industry in the United States, yet we know relatively little about their preferred and nutritionally important foods, as well as their ability to utilize those foods. This review focuses on the ability of crayfish to detect foods, reduce food particle size, digest macronutrients and the control of those functions. Of particular interest are the enzymatic capabilities of crayfish, especially trypsin, an alkaline protease, cellulase, muramidase, and possibly chitinase and chitobiase. The coordinated neural control of crayfish food location, ingestion and movement has been well documented, while hormonal control mechanisms have not. The conclusion we must draw from our current state of knowledge is that crayfish have ample abilities to taste and locate potential foods and enzymatic adaptations developed in crayfish that allow use of many of the foods they encounter in a benthic aquatic environment; other adaptations are lacking or have not been elucidated.
3882106|Behavioral evidence indicates that sharks detect underwater sound at frequencies up to 1000 Hz, and that certain low frequency signals attract sharks from large distances. It appears that the adequate stimulus for "sound detecting" systems of the shark is particle motion, as opposed to fluctuations in sound pressure. The elasmobranch ear consists of the three semi-circular canals for detecting angular accelerations, and otolith organs for detecting linear motion and accelerations due to gravity. Two of these organs, the sacculus and macula neglecta, have been shown to be responsive to vibratory motion, with the macula neglecta having best sensitivity to vertical movements. A direct vibrational pathway exists to the macula neglecta from the parietal fossa of the dorsal chondrocranium. It is not clear at present, however, whether it is the inner ear or the lateral line system which is responsible for hearing. Both detection systems are theoretically capable of providing information to the brain about sound source location using non-parallel arrays of directionally sensitive hair-cell receptors. Recent theories of underwater sound localization by fishes and sharks suggest that the ability to detect a vertical displacement component of an acoustic signal (e. g., via the macula neglecta) is necessary for instantaneous location decisions. It is not known, however, whether the sharks localize by processing information about various aspects of the sound field simultaneously (in parallel), or whether the sound field is sampled successively at different points in space. Clearly, more experimental work on the physiology of elasmobranch acoustic behavior is called for.
3882285|Evidence is presented which indicates that differentiation of immunocompetence is achieved early in development, with some aspects of the immune system maturing concomitant with the appearance of blood-borne cells and thymic lymphocytes. Experiments are described which show that long-lasting, serum-mediated unresponsiveness to heterologous erythrocytes can be induced by injection of soluble factors released from such erythrocytes. These two lines of investigation lead to the hypothesis that tolerance may be achieved during development by the release, from various stem cells, of soluble factors which induce in the developing embryo a series of blocking factors. These factors subsequently are effective in preventing immune recognition not only of the stem cells themselves but also of their differentiated progeny.
3883498|Ambient temperatures were significantly correlated with alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) nesting activity. Nesting occurred earliest when March-April-May ambient temperatures were highest. Rainfall had no significant relationship with time of nesting activity although water levels did affect the degree of nesting. The bulk of the nesting took place within a 2-week period each year. Nesting chronology and factors affecting nesting were investigated at Rockefeller Refuge from 1964 through 1987. Courtship activitie generally began in early April and progressively intensified until early June. From late May through the first week of June courtship and copulation were intense, the females ovulated, and the high point of spermatogenesis occurred. Factors which seriously affected nesting success were floods, droughts, and predation. Salinity levels affected nesting densities along the coast. Nesting success (% of nests which produced live hatchlings) averaged 68.3% for 266 nests followed during a 4-yr study. Hatching success (% of eggs which hatched) averaged 58.2% for 154 nests followed during two nesting seasons. Habitat selection, home ranges, and daily movements were delineated for adult males and females. Courtship occurs in deep open water during springtime. Adult females selectively seek out dense vegetation adjacent to isolated ponds for nesting during the summer. Adult and sub-adult males tend to prefer open water all year round and only occasionally venture into the more secluded and heavily vegetated areas used by the females. Home ranges sizes and daily movements were much larger for adult males than for adult females. Laboratory studies evaluated the effects of four different egg incubation temperatures on hatching success, sex determination, size at hatching, and growth rates to 18 mo of age. The results indicate that incubation temperature can have a profound effect on sex ratios, hatchling size, and post-hatching growth. No significant differences were observed in hatching success at the four different temperatures.
3884396|How heat-shock proteins function in diverse organisms from diverse environments, and how this diversification has evolved, is an emerging focus of research on molecular chaperones. As molecular chaperones, heat-shock proteins play diverse cellular roles, typically in minimizing dysfunction that may occur when other proteins are in non-native conformations. The standard aspects of these roles in vitro, in isolated cells, and in typical model organisms in the laboratory are now well-established, as are the ubiquity of heat-shock proteins in organisms, the range of stresses that induce heat-shock proteins, the major families of heat-shock proteins, their expression in nature, and their variation along natural gradients of stress. These aspects may no longer require extensive examination. By contrast, the frequency of natural expression of heat-shock proteins, their exact physiological roles in stress tolerance at levels of biological organization above the cell, the exact molecular mechanisms by which heat-shock protein expression and function has become tuned to the prevailing level of environmental stress, and the fitness consequences of heat-shock protein expression in nature are among the numerous unresolved issues in this area.
3882080|The sperm morphology of at least 7 crinoids, 11 ophiuroids, 23 asteroids, 23 holothuroids, and 37 echinoids is known. For all the known crinoids, ophiuroids, and asteroids, the sperm are spherical, while those of echinoids are conical. Holothuroid sperm are basically spherical, with two exceptions: cylindrical in Cucumaria lubrica and tabloid in Cucumaria pseudocurata. The possible implications of sperm morphology in the mode of fertilization and in echinoderm phylogeny are discussed.
3884006|During steady swimming in fish, the dynamic form taken by the axial undulatory wave may depend on the bending stiffness of the body. Previous studies have suggested the hypothesis that fish use their muscles to modulate body stiffness. In order to expand the theoretical and experimental tools available for testing this hypothesis, we explored the relationship between body stiffness, muscle activity, and undulatory waveform in the mechanical context of dynamically bending beams. We propose that fish minimize the mechanical cost of bending by increasing their body stiffness, which would allow them to tune their body's natural frequency to match the tailbeat frequency at a given swimming speed. A review of the literature reveals that the form of the undulatory wave, as measured by propulsive wavelength, is highly variable within species, a result which calls into question the use of propulsive wavelength as a species-specific indicator of swimming mode. At the same time, the smallest wavelength within a species is inversely proportional to the number of vertebrae across taxa (r
3884090|North America's Great Lakes have recently been invaded by two genetically and morphologically distinct species of Dreissena. The zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) became established in Lake St. Clair of the Laurentian Great Lakes in 1986 and spread throughout eastern North America. The second dreissenid, termed the quagga mussel, has been identified as Dreissena bugensis Andrusov, 1897. The quagga occurs in the Dnieper River drainage of Ukraine and now in the lower Great Lakes of North America. In the Dnieper River, populations of D. polymorpha have been largely replaced by D. bugensis; anecdotal evidence indicates that similar trends may be occurring in the lower Laurentian Great Lakes. Dreissena bugensis occurs as deep as 130 m in the Great Lakes, but in Ukraine is known from only 0-28 m. Dreissena bugensis is more abundant than D. polymorpha in deeper waters in Dneiper River reservoirs. The conclusion that North American quagga mussels have a lower thermal maximum than zebra mussels is not supported by observations made of populations in Ukraine. In the Dnieper River drainage, quagga mussels are less tolerant of salinity than zebra mussels, yet both dreissenids have acclimated to salinities higher than North American populations; eventual colonization into estuarine and coastal areas of North America cannot be ignored.
3881355|The adult female of Ascaris lumbricoides possesses a number of nerve cells containing material which stains with paraldehyde-fuchsin. Among others, most of the primary sensory cells in the lips are fuchsinophilic. Ascaris does not survive outside its host, so that it is impossible to ascribe a function to these cells. Phocanema decipiens possesses similar cells in the dorsal and ventral ganglia which exhibit a cycle of secretion correlated with the burst of cytological activity which accompanies the deposition of the new cuticle. Ligation experiments have demonstrated that a new cuticle can be deposited in the absence of these neurosecretory cells. Our most recent experiments suggest that the neurosecretory cells may control the release of leucine aminopeptidase in the excretory gland, a substance which is thought to be responsible for ecdysis.
3882943|Pineal bodies, and other associated parietal structures, are remarkably varied among vertebrates. These organs apparently assumed, in the primitive vertebrates, a principal role in integration of photic information. The pineal photoreceptor cell seems to have evolved into the secretory pinealocyte that is found in most of the higher vertebrates. Along with the evolution of the photoreceptor element into the pinealocyte, there is a concomitant shift in the neural connection of the pineal organ. The pinealo-fugal, sensory innervation gives way to an autonomic, pinealo-petal motor innervation. Thus, direct photosensitivity was superceded by indirect, optically-mediated control of the now secretory pineal gland. Even though pineal organs display such unusual plasticity and diversity across groups, responsivenses to light remains a constant feature. Photoperiod may modify the diurnally-rhythmic patterns of melatonin secretion across seasons and invoke appropriate "programs" which permit an animal to anticipate seasonal changes. Thus, melatonin may be a key molecule, attuned to photoperiodicity, which has been selected through evolution to effect adaptation to annual events.
3881938|Recent experimental contributions concerning the nature of the glucoreceptor mechanism in the B-cell are reviewed. The relative aptitude of different hexoses (glucose, mannose, fructose, galactose) to affect various parameters of islet function (insulin biosynthesis, calcium uptake, insulin release, ability to support the insulinotropic action of theophylline) does not support the view that a receptor molecule can be activated by unmetabolized sugars. The specific inhibition by mannoheptulose and other metabolic inhibitors of the stimulant action of glucose upon these various parameters rather indicates that the glucoreceptor mechanism for both insulin biosynthesis and release is dependent on a pathway of glucose metabolism in the B-cell. The accumulation of calcium in the cytosol of the B-cell represents a selective requirement for the releasing process, and apparently does not affect the glucoreceptor mechanism. The influence of alkali cations (
3883077|Game-theoretic arguments are used to derive two new hypotheses to explain why territorial residents so consistently defeat potential usurpers. Both hypotheses are based on help from established, familiar neighbors. The first hypothesis follows simply from Krebs' (1982) assertion that the value of a territory to a usurper must be decremented by the costs of negotiating dear-enemy relationships with the remaining neighbors. An implication is that the remaining neighbors will also have to pay these renegotiation costs if the usurper succeeds. The first hypothesis is that it may benefit a territorial animal to help its established neighbors defend so it can avoid having to renegotiate territorial boundaries with a new, unfamiliar neighbor. This hypothesis assumes net positive benefits to helping without requiring reciprocation. The second hypothesis requires reciprocation to compensate for immediate net costs of helping. An animal should help its neighbors fight off usurpers only if the neighbors will reciprocate. This hypothesis is based on the prisoner's dilemma game and builds on Axelrod's (1984) work. Cooperative defense (reciprocal help) can be an evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) if several conditions are met. One critical condition is that the relationship between neighbors is relatively stable. Cooperative defense should help established neighbors retain their territories, and should therefore be a cause, as well as a consequence of stability. It is suggested that the necessary conditions are not very restrictive, that they are often met in nature, and that shared defense is observed but not recognized as such.
3883545|Traditional neuroanatomical methods provide a means for understanding some aspects of cell and tissue organization in the nervous system. However, the boundaries of the field of neuroanatomy have been blurred in the past twenty-five years by interdisciplinary techniques, such as dye-injection methods that combine electrophysiological and anatomical protocols and immunocytochemistry which combines immunological and histological methods. This review therefore takes a very broad view of neuroanatomy, including within this field a variety of "anatomically-based" methods that allow visualization of physiological and molecular features of neurons. Several representative methods are discussed and examples of the data achieved are provided. Although this area of neurobiology has evolved rapidly in recent years, the future holds promise for an even more dramatic revolution as molecular, computer and confocal-microscopic methods are more widely applied to neuroanatomical problems. Neuroanatomy is therefore viewed in this paper as an interdisciplinary field, and this paper might just as appropriately be entitled, "How are neurons visualized?" The answer involves a wide range of methods that allows description not only of static situations, but also dynamic phenomena in neurons.
3882154|I propose a model which accounts for the geometries and sequence in which compartmental boundary lines arise on the different imaginal discs, and on the blastoderm of Drosophila melanogaster; and propose that successive lines are recorded by different binary switches, to create a binary epigenetic code word specifying each disc, and disc compartment. I suppose a biochemical system undergoing reaction and diffusion acts throughout development. As an imaginal disc grows, a succession of differently shaped chemical concentration patterns form at a discrete set of disc sizes. I suppose a specific concentration of one chemical is a threshold. Concentrations above or below threshold switch cells to one or another of two commitments. Then the line across the imaginal disc with the threshold concentration is a predicted compartmental boundary. The sequence and geometries of such lines predict the compartmental boundaries seen on the wing disc, the other discs, and on the blastoderm stage egg. The compartmental lines on the wing disc suggest that a terminal compartment is specified by a combination of binary names recording a sequence of binary commitments: anterior, not posterior; dorsal, not ventral; wing, not thorax; proximal, not distal. Each combination comprises a binary epigenetic code word. Recently I constructed an independent model for transdetermination in Drosophila which proposed a similar binary epigenetic code for the different discs. The clone restriction lines predicted on the blastoderm by my transdetermination model, the chemical pattern model, and analogy with the wing disc, are nearly identical. Several are already confirmed. The resultant binary code scheme correctly predicts many relative transdetermination frequencies and accounts simply for the action of most homeotic mutants as genes which alter a single switch state in one or more discs.
3883039|Paternal care has never been reported as absent in any canid species, and some form of care has been seen in 18 of the 36 species in the family. Food provisioning, active defense of the young, and protecting young by remaining at the den as the female forages appear to be the commonest forms of male care. In addition males may groom, retrieve, play and rest with young. Male canids are rarely involved in den selection or construction. The effect on the fitness of the young of indirect forms of male care such as provisioning the female and territory defense are hard to assess. Quantitative studies of male provisioning in seven species offer few generalizations. In two species (Canis aureus, C. mesomelas) females provided more food to the young than males; in one species (Alopex lagopus) the pair contributed equally to feeding young, and in four species (Canis lupus, Vulpes vulpes, Chrysocyon brachyurus, and Lycaon pictus), males provided more food than females. Much more data are required, particularly from field studies, before patterns of variation can be interpreted.
3882291|The blood sucking insect Rhodnius has hormonal mechanisms controlling fluid secretion by the upper Malpighian tubules (diuretic hormone); KCl reabsorption by the lower tubules; and, possibly, fluid absorption from the midgut. The adaptations of the diuretic hormone release system to the rapid onset and subsequent maintenance of a massive post-feed diuresis are described. Possible ways of coordinating the activities of the three transporting epithelia are discussed. Reabsorption of KCl, once fully hormonally activated, is directly regulated by haemolymph K levels, but haemolymph volume is envisaged to be controlled hormonally, through regulation of midgut fluid transport. The possibility of feedback control by hormones on their release sites is discussed.
3882839|Current experimental research on mammalian limb muscle structure and function is compared to that on mammalian jaw muscles. Two major areas of comparison are stressed: structural and functional. Comparisons of limbs and jaws are made from the point of view of the impact of recent studies on simple mechanical models of limb/jaw muscle function. Limb muscle structure is compared to jaw muscles at the level of muscle architecture, muscle histochemical and motor unit properties, and the organization of motor units into neuromuscular compartments. Such comparisons reveal that although limb muscles and jaw muscles might be organized in similar ways, fundamental differences exist, both in terms of muscle structure and the functional conclusions which have been based on studies of muscle structure. The comparisons also demonstrate that much recent evidence from structural studies have had little direct impact on simple models of muscle function but a much larger influence on the assumptions of the models. Comparisons of limb/jaw muscle function from kinematic and EMG studies, indicate that many masticatory strategies are used by different mammals but the basic problems of posture and locomotion have been met with essentially similar solutions, even among diverse mammalian groups. The results of such comparisons demonstrate that both limb and jaw muscle function are sufficiently complex that new or re-vitalized models are needed if the relationship between structure and function are ever to be understood.
3884431|This paper summarizes our recent work on the histological, physiological and molecular aspects of limb regeneration in the fiddler crab Uca pugilator and new information is presented on mitotic activity in the blastema during the first days of blastemal organization. We also report for the first time the localization of vertebrate growth factor immunoreactivity (FGF 2 and FGF 4) in the regenerating blastema. In the first part of this paper we review recent histological findings concerning the physical events that accompany autotomy of limbs and propose a new function for the autotomy membrane-the tethering of the regenerating pedal nerve to the walls of the coxa. In the second part of the paper we review our recent findings on the identification and characterization of the Uca ecdysteroid receptor (UpEcR, and its potential dimer partner, the retinoid-X-receptor, UpRXR). Using Uca-specific antibody probes raised in our lab, we have been able to identify specific cells in the early blastema that express receptor proteins. The regenerating limb of the fiddler crab is responsive to both steroids and retinoids and mRNA for steroid and retinoid receptors are expressed in the regenerating limb buds during all stages of regeneration. The DNA and deduced amino acid sequences of the ecdysteroid receptor is very similar to the sequences of insect EcRs, while the retinoid receptor is similar to insect protein (ultraspiracle) in the DNA-binding domain, but closer to vertebrate RXRs in the ligand binding domain.
3884436|D. M. Skinner was the first biologist to systematically investigate the effect of multiple limb autotomy on ecdysis in decapod crustaceans. She proposed the existence of (1) limb autotomy factor anecdysis
3884566|Male Graminella nigrifrons participate in alternating choruses. Vibrational calls emitted by males consist of three sections (S1, S2, and S3) that differ in pattern of amplitude modulation. In this study we examined the response of single males to synthetic choruses and to isolated call components to gain insight into the regulation of chorus structure. Males initiated calls primarily during the silent periods within synthetic choruses. In all 15 trials the number of overlapping calls and the duration of overlap was significantly less than expected if males call at random. Playback of S2, S3, or random noise while males emitted S1 caused males to interrupt calling, whereas males continued to call when S1 or no signal was played. In a related experiment, we played S2 or no signal while males were beginning to emit the S1, S2, or S3 phase of their calls. In response to this playback the duration of S1 and S3 was reduced, but the duration of S2 was not affected. These results suggest that an inhibitory-resetting mechanism may result in alternation of calls in this leafhopper.
3882892|A class of models for economic, or optimal, foraging in a patchy habitat is characterized. All models in the class share a number of ecologically important properties, but there are important differences, as well. These models are well suited to studying properties of a variety of simple behavioral rules which foragers might use in deciding when to leave a patch. Several extensions and limitations of the class are also pointed out.
3881779|Spiders of similar mass but of two different species, Araneus diadematus Cl. and Argiope aurantia L., build webs which have similar geometric patterns, but which differ in relative proportions and thread number. Within species, webs may also differ reliably, presumably on a genetic basis. Fine detail of the web undergoes change throughout the lifetime of the spider, different for male and female; these changes are not simply responses to the growing weight of the spider. Relatively simple restraints, such as availability of material for thread, result in adaptations of web-building which may at first appear to be based upon building experience, but which are in fact independent of it.
3884542|Initiation of a particular behavior requires not only activation of the neural center directly involved in its control but also inhibition of the neural networks controlling competing behaviors. In the pteropod mollusc, Clione limacina, many identified serotonergic neurons activate or modulate different elements of the swimming system resulting in the initiation or acceleration of the swimming behavior. Cerebral serotonergic neurons are described here, which produce excitatory inputs to the swimming system as well as inhibitory inputs to the neural centers that control competing behaviors. Whole-body withdrawal behavior is incompatible with swimming activity in Clione. The main characteristic of whole-body withdrawal is complete inhibition of swimming. Cerebral serotonergic neurons were found to produce a prominent inhibition of the pleural neurons that control whole-body withdrawal behavior. By inhibiting pleural withdrawal cells, serotonergic neurons eliminate its inhibitory influence on the swimming system and thus favor increased swimming speed. Serotonergic neurons also produce a prominent inhibition of the Pleural White Cell, which is presumably involved in reproductive or egg-laying behavior. Thus the serotonergic system directly activates swimming system and, at the same time, alters a variety of other neural systems preventing simultaneous initiation of incompatible behaviors.
3882905|Viperid snakes have stouter bodies, larger heads, and longer jaws than snakes in other families; there are no major differences between the two subfamilies of vipers in these features. A suite of morphological characters that facilitates swallowing large prey finds its greatest expression among vipers, but certain elapid and colubrid snakes have converged upon the same body form. The number of jaw movements required to swallow prey is linearly related to the size of a prey item when shape is held constant. Very small and very large prey are not disproportionately difficult for a snake to ingest. Vipers swallow their prey with fewer jaw movements than do colubrids or boids and can swallow prey that is nearly three times larger in relation to their own size. Proteolytic venom assists in digestion of prey, and melanin deposits shield the venom glands from light that would degrade the venom stores. Ancillary effects of the morphological features of vipers, plus the ability to ingest a very large quantity of food in one meal, should produce quantitative and qualitative differences in the ecology and behavior of vipers and other snakes.
3881564|This paper briefly recapitulates work on the preterrestrial phase of the evolution of hearing which was published in detail elsewhere. Following this, the problem of the origin of the terrestrial middle ear is examined in some detail, and it is demonstrated that Eusthenopteron, and probably other rhipidistians as well, possessed an eardrum. This drum was formed by the fusion of the distal surface of a spiracular diverticulum and a ligament between parietal shield and squamosal. It is further demonstrated that the geometry of this eardrum in relation to the middle-ear cavity was adequate to allow the fish to make the transition from aquatic hearing to terrestrial hearing without loss of sensitivity.
3882205|Melanophore stimulating hormone (MSH) secretion from the vertebrate pars intermedia is regulated as for other pituitary hormones, by the hypothalamus. Removal of the pituitary from hypothalamic control results in an autonomous uninhibited secretion of MSH. Thus, as for prolactin, the hypothalamus exerts a tonic inhibitory control over MSH secretion. The nature of this inhibitory mechanism is presently being debated with two general models being considered. It is suggested by some investigators that peptides of neurohypophysial hormone origin act as MSH releasing and inhibiting factors (MRF's and MIF's, respectively). In this scheme, the neurohypophysial hormones such as oxytocin would serve as prohormones which by enzymatic cleavage by hypothalamic enzymes would yield MSH releasing and/or inhibiting factors. It is suggested that the terminal tripeptide side chain is an MIF whereas the N-terminal pentapeptide sequence of oxytocin is an MRF. The data supporting this hypothesis comes from work of a few investigators that espouse this scheme. To our knowledge, the so-called MSH releasing and inhibiting factors have proven ineffective in the hands of all other investigators in regulating MSH release. A large number of investigators support the view that MSH secretion is regulated by neurotransmitters. As for the prolactin inhibiting factor (PIF), MIF may be a catecholamine (dopamine). Other neurotransmitters such as serotonin and/or acetylcholine may serve as an MRF. Many investigators have demonstrated the direct affect of these neurotransmitters on MSH secretion. The possible role of neurohypophysial hormones in the control of other pituitary hormone secretions is discussed. The possible relationships between neurohypophysial peptides, MSH, and the pineal are reviewed. More data needs to be provided before we add to the list of physiological functions of neurohypophysial hormones the role of these peptides as hypothalamic pituitary inhibiting and/or releasing factors.
3881977|In some species of polygynous songbirds, males assist in feeding nestlings of their first (primary) female but ignore offspring of subsequent (secondary) mates. A number of adaptations important in minimizing the disadvantages of a secondary status in female Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) have been discovered. In Bobolinks, clutches of secondary females are significantly smaller than those of primary females, thereby adjusting brood size to correspond better with food delivery capabilities of secondary hens. Commencement of incubation with deposition of the penultimate egg allows additional brood size adjustment, for the resulting hatching asynchronism promotes efficient culling of the late-hatching chick in times of food shortage, without endangering the entire brood. Secondary females differ from primary pairs in food exploitation techniques by capitalizing on insects found close to the nest and by showing less discrimination in food selection. Such behavior permits compensation in the rate of food delivery trips to secondary nestlings so as to equal the tempo maintained by both members of the primary pair, yet results in quantitative disparities in food brought to primary and secondary nestlings. Flexibility in male feeding responses, resulting in partial male assistance at secondary nests in situations where secondary brood size is exceptionally large, is also important in helping to maximize the reproductive performance of birds engaging in this mating strategy.
3882340|During the past decade, ultrastructural data from both transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) have been used to determine relationships among flowering plants. Modern studies in plant systematics rely upon many kinds of comparative data such as morphology, cytology, cytogenetics, chemistry, and anatomy; and ultrastructure is another important source of information. Practicing plant systematists put most of their efforts into making classifications, which involve grouping and ranking. Ultrastructure appears suitable for use in classification, and it has the advantage of allowing comparisons of structure at the cellular or subcellular level, and this may help reveal homologies more clearly. For systematics of the flowering plants, pollen grains, seed coats, and leaves have been investigated most intensively so far, and the first two have been particularly useful because of their ontogenetic and environmental stability. From leaves, cuticular waxes, generalized epidermal cells, stomata, and trichomes have been studied most frequently. Within stems, sieve-tube plastids have been used as characters at the higher taxonomic levels. In general, those internal features that are best viewed via TEM are those most important at the higher levels in the taxonomic hierarchy. External features viewed best with SEM are more useful at the lower levels. Ultrastructural studies add new potential to systematic research through such efforts as the determination of the adaptive nature of taxonomic characters, and the use of ultrastructure to understand evolutionary dynamics such as ecotypic differentiation and hybridization.
3881856|Interappendage phasing of crayfish swimmeret movements depends upon a central nervous system network of command, oscillator, and coordinating neurons. The command neurons serve to set the general excitation level in each of the segmental oscillators. The oscillator neurons in each hemi-ganglion generate the rhythmic alternations of powerstroke and returnstroke motor neuron activity. The coordinating neurons transmit the precise timing information about the state of one oscillator to other oscillators. This information can serve to advance or to delay the motor bursts driven by the other oscillators. Which effect is observed depends upon the arrival time of the coordinating neuron discharge within the cycle period of the modulated oscillator. This type of modulation leads to the prediction that a stable interappendage phase can result from situations where there is not a fixed excitability gradient among the segmental oscillators. This prediction has been verified using a cut command neuron preparation.
3884427|Dorothy M. Skinner's interest in the study of crustaceans grew out of her experiences as a student and teaching assistant in the Experimental Invertebrate Zoology course at the Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA. Her early training in both biology and chemistry was instrumental in allowing her to pursue lines of research as diverse as control of molting and regeneration, structure of the crustacean integument, and characteristics of satellite DNAs throughout her career. Dorothy published a number of landmark papers in crustacean biology over the years, which served to inspire the work of numerous biologists. The breadth and depth of her contributions was made apparent in this symposium, in which eleven researchers presented their newest findings in the areas of satellite DNA, control of regeneration and molting, dynamics of muscle atrophy and reorganization, and structure and evolution of arthropod proteins.
3882563|Arthropods have the capacity of recognizing self from non-self in various defense phenomena including hemolymph clotting, phagocytosis, encapsulation, melanization and clearance of the foreign matter which must be initiated by a first step of molecular recognition. "Natural" and experimentally induced humoral factors have been described which act as hemagglutinins, bacterial agglutinins, precipitins, bactericidal factors, bacteriolysins, hemolysins, opsonins, clotting factors, and lysozymes. Their exact role in recognition functions has not been fully explored and their function remains unclear. Among these factors, the carbohydrate-binding molecules (lectins) are the best characterized in their specificity, physicochemical properties and molecular structure. Arthropod lectins are multimeric, high molecular weight protein (glycoprotein) molecules with a certain degree of heterogeneity in their specificity and structure. In particular, serum lectins from chelicerates (horseshoe crabs, scorpions and spiders) share a common property: the specificity for sialic acids. Arachnids and merostomes diverged in the earliest Cambrian. Since they occupy markedly different habitats, the sialic acid specific lectins most probably are a relict rather than an adaptative character. In addition to this common feature of specificity, lectins from chelicerates and other arthropods represent heterogeneous populations which can bind a wide variety of carbohydrates, many of them present on bacteria as D-galactose, 2-keto-3-deoxyoctonate, glucuronic acid, N-acetylmuramic acid, and colominic acid. Multiplicity in specificity suggests that serum lectins might contribute as a carbohydrate-based recognition system for the non-self. The requirement for avoiding self recognition would be that carbohydrate structures potentially recognized by the system would be absent, masked or out of reach of this humoral factor or cell associated recognition factors.
3882203|The electrophysiological characteristics and the afferent inputs to the preoptic nucleus (PN) in fishes are reviewed. Information from teleosts indicates that PN neurons can be divided into different classes on the basis of their combined electrophysiological and anatomical characteristics. Afferent input to the PN of teleosts has been demonstrated for the olfactory, optic, trigeminal, and vagus nerves, and the telencephalon and spinal cord. In teleosts the preoptic region, and the PN within it, are involved in the control of spawning behavior and the act of spawning. The neurohypophysial hormones (NH) may play a role in stimulation of the ovarian and oviduct musculature during spawning. The possible stimuli for NH secretion for osmoregulatory purposes in freshwater bony fishes are decreased plasma osmolality, or decreased concentration of some ion in the plasma, or expansion of either the extracellular or intracellular fluid volume. Decreased blood volume or blood pressure are also possible stimuli. Receptors on the outside of the animal may also play a role. Some results suggest that NH may be secreted during stress and that NH may be involved in stimulation of ACTH secretion in teleosts. In the mammals NH have some actions on the brain. Vasopressin aids retention of conditioned avoidance responses in rats. The various stimuli for secretion of NH in fishes and mammals are compared.
3881925|Fishes have a variety of peripheral mechanisms for sound production. These can be categorized as: (i) hydrodynamic mechanisms related to swimming; (ii) stridulatory mechanisms in which portions of the body strike against each other; and (iii) swim bladder mechanisms which produce sounds by contraction of muscles which alter swim bladder volume. The sounds produced by hydrodynamic and stridulatory methods usually consist of broad-band noise while swim bladder sounds generally contain a fundamental frequency which is related to the rate of muscle contraction. Harmonics can be present in swim bladder sounds, but they may be a function primarily of the environment rather than the sound-producing mechanism. The precise role of the swim bladder is not clear although it probably acts as a broadly tuned sound amplifier. In this regard, the contribution of the swim bladder as a vibrating sphere is discussed. The central mechanisms controlling sound production in fishes are best understood in toadfish of the genus Opsanus. As a synthesis of the findings in this field, a model of the neurological control of toadfish sound production is presented. Neuromuscular, central motor, and central integrative mechanisms are discussed.
3882310| Aromatase activity has been detected in the central nervous system (CNS) of representatives of each major vertebrate group with the exception of the Agnatha. 5-reductase and 17-oxidoreductase are also present in brain tissues of many vertebrates and in the cerebral ganglion of the lobster. These comparative studies together with autoradiographic, physiological, and behavioral data in mammals and selected non-mammalian species support the view that metabolism in situ is an important component of androgen action and a general characteristic of the vertebrate brain. 
3883801|In response to a moderate mechanical stimulus, the leech withdraws by forming a U-shaped local bend beneath the stimulus. Interneurons in the local bending reflex receive multiple sensory inputs, and have outputs to many motor neurons, suggesting that stimulus location on the body is represented in a distributed fashion. However, it is possible that as yet unidentified interneurons dedicated to the detection of specific spatial locations are necessary for the full range of the local bending motor output. Using the backpropagation algorithm to optimize connections in a model of the reflex, we showed that the distributed processing model of sensorimotor integration was consistent with our knowledge of the connection strengths between identified neurons in the reflex. The model further showed that the spatial and temporal constraints on the linkage between sensory representations and motor output can be satisfied by the appropriate connectivity between layers of interneurons and motor neurons in the leech, as well as in other systems with similar circuitry.
3882568| Accelerated fibroblast accumulation, mitosis, and deposition of collagen during fibrotic processes are frequently preceded by intense inflammatory exudates of mononuclear cells which are derived from the peripheral blood. In vitro, we examined the role of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in activation of human fibroblasts. The adherent mononuclear phagocyte, or monocyte, was found to release mediators which stimulate fibroblast proliferation and enhance collagen production. Adherence to tissue culture dishes in vitro was found to activate the release of these monocyte products, and represents a process which mimics in vivo extravasation of monocytes from the blood vessel into the connective tissue. The release of these mediators is dependent on monocyte protein synthesis, metabolism, and protease activity. Little is known of the role that immunologic sensitization to autologous connective tissue components might play in inducing such inflammatory responses which can result in pathologic fibrotic sequelae. In beginning to explore these possibilities, we have found that levels of antibodies to types I (interstitial) and IV (basement membrane) collagen correlate directly with the extent of pulmonary fibrosis in patients with scleroderma. Furthermore, we can sensitize mice to homologous types I or IV collagen, or laminin (a basement membrane attachment protein), and elicit a delayed type hypersensitivity response which is marked by mononuclear cell infiltration. Cell-mediated immunity to these antigens can be transferred to normal recipients with sensitized T-lymphocytes. We discuss these data and propose a hypothesis for mechanisms of monocyte extravasation  fibroblast activation  fibrosis. 
3882877|The organization of brain neuronal systems utilizing monoamines (primary catecholamines and serotonin) as neurotransmitters and/or neuromodulators, has been studied in representatives of each major vertebrate class using fluorescence histochemical methods. This long-term investigation has led to the following conclusions: (1) The monoaminergic neurons seem to have occurred early in phylogeny. These neurons, particularly the serotoninergic systems, are already well-developed in the brains of cyclostomes (lampreys) and primitive bony fishes. (2) The monoaminergic cell bodies are especially abundant within the hypothalamus in anamniotes whereas they predominate at brainstem levels in amniotes. However, a similar pattern of distribution of monoaminergic cell bodies has been found in the brainstem of all vertebrates. (3) The monoaminergic neurons may act as an important informative link between the cerebrospinal fluid and the neural tissue in all vertebrates through processes contacting the ventricular space. (4) The monoamingeric neuronal systems are widespread and highly collateralized in all vertebrates. A single brainstem monoaminergic neuron may send divergent axon collaterals to various remote forebrain areas and, thus, could strongly influence vast neuronal assemblies. (5) The terminal arborization of monoaminergic systems, particularly that of the serotoninergic neurons, displays patterns that are strikingly constant from one vertebrate class to the other. Such a constancy strongly suggests that these chemospecific neuronal systems are indeed phylogenetically ancient and subserve similar fundamental brain functions, such as the control of sleep-waking cycle and of feeding and reproductive behaviors, in all vertebrates.
3883237|Bivalved, exoskeletal shells have evolved independently in brachiopods, several groups of molluscs, ostracodes, conchostracans, phyllocarids, and the Paleozoic rugose coral Calceola. Composed of a variety of usually composite organic and mineral materials, they may be rigid or somewhat flexible. Shell growth can occur only by accretion at the margins and over the inner surfaces of the valves. Isometric growth produces logarithmic spiral cones, paradigms from which real shells depart slightly or very far, in allometric response to physiological or mechanical demands of function. Shells which do not grow are molted and replaced at regular intervals in ostracodes and phyllocarids. The bivalved shell is the simplest of lever skeletons, its two elements being articulated in most cases about a fixed axis. Its role in support of soft tissues is complemented in all groups either by hydrostatic organs, as in the molluscan foot and brachiopod lophophore, or by an inner, articulated chitinous exoskeleton, as in the bivalved arthropods. Common constraints imposed by growth processes and the mechanics of articulation prescribe the observed close convergence of the hinge, adductor muscles, and structures that maintain valve alignment. Divergent adaptations accomodate varied shell functions, as protective covers (one adductor adequate), as digging tools (two adductors and/or substantial hinge teeth required), in channeling feeding currents, and as hydrofoils. The bivalved shell facilitates a wide range of adaptations in aquatic environments, but it places stringent limits on size and mobility. Such extensive convergence reflects the shell's ease of construction, its multiple functions, and the limited variety of viable skeletal designs.
3883004|The recent discovery of specialized RNA molecules that function like enzymes suggests that cells evolved before there were proteins. Such RNA-based cells would have contained large numbers of mutually supportive RNA molecules, each with a different catalytic function. Protein synthesis probably evolved later and was catalyzed by some of these RNA molecules. Because DNA must have been a relatively late addition to the cell, it is reasonable to assume that all DNA functions evolved in the presence of powerful protein catalysts. The above evolutionary perspective helps to explain why two different classes of catalytic mechanisms are used in present-day cells. The ancient processes of protein synthesis and pre-mRNA splicing are catalyzed by ribonucleoprotein particles, in which RNA catalysis still seems to play an important role. In contrast, late-evolving functions like DNA replication are catalyzed by efficient protein machines. By analogy, protein machines are also likely to mediate the processes that control the transcription of eucaryotic genes.
3881875| In Leucophaea maderae the female specific protein, or vitellogenin, is being synthesized and secreted exclusively by the adult female fat bodies. This specific protein, which is induced by the juvenile hormones makes up approximately 90% of the total yolk proteins. It is a lipophosphoprotein of low phosphorus (0.14) content. The female specific protein is synthesized on polysomes bound to membranes of the ergastoplasmic reticulum (ER). Microsome vesicles obtained from active tissues are heavily studded with ribosomes and are considerably more dense than those from "inactive" tissues. The nascent polypeptide chains of the vitellogenin are secreted into the cisternae of the ER and can be released by Na deoxycholate digestion of the membranes. Similarly, the non-specific serum proteins are also secreted into the cisternae of the ER. All evidence points to the fact that microsomes may carry mixed populations of polysomes, those associated with specific and those associated with non-sex-specific protein synthesis. The significance of the polysomal association with membranes for the synthesis of exportable sex-specific protein is discussed. 
3882054| Stalked hydra exposed to 3 g/ml actinomycin D for 24 hr exhibited a restriction in the patterning of tentacle morphogenesis. The two-tentacled morphological modification manifested in regenerating hydra was correlated with a reduction both in RNA synthesis in the hypostomal region of the animal and in the DNA synthetic activity associated with normal tentacle elaboration. The tentacles formed on actinomycin D-treated animals developed in the proper sequence, however. In time the modification disappeared, indicating that the effect was reversible. Histological studies demonstrated depleted interstitial cell (I-cell) populations along the body column of actinomycin D-treated hydra. Replacing the hypostomes of actinomycin D-treated hydra with normal hypostomes reversed the cellular effects of actinomyin D exposure. All morphological and biochemical modifications in tentacle morphogenesis occurring after actinomycin D treatment were consistent with an impairment of hypostomal function in the animal. Evidence from
3882388|Hearts of embryonic axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum) homozygous for gene c do not beat in situ. Under appropriate culture conditions they rapidly commence beating, albeit less vigorously than similarly explanted hearts of comparably staged normal siblings. As part of this symposium, we have shown a cine record demonstrating heartbeat in mutant hearts and comparing it to normal heartbeat. Myocardia of normal embryos exhibit a characteristic pattern of birefringent, striated myofibrils. Mutants of the same stage contain hearts with birefringent fibrils organized in a pattern similar to that found in normal myocardia. A striking difference is that obvious striations are lacking in fibrils of the mutant. Electrophoresis of normal and mutant hearts in SDS-polyacrylamide gels shows that the major myofibrillar proteins are present. We conclude that induction of c/c hearts has been relatively normal and suggest that, due to the rapidity of recovery, the observed phenomena are perhaps due to something as simple as a defect in ionic conditions.
3881166|The nervous system of Actinia equina was studied by routine histological methods and by metallic impregnation techniques. Some preliminary results from electron microscopy are included. The organization of the nervous system of this species is more complex than that of other anthozoans; it consists of two interconnected nerve plexuses which are developed to differing degrees in various parts of the body. These are: (1) a superficial (outer) plexus lying in the ectoderm, and (2) a deeper (inner) plexus constituting the main nerve net, lying in the mesoderm. The former is composed of bipolar and multipolar nerve cells, and the latter of multipolar cells. Receptor cells in the ectoderm make contact with fibers of the ectodermal plexus. Processes from the mesodermal plexus run out to the muscle fibers. Connections between the receptor cells and the nerve processes of the superficial plexus and between the processes of the deeper plexus and the muscle fibers appear to be of the discontinuous (synaptic) type. In the nerve nets themselves, although some connections resembling synapses have been seen, most of the nerve elements stand in direct connection with one another, so that the system must be regarded as at least partly syncytial. Evidence is given for the growth of the nerve net, in step with the general growth of the animal, by division of nuclei followed by their movement apart within the syncytium. The distribution of the nerve elements in various parts of the body, the interconnections between these regions, and the cytological characteristics of the cells are described. Ways in which excitation could pass from one part to another are discussed.
3882169|Prolactin is involved in seasonal changes in physiology in several classes of vertebrates. However, prolactin is not involved in the timing of all such seasonal changes. In teleosts changes of day length resulted in changes in the diurnal rhythm of the lipogenic effects of prolactin. Thus, where prolactin physiology changes with season it may result from changes in the diurnal physiology of this hormone. There are at least two aspects to these cyclical changes since both hormone release and hormone effect may change. In teleosts the pineal may respond to changes in day length and modify prolactin release. Further work is required especially in the construction of models that will allow the ordering of the complex data.
3882041|Marine Cnidarian sperm consist of a head containing the nucleus and several electron dense vesicles. These vesicles are anterior to the nucleus in the Hydrozoan and Scyphozoan sperm and adjacent to the posterior region of the nucleus in the Anthozoan sperm. They are Golgi in origin and do not coalesce. They may be a primitive acrosome. Mitochondria may number four to five in the Hydrozoan and Scyphozoan sperm while they form an aggregate in the Anthozoans. Both centrioles persist in the mature spermatozoa. The distal centriole gives rise to the long flagellum and has associated with it nine pericentriolar processes.
3884474|The crustacean mandibular organ (MO) produces methyl farnesoate (MF), a juvenile hormone-related compound thought to have roles in crustacean reproduction and development. Therefore, the control of MF production by the MO has been of considerable interest. Current evidence indicates that the MO is negatively regulated by peptides present in the eyestalk (MO inhibiting factor, MO-IH). Several eyestalk neuropeptides have been identified that inhibit MF synthesis by MO incubated in vitro. The amino acid sequences of these MO-IH peptides are similar to peptides in the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH) family of neuropeptides. In addition, there appears to be a compound in the eyestalk that lowers hemolymph levels of MF in vivo but does not directly affect the MO in vitro. The inhibition of MF synthesis by eyestalk peptides involves the inhibition of farnesoic acid O-methyl transferase, the last enzyme in the MF biosynthetic pathway. The activity of this enzyme is affected by cyclic nucleotides, suggesting that these compounds may be involved in the signal transduction pathway mediating the effects of MO-IH.
3883506|The history of Invertebrate Zoology over the past 40 years can be used to illustrate interest in organisms and some of the ways in which the symposium's question may be interpreted. The study of animal organisms from a holistic perspective has progressed enormously as reflected in changes in described and estimated numbers of species, in the discovery of new higher taxa and in the growth of literature. Generalizations on the biology of animal organisms, however, rest on relatively small samples, and many of the same organisms that have received the most attention in the past continue to receive the most today. Symbiosis and colonial organization have been two important means whereby new organizational levels for organisms have evolved. Ultrastructural research over the past 20 years has provided new evidence in support of the hypothesis promulgated long ago that multicellular animals (metazoans) may have evolved from colonial protistans. Some polymorphic, colonial metazoans have approached or crossed the threshold to a still more complex level of organism.
3884071|There are over 400 species and three families of freshwater crayfishes. Many species are collected for food and/or fish bait but fewer than ten are commercially cultivated. We discuss the physiological adaptations that permit these species to be successfully cultivated. The most important cultured species include: Northern Hemisphere-Cambaridae-Orconectes immunis, Procambarus clarkii, and Procambarus zonangulus, and Southern Hemisphere-Parastacidae-Cherax destructor. Procambarus clarkii is, by far, the most important species and has been successfully introduced to all continents, save Antarctica and Australia, from its native North America. All species may be cultivated entirely in closed, intensive systems; however, economics are such that they are commercially produced, for the most part, by establishing perpetuating populations in earthen pond systems. All species tolerate low oxygen, adapt well to aerial exposure, and persist for extended periods in burrow systems in the absence of surface waters. The cultured species have high fecundities, rapid growth rates, and mature quickly. Aquaculture of freshwater crayfish is in its infancy. Therefore, it is likely that additional species with favorable adaptations discussed here will be identified for cultural purposes.
3881553|The relationship of RNA metabolism to the induction of the enzyme carbamyl phosphate synthetase (the initial enzymatic step in biosynthesis of urea) in the liver of premetamorphic tadpoles exposed to thyroxine is reviewed. Treatment with thyroxine stimulates the synthesis of ribosomal, soluble, and "messenger" RNA fractions; the latter fraction shows the most rapid rate of synthesis in response to thyroxine. Properties of the "messenger" RNA fraction are reviewed. In keeping with the stimulation and formation of a "messenger" RNA fraction by thyroxine is the finding that thyroxine increases the efficiency of chromatin template for the synthesis of RNA. Although the present data stress the action of thyroxine on the efficiency of transcription, reference is made to the stimulatory effect of thyroxine at the level of translation in liver preparations from tadpoles. Thus, thyroxine has an effect at the levels of both transcription and translation.
3883587|The preparation of antisera and monoclonal antibodies specific for frog MHC class I molecules is presented. Alloantisera specific for the native and denatured forms of Xenopus MHC class I proteins have been obtained, and have been used to determine, by Western blotting, the MHC haplotypes of animals derived from F1 crosses or backcrosses. The alloantisera have also been used to partially purify class I molecules for immunizations of mice in order to produce monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and xenoantisera. The mAbs recognize polymorphic determinants of Xenopus class I molecules; all are specific for the denatured and cytoplasmic forms of class I. One of the mAbs also recognizes the cell surface form of class I, but none recognize class I alpha chains associated with beta2-microglobulin under "native" conditions. The different antibodies help to define different forms of the class I molecules expressed by different tissues.
3883145| Photoperiodic control of lobster (Homarus) oviposition ranges from none in the European species (H. gammarus) to a two-phase requirement in some populations of H. americanus. In the inshore population from Massachusetts two to three months of short-day photoperiod appear necessary to condition the ovary for final vitellogenesis following long-day onset (LDO). The stimulus of LDO is only effective near the time of molt. If molt follows LDO within 120 days, egg extrusion follows the molt in about 80 days. If LDO follows the molt, extrusion occurs in about 125 days. Extrusion delayed in this way delays the following molt, which is also delayed by the retention of eggs on the pleopods. In lobsters from Prince Edward Island the photoperiodic response seen at laboratory temperatures (ca. 14C) appears to be subordinated to a response to other cues, probably temperature, when females are held on a near-natural temperature regime with winter minimum of 2C characteristic of inshore environments. H. americanus from the migratory outer continental shelf population experience winter temperatures rarely lower than 8C and probably require photoperiodic control to initiate migration as well as vitellogenesis. The photoperiodic response may have originated in offshore populations during the Pleistocene and spread to more northerly inshore areas as habitat opened after the retreat of the continental ice sheet. 
3884295|The steroid hormone ecdysone regulates the major post-embryonic transitions during the Drosophila life cycle, including the onset of, and progression through, metamorphosis. Reviewed here are several recent studies that together give insight into both the transduction of the ecdysone signal itself as well as other possible hormonal signaling events associated with metamorphosis. Genetic studies of the two components of the ecdysone receptor, EcR and usp, demonstrate that they are essential for the initiation of metamorphosis in Drosophila. These genes are not, however, required for some earlier events that prepare the animal for metamorphosis. Instead, the orphan nuclear receptor DHR78 appears to regulate these events, possibly in response to an as yet unidentified hormone. An additional role for usp, independent from EcR function, has also been uncovered in epidermis and cuticle development, suggesting a possible role for usp in integrating ecdysone and juvenile hormone signals.
3882914|Tremendous diversity exists in the form of alternative mating tactics (AMTs) employed by males of many species. We develop a general framework in which to view alternatives that vary in (i) their frequency in the population, (ii) their fitness value with respect to the primary tactics, (iii) the extent to which the alternative tactic is site-fixed and (iv) the intrinsic ability of males to change tactics. The frequency and fitness value of alternatives should be influenced by Resource Holding Potential (RHP), which generally varies with age, size, and perhaps energy reserves. AMTs should be unequal in fitness value when RHP increases at an accelerating rate with age. "Subordinate AMTs" can result when various factors favor males attempting to reproduce before reaching the age with maximum RHP. An asymptotic relationship between age and RHP should result in most males in a population having essentially equal RHP. Several ways exist for males to partition the set of mating opportunities between two or more "equal AMTs." Transient tactics may occur if (i) resources for females and territorial males differ and do not covary positively in their distribution, or (ii) local areas are so attractive to females that males effectively cannot defend them. We suggest Levins' (1968) "fitness set" analysis as a useful model predicting whether a male should specialize on a single tactic, or partition its effort between the two tactics.
3881388|Puffing in giant chromosomes of Diptera is considered to reflect the pattern of active gene loci in these chromosomes. In any one tissue only a relatively small portion of the total bands (about 10 to 20%) have been observed to form a puff at some time or another in larval development. These patterns of "potentially active" loci are tissue specific, though greatly overlapping. The actual rate of activity at these loci is controlled independently of each other and independently in each tissue by factors of the extranuclear metabolism. Puffing at some loci seems to be related to specific cellular functions, such as secretion of the salivary glands. The activity of others may be related to more basic metabolic processes. In relation to larval development, puffing patterns may change with changing cell functions or with developmental processes in the cells themselves. In salivary glands of Chironomus activity of DNAase and of acid phosphatase seems to change in relation to cell breakdown at the end of the pupal molt. Changes of acid phosphatase activity begin early in the last larval instar, but the enzyme is bound to lysosomes until metamorphosis. This suggests that the genes specifically active during metamorphosis have to interact with a long-term control-system of development. The induction of metamorphosis is a sequential process, gene activations being among the first steps in this sequence. The activation of these genes by ecdysone is independent of protein synthesis. It is only the reaction of these genes that leads to the subsequent events in the cell, including the subsequent puff activations. This is shown by the fact that they depend on early RNA synthesis as well as on protein synthesis. These results on puffing are discussed with regard to the general problem of the relationships between patterns of gene activity and differentiation.
3881777|Whereas most spiders are asocial, species in eight families are known to live all their life in communities and are thus "permanent-social." Their special attributes are: tolerance, interattraction, and cooperation. These peculiarities must have been achieved step by step several times independently. Periodic-social spiders have been studied as a link between asocial and permanent-social spiders. In two families - the cribellate Eresidae and ecribellate Theridiidae - different steps of periodic sociality have been discovered, from brood-care to feeding by regurgitation. The comparative study of the phylogeny of social behavior in both families uncovers remarkable convergences of patterns from asocial to permanent-social via periodical-social species of spiders.
3882789|The atremate brachiopods are unique in that they possess shells of calcium phosphate. In Lingula adamsi and Glottidia pyramidata, the shell mineral is
3883551|Intraspecific acoustic communication during pair formation in crickets provides excellent material for neuroethological research. It permits analysis of a distinct behavior at its neuronal level. This top-down approach considers first the behavior in quantitative terms, then searches for its computational rules (algorithms), and finally for neuronal implementations. The research described involves high resolution behavioral measurements, extra- and intracellular recordings, and marking and photoinactivation of single nerve cells. The research focuses on sound production in male and phonotactic behavior in female crickets and its underlying neuronal basis. Segmental and plurisegmental organization within the nervous system are examined as well as the validity of the single identified neuron approach. Neuroethological concepts such as central pattern generation, feedback control, command neuron, and in particular, cellular correlates for sign stimuli used in conspecific song recognition and sound source localization are discussed. Crickets are ideal insects for analyzing behavioral plasticity and the contributing nerve cells. This research continues and extends the pioneering studies of the late Kenneth David Roeder on nerve cells and insect behavior by developing new techniques in behavioral and single cell analysis.
3882179|Normally, the eggs of Spisula are monospermic. How polyspermy is prevented in this organism is unclear, particularly when the cortex of the fertilized ovum is examined. Using conventional microscopic procedures, little alteration of the surface of the egg is observed following insemination; the microvilli, vitelline layer and cortical granules are morphologically unchanged. Investigations employing freeze fracture replication of fertilized and unfertilized Spisula eggs demonstrate that there is a dichotomy with respect to the distribution of intramembranous particles within the plasmalemma of Spisula eggs. There is a structural reorganization of microvilli and a two-fold increase in particles on the A-face of the plasma membrane along their bases following insemination. These transformations in microvillar structure and intramembranous particle number may be involved in establishing a block to polyspermy; however, further evidence is necessary to demonstrate a cause-effect relation.
3883221|Intertidal rockpools provide a challenging environment for rockpool fish with rapid changes taking place in many environmental parameters over a tidal cycle. Intertidal fish exhibit a number of behavioural adaptations such as the avoidance of hypoxic situations or remaining inactive during aerial "stranding." Other species are, however, well adapted to breathe air and exhibit morphological adaptations such as smaller gill areas, specialized buccopharyngeal epithelia and a proliferation of cutaneous blood vessels in the skin. Oxygen consumption in rockpool fish is comparable to non-intertidal fish and responds in a similar manner to temperature changes. The ability to regulate oxygen consumption down to oxygen tensions below 40 Torr is, however, marked in rockpool species. Aerial and aquatic rates of respiration are similar in those species which are able to breathe air and the respiratory quotient normally remains between 0.7 and 0.9. A number of intertidal fish are well adapted for cutaneous respiration, satisfying over half of their oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange through the skin. Ventilatory responses to increased temperature, hyperoxia and hypoxia are similar to those of other fish but cardiac responses may differ in that no change in heart rate is seen under hypoxia or hyperoxia. Ventilatory and cardiac responses to aerial respiration are well adapted in some species maintaining ventilation and perfusion during aerial exposure. A marked Bohr effect, low temperature sensitivity and a temperature dependent Haldane effect have been measured in the haemoglobolin of some intertidal fish. These properties may assist oxygen transport and carbon dioxide exchange during cyclical changes in environmental parameters within an intertidal rockpool.
3881400|Daily studies were made of the osmoregulatory abilities of Cardisoma guanhumi from hatching to the end of larval development. These results were compared to those of similar research on osmoregulation by larvae and megalopa of four species of estuarine, littoral, and sub-littoral crabs. The comparison shows that larvae of C. guanhumi possess the same kinds of adaptations for water intake at the time of molt that were found in Rhithropanopeus harrisii. Land-crab larvae hyperregulated in 10 p.p.t. sea water and hyporegulated in water of 40 p.p.t. for experimental periods for 2 hr during the first one-third of their development. During the remainder of larval life, they hyporegulated against 15 p.p.t. in intermolt periods and became isosmotic with, or hyporegulated against, 10 p.p.t. at the time of molting. From the time of hatching, the osmoregulatory pattern of developing C. guanhumi fits them for deep penetration of estuaries and for crossing steep saline gradients. This pattern is evidence for a stronger and more enduring control of water balance, especially at the time of molting, than we have found in non-terrestrial species.
3884551|The respiratory proteins hemoglobin and hemocyanin share the function of oxygen transport, but the proteins belong to separate gene families, and their active sites and the metal ions that bind the oxygen differ. Either hemoglobin or hemocyanin, but not both, is expressed in the hemolymph of many arthropod crustaceans. Hemoglobin is present in Branchiopoda, Ostracoda, Copepoda, rhizocephalan Cirripedia and one suborder of amphipodan Malacostraca, while hemocyanin has been described in Malacostraca. Recent work by several laboratories have provided new information on the gene structure, exon-intron patterns, site of synthesis and expression of hemoglobins in the branchiopods Artemia and Daphnia. These studies suggest the branchiopods are excellent model organisms for studies of oxygen sensors and hypoxia inducible transcription factors during developmental and adult stages. The focus in our laboratory on the ontogeny of hemocyanin in the Dungeness crab, Cancer magister, had demonstrated that both structure and function of hemocyanin change from megalopa to adult crab. The hemocyanin of an oceanic megalopa contains four subunits. Another subunit appears about the time of metamorphosis to first juvenile instar, and expression of a sixth subunit begins four or five molts later. The timing of onset of adult hemocyanin can be altered experimentally by food levels and temperature. Gene expression and functional properties of both red and blue oxygen transport proteins of crustaceans change during ontogeny to insure oxygen delivery appropriate for each developmental stage.
3884243|An attempt is made to explain the evolution of different cardiovascular morphologies of crustaceans on the basis of (1) changes in the development of the body plan of different species, (2) the advent in the malacostracans of segmental arteries that provided the circulatory potential for growth in body size and speciation, (3) the need for more powerful hearts to propel blood through larger bodies, and (4) the embryological substrate that would allow for the development of regional specialization. Electrophysiological evidence supports the hypothesis that the archetypal crustacean heart was myogenic, but in more advanced forms this pacemaking mechanism has become subservient to the neural drive from the cardiac ganglion. This transition may have been the result of the selective advantages to possessing a discrete cardiac ganglion, which itself was easily controlled by nervous inputs from the CNS and by circulating hormones.
4620197|The cost of locomotion is rarely constant, but rather varies as an animal changes speed and direction. Ultimately, the locomotory muscles of an ani must compensate for these changing requirements by varying the amount of mechanical power that they produce. In this paper, we consider the mechanisms by which the mechanical power generated by the asynchronous flight muscles of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is regulated to match the changing requirements during flight control behaviors. Our data come from individual flies flown in a flight arena under conditions in which stroke kinematics, total metabolic cost, and flight force are simultaneously measured. In order to increase force production, flies must increase wing beat frequency and wing stroke amplitude. Theory predicts that these kinematics changes should result in a roughly cubic increase in the mechanical power requirements for flight. However, the mechanical energy generated by muscle should increase only linearly with stroke amplitude and frequency. This discrepancy implies that flight muscles must either recruit myofibrils or increase activation in order to generate sufficient mechanical power to sustain elevated force production. By comparing respirometrically measured total metabolic power with kinematically estimated mechanical power, we have calculated that the stress in the flight muscles of Drosophila must increase by 50% to accommodate a doubling of flight force. Electrophysiological evidence suggests that this change in stress may be accomplished by an increased neural drive to the asynchronous muscles, which in turn may act to recruit additional cross bridges through an increase in cytosolic calcium.
3881699|Octopus vulgaris prey upon many gastropod species by boring holes in the shell, weakening the prey with a venom, removing the entire prey, and eating it. When offered Strombus raninus the Octopus quickly grasped the conch with one or a few arms, checked for occupancy by inserting an arm tip into the aperture, and passed the shell under the web to the mouth. The shell was held against the buccal mass by the circumoral suckers and rasped repeatedly with the radula, repositioned, and rasped again. There were brief pauses of apparent inactivity between the periods of active rasping. The shell was penetrated at an approximate maximal rate of 1.25 mm per hour. The boreholes averaged 0.93 mm in outer diameter, 0.47 mm in inner diameter and 0.88 mm in depth. The boreholes were extremely variable in shape, size, and position on the spire. There was a marked preference for individual animals to bore in a particular sector of the spire. Apparently the animals orient the shells by using the lip as a point of reference because lipless shells had the boreholes randomly distributed around the shell.
3882028|Newborn rats exposed at 37 C to pure nitrogen continue to breathe slowly for 22 minutes. As they grow older the time to the last breath diminishes, and the pattern of breath frequencies changes. At 4 to 11 days of age pretreatment with hypoxia for a few hours prolongs the time to last breath for 40 to 75%. To that prolongation (physiological adaptation) may be added the smaller effect of immediate glucose injection. Neither prolongation is available in the first two days after birth. The adaptation appears to modify the regulation of anaerobic breathing in the medulla oblongata, which acquires this specific superfunction in response to the pretreatment with hypoxia.
3884259|Wolbachia, a bacterial endosymbiont of diverse arthropods, affects its host's reproduction and so is consequential for its host's fitness. In the fruit fly Drosophila simulans, Wolbachia increases embryonic mortality in crosses of infected males with uninfected females, possibly by manipulating the proteins of the host gametes. Preliminary data suggests these proteins include at least two families of heat-shock proteins, Hsp70 and Hsp90. Drosophila larvae live within necrotic fruit, in which larvae can experience thermal stress that induces Hsp expression. Infected male D. simulans, if exposed to laboratory heat shock as larvae, father more viable offspring than unexposed controls. Also, infected male D. simulans, if allowed to copulate beforehand, father more viable offspring than virgin controls of identical age. These two mechanisms of restoring the reproductive compatibility of Wolbachia-infected Drosophila could affect the fitness of wild D. simulans; we are attempting to document these effects through modelling and experimental study of natural populations and their thermal environment. This research program exemplifies how evolutionary physiology may extend far beyond the classical disciplinary boundaries of physiology and evolutionary biology.
3884224| The ability of scleractinian corals to survive changes that are predicted in the global environment over the next century will lie in their physiological mechanisms of acclimatization. Corals display rapid modifications in behavior, morphology and physiology enabling them to photoacclimate to changing light conditions, a scenario that demonstrates considerable biological flexibility. Here we argue that the acclimatization mechanisms in corals are fundamentally similar to those exhibited by other invertebrate taxa. We discuss protein metabolism as a mechanism underlying acclimatization responses in reef corals, and explore the relationship between protein turnover, metabolic rate, growth rate, and acclimatization capacity. Our preliminary analyses suggest that corals with low growth rates (Ca/mgN/h) and high metabolic rates (
3882282|Octodon degus (the degu) has two anatomically separate thymus glands, a cervical thymus (CT) and a mediastinal thymus (MT). Antigen binding cells taken from the two thymic components of fetal and neonatal degus were enumerated by incubation with beta-galactosidase (Gz) as antigen, followed by incubation with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D- galactoside (BIG). Gz cleavage of BIG on the surfaces of Gz antigen binding cells (ABC's) produces an indoxan catalytic product which stains the cell blue. Histochemically stained cells are interpreted as antigen binding cells with antigen receptors specific for Gz. The frequencies of ABC's in neonatal CT and MT were approximately 0.1% and 0.01%. Cortisone treatment increased the frequency of Gz ABC's, whereas Gz immunization resulted in a rapid elimination of Gz ABC's. Cortisone treatment delayed the loss of Gz ABC's in neonatal degus treated with both cortisone and Gz. Both fetal and neonatal degus may have no detectable Gz ABC's in either CT, or MT, or both. The data are interpreted with respect to current hypotheses for maturation of immunological repertoire, and pluripotentiality versus unipotentiality of antigen sensitive cells. The cervical and mediastinal thymic components of the degu may serve as independent sites for the development of immunocompetent thymocytes.
3882618| An in vitro assay for the insect prothoracicotropic hormone (PTTH) has been developed which measures the rate of ecdysone synthesized by Manduca sexta prothoracic glands (PG) stimulated in vitro by PTTH. This assay has been used to quantify PTTH in single neurosecretory cells (NSC) resulting in the identification of one NSC in each hemisphere of the brain as the prothoracicotrope, source of PTTH. The axonal and dendritic distribution of the prothoracicotrope has been determined by cobalt filling with silver intensification. From a comparison of the titers of PTTH in brains, corpora cardiaca and corpora allata during larval-pupal development, the corpus allatum has been identified as the neurohemal organ for PTTH. Electron microscopic analyses suggest that the acellular sheath surrounding the corpus allatum contains the axon terminals of the prothoracicotropes. There is at least one form of PTTH, ,22,000 mol wt (big PTTH), and possibly a smaller form of about 7,000 mol wt (small PTTH). Bioassay and PTTH hemolymph titer data during the head critical period (HCP) for larval-larval development reveal that big PTTH is released as a single peak lasting 6 hr. By contrast, during the first HCP of the last larval instar PTTH is released over a period of 18 hr in three bursts, but its molecular weight has not been established with certainty. The kinetics of PG activation by these two forms suggest that big PTTH may function to activate the PG dramatically and thereby elicit molting, while small PTTH may activate the PG minimally at the time of cellular reprogramming. 
3883547|Attempts to account for the origins of precisely-patterned neural circuits have prompted extensive investigations since the turn of the century. Cell surface cues, involving molecules of the plasma membrane, influence the gross patterning of axon growth. After synapses are established, activity patterns and effects of neurotransmitters are important in reshuffling and achieving greater precision of nerve connections. Developing visual neural circuits are particularly convenient for experimental analysis. Such experiments have yielded important insights concerning one subclass of excitatory amino acid receptors that is critically involved in establishing the ultimate precision of these circuits; the potential significance of a single receptor system whose function is tied directly to sprouting and synaptogenetic ability in the vertebrate CNS is likely to be extensive.
3883106|Our contribution to this symposium is a review of recent models and experimental data on oxygen homeostasis in vertebrates with normal intracardiac shunts; i.e., amphibians and reptiles. We focus on the interactions among hemoglobin function, body temperature regulation, and cardiovascular shunts under normal conditions (i.e., breathing fresh air at or near sea level) and during external hypoxia (e.g., altitude, burrows) and internal hypoxia (e.g., anemia, hemorrhage). Mathematical models and experimental data suggest that animals with venous admixture from cardiovascular shunts will show biphasic arterial and mixed venous Po
3881786|Studies are reviewed on the electrophysiological and endocrinological features of a group of neurosecretory cells (the bag cells) in the abdominal ganglion of Aplysia. Electrophysiological studies suggest that the bag cells are involved in the regulation of a phasic behavioral function such as egg laying. Egg laying occurs approximately one hour following the injection into the hemocele of a crude extract of the bag cells or of the perfusate of an abdominal ganglion in which a pleural abdominal connective is electrically stimulated. The bag cells appear to act as a unit, releasing a measured dose of egg laying hormone when they are triggered into activity.
3883567|In this paper I argue that the general concordance among species of birds in their clinal (gradual) patterns of geographic variation in size and color of plumage is so high that the primary regulatory process must be physiological adaptation to climate or its correlates. Size variation in the American Robin, a widespread species that shows the pattern of clinal variation typical in North American passerines, can be well predicted by measures of summer climate that include the effects of both temperature and humidity. July mean noon absolute humidity is a good predictor of size variation in the robin within the United States. Geographic variation in the color of the plumage of the robin, which involves interactions among several pigments, is independent of its size variation but in accord with color variation in other species. Both Bergmann's and Gloger's ecogeographic rules are important empirical models for which the physiological basis needs further study. To establish that functional differences are subject to natural selection requires showing that geographic differences have a genetic basis and that these differences are related to the survival and reproduction of individuals at different localities. Laboratory and field experiments with Red-winged Blackbirds show that environmentally induced effects on development probably contribute to clines in measurements of adults in this species. Further work is needed to clarify the generality of the relationship between clinal variation and environmentally induced variation and to determine the functional significance of clines and their relationship to survival and reproduction in different localities. Environmental plasticity itself is geographically variable. It may have a genetic basis and be an object of selection.
3881124|Evidence now available supports the concept of close relationship between the seymouriamorphs and diadectids, with the latter a specialized offshoot of the former. Diadectes itself clearly is not a progenitor of Chelonia. The seymouriamorph-diadectid complex may be a sterile line, except for the gephyrostegids which, originating very early among seymouriamorphs, may have led to true reptiles. There is some evidence, mostly highly tentative, that procolophons and their probable descendants, the pareiasaurs, may have arisen from the non-gephyrostegid seymouriamorph stock. Chelonia could have found their ancestery within the procolophons or pareiasaurs. If this is the case, and only additional study can confirm or deny it, then the concept of the Parareptilia, as proposed earlier (Olson, 1947), may retain much of its original meaning, with the Diadectidae, however, far removed from the ancestry of the Chelonia.
3881164| Mimetridium cryptum is a slender, elongated, New Zealand sea anemone. It shows fast contractions in the retractor muscles of its mesenteries, oral disc radial muscles, and tentacle longitudinal muscles. The nervous system shows considerable regional differentiation in orientation of neurons, range of diameters of nerve fibers, and density of nerve net. Fast-contracting muscles are overlain by relatively dense nerve net, with many nerve fibers of more than 2  diameter; slow-contracting muscles are overlain by a sparse nerve net whose nerve fibers are about 1  in diameter. A tendency for nerve fibers to run parallel is marked in some regions. Individual neurons may run from one structure to another, and even pass from the endoderm of the mesenteries to the ectoderm of the oral disc. 
3882183|The vegetal region of the Ilyanassa egg, incorporated into the polar lobe and segregated to the D blastomere, appears to have an organizing influence in development. The results of deleting individual micromeres of the first three quartets, and the 4d cell, indicate that most of these cells play rather distinctive developmental roles. Both cytoplasmic segregation and embryonic induction are believed to be involved in determining the fate of cells during development in Ilyanassa. Comparisons are made with other forms.
3882240|Shell-less Discinisca larvae of 2-3 p.c. (pairs of cirri) and small shelled larvae of 4 p.c. stages, hitherto undescribed, form a growth series with those previously described. The shell first formed during early 3 p.c. or early 4 p.c. stage. In swimming these young larvae did not rotate about their longitudinal body axis, unlike larger larvae. In some larvae pigment granules aggregated in the anterolateral stomach wall, forming "eye spots," which are not comparable to the sensory eye spots of articulate larvae. The order of appearance of embryonic setae and larval setae was described. The role of the former in floatation and in protective response was suggested. In recent brachiopod ontogeny there is an evolutionary simplification from the presumably primitive condition in lingulids with shelled embryo, shelled larva with statocysts, long planktotrophic existence and well developed trocholophe with continuous budding of cirri to 8-20 pairs; to the discinids with setiferous, shell-less embryo, shelled larva with statocysts, shorter planktotrophic existence and larval trocholophe with a maximum of 4 cirrus pairs; and finally to the articulates with setiferous, shell-less embryo and larva with no statocysts, no differentiated cirri and short free-swimming existence.
3881817| The present paper is concerned mainly with the melanin-dispersing effect of melanocyte-stimulating hormones (MSH's) on the skin melanophores of amphibians. In addition, some of the more recent evidence for the unihumoral theory of the control of color change is reviewed. The mechanism of dispersion of melanin is still unknown, but evidence is accumulating that the action of MSH may be mediated by an increase in the melanophoric content of adenosine 3, 5-monophosphate (cyclic AMP). For example, cyclic AMP has a specific, reversible melanin-dispersing effect on the melanophores of the isolated skin of R. pipiens and Xenopus laevis. It also has a reversible "melanophore-expanding" effect on the tissue-cultured embryonic melanophores of the spotted salamander, Ambystoma maculatum. The effect of cyclic AMP on melanophores of R. pipiens does not require sodium but is inhibited by hypertonicity. Finally, new evidence is presented that confirms that the melanin-dispersing effect of catecholamines on melanophores of X. laevis is mediated by beta adrenergic receptors, because it is blocked by the highly specific -blocking agent, propranolol. On the other hand, the melanin-aggregating effect of catecholamines on amphibian melanophores appears to be mediated by alpha adrenergic receptors. There is even a possibility that the effects of catecholamines are also mediated through a control of cyclic AMP levels in melanophores, with beta adrenergic stimulation producing an increase in cyclic AMP levels, followed by dispersion of melanin, and alpha adrenergic stimulation producing a decrease in cyclic AMP levels, followed by aggregation of melanin. 
3882043|Prior to fertilization in Campanularia flexuosa a capacitation-like interaction occurs between the spermatozoa and the epithelial cells that lead to and surround the eggs. Trypsin treatment of egg packets (eggs surrounded by epithelial cells) prevents the capacitation-like action and results in loss of fertilizability. Following treatment, the normal fuzzy surface coat of the epithelial cells is reduced from 200 A to 50 A. Even with increased amounts of sperm the fertilization rate of trypsin-treated eggs in the egg packets never reaches normal levels. This indicates loss of available epithelial cell surface interaction sites. Epithelial cell surface material is solubilized by incubation of egg packets in calcium- and magnesium-free sea water. Treatment of trypsinized egg packets with the solubilized material increases the fertilization rate. The possibility that the necessary capacitation-like interaction is mediated by the cell surface is discussed.
3884231|Two studies from the Pleistocene coral reef fossil record demonstrate the sensitivity of reef communities to both local environmental parameters and habitat reduction. In the first study, Pleistocene reef coral assemblages from Papua New Guinea show pronounced constancy in taxonomic composition and species diversity between 125 and 30 ka (thousand years). Spatial differences in reef coral community composition during successive high stands of sea level were greater among sites of the same age than among reefs of different ages, even though global changes in sea level, atmospheric CO
3884298|Ecdysteroid hormones have been shown to regulate growth and development in insects, chelicerates and crustaceans. While they presumably mediate analogous functions in all arthropods, their action outside Insecta is poorly understood. Ecdysteroid receptors are heterodimeric proteins composed of two nuclear receptor superfamily members, the ecdysone receptor (EcR) and Ultraspiracle (USP), the invertebrate homologue of retinoid x receptors (RXRs). When paired, EcR/USP dimers function as ligand-activated transcription factors, binding to DNA response elements in target genes and activating transcription. A curious feature of the insect EcR and USP homologues isolated to date is the striking degree of heterogeneity in both EcR and USP proteins, relative to vertebrate nuclear receptor homologues. This feature has raised a number of questions regarding their evolution and functional equivalence. To examine the question of ecdysteroid action in ixodid ticks, we isolated chelicerate EcR and RXR homologues from the ixodid tick, Amblyomma americanum. Like insects, ticks possess a single EcR homologue that encodes multiple protein isoforms. However, ticks possess at least two RXR genes that encode proteins with greater overall similarity to vertebrate RXRs. While tick EcR and RXR proteins can partner to form functional ecdysteroid receptors, the DNA and ligand binding domains of tick EcR and RXR proteins are quite divergent, and suggest that there may be important functional differences in both DNA and ligand binding of tick ecdysteroid receptors.
3881697| Carbonic anhydrase (CA), the enzyme which catalyzes the reaction
3882304|The pattern of the anatomical distribution of estrogen target cells in insectivores, rodents and primates is similar. It shows relationship to the patterns observed in non-mammalian vertebrates. In the forebrain it includes preoptic-septal, central hypothalamic, thalamic and allocortical sites. In neonatal and fetal rodents similar target sites can be demonstrated and evolve during embryonic development; however, the nuclear groups are not as well differentiated and the appearance of steroid hormone receptors does not occur simultaneously in them. Androgen target cells are accumulated at sites that overlap in part with those of estradiol, but in addition are found extensively in areas associated with psychomotor and somatomotor functions, including floor-plate derivatives in the lower brain stem and spinal cord. Glucocorticosteroids show extensive localization in neurons of the allocortex. This indicates a phylogenetically recent forebrain acquisition, compared to the sex steroids. Thyroid hormones show nuclear concentration in many neurons, in addition to selective uptake in tanycytic ependyma, choroid plexus and certain neuropil. The close topographic relationship of hormone target cells to the recess organs of the ventricular system led us to propose the concept of interrelated periventricular secretory units.
3884195|During lactation, mothers require energy to meet both maternal and offspring requirements. If a mother exports too much energy to dependent offspring (in milk), her weight loss may be excessive and maternal risk may increase. Conversely, too little energy allocation to offspring may reduce the growth rate or induce mortality of dependent offspring. This paradigm was evaluated in cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) supporting small (3 pup) and large (6 pup) litters from early to late lactation. Several types of evidence indicate that physiological constraints limit the ability of mothers with large litters to provide resources to offspring. Mothers with large litters produced a dilute, energy-poor milk and their rates of food intake, weight loss and energy export per litter appeared to approach physiological maxima. Whereas the energy exported to pups in small litters increased from early to late lactation, the energy flow per pup in large litters was consistently low; consequently, offspring in large litters had low growth rates. An increase in either maternal food intake or weight loss (catabolism of maternal tissue) could have provided additional energy to offset the low growth rate of pups in large litters. However, mothers with large litters did not substantially increase their food intake or weight loss compared with mothers supporting small litters. These results indicate that the maternal support of offspring in large litters is limited. The pattern of energy allocation shown by cotton rats with large litters likely reflects a compromise between meeting maternal and offspring energy requirements (cf., Parker and Macnair, 1979). The energy flow is greater than optimal for the parent but less than optimal for the offspring. Less maternal-offspring conflict occurs in small than large litters because offspring in small litters maintain a high growth rate at a relatively low maternal cost. Yet, under favorable environmental conditions, the reduction in maternal-offspring conflict has no apparent fitness benefit.
3882551|An outline for an organismic theory of reproductive tactics is presented to develop the demographic theory of optimal reproductive tactics into a more realistic theory of life-history evolution. Reproductive effort-defined as the proportion of resources invested in reproduction-and the costs in somatic investment do not automatically result in survival costs. Both the conditions where survival costs are produced and the conditions where reproduction can take place without survival costs are specified. Compensation and threshold hypotheses are put forward to allow weaker correlations between reproduction and survival than the trade-off hypothesis, which assumes direct impacts by reproductive effort on survival. Furthermore, reproductive tactics are unlikely to be moulded by the demographic forces of selection only. An empirical example is shown where residual reproductive value played no significant role in the evolution of reproductive tactics. Selection probably operates not on separate life-history traits but on whole organisms through their entire life-history. The structural and physiological intercouplings between separate traits can result in phenotypic opportunity sets where selection can mould life-history traits only within the constraints of the opportunity sets. Optimization theory has provided an efficient technique for modelling and making predictions. However, organismic selection does not necessarily optimize adaptive strategies but eliminates unfit strategies. Life-history theory, and evolutionary theory in general, can be developed along alternative logical lines when different hypotheses are generated on how selection operates.
3883429|The changes in system (biomolecules plus solvent) volume that accompany most biochemical reactions are large enough to cause strong perturbations of the reactions by hydrostatic pressure. Therefore, below a certain depth, adaptations are required to reduce volume changes and, thereby, the effects of pressure on biochemical structures and functions. These adaptations play important roles in establishing the depth distribution patterns of aquatic species. The pressures at which perturbation becomes strong enough to favor selection for pressure-adapted proteins differ among classes of proteins. Dehydrogenase enzymes, e.g., lactate and malate dehydrogenases, are especially pressure-sensitive. Species occurring below approximately 500 m (corresponding to 51 atm pressure) have dehydrogenases with reduced pressure sensitivities relative to shallower-living species. Thus, selection for pressure-adapted proteins may characterize organisms found in over 80 percent of the biosphere, by volume. The reduced sensitivities to pressure of dehydrogenases from deep-living species are linked to reductions in the catalytic efficiencies
3884411| Hypotheses explaining the use of intermittent bounding and undulating flight modes in birds are considered. Existing theoretical models of intermittent flight have assumed that the animal flies at a constant speed throughout. They predict that mean mechanical power in undulating (flap-gliding) flight is reduced compared to steady flight over a broad range of speeds, but is reduced in bounding flight only at very high flight speeds. Lift generated by the bird's body or tail has a small effect on power, but is insufficient to explain observations of bounding at intermediate flight speeds. Measurements on starlings Sturnus vulgaris in undulating flight in a wind tunnel show that flight speed varies by around 1 m/sec during a flap-glide cycle. Dynamic energy is used to quantify flight performance, and reveals that the geometry of the flight path depends upon wingbeat kinematics, and that neither flapping nor gliding phases are at constant speed and angle to the horizontal. The bird gains both kinetic and potential energy during the flapping phases. A new theoretical model indicates that such speed variation can give significant savings in mechanical power in both bounding and undulating flight. Alternative hypotheses for intermittent flight include a gearing mechanism, based on duty factor, mediating muscle power or force output against aerodynamic requirements. This could explain the use of bounding flight in hovering and climbing in small passerines. Both bounding and undulating confer other adaptive benefits; undulating may be primitive in birds, but bounding may have evolved in response to flight performance optimization, or to factors such as unpredictability in response to predation. 
3882893|Optimal foraging rules are used to simulate the home range of a central place forager in an environment with a patchy resource distribution. The model makes the following predictions: (1) Home range size is inversely related to maximum resource density and resource renewal rate. It is positively related to the animal's rate of movement. (2) The optimal home range shape in a patchy environment is elongate rather than circular, with a major to minor axis ratio of about 2:1. This agrees well with observed values. (3) The proportion of the total home range used per foraging bout is positively related to the renewal rate of the environment. (4) The tendency of an animal to concentrate its activity in a subregion of the home range (rather than distributing its activity uniformly) will increase with the maximum resource density. This tendency is measured as the ratio of the area which will contain 65% of the occurrences of an animal to the area required to contain 95% of its occurrences. The values of the ratio predicted by this model agree closely with observed values.
3881790|The courtship of butterflies begins with a general attraction of males to moving objects. If the object of the attraction is a receptive female, her response will elicit further courtship behavior from the male. Male courtship pheromones are disseminated during the aerial phases of courtship and after the female has landed. While female butterflies generally lack specific courtship pheromone glands, females of some groups do possess these. Courtship pheromones of males of four members of the subfamily Danainae in the family Nymphalidae have now been identified. Three of these share the same active component, but each has specific additional components. Although the courtship pheromone secretions of butterflies have odors which are very distinctive to humans, the active compound of these pheromones is odorless to humans and elicits responses from antennal receptors of all butterflies tested. The pheromone receptors are short, thin-walled pegs on the antennae of both male and female butterflies.
3882543|My work has shown that the neural dependence of the limb regenerate (blastema) for growth, is retained in vitro and it follows the normal in vivo pattern. Implanted dorsal root ganglia promote localized growth in cultured blastemata whereas in the absence of nerves little or no development ensues. Our transfilter studies show that the neurotrophic effect, which appears to be mediated by a factor capable of transmission through thin filters of low porosity, is manifested in a proximo-distal gradient of mitotic activity which diminishes with distance from the nerve source. This mitogenic effect appears to require at least 48 hr for expression, which corresponds to one revolution of the cell cycle. In the absence of nerves, both DNA synthesis and mitotic index in the blastema decline significantly; however, a basal level is maintained which may be nerve independent. In this context and in the light of pertinent recent literature, we present a model in which nerves, the apical epidermis and insulin (tripartite control) all play essential roles in the mitotic cycle.
3883111|For blood flow to be an effective agent for the control of heat exchange, it must occur in a region of the body where conduction resistance in the tissues is relatively high, and in an environment where external resistance to heat exchange is relatively low. If either of these conditions is not met, control of heat exchange by blood flow is not possible. Very small reptiles should not be able to control heat exchange by blood flow in any environment, unless they control blood flow specifically to appendages. Very large reptiles should be able to control heat exchange by blood flow only under certain conditions, such as in water, very high winds, or intense radiative heating. Otherwise, they should have little control. An optimum body size should exist for a reptile's ability to control heat exchange using blood flow. In air, this optimum body size for alligators appears to be about 5 kg. Theoretically, the optimum size should be substantially larger than 5 kg for reptiles heating and cooling in water.
3881793|Recent progress in the elucidation of the behavioral mechanisms responsible for maintaining the steady state in a termite colony is discussed. It is pointed out that various homeostatic mechanisms have common behavioral mechanisms. The mechanisms involved in nest repair and construction, foraging, defense, and general mass movements within nests are explained. An experiment is described in which differential responses to a discrete simple stimulus (heat) are made by two different castes of Nasutitermes corniger and the homeostatic significance emphasized. The factors involved in foraging behavior in Reticulitermes are described. An hypothesis for the significance of the behavioral phenomenon of head-banging in termites is put forward: it is considered to be connected with the maintenance of accelerated activity in a colony after "General Alarm."
3882360|In oxygen affinity characteristics bird blood appears to have several features that distinguish it from mammalian blood. For domesticated species at least, the range of oxygen half saturation values is extremely wide. A difference in the shape of the oxygen dissociation curve has been recorded by several authors, with an increase in sigmoidocity with increasing oxygen saturation. There is evidence that the oxygen affinity determining organic phosphate of bird red blood cells, inositol pentaphosphate (IP5), is relatively metabolically inert. This suggests that modulation of blood oxygen affinity is primarily achieved by altering the IP5-hemoglobin interaction rather than varying IP5 levels per se. In contrast to mammals, carbon dioxide has no direct effect on whole blood oxygen affinity for some bird species (hen, chick, goose) or it may cause the oxygen affinity to increase (pigeon, flamingo). Carbon dioxide is a blood oxygen affinity modulator of some flexibility, its effect in both direction and magnitude being dependent on the hemoglobin type, red cell pH and organic phosphate levels. The physiological significance of these distinguishing features is discussed.
3881912|Meiotic spindle formation in Spisula solidissima oocytes has been studied in vivo and in vitro. Measurements were made of polymerized tubulin content during the first meiotic division. The amount of polymer was high prior to activation of the eggs, fell to a minimum of about 5 min after activation and at 15 min (metaphase) returned to approximately its initial value. The polymerized tubulin in the unactivated eggs appears to be organized into granular spheres about 10-20 microns in diameter attached to the egg cortex. This particle contains few microtubules but is composed primarily of a granular matrix and fibrous material. The granular matrix may be a polymorphic aggregate of tubulin and could be a storage form of tubulin or an intermediate in microtubule assembly. The polymerization and organization of microtubules has been studied in vitro, using crude homogenates of Spisula oocytes. Microtubules can be formed in homogenates of both activated and unactivated eggs; however, in homogenates of eggs in which nuclear membrane breakdown has occurred, microtubules form around a central phase dense particle resulting in a structure which resembles a spindle aster. The central particle appears to be a microtubule organizing center (MTOC). The MTOC can be pelleted by centrifugation and will induce aster formation when remixed with the supernatant. Aster formation can be obtained using supernatants prepared from either activated or unactivated eggs, while the pellet must be obtained from activated eggs. Thus, tubulin subunits appear to be capable of spindle formation at all stages, while MTOC formation or activation does not occur until about the time of nuclear membrane breakdown.
3883257|Traditional views about the origin of eukaryotes and relationships between major "kingdoms" reflect interpretations of the fossil record and comparisons of phenotypic characters. This perspective is challenged by phylogenetic frameworks inferred from comparisons of macromolecular sequences which share a common ancestry. Similarities between ribosomal RNA genes demonstrate that instead of being relatively recent biological inventions, eukaryotes represent a discrete lineage that may be as old as the archaebacterial and eubacterial lines of descent. The diversity of protistan small subunit rRNA sequences exceeds that seen within the entire prokaryotic world. The earliest branching lineages include diplomonads, microsporidians, and tritrichomonads. Yet, other major protistan groups diverged relatively late in the evolutionary history of nucleated cells. Rather than being a concise evolutionary assemblage, the Protista should be regarded as a collection of paraphyletic lineages. In contrast, the Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia are independent monophyletic groupings. They originated nearly simultaneously during a relatively recent period characterized by a massive diversification of forms. This novel view of eukaryotic evolution suggests that a reliance upon large phenotypic differences in delineating kingdoms can obscure true genealogical relationships. Instead of dividing eukaryotes into four or more major divisions, they should be considered as a single kingdom that encompasses a progression of independently diverging lineages.
3882432|Vertebrate ectotherms often encounter rapid, large scale changes in body temperature. In this paper, I discuss the direct effects of changing body temperature on physiological parameters, as well as corrective responses initiated by the animal. For many biological functions, mean body temperature provides a useful measure of the thermal effects produced by an altered environmental temperature. Under most conditions, the fins and body surface of fish are more important avenues of heat exchange than the gills. The local thermal sensitivity of peripheral blood vessels results in vasomotor adjustments which can alter thermal conductivity. Acid-base balance is challenged by changes in body temperature. Shifts in body temperature also alter metabolic demands, enzyme conformation, ionic and osmotic relationships, spontaneous activity levels and nervous system function. Compensatory mechanisms include behavioral thermoregulation, by which animals seek to avoid stressful thermal environments, and autonomic restorative responses such as high temperature panting in reptiles. Water breathers may initiate anticipatory responses to minimize arterial oxygen fluctuations during termperature change. The organization of the central neuronal network underlying the above regulatory responses is unclear. Both air and water breathers are able to initiate compensatory acid-base responses, but the strategies utilized by the two groups are quite different. Altered body temperature initiates long-term acclimation responses, and if rapid, can also trigger stress responses.
3883420|Distribution patterns of the penaeid shrimp and demersal fish species are discussed based upon collections totaling in excess of 330,000 shrimp and 2,245,000 fishes. Depth related zonation reveals nearshore, mid-shelf, outer shelf, and trans-shelf assemblages. Estuary related species are particularly prominent on the northwestern Gulf shelf, while rock and reef related species are most important in the fauna of the eastern Gulf shelf. Recognizable elements in the shelf fauna also include species of tropical affinity; open ocean and upper slope species; inhabitants of seagrass beds, mangrove swamps, and carbonate rubble and shell hash; burrowers in soft bottoms; and inhabitants of the upper water column. The eastern Gulf shelf is inhabited by twice as many fish species and eight times as many unique species as the northwestern shelf, reflecting the great diversity of habitat types in the eastern Gulf. A few key species numerically dominate the ichthyofauna of the northwestern shelf, but dominance is spread through many species in the east. Seasonal shifts in species density primarily reflect inshore/offshore seasonal migrations of estuary related species, but seasonal inshore/offshore density shifts are also observed among the true shelf residents. Trophically the shelf systems are supported by precipitated plankton and organic detritus derived from rivers, bays and estuaries, seagrass beds, and mangrove swamps, although attached algae are also important producers in the east. Mollusks, polychaetes, and small crustaceans which feed upon this material, in turn, support the demersal fish communities whose species are generally short-lived. Larger long-lived predators are mostly seasonal migrants which appear in the northern Gulf during the warmer months. Bottom-feeding generalists are prominent in the northwest, while specialists are in great evidence in the east. These distributional studies lay the foundation for understanding the shelf ecological systems, and they also provide a basis for informed management decisions.
3882019|Cultures of Drosophila embryonic cells offer new opportunities for studying myoneural junctions. In culture, neuroblasts and myoblasts differentiate and yield neurons and myocytes. Some axons grow across the surface of the culture vessel and attach to myocytes, forming functional myoneural junctions. Therefore, all stages in junction formation may be examined in vitro under conditions where pharmacological, electrophysiological, and other commonplace approaches are facilitated. This method offers an additional, most powerful approach for studying the junctions, that of genetic analysis. Drosophila mutations may be sought which affect junction formation and function. Altered cells and junctions from mutants may then be compared to those from wild-type animals in order to dissect the gene-directed steps underlying junction phenomena.
3884021|Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and dioxins are widespread environmental conta minants that are suspected of causing cognitive deficits in children exposed in utero. Very little is known about which of the PCB and dioxin congeners present in the environment are responsible for the changes in cognitive function or about the mechanisms through which these chemicals affect the central nervous system (CNS). Because both PCBs and dioxins reduce circulating thyroid hormone levels, it has been proposed that these chemicals may affect CNS function indirectly by reducing the availability of thyroid hormone to the brain during development. Thyroid hormones play a critical role in brain development, and spatial learning and memory is one of the behavioral functions most severely affected by neonatal hypothyroidism. In the studies reviewed here, we investigated the effects of three ortho-substituted PCBs, two coplanar PCBs and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on spatial learning and memory in the rat. Pups exposed to PCBs or TCDD in utero and during lactation were tested when they reached adulthood. All three ortho-substituted PCBs caused deficits in spatial learning, but only two of the three reduced circulating thyroid hormone concentrations. Furthermore, the learning deficit was observed only in females, but thyroid hormones were equally depressed in males and females. Thus, the PCB-induced deficit in spatial learning did not appear to be mediated by the decreased thyroid hormone levels. TCDD and coplan ar PCBs caused moderate reductions in thyroid hormone, but facilitated rather than impaired spatial learning, an effect that has been reported in neonatally hyper thyroid rats. The possibility that TCDD and coplanar PCBs may act as "mixed" thyroid agonists/antagonists causing hypothyroid-like effects in some tissues and hyperthyroid-like effects in other tissues is discussed.
3882557|The geographic variation in the length of the larval period and the size at metamorphosis of the wood frog, Rana sylvatica, is examined for populations in the tundra of Canada, the mountains of Virginia, and the lowlands of Maryland. We argue that the observed differences in developmental plasticity, heritabilities and genetic covariances of traits among localities result from differential selection pressures in each environment, and are related to the physiological constraints inherent in development and to the degree of compromise between the timing and size at metamorphosis allowed in each environment. In Maryland populations fitness has been maximized by evolutionary changes in size alone; body size in this population is canalized, has low heritability and is highly correlated with juvenile survival relative to developmental time. In Canada, minimum developmental time yields maximum fitness; the length of the larval period in this population is canalized and genetically monomorphic relative to body size. In contrast, fitness in the Virginia populations has been determined by correlated and pleiotropic effects of genes on both developmental time and larval body size, and both traits are equally canalized, affect juvenile survivorship equally and display moderate heritabilities. These results stress the importance of interpreting variation in life-history traits relative to constraints inherent in development and those imposed by the environment. Heritability and survivorship data support the general notion that fitness traits should have low levels of additive genetic variation, but also suggest that antagonistic pleiotropy may act to preserve genetic variation in fitness traits under simultaneous selection, and caution against inferring evolutionary importance of individual traits without considering the possible presence of pleiotropy.
3881922|Specialized junctions, which allow small molecules to move directly between adjacent cells in many adult and embryonic tissues, may be involved in electrical or non-electrical forms of intercellular communication. The ability of the junctions to mediate either form of communication depends on the permeability of the junctions and on the shape, size, and arrangement of the interconnected cells. Electrical communication depends on junctional resistance and on non-junctional resistance which is a function of cell surface area. Non-electrical communication, it is argued, depends on junctional permeability to small molecules and on cell volume. The dual dependency of non-electrical communication in particular is discussed in detail and some of the possible implications are illustrated with specific examples.
3884196|Studies of life history evolution, as well as much of life history theory, have typically focused on "hard" components of life histories; phenotypic characteristics that can be readily observed, quantified, and ultimately, connected rather directly to fitness. Typical of these are propagule size, propagule number, and age and size at maturity. What is largely missing from the study of life history evolution is consideration of the role of behavior, principally female oviposition site choice, in the evolution of life histories. For oviparous organisms, natural selection cannot produce locally optimized "hard" components of life history phenotypes without a consistent environmental context (whether invariant or variable); in a variable environment, that consistent environmental context can be most effectively provided by interactive oviposition site choice. I present a model of selection on oviposition site choice in the context of the evolution of "hard" components of life history phenotypes, along with some experimental data illustrating oviposition site choice in response to predators. The model and data are then related to the overall question of the role of oviposition site choice in life history evolution. The conclusion is that oviposition site choice must be under equally strong selection with egg size, egg number and the other hard components of life histories in order to generate and optimize locally adapted or ecologically specialized life history phenotypes, and must therefore, play a significant role in the evolution of life histories.
3883261|Recent studies seem to imply that the regulation of transcription might proceed by several distinct mechanisms. Promoters, the DNA sequences at which RNA polymerase binds and initiates transcription, appear to be organized entirely differently in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Moreover, the classical studies of transcription regulation in prokaryotes had established a "short range" paradigm in which regulatory proteins bind to DNA sequences contiguous with the promoter, and modulate initiation efficiency by directly contacting RNA polymerase. More recently, a "long range" mechanism was discovered in eukaryotes in which regulatory proteins exert their effects from remote DNA sites, termed enhancers or long range operators, which can be thousands of base pairs from their target promoters; long range regulation has now been described in prokaryotes as well. In fact, all of these apparently disparate strategies may operate according to a common general principle in which activity is determined by specific protein-protein interactions. In particular, I suggest that the different schemes for promoter function and regulation may be distinguished only by differences in their relative dependence upon protein-DNA interactions to facilitate appropriate protein-protein alignments. Long range regulation of gene expression suggests a simple and efficient way to evolve new regulatory circuits: stochastic germ line transpositions of long range regulatory elements could readily influence the activities of nearby promoters. Indeed, certain enhancers and long range operators have been found to reside on transposable DNA elements. For transpositions with favorable consequences, secondary rearrangements would subsequently move the regulatory element closer to the promoter, eventually yielding a short range regulatory mechanism. Thus, long range and short range regulation may be mechanistically and evolutionarily related, perhaps explaining why the two schemes persist and often coexist even within a single cell. Long range regulatory mechanisms, according to this view, provide a primary driving force for regulatory evolution.
3881682|At the present time there is no experimental evidence which links the supposed boring activities of sipunculids to a specific organ or structure. Structures which have been speculatively associated in the literature with boring are: hooks and spines of the introvert, cuticular papillae with associated epidermal glands, anterior and posterior horny shields, and anterior calcareous shields. In this review these structures are described as they occur in five representative species of sipunculids collected by the author from calcareous rock in the Indian Ocean or the Caribbean Sea. The five species are: Phascolosoma antillarum Grube and Oersted, Phascolosoma dentigerum (Selenka and de Man), Paraspidosiphon steenstrupi (Diesing), Lithacrosiphon gurjanovae Murina, and Cloeosiphon aspergillum (Quatrefages). Localities of collections are cited, habitats and burrows are described, and the behavior of the animals as observed in the field and laboratory is noted. In view of the morphology of the possible boring structures and in light of observations on habitats and behavior, the possible roles of the structures in boring activities are discussed. Highly organized horny shields are present at the anterior and posterior extremities of the trunk of Paraspidosiphon steenstrupi, whereas anterior calcareous shields are characteristic of Cloeosiphon aspergillum and Lithacrosiphon gurjanovae. Papillae and epidermal glands are present in all five of the species but these are most highly developed in Phascolosoma dentigerum and P. antillarum. Of the species considered, only P. antillarum lacks hooks on the introvert. Because of the position of the animal within the rock with anterior end directed toward the mouth of the burrow, it is assumed that the anterior shields and the hooks of the introvert play no significant role in the formation of the burrow. However, the rigid papillae of the trunk and the thickened posterior shield, if rubbed against the wall of the burrow, presumably could be utilized in the mechanical attrition of the more friable rock, whereas the secretory products of the numerous epidermal glands might be implicated in the chemical dissolution of the harder substrates.
3882481|Basic reproductive data from 21 green turtle (Chelonia mydas), 8 leatherback (Dermochelys coriacea), 7 hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata), 7 olive ridley (Lepidochelys olivacea), 6 loggerhead (Caretta caretta), 1 Kemp's ridley (Lepidochelys kempi), and 1 flatback (Chelonia depressa) populations are provided. Some intraspecific and interspecific relationships between size of nester and clutch, egg size and hatchling size are analyzed. Measurements of reproductive rates (=numbers of hatchlings per female per year) in 11 populations varied from 35 to 200 in an olive ridley and loggerhead colony, respectively. Nesting behavior of each species is described in terms of type of nesting emergence and time spent on the nesting beach (=chelonery). The relatively large number of yolkless eggs laid by many leatherbacks and by some hawksbills invites further study. Some aspects of sea turtle nesting behavior and reproduction are compared to those of other chelonians.
3883766|The elasmobranchs represent a fascinating series of experiments in the evolution of maternal support for developing embryos. In oviparous species, eggs are enclosed in a tough, fibrous capsule. The capsule is very permeable and the embryonic tissues are bathed in a solution ionically similar to sea water within hours of oviposition. In the primitively viviparous species Squalus acanthias, early embryos in egg capsules are retained in utero and are bathed in a solution similar to maternal plasma. Several months into the 22 month gestation period the embryos are capable of independent iono- and osmoregulation in a uterine solution that resembles sea water. Embryos of more advanced viviparous species develop in a solution that is similar to maternal plasma. Iono- and osmoregulation by these embryos would appear to be minimal. It is clear that in the oviparous elasmobranchs, the ability of the egg/embryo to maintain salts and urea at appropriate levels is present at the earliest stage of development. The ability of prenatal elasmobranch embryos to iono- and osmoregulate would allow the evolution of a diverse array of reproductive strategies in the elasmobranchs.
4620126|Research on the sexual differentiation of mating behavior has impeded progress in our understanding of the proximate bases of individual differences in two ways. First, by viewing variation as categorical rather than continuous, and second, by not placing sufficient emphasis on the fact that males and females differ genetically in many vertebrates, environmental contributions to individual differences cannot be distinguished from genetic contributions. Just as there are two levels of organization of sex, so, too, are there two levels of organization of the sexual phenotype. Primary organization is the process of sexual differentiation that follows gonadal determination and is manifest as the morphological, physiological and behavioral aspects of the sexual phenotype. There is a second, and subsequent, level of organization, however, that is directly related to primary organization and is the basis of individual variation in sexually dimorphic behaviors. This level can be termed secondary organization. Because individual variation is the substance of evolutionary change, understanding its organization will require both new paradigms and alternative animal model systems that allow separation of the effects of genes and hormones from environmental and experiential stimuli. The plasticity of the sexual phenotype and how each individual emerges from its own unique circumstances integrates these different levels of organization. As might be predicted, recent research suggests that the relationship between primary and secondary organization and the development of individual differences in sociosexual behaviors involves more than just sex steroid hormones.
3881624|The regulation of lipid synthesis in the hepatopancreas of the crab Pachygrapsus crassipes and the crayfish Procambarus sp. was investigated. Although destalking induces an increase in the rate of
3882324|The results of behavioral studies suggest specific roles for high-frequency vocalizations (ultrasounds) in courtship and copulatory interactions among golden hamsters. In addition, these results, and functional interpretations based on them, can help to guide studies of physiological mechanisms controlling ultrasonic communication. For example, interpretations of rodent ultrasounds as sexual or agonistic signals suggest that ultrasound rates depend on gonadal hormones. This prediction has been verified for several rodent species, including hamsters. Similar reasoning should apply to the analysis of brain mechanisms for ultrasound production. In particular, the consideration of hamster ultrasounds as sexual behaviors and vocalizations, as well as hormone-dependent responses, suggests several brain areas as especially likely participants in neural circuits mediating hormonal effects on ultrasonic communication. The preliminary results of a study in which we lesioned one of these areas, the mesencephalic central grey, confirm this structure's involvement in the control of hamster ultrasounds, and, more generally, support the utility of behavioral data in physiological studies.
3881888|A brief review of the methods of procurement, storage, and shipping of Rana pipiens, the limitation of the animal as presently supplied, and a look to the future.
3882542|Nerves, wound epidermis, and injury are indispensable for salamander limb regeneration, but their mechanism of action is not understood. A hypothesis has been presented (Tassava and Mescher, 1975) which suggests that injury is important to dedifferentiation and entry of limb stump cells into the cell cycle, nerves are required for one or more G
3883666|While benthic ecologists have often studied the inter-relationships of benthic animals and sediment, only recently has the sediment been examined at a scale appropriate to the animals of interest. In studying sediment as food for benthic animals, it is common-place for the nutritional value of the sediment to be characterized in terms of the size distribution of mineral grains and some measure of the organic matter content such as percent by weight of organic C and N. These measures have been shown to be nearly meaningless and have been replaced by measures of proteins and amino acids, bacterial and eucaryote biomass, and by a visual examination of the sediment using thin section techniques. The latter method also shows that marine muds are not very homogeneous over distances of hundreds of micrometers and that the relationship between mineral grains and organic matter in sediment is very complex. The interstitial pore waters of marine sediment have also come under increasing scrutiny, chiefly through the development and use of microelectrodes. Oxygen concentration is not well correlated with sediment color but is controlled by the rate of consumption within the sediment and diffusion, which is a function of distance and time from an oxygenated source, for example, the overlying water at the sediment-water interface or an actively ventilated burrow. The delivery of oxygen, the distribution of metabolizable organic matter, and the packing of sediment grains are all properties of sediment that vary on the scale of millimeters and may strongly affect the ability of resident organisms to live and reproduce.
3884212|Free-spawning marine invertebrates face the challenge of ensuring that gametes of the same species come into contact, recognize, bind to and fuse with one another once they have been released by the adults. Coordinated spawning, chemoattraction and specific cell-cell recognition events help to overcome this challenge. One marine invertebrate, the sea urchin, has served as a model system for the study of gamete recognition and fertilization for over 100 years. Recent biochemical and molecular advances in this area have begun to address the questions that have been raised by the results of elegant physiological observations. The picture of fertilization that is emerging is characterized by highly specific cell-cell interactions between proteins on the surfaces of the gametes. These proteins then mediate the binding and subsequent events that lead to activation of the egg and delivery of the male genetic material. Because of these recent insights, the sea urchin egg is in a position to provide answers to one of the central debates in developmental biology-the mechanism of egg activation. Does the sperm deliver an activating factor? Does sperm binding trigger a receptor-mediated signal? Or is the mechanism a complex combination? With the tools and knowledge gained from the study of sea urchin fertilization, testing of these hypotheses should be feasible in the near future.
3882814|The nemertean family, Carcinonemertidae, is adapted to fill the specialized niche of ectocommensal and egg-predator on decapod crustacean hosts. The group has been known for over a century but its ecological role has only recently been elucidated. Information generated on the life history of nemertean egg predators has revealed that these worms are highly specialized as obligate symbionts on decapod crustaceans. Larvae are predominantly planktonic in the group with the exception of the new genus Pseudocarcinonemertes which has direct development into a crawling juvenile. Juvenile Carcinonemertes errans survive through direct uptake of dissolved amino acids leaked by the host at the sites of nemertean infestation. Worms are indiscriminate feeders able to feed on the eggs of several crab species other than their own host species. External fertilization is the normal case with the exception of C. epialti which has been seen to have internal fertilization. Female C. errans appear to be able to produce fertilized eggs without mating. The biological basis for this behavior is unknown. Up until 1978 the family consisted of four species in one genus. Recent descriptions of a new species and a new genus demonstrate the diversity of nemerteans living on crustaceans. Several distinctive new forms have now been found on the Pacific coast which probably represent several new species and at least one other new genus. Recent comparisons with Carcinonemertes suggest that the genus Pseudocarcinonemertes might belong in the family Tetrastemmidae and represents an example of convergent evolution.
3883362| Polyclad flatworms are unable to regenerate or replace parts of their central nervous systems but are able to repair lesions in the cerebral ganglion or peripheral nerve plexuses. Repair of nerve lesions is very rapid and functional activity is reestablished within 48 hr. Bilateral coordination can be reestablished in animals with either split brains or in animals where half of the brain, on one side, has been excised. Animals with transplanted brains display normal behavior even if the brain has been rotated and inverted. Likewise, in animals which had the brain transplanted into the tail region, cerebral dominance was reestablished even after the brain was rotated through 180. A time sequence of events during healing of cut nerves has been established. Sprouting starts approximately 4 hr after injury. Contact between a filopodium from the proximal section and distal stump occurs approximately 14 hr after the injury. Filopodia are subsequently retracted and the area of contact between the two segments increased. After 72 hr there are no filopodia and the axon appears to be intact. Healing between the two cut ends, therefore appears to involve fusion of the cut axons. Indirect evidence suggests that neurones recognize their own specific segments. 
3883546|A set of six touch receptor neurons in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans allows the animal to respond to a gentle touch stimulus. Since the removal of these cells results in the specific loss of this touch sensitivity, behavioral mutants with this touch-insensitive phenotype can be used to identify and study genes that are required for the development and function of the touch cells. Using our experience with the touch cells as an example, I describe here some of the genetic and molecular approaches that can be used to study neuronal differentiation.
3881552| Testosterone, when injected into castrated rats, enhances the RNA-synthesizing activity of isolated prostatic nuclei. The nearest-neighbor frequency and base composition of RNA synthesized under the influence of androgens are completely different from those of control castrates. These effects of androgens in vivo can be abolished by low concentrations of actinomycin D added to the RNA-synthesizing systems or injected into the experimental animals. Only about 1% of total prostatic nuclear chromatin participates in the synthesis of RNA by prostatic nuclei of control castrated rats. The androgen-provoked enhancement of RNA-synthesis occurred at a separate and small (1% or less) region of nuclear DNA. The androgen-sensitive region of DNA has a strikingly high content of deoxycytidylyl (3,5)-deoxyguanosine dinucleotide sequence: 24 and 2 times, respectively, that of purified rat DNA and of the DNA region which functions as template for RNA-synthesis after animals are deprived of androgens. From the available information, it was concluded that androgen selectively enhanced the synthesis of RNA at nucleolar and/or perinucleolar regions of prostatic chromatin. 
3883110|Recent research has provided new insight into the physiology of hibernation in freshwater, marine, and terrestrial turtles. In this paper I review what is known about the mechanisms that permit the hearts of these turtles to withstand several months of hypoxia or anoxia. I also report new research that indicates that a terrestrial turtle, unlike freshwater and marine species, does not experience hypoxia in its winter burrow and thus does not rely on glycolysis to supply ATP, at least under moderate winter conditions.
3884423|The gaseous neurotransmitters nitric oxide (NO) and carbon monoxide (CO) are prominent and universal components of the array of neurotransmitters found in olfactory information processing systems. These highly mobile communication compounds have effects on both second messenger signaling and directly on ion channel gating in olfactory receptors and central synaptic processing of receptor input. Olfactory systems are notable for the plasticity of their synaptic connections, revealed both in higher-order associative learning mechanisms using odor cues and developmental plasticity operating to maintain function during addition of new olfactory receptors and new central olfactory interneurons. We use the macrosmatic terrestrial mollusk Limax maximus to investigate the role of NO and CO in the dynamics of central odor processing and odor learning. The major central site of odor processing in the Limax CNS is the procerebral (PC) lobe of the cerebral genglion, which displays oscillatory dynamics of its local field potential and periodic activity waves modulated by odor input. The bursting neurons in the PC lobe are dependent on local NO synthesis for maintenance of bursting activity and wave propagation. New data show that these bursting PC interneurons are also stimulated by carbon monoxide. The synthesizing enzyme for carbon monoxide, heme oxygenase 2, is present in the neuropil of the PC lobe. Since the PC lobe exhibits two forms of synaptic plasticity related to both associative odor learning and continual connection of new receptors and interneurons, the use of multiple gaseous neurotransmitters may be required to enable these multiple forms of synaptic plasticity.
3881457| We have examined a variety of invertebrate and vertebrate muscles in the electron microscope and have seen evidence of a third, very thin (25 ) filament in all of them. This filament has been seen in H zones, A bands, and I bands, as well as bridging the gap between actin and myosin filaments in greatly stretched muscle. It, thus, seems likely that, if a third filament exists, it is elastic and extends throughout the sarcomere from Z disc to Z disc, unlike the hypothetical actin-actin(s) filament of Hanson and Huxley (1955), or the actin-myosin gap filaments of Sjstrand (1962) and Carlsen, et al. (1965). These filaments therefore provide an answer to some of the present paradoxes of muscle ultrastructure. 
3883491|Crocodilian relationships supported by the phylogenetic relationships of digenean and nematode parasites are compared with current estimates of crocodilian phylogeny. The parasite data support (1) the placement of Gavialis as the sister-group of the alligatorids and the crocodylids, (2) the monophyly of alligators and caimans, (3) the placement of Caiman (as a monophyletic group) as the sister-group of Melanosuchus plus Paleosuchus, and (4) ancient origins of Crocodylus consistent with patterns of continental drift. The parasite data do not support the monophyly of Crocodylus, but the "misplaced" species (C. palustris and Osteolaemus) have had few parasites reported from them. There is evidence of widespread host-switching, but most of the ambiguity appears to result from uneven representation of parasite groups in host species. This is probably due both to uneven sampling by parasitologists and to parasite extinctions associated with crocodilian extinctions.
3883407|Two behavioral acts of undoubted survival value are predator avoidance and mate choice. In field crickets both are mediated by acoustic signals containing high frequency spectral energy. Nocturnally active bats use ultrasonic echolocation signals to detect and locate their prey, which includes insects that disperse by flying at night. Many insects have developed ultrasound avoidance behaviors in flight, in order to elude bats. In crickets, an auditory interneuron that is excited by ultrasound has been identified and shown to initiate the avoidance behavior; it is a putative bat-detector cell. Male field crickets produce acoustic signals during their courtship (females are mute). Courtship song appears to facilitate mating success (copulation), for its absence in courtship diminishes the likelihood of copulation. The possible role of the bat-detector neuron in courtship behavior is considered because it is activated by courtship signals as well as bat-like ultrasound. The role of behavioral context shapes the participation of neurons in the neural networks that underlie a given behavior.
3884133|Academic scientists are neither environmental managers nor environmental policymakers, but they have important roles to play in both arenas. To play these roles effectively, they must participate as colleagues with managers and policymakers in the management and policy-making processes on a recurrent basis and be fully engaged at critical junctures. Since many scientists-particularly the most active researchers-neither understand nor track the management and policy-making processes, they need mechanisms to involve them efficiently and effectively. These must be institutional mechanisms. Institutional mechanisms for involvement increase effectiveness, reduce time commitments, and provide protective cover for participants. These may be important attributes, particularly for untenured professors. Institutional mechanisms also enhance the probability of involving not only our best natural scientists and engineers, but scholars from other fields, such as the social sciences, who can play equally important roles. Institutional mechanisms legitimize the time spent by managers and policymakers away from what may be perceived as more pressing issues. A model borrowed from psychotherapy, the holding environment, is a useful institutional model to promote adaptive work by scholars and environmental managers and policy makers. The model has been adopted by the New England Aquarium and adapted as its Aquatic Forum. It is now being refined and evaluated. Scientific consensus among experts and scenario planning are two powerful and underutilized strategies for involving scientists in environmental management and policy-making. Their application is dependent upon creating and sustaining an environment appropriate for creative exploration, discovery, and problem solving. Such environments are nurturing and low risk, and enjoy the benefits of skilled facilitators to ensure that all voices are heard, that all messages are evaluated, and that results are synthesized into forms appropriate for decision-making. The holding environment meets all of these criteria.
3882554| Understanding what determines the timing of transitions between life-history stages in fishes is crucial to an understanding of their demography. Most theoretical treatments assume that these transitions are age dependent, but evidence accumulating from a variety of organisms indicates that size is an important variable also. In the starry flounder, Platichthys stellatus (Pallas), the onset of metamorphosis is more closely related to size than age. In the platyfish, Xiphophorus maculatus (Gnther), the onset of sexual maturation depends on both size and age. I compare these results with those reported for other organisms, and outline the expected ecological correlates of age- and size-dependent transitions between life history stages in general. 
3881899|A continuous-flow culturing apparatus was developed for rearing Tintinnida. Control over the yield of protozoa is through adjustment of both the food input and the flow rate. The maximum sustained output of Tintinnopsis beroidea approached 10
3882140|Lipids are a prominent biochemical class in marine invertebrates, characteristic of well-fed organisms, and are utilized when the animals are starved. There has been little demonstration of such usage in the field, however, and little consideration of the relationship between the amount of lipid stores and the characteristic life styles of benthic macroinvertebrates. The amount of lipids stored by zooplankton and pelagic invertebrates has been interpreted primarily in terms of availability and variation of food supply and in involvement in buoyancy. Lipid stores in marine invertebrates may serve a variety of roles in the same organism; a primary goal of future work should be to identify and discriminate among them.
3884206|Separating ecological (extrinsic) factors affecting reproduction from physiological and experiential (intrinsic) factors can be problematic in free-ranging animals. This study examined age-related changes in six measures of reproductive success (clutch size, fertility, hatchability, brood size at hatching, survivorship of nestlings, and brood size at fledging) for captive female peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) where ecological factors (i.e., access to mates, nesting sites, and food) were not limiting and were similar across years and between individuals. Mean nestling survivorship increased throughout the lifespan of the female while all other measures of reproduction peaked at about seven years of age and decreased thereafter. Birds with prior breeding experience had higher productivity than inexperienced birds of the same age. Productivity increased with increasing experience of the pair. Productivity dropped by an average of 53% when females experienced a change of mate, and then subsequently increased over a period of several years. Productivity was not affected when birds were moved to different breeding sites. There was no evidence that early improvements in reproduction were related to chronological aging in the absence of experiential differences. Birds that began breeding earlier produced more fledglings during their lifetimes as a result of higher annual productivity. Lifetime reproduction was not correlated with longevity because birds with higher maximal egg production had shorter breeding lifespans. Birds retaining mates produced more fledglings during their lifetime than birds that changed mates, but birds that changed mates more than once did not have lower lifetime reproduction than birds that had only one mate change. These results suggest that 1) age-related changes in reproduction are not necessarily resource-mediated, 2) in the absence of resource limitation, experience of the pair is a primary factor determining annual reproductive success, 3) benefits of increasing experience may be offset by the onset of senescence, 4) the cost of present egg production on future reproductive potential supports a "pleiotropic" theory of aging, and 5) costs associated with mate changes may encourage selection for low "divorce" rates (i.e., lifetime monogamy) in this species.
3882124| The pineal gland is an important transducer mediating environmental influences on endocrine organs. It has direct effects on the hypothalamus and pancreas and indirect effects on the pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, and testes. Thus, specific endocrine rhythms are affected by alterations in trophic hormone secretion by the hypothalamus-pituitary complex, direct effects on biochemical transformations within target organs, or by alterations in metabolism and excretion of hormones by the liver. Target enzymes common to the above organs for melatonin and arginine vasotocin (AVT) are 5-reductase, monoamine oxidase (MAO), and smooth muscle enzymes. Melatonin selectively inhibited 17 ol-dehydrogenase activity and 5-reductase activity while 17 ol-dehydrogenase was stimulated by serotonin (5-HT). Other steroid biotransformations were inhibited by both 5-HT and melatonin. Evidence from the pancreas and insulin secretion, liver and glucuronosyl transferase activity, and hypothalamic and pituitary studies indicate that melatonin mediated some of its effects on these organs through MAO activity and 5-HT levels. There were some species and tissue differences with respect to the effects of melatonin and AVT on MAO activity and steroid biotransformations. Melatonin stimulated steroid biotransformations in the duck, while MAO activity and 5-reductase activity in the hamster responded differently to melatonin than did similar preparations from the rat. 
3882751|Fluid and sediment dynamics affect benthic community dynamics and structure in manifold ways. We single out three community-structuring processes that are both strongly affected and amenable to controlled manipulation: microbial population growth, faunal recruitment, and particle feeding. Attachment and colony growth rates of microbes depend on the details of near-bed fluid exchange. Their emigration and colony growth rates are affected by erosion of microbial films and by abrasion during sediment transport. Recruitment and successional patterns of metazoans, especially those resulting from the settlement of weakly swimming, small larvae and juveniles, also are very sensitive to local variations in boundary layer flow pattern and strength. While the importance of particle fluxes to suspension feeders has long been apparent, the foraging patterns of a growing number of surface deposit feeders are being found to reflect a dependence upon sediment transport. Although these three processes have spatial and temporal scales amenable to both laboratory and field experimentation, proper dynamic scaling of laboratory model flows may not always be easy. Even the simplest two-phase (particles plus liquids, where particles can be bacteria, flocs, larvae, or sediments) flows must match appropriate laboratory and field Reynolds number, Froude number, particle-fluid density (weight per unit volume) ratio, and the ratio of boundary layer thickness to particle size, if the laboratory flow model is to provide accurate results.
3881436|Submission in the wolf and dog is defined on the basis of its motivation: submission is the effort of the inferior to attain friendly or harmonic social integration. Submission functions as an appeal or a contribution to social integration, but only if it meets a corresponding attitude in the superior. The form of submissive behavior in wolf and dog is ritualized and symbolized cub-behavior. Two main forms of submissive behavior occur in wolf and dog: active submission, derived from begging for milk or food, and passive submission, derived from the posture which the cub adopts when cleaned by its mother. The definition of submission is generally applicable to vertebrates living in groups based on intimacy and a social hierarchical order. The concept of submission as the role of the defeated in the terminal phase of fight with the function to inhibit automatically aggression in the superior should be dismissed. In vertebrates at least three types of conflict with different terminal phases occur: (1). Severe fight based on intolerance; ends with flight by the inferior or with his death. (2). Ritualized fight over a privilege; ends with the "giving-up-the-claim ritual" of the inferior, which automatically blocks the aggression of the superior. (3). Minor conflict in closed groups; settled by submissive behavior of the inferior. In closed vertebrate groups, intermediate forms between (1) and (3) occur, depending on the proportion between activated intimacy and intolerance.
3884459|The concept of modularity is fundamental to research in both evolutionary and developmental biology, though workers in each field use the idea in different ways. Although readily and intuitively recognized, modularity is difficult to define precisely. Most definitions of modularity are operational and implicit, particularly in developmental biology. Examination of several proposed definitions points to some general characteristics of developmental modules, for example their internal integration, and suggests the importance of devising a definition applicable at different levels of the biological hierarchy. Modules, like homologs, must be defined with respect to a specified level of the hierarchy, and a general definition should support both analyses of the evolving causal relationships between levels, and studies of the interconnections between modules of the same type. The designation of a developmental structure, process, or function as a "module" is a testable hypothesis; this hypothesis is confirmed in the case of the dorsal marginal zone of the amphibian gastrula, which acts as a morphogenetic module. Discussions of developmental modularity can provide a meeting place for developmental and evolutionary biologists by helping us articulate key questions at the intersection of the two fields, and design experiments to begin answering them.
3883369|Selective glial disruption in cockroach central nervous connectives results in a swift and organized repair which shares a number of features with the equivalent processes in the vertebrate brain, notably, a critical involvement of exogenous reactive cells derived from circulating haemocytes. These cells, which appear in the lesioned tissues in large numbers during the first few days of repair, are structurally important in glial regeneration. They also orchestrate the recruitment and organisation of endogenous reactive cells. The invasive cells transform into, or are replaced by functional neuroglia, coincident with the restoration of the perineurial blood-brain barrier and the onset of cell division.
3882126|For years it was assumed that indoles, especially melatonin, were responsible for the ability of the pineal gland to inhibit pituitary gonadotrophins and thus depress sexual physiology. Recent studies have shown, however, that melatonin treatment in two species of hamsters and in the rat is equivalent to pinealectomy in terms of its effect on reproduction. For example, both pinealectomy and the subcutaneous implantation of melatonin prevents darkness from depressing reproductive functions in experimental animals. Furthermore, both treatments also block the changes in pituitary hormones which result from exposure to short daily photoperiods. Such findings suggest that the active pineal principles may be something other than indoles and, indeed, a considerable amount of evidence indicates that polypeptides may account for the pineal's ability to inhibit reproduction. A theory is presented for the cellular release of pineal polypeptides. In this scheme the pineal polypeptide hormones are exocytotically released from cells in conjunction with carrier proteins. The hormone is then exchanged for calcium resulting in the liberation of the hormone into the pineal capillaries and in the eventual deposition of calcium within the pineal gland. This theory provides a working hypothesis for the release of pineal hormonal products and explains the presence of calcified deposits within the pineal gland.
3884310|Multiradiate starfish evolved independently in fourteen living families. Twenty living families are strictly 5-rayed. The FIVE-PLUS hypothesis is that supernumerary rays develop separately from the five primary rays. The ontogeny of the primary rays is proposed to be highly integrated ("en bloc" hypothesis), closely timed (synchronic hypothesis) and a developmental constraint ("tamperproof" hypothesis). The "en bloc" hypothesis postulates that the five primary rays develop as a unit. The deep structure of this unit is believed to be a 2-1-2, BA-A-BA, organization. The synchronic hypothesis postulates that there is only a brief time at metamorphosis during which the "en bloc" pathway operates. There is a pause before the development of supernumerary rays. The "tamper-proof" hypothesis postulates that the "en bloc" pathway has no heritable variation and cannot be co-opted for the production of supernumerary rays. There is diversity of timing and pattern in the development of supernumerary rays. Postgeneration of rays in the rudiment and intercalary regeneration of rays in the imago are independent ray-producing pathways that may have been co-opted variously and recurrently in the multiple origins of multiradiate starfish.
3883650|Western Atlantic coral reefs were differentially affected by a mass bleaching (discoloration) event in 1987. We periodically assessed the "appearance" of zooxanthellate organisms between December 1987 and June 1988 at nine conspicuously affected sites in the Bahamas, Florida, St. Croix, and Venezuela, using a standardized point-count technique. Three to four months after the local initiation of the event, the "bleached" state was still present in one to three of the most abundant reef coral taxa and in a few of the less common species (n = 5 sites). "Recovery" occurred somewhat faster at shallower depths, at least in the Bahamas and Florida. Scleractinian corals which were "prolonged bleachers" had foliaceous or massive, rather than branching, morphologies. "Bleached" points disappeared from the point counts after +6 to +8 months. Long-term field data on spatial and temporal variability in the dynamics of zooxanthellate organisms would help us to understand the ecological consequences of bleaching. More generally, we need to distinguish anthropogenic changes in the structure and functioning of reef ecosystems from those which occur naturally. Point-count techniques are well suited for collaborative studies involving rapid quantification of coloration states and health in reef corals.
3882109|Early studies using various means to electrically activate portions of the brain in immobilized elasmobranchs are critically reviewed. The results of brain stimulation experiments using modern techniques are then considered in light of this background material. Preliminary experiments on anesthetized-immobilized sharpnose and bonnethead sharks are given as an outline of the types of responses that can be studied using acute preparations of pelagic sharks. The responses evoked can be grouped into the following categories: arousal and swimming; body, fin and eye movements suggestive of circling and loss of equilibrium; possible components of agonistic and reproductive behavior; head, mouth and respiratory movements and possible color changes. Chronic studies on free-swimming sharpnose sharks are discussed with respect to potential areas for future study. Responses suggestive of portions of agonistic and feeding behavior were evoked but no attempt was made to localize the areas stimulated. The behavioral effects of electrical stimulation of 85 electrodes in free-swimming juvenile nurse sharks are presented in some detail. The anatomical distribution of sites from which the following responses have been elicited are plotted on representative sections of the brain: arousal-escape; coughing; head shaking; barbel movement; eye retraction; biting or mouthing food; snapping up gravel; slow dragging of the barbels across the substrate; circling; rolling about the long axis; continuous swimming and interrupted swimming. Several possible functional-anatomical systems are suggested to account for some of these results.
3881508|Uloborus diversus adjusts its behavior while laying sticky spiral in response to stimuli it receives as it moves. The course of the last loop of sticky spiral determines the path the spider takes. The spiders probably sense the angles the sticky spiral makes with the radius and with the last loop of spiral, and use them in making decisions to turn back. Computer-simulation has shown that a simple turnback program using just these angles can produce a spider-like pattern of sticky spiral.
3881981| Male-male competition and reproductive success of northern elephant seals, Mirounga angustirostris, was studied for six consecutive breeding seasons at Ao Nuevo Island, California. The conclusions were as follows: (i) Less than one third of the males in residence copulate during a breeding season. A few males are responsible for the majority of copulations. (ii) The number and age of males copulating varies with: (a) harem location and topography, (b) the number of estrous females in the harem, and (c) the number of males competing for females. (iii) Copulation frequency is related directly to success in male-male competition, i.e., social rank. (iv) The same individuals may dominate breeding for three consecutive breeding seasons. (v) Successful males die within a year or two after their reproductive peak. (vi) The reproductive success of most males is nil or low because many die before reaching breeding age and some of those that reach maturity are prevented from mating by the highest ranking males. (vii) Individual strategies have important consequences for reproductive success. (viii) Male-male competition is a major cause of pup mortality prior to weaning. The potential reproductive success of males is much greater than that of females. Changes in colony number and composition affect the reproductive success of males as well as females. 
3882350| The hemerythrins are oxygen transport proteins with molecular architecture distinct from the other classes of respiratory pigments, the hemoglobins and the hemocyanins. Hemerythrins occur with molecular weights of 14,000, 40,000, 56,000, and 108,000 and can be monomeric, trimeric, tetrameric, or octameric in their subunit stoichiometry. Octameric hemerythrins consist of two layers of subunits, each having four monomers arranged head to side, the layers facing each other to give the overall shape of a "square doughnut." The conformation of the hemerythrin subunit, designated the "hemerythrin fold," has four nearly parallel -helical segments surrounding the pair of non-heme iron atoms, the oxygen binding site. These iron atoms are linked to the protein through specific histidine and tyrosine side chains. Distinct hemerythrins are found in the muscle (myohemerythrin), vascular system, and coelom of sipunculans. The coelomic and vascular proteins are extensively polymorphic while myohemerythrin has been found to be more homogeneous. Oxygen affinities of hemerythrins from different species and different tissues within animals fall in a narrow range of 1-15 mm of Hg with myohemerythrin having a relatively high oxygen affinity compared to that of the blood hemerythrins. Naturally occurring modulators of oxygen affinity have not been discovered for hemerythrin, though certain chemical manipulations can effect changes in P
3884260|Interspecific comparisons have played a prominent role in evolutionary biology at least since the time of Charles Darwin. Since 1985, the "comparative method" has been revitalized by new analytical techniques that use phylogenetic information and by increased availability of phylogenies (often from molecular data sets). Because species descend from common ancestors in a hierarchical fashion, related species tend to resemble each other (elephants look like elephants); therefore, cross-species data sets generally do not comprise independent and identically distributed data points. Phylogenetically based statistical methods attempt to account for this fact. Phylogenetic methods allow traditional topics in comparative and ecological physiology to be addressed with greater rigor, including the form of allometric relationships and whether physiological phenotypes vary predictably in relation to behavior, ecology or environmental characteristics, which provides evidence about adaptation. They can also address new topics, such as whether rates of physiological evolution have differed among lineages (clades), and where and when a phenotype first evolved. We present brief overviews of three phylogenetically based statistical methods: phylogenetically independent contrasts, Monte Carlo computer simulations to obtain null distributions of test statistics, and phylogenetic autocorrelation. In a new result, we show analytically how to use independent contrasts to estimate ancestral values and confidence intervals about them. These confidence intervals often exceed the range of variation observed among extant species, which points out the relatively great uncertainty inherent in such inferences. The use of phylogenies should become as common as the use of body size and scaling relationships in the analysis of physiological diversity.
3883971| The lugworm Arenicola marina and the peanut worm Sipunculus nudus both inhabit intertidal flats. Sulfide concentrations in the pore water of the sediment can be as high as 340 M in the habitat of A. marina. Sulfide levels in the burrow water and in the coelomic fluid increase during low tide. In contrast, S. nudus is only rarely exposed to sulfide. Neither A. marina nor S. nudus is able to exclude sulfide completely from its body. However, both worms accumulate only 15 to 40% respectively of the external sulfide concentration during hypoxic 1 mM sulfide incubations. During normoxia, sulfide accumulation is more than ten-fold lower than under hypoxic conditions in both species. When oxygen is available, sulfide is oxidized to thiosulfate. The oxidation rate is about 5 times higher in A. marina than in S. nudus. A major component of sulfide oxidation is due to the mitochondria of both species. Mitochondrial sulfide oxidation in the tissues of A. marina is insensitive to low cyanide and to high sulfide concentrations, but can be inhibited by salicylhydroxamic acid. The existence of an alternative terminal oxidase is suggested. When the sulfide level in the body of A. marina and S. nudus increases above a toxic level, both species survive by switching to an anaerobic metabolism. 
3883734|This paper reviews work conducted over the last several years on the effect of genetic differences within the t-complex of wild house mice on female mating preference. Wild mice are polymorphic for a mutation within the t complex on chromosome 17. About 25% of wild mice are heterozygous (+/t) for a t-haplotype and the remainder are +/+. These t-haplotypes have a number of deleterious effects when homozygous and hence t/t individuals are rarely found in wild populations. We have examined preferences of +/+ and +/t females for males of both genotypes. We have found that +/t, but not +/+ females have strong preferences for +/+ males. These preferences can be modified by a variety of factors including estrous condition of the female (the preferences are stronger among estrous than diestrous females) and the dominance status of the male (when forced to choose, females give priority to male dominance status over t complex genotype in choosing males). The restiction of preference to +/t females indicates that genes on t haplotypes modulate these preferences. Because t haplotypes include the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) of the mouse we designed a study to ascertain whether the preferences of +/t females were associated with the MHC. Results of the study indicate that the preferences are independent of the MHC. Further work testing females carrying a partial t-haplotype
3882687|Sperm chemotaxis in ascidians, first demonstrated in the genera Ciona and Styela, has also been found in the genera Ascidia, Halocynthia, Chelyosoma, Pyura, Corella and Boltenia. Species-specificity exists in many cases, but unlike the Cnidaria, low level cross-specificity is more general. This is particularly true in the stolidobranchs. The sperm attractant of Ciona is a small molecule that is negatively charged and stable to heat and pronase; it binds avidly to glass surfaces. Calcium is required for sperm chemotaxis of both ascidian and cnidarian sperm. The mechanism by which turning occurs may involve both contraction of the pericentriolar process arms to shift the axis of the flagellum relative to that of the head, and generation of asymmetric waves in the flagellum. Hydrozoan and ascidian sperm show aspects of both behaviors, but the cnidarian sperm, known to possess a large asymmetric pericentriolar process, shows less shift of the flagellum axis and more dramatic flagellar asymmetry than the ascidian sperm, where an extensive pericentriolar complex has yet to be demonstrated. These differences in flagellar behavior may be adaptations to species' differences in the shape of the sperm head. They appear to prolong the turning maneuver, in contrast to the sudden turning seen in some unicellular flagellates. More data on flagellar behavior in ascidian sperm will be a valuable tool for the elucidation of the mechanism of chemotactic turning.
3881495|Araneomorph spiders from many different families show some regional differentiation of the duct which carries the drag-line silk, but only in the orb-web spiders is there a well-defined control valve. This valve, and its associated muscles, is described for Araneus diadematus (Argiopidae), an ecribellate spider, and is compared with that found in Uloborus octonarius (Uloboridae), a cribellate spider. It is suggested that the remarkable similarity between the valves in these two groups implies evolutionary convergence. Some evidence is presented which suggests that variations in body pressure are used to control the drag-line spinning, at least in the more primitive Araneomorphs.
3882901|Patterns of morphological variation among fossorial, piscivorous, and durophagic snakes reveal several principles underlying character co-occurrence. Homoplasy is widespread among all three groups. Alternative adaptive responses to specialized habits include modifications for cranial reinforcement in fossorial and cryptozoic snakes and columellar adjustments to accommodate large excursion of the quadrates in piscivores. Among durophagic species alternatives include dental attachment in both scincivores and crustacean-eaters. Although it may be difficult to distinguish primary adaptive responses from secondary ones, specialization frequently elicits pervasive modifications across many morphological systems. Some are associated with the foraging microhabitat, such as valvularity in piscivores and arboreal adaptations in cochleophages. Others, such as mimicry in Dasypeltis and Scaphiodontophis, are defensive. Still others reflect special aspects of prey processing, such as hypertrophy of the gastric smooth muscle and presumptive salt gland in Fordonia, a cancrivore. The extent to which coordinated morphological responses necessarily accompany specialization is important in formulating hypotheses of macroevolutionary mechanisms.
3881531|This paper discusses what would appear to be the optimal strategy of a predator given two alternative objectives: (1) maximum yield commensurate with the long-term maintenance of the prey species, and (2) extinction of the prey species. The problem is examined in terms of past research on Daphnia and Hydra, and takes into account estimates of ecological efficiency, population efficiency, and growth efficiency based on many laboratory experiments. It is shown that there may be distinct differences in the effects of removing different kinds of individuals from a prey population. The optimal system for a predator wishing to insure the continued availability of its prey is to take animals which are about to die anyway, i.e., to alter the natural pattern of mortality as little as possible. It is concluded, with some reservations, that predators in nature generally act in this manner. Conversely, if one's intent is to exterminate a prey species (e.g., an objectionable pest), the animals removed should be those which natural predators do not select.
3883165|The emphasis of this presentation is that social behavior is basically involved in the curtailment of growth of laboratory populations of prairie deermice through inhibiting influences on the reproductive development and function of population animals. Reproductive inhibition is not directly related to the numbers of animals present per se since physiological characteristics are similar between animals from populations differing widely in density under identical conditions of the physical environment. Thus, density should be interpreted relative to social or other behavioral factors and we should think of animals in a population in a qualitative as well as a quantitative sense. Population growth is controlled either by cessation of reproduction or by mortality of young and while 95% of the young remain reproductively immature and fail to reproduce, the weights and characteristics of their reproductive organs differ dependent upon the mechanism by which population growth is curtailed. Mechanisms of growth curtailment thus develop intrinsically to each population and involve communication through one or more of the senses of touch, smell, sight, hearing or taste. My data suggest that tactile cues from population animals (not necessarily overt aggression) may be of major importance in producing the reproductive retardation observed although chemosignals or other stimuli such as visual or auditory cues may act to slow reproductive recovery of inhibited animals. Data presented support the contention of a behavioral-physiological relationship distinct for each population.
3883087|The immediate causal explanation for cell differentiation is the regulated ontogenic expression of specific sets of genes in cells of each given type. Demonstration of this principle has resulted in a revolutionary reorientation of the study of early development. Imposition of spatial patterns of differential gene expression at the onset of Drosophila and sea urchin development is briefly discussed. The mechanisms by which this process occurs in these two systems differ in fundamental respects. Molecular analysis of differential gene function in the embryo promises to provide a fruitful approach to classically defined questions, such as the nature of induction, regulative development, and cytoplasmic localization.
3882256|With limitations imposed by the lack of appendages and elongate morphology, snakes exhibit a variety of unique ritualistic behaviors in the contexts of agonistic encounters and courtship and mating. During male combat rituals, actions involve high vertical display stances (crotaline) to horizontal stances (colubrid) with either male attempting to force the other's head down. Superior position appears to be important during these encounters. Dominant and subordinate actions and postures are recognized. Courting snakes exhibit a variety of positions and movements, performed primarily by the male, which appear to passify the female and induce her receptivity. Actions involved may be chin rubbing, body jerks or caudocephalic waves, cephalocaudal waves, tail searching, pushing, nudging, biting, and tail raising. Sequences and phases of the actions used vary with the species. Significant features of these behaviors are the different actions taking place separately or simultaneously along the elongate cylindrical snake. Visual, tactile, and olfactory communication each play a role.
3882777|Biomineralization is frequently a transient and intermittent activity characterised as a phase change in a small fluid-filled space bounded by sensitive cells. It is therefore a difficult phenomenon to identify and to experiment upon. The possibility has therefore been pursued of obtaining a "Mineralization Window" onto this process by following the activities of mixtures of trace amounts of inorganic ions. The results of a number of such experiments are considered in relation to the three different types of calcifying systems originally identified by Wilbur. The method of metal ion pairs is also of value in probing the relationships between amorphous deposits and the various crystalline minerals that may be formed from them.
4620188|A diverse assemblage of invertebrate animals, some of which basically resemble the forms found in modern oceans, appears in the fossil record soon after the advent of the Cambrian period, though the first large multicellular animals clearly arose even earlier. How this occurred is among the intellectually challenging mysteries of biology. The solution to this mystery is likely to emerge, in part, from an understanding of the molecular processes by which modern animals use their genetic information to construct their body plans during embryonic development. We discuss a mechanistic hypothesis that was presented earlier as an explanation of the causal events underlying the "Cambrian explosion," and thus the divergence of large animal body plans.
3883744|A controversy arose concerning the adaptive significance of clitoral orgasm, disputing whether the presence of the trait in females is explained by appeal to developmental processes or natural selection (Gould, 1987a, b; Alcock, 1987). In response, Sherman (1988) offered a pluralistic solution in terms of levels of analysis in which Gould and Alcock's disagreement was construed as semantic and not substantial. I argue that Sherman's solution is mistaken. I suggest that the nature of the Gould/Alcock dispute is better understood by considering the abstract structure of scientific theories and their role in explanation. This account leads to a representation of science as having a plurality of theoretical models which are integrated piecemeal in the explanation of concrete phenomena.
3884400|This paper reviews the generalized stress response in fish at the cellular and neuroendocrine levels. The focus of this review is to examine the possible relationships between the stress responses at these two levels in fish. It focuses primarily on the heat shock protein 70 (hsp70). Thus, the descriptions of the endocrine and the cellular stress responses are followed by a discussion of how hsps may be related to the stress hormones adrenaline and cortisol. Preliminary evidence shows that adrenaline causes an increase in hsp70 in primary cultures of rainbow trout hepatocytes. Cortisol does not directly affect hsp70 levels in fish tissues; however, in primary cultures of trout hepatocytes, cortisol decreased the stressor-induced increase in hsp 70. A wide range of abiotic and biological stressors have been shown to induce hsp induction in many types of fish cells, including cell lines, primary cell cultures, and in tissues from whole animals. Heat shock proteins has been implicated in the protection of sulphate transport in the renal epithelium of the flounder against the damaging effects of heat stress. Heat shock proteins likely confer thermotolerance in fish, as well as tolerance to cytotoxic effects of environmental contaminants and other non-thermal stressors.
3883763|Viviparity has evolved many times in many lineages of vertebrates. Many evolutionary scenarios for the evolution of viviparity, or structures associated with it, have been proposed. Many of these are testable using methodologies developed recently. Some structures that facilitate viviparity (e.g., corpora lutea and oviducts) are homologous, for they are inherited from an ancestor in a lineage. More such structures (e.g., placentas and placental analogues) are convergences, for they appear in diverse lineages but are not traceable to a common ancestor. Conservatism and constraint characterize many, but not all, such convergences. A phylogenetic hypothesis facilitates identification of homologies and convergences, and the testing of evolutionary scenarios.
3882865|The process of gastrulation is characterized by extensive morphogenetic movements, cell shape changes and intercellular rearrangements. This paper presents the results and inferences of experimental analysis of these events. Cell electrokinetic mobility, which is a measure of net cell surface charge density, cell surface morphological changes, and the role of calcium are aspects of gastrular events which we believe play a significant role. Our hypothesis is that these parameters are interrelated and we offer suggestions with respect to the interrelationships and how these aspects mediate morphogenetic movements.
3881541|The small size of insects, correlated with high food-consumption, growth, and metabolic rates, makes possible their high efficiency of food-utilization, short life cycles, high biotic potential, and rapid genetic adaptation and speciation. Most of the qualitative nutritional requirements are known for many insect species; many essential nutrients are provided by microbial symbiotes. Recent studies in quantitative nutrition make possible more detailed analysis of the utilization of food, of the kinetics of growth and metabolism in intact animals, and of the controlling mechanisms in the animal-food interaction.
3883704|Insect-fungus interactions range from agonistic to mutualistic, and include several spectacular examples of complex symbioses. A potential benefit of mycophagy (the ingestion of fungal tissue) is the augmentation of digestive capacity by the ingestion of fungal enzymes that remain active in the gut following ingestion. Cellulose digestion is mediated by ingested fungal enzymes in the wood-boring larvae of cerambycid beetles and siricid woodwasps, in detritus-feeding stonefly nymphs, and in the workers of fungus-growing termites. In this paper I discuss a plausible scenario for the evolution of stable symbiotic insect-fungus associations, in which the augmentation of digestive capacity through the ingestion of fungal enzymes is an important factor leading to the establishment of interdependence between the interacting partners in a mutualism. Ingested fungal enzymes play a different role in the mutualistic association of the attine ants and their symbiotic fungi. Analyses of the associations of the siricid woodwasps, fungus-growing termites, and fungus-growing ants with their symbiotic fungi permit the testing of Law's (1985) predictions concerning the consequences of evolution in a mutualistic environment. As predicted, the rate of speciation has been slower in the protected partner than in the host partner, selection has favored asexual reproduction in the protected partner, and, at least in the attine ant-fungus symbiosis, the protected partner exhibits a low degree of specificity toward different host species. Insect-fungus interactions provide rich material for the study of both mechanistic and theoretical aspects of mutualism.
3883904|Among ticks there are two developmental and three reproductive patterns that correlate with taxonomic groupings (Argasidae, prostriate and metastriate Ixodidae). Feeding is a prerequisite for molting; feeding and mating are necessary for reproduction in all except a few parthenogenetic species. Growth and development in ticks and other chelicerates appear to be controlled by molting hormones (ecdysteroids), as they are in insects and crustaceans. Ecdysone and 20-hydroxyecdysone appear to be present in most or all of the major chelicerate taxa. Epidermis is the site of ecdysone production and fat body the site of 20-hydroxylation in the argasid Ornithodoros parkeri, as is probably the case in all ticks. Ecdysteroids influence early stages of spermatogenesis by stimulation of DNA synthesis in spermatocytes, but controls for later stages of meiosis are unknown. A polypeptide (12,000 daltons) from male genital accessory glands stimulates capacitation (maturation) of spermatids into sperm at the time of spermatid transfer to females. Knowledge of control of egg development and oviposition is incomplete. Stimuli from the synganglion are necessary for completion of oogenesis and two synganglial factors have been proposed. An Egg Development Stimulation Factor (EDSF) in O. parkeri is synthesized and/or released three to six days after feeding. Vitellogenesis Inducing Factor (VIF) in O. moubata is synthesized and/or released within one hour after feeding. The VIF is hypothesized to impact an unidentified tissue which in turn produces a Fat Body Stimulation Factor (FSF) that stimulates fat body to synthesize vitellogenin (Vg). Roles of ecdysteroids and juvenile hormones during egg development and oviposition are unclear.
3882377|Studies on the nucleolus in various species of Amphibia, including the Mexican axolotl, have contributed to an understanding of the function of the nucleolar organizing region. In the first part of this paper we have reviewed some of the research on nucleolar variants in the axolotl. These variants were recognized in different strains of laboratory reared animals. The phenotypes include diminished nucleolar size and possible alterations in the levels of rDNA. The expression of several of these variant nucleolar phenotypes does not, however, reflect a simple deletion of rRNA genes. Evidence from analyses of several mutant and apparently normal strains indicate that some animals have relatively high levels of rRNA redundancy, while others, including some animals which display variant nucleolar sizes, display "normal" levels. Data on the inheritance of rRNA genome sizes in the axolotl is reviewed. The observation that intermediate levels of redundancy were detected in some crosses is discussed in terms of inheritance data from other organisms. In the second part of this review a variety of information, obtained from studies of various organisms, on nucleolar expression is discussed.
3883501|The movements of 100 crocodiles (0.3-4.3 m) were followed over 3 years by mark-recapture, spotlight survey and radiotelemetry at Ngezi, Zimbabwe. Home ranges were based on frequency of occurrence of animals in 100 m grid squares. Most crocodiles were nocturnal, but adults occasionally moved in daylight. Animals 0.4-2.2 m had home ranges of similar sizes, but dispersed at 1.2 m. Smaller crocodiles were restricted to the river (the only nesting area) whereas all larger animals occupied the lake into which the river flowed. From 2.2 m the range of movement increased until large subadult females (2.7 m) travelled widely without distinct home ranges. Subadults were still largely excluded from the river and the smallest nesting female migrated out of the river after each breeding season. Large breeding females (>2.8 m) had small home ranges near prime nest sites. There appeared to be no difference in the behavior of the sexes up to 2.2 m. There are few data on larger males, but four mature animals (>3.2 m) had distinct home ranges. Home ranges of small juveniles increased in size in the hot season, but for adults the effects of climate and breeding were confused. The different behavior of the various categories of crocodiles resulted in the marked separation of breeding females with their last few season's offspring from immature animals 1.2-2.2 m. Dispersal appears to occur at the same stage in other crocodilians with similar scaling parameters because adults become increasingly intolerant of intermediate-sized animals. It is suggested that size-class separation is part of a general density-dependent regulating mechanism in crocodilian populations.
3884258| Four general approaches to the study of evolutionary physiology-phylogenetically-based comparisons, genetic analyses and manipulations, phenotypic plasticity and manipulation, and selection studies-are outlined and discussed. We provide an example of the latter, the application of laboratory selection experiments to the study of a general issue in environmental adaptation, differences in adaptive patterns of generalists and specialists. A clone of the bacterium Escherichia coli that had evolved in a constant environment of 37C was replicated into 6 populations and allowed to reproduce for 2,000 generations in a variable thermal environment alternating between 32 and 42C. As predicted by theory, fitness and efficiency of resource use increased in this new environment, as did stress resistance. Contrary to predictions, however, fitness and efficiency in the constant ancestral environment of 37C did not decrease, nor did thermal niche breadth or phenotypic plasticity increase. Selection experiments can thus provide a valuable approach to testing hypotheses and assumptions about the evolution of functional characters. 
3881447|The gross structure of the nasal cavities and the distribution of the various types of epithelium lining them are described briefly; each living order of amphibians and reptiles possesses a characteristic and distinctive pattern. In most groups there are two sensory areas, one lined by olfactory epithelium with nerve fibers leading to the main olfactory bulb and the other by vomeronasal epithelium with fibers to the accessory bulb. All amniotes except turtles have the vomeronasal epithelium in a ventromedial outpocketing of the nose, the Jacobson's organ, and have one or more conchae projecting into the nasal cavity from the lateral wall. Although urodeles and turtles possess the simplest nasal structure, it is not possible to show that they are primitive or to define a basic pattern for either amphibians or reptiles; all the living orders are specialized and the nasal anatomy of extinct orders is unknown. Thus it is impossible, at present, to give a convincing picture of the course of nasal evolution in the lower tetrapods.
3884367|The only apex predators that live year-round at high latitudes of the Ross Sea are the Weddell seal and emperor penguin. The seasonal distribution, foraging depths, and diet of these two species appear to overlap. What makes it possible for emperor penguins and Weddell seals to co-exist at high latitude throughout the winter when other marine tetrapods apparently cannot? Both species have similar adaptations for exploitation of the deep-water habitat, forage on the same species, and routinely make long and deep dives. Yet, despite these similarities, there is probably little trophic overlap between the adults of both species due to geographical and seasonal differences in habitat use. For example, during the winter months while female emperor penguins are ranging widely in the pack ice, adult seals are foraging and fattening for the upcoming summer fast, literally beneath the feet of the male penguins. However, there is more extensive overlap between juvenile seals and adult penguins, and shifts in prey abundance and/or distribution would likely affect these two groups similarly. In contrast, juvenile penguins appear to avoid inter- and intra- specific competition by leaving the Ross Sea once they molt.
3881492|Static forces in spider webs are discussed in terms of the changes they produce in the position and shape of the web filaments. Material properties of the silks are related to the structure and functions of the spider webs. Gravity and wind forces are considered, but localized forces are particularly interesting. They may be used to measure by simple optical methods the forces and energies involved in different routine operations and emergencies. Rapid disturbances of the filaments create two kinds of signals which circulate separately through the web. Their speeds are given and their time development describes the nature and location of the disturbing source.
3883836|The bongo is one of the least-studied of the Tragelaphini. In a study of five captive bongo calves, two males and three females, we measured several behaviors important to parental investment theory (Clutton-Brock et al., 1982), in order to describe their pattern in a rare species, and add to the database pertaining to sex allocation theory. Variations in individual patterns of maternal investment, such as suckling rate and bout length, were measured and graphed over time, with sex of calf, and age and dominance of dam indicated. Instances of "thief suckling" by calves and juveniles were also described in terms of kinship among the animals involved. Only one measure of maternal investment was biased in favor of males, which had a somewhat higher birth weight than females. Other measures showed little sex difference. Among these calves, maternal care appeared to vary more with dominance and age of the dam than with sex of calf. Data from these animals generally conform more closely to those of Byers and Moodie (1990). They found little evidence of sex-biased investment among pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) fawns, and postulated that many ungulates have such a high rate of development that further differential investment is impossible. Robust biological theories are supported by data obtained from a wide variety of species, many of which are impossible to study closely in the wild. Additional studies on captive populations of sexually dimorphic species would contribute usefully to the accumulation of data pertinent to parental investment theory.
3882452|At a time when populations of indigenous river mussels have been dwindling and/or disappearing, the introduced Asian clam, Corbicula, has spread through many U.S. rivers from California to Florida. In the Arkansas River Navigation System, a heavily managed waterway, Corbicula presently has a different "competitive" presence than it does in the relatively unmanaged Buffalo River in Arkansas. Comparative studies of both Corbicula and indigenous bivalved mollusks reveal biological bases for the contrasting kinds of benthic faunal change. There are ecologically relevant, distinctive differences between the two kinds of animals: in mantle/shell and mantle/gill apparatus, in the reproductive complex and neuroanatomy, and in spawning and locomotor behaviors. It is argued that the conservative molluscan characteristics of Corbicula enable it to function in an exclusive, "contradictory" role with indigenous bivalves in a heavily managed waterway, and in a "contrary" competitive role elsewhere. Rationale is presented for incorporating organismic evaluation into studies of competition between distantly related taxa.
3882366|At the slow walk tetrapods avoid lateral couplets gaits to minimize support by ipsilateral bipods. Most of them use the lateral sequence because tripods then make larger triangles than for the diagonal sequence. Of the running symmetrical gaits, the single-foots (in each sequence) permit the smoothest and fastest travel without suspensions. The trot and pace allow two legs to thrust in unison, the former giving the most stability to animals not placing the feet well under the body, and the latter avoiding interference for long-legged runners. The bound and half bound are most used by small, agile mammals for bursts of speed and for maneuvering on rough terrain by a series of leaps. Such animals use the extended suspension. Large cursors on open terrain usually select the shorter, more economical, gathered suspension. The fastest runners use both suspensions to gain long strides. At moderate speed the transverse gallop has the advantages over the rotary gallop that both bipods and tripods are more stable, and that interference may be avoided. At high speed, using both suspensions, none of these advantages pertains. The rotary gallop may then increase maneuverability.
3883472|A wealth of information exists on the distribution and movement patterns of marine animals, based chiefly on tagging experiments, research surveys and commercial catch records. Three basic patterns emerge from these studies: migration, dispersal and home range, with species-specific permutations on these patterns. This paper reviews and discusses some of the intra-specific variations on these general movement patterns. Variations may take the form of range expansions, manifestations of inter-annual variation in oceanographic conditions, population-specific patterns, and variations apparently related to habitat quality, sex or age.
3882521|Muscle spindles and tendon organs occur in most somatic muscles of the mammal and are particularly concentrated in muscles subserving fine movements, including postural muscles and small muscles of the distal extremities. In those mixed muscles in which the different fiber and motor unit types are "compartmentalized," the spindles, and perhaps tendon organs also, are virtually limited to those compartments predominated by "oxidative" muscle fibers. These morphological observations based on a broad array of muscles in many species, complement electrophysiological studies which have emphasized that (1) the "oxidative" motor units have low reflex thresholds and (2) segmental proprioceptive reflexes may be primarily concerned with the control of finely graded contractions. Consideration of the functional anatomy of the association between motor units and muscle receptors suggests the need for detailed structural-functional analyses of those muscles with specializations in architecture, fiber-type composition and distribution, and in the number and distribution of their muscle spindles and tendon organs. An electrophysiological analysis of the relationship between the spinal cord and such muscles might also reveal certain strategies and mechanisms underlying segmental motor control which are either absent or obscured in the analysis of that select number of "homogenously-mixed" muscles conventionally used in the study of the mammalian segmental motor control system.
3883565|Flapping as a means of locomotion is shared by divergent groups ranging from pteropod molluscs to birds. The pteropod, Clione limacina, exhibits two modes of locomotion, slow and fast swimming. The motor units which control swimming consist of small motoneurons and relatively nonfatigable muscle fibers, while those involved in fast swimming consist of large motoneurons and relatively fatigable fibers (Satterlie et al., 1990). The pectoralis muscle of the pigeon, Columba livia, consists of two populations of muscle fibers distinguished by histochemistry and size. Cinematographic and electromyographic experiments suggest that the large fibers are used for takeoff and landing and the small fibers for level flight (Dial et al., 1988). We have employed a suite of experimental techniques similar to those used for studies of the neuromuscular system of Clione to analyze a limited sample of motor units from the pectoralis of Columba. The peak tetanic tension and contractile fatigue resistance during electrical stimulation of single alpha axons, functionally isolated from nerve filaments, was studied in 30 motor units. All units but one generated peak tetanic tensions which were less than 0.22% of whole muscle tension. A high proportion (75%) of units demonstrated fatigue resistance, reflective of the demands of sustained flapping flight. These preliminary data suggest that the peripheral neuromuscular systems of Clione and Columba share some common components for the execution of at least two distinct modes of flapping locomotion.
3881917|This report describes some general features of chick embryo chondrocyte cultures and some methods for measuring matrix production. It is reported that as cultures grow, the average chondrocyte acquires an increased ability to synthesize matrix components. In part this increased ability is caused by conditioning of the culture medium, since conditioned medium from chondrocyte cultures can rapidly stimulate mucopolysaccharide and collagen synthesis, but not growth. The cells condition the medium by releasing a factor that has the following characteristics: non-dialyzable, heat and trypsin-sensitive, to treatment with mercaptoethanol, p-chloromercuribenzoate, and periodate, and a molecular weight greater than 30,000 but less than 150,000. The factor is a specialized product of chondrocytes, since it is not made by unexpressed chondrocytes nor by differentiated pigmented retina cells. Conditioned medium acts rapidly (2 hr) to produce a significant stimulation of the incorporation of sulfate into hyaluronidase-sensitive material. This action is not sensitive to treatment with actinomycin D, and it is suggested that conditioned medium might act on the cell surface. The action of conditioned medium factor represents an example of positive feedback of one specialized product made by a particular cell type on the synthesis of other specialized products made by the same cell type.
3883635|This paper reviews existing studies on the size of sexual maturity for male Tanner or snow crab (Chionoecetes bairdi), a brachyuran, and the anomuran red king crab (Paralithodes camtschaticus). In this report the term sexual maturity is defined as the ability to reproduce. A variety of indirect and direct methods that have been used to determine maturity are reviewed. Examining the vas deferens for the presence of spermatophores was useful in determining the size at which males first become mature. Breeding experiments in the laboratory demonstrated that most males, from both species, that produced spermatophores could breed with soft-shelled mates. Males of both species can breed at smaller sizes than do females. Morphometric techniques based on reproductive tract weights and chela morphometry overestimated the sizes at which males mature in both species. Previous experiments for Tanner crab, which have internal fertilization, suggest small mature males can fertilize two to five females. Breeding experiments showed recently matured red king crab do not appear to be able to fertilize more than one female per breeding season, while males nearing harvestable size can fertilize more than one female. Breeding experiments and in situ observations of grasping pairs appear to be the most feasible methods for identifying male size at maturity for these species. The value of morphometric estimations for determining when males mature is questionable.
3884355|The intestinal hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), and the stomach hormone, gastrin, form a simple two member family of peptides with much to offer students of hormone and receptor evolution. They share a common carboxyl-terminal tetrapeptide sequence, which is the bioactive site of each peptide and is also antigenic, making heterologous biological and immunological assays feasible. Current evidence indicates that CCK evolved in chordate ancestors and that gastrin-like peptides that separately regulate stomach functions evolved from an ancestral CCK at the level of the divergence of tetrapods from fish. This tentative conclusion may require modification when the two separate CCK- and gastrin-like peptides recently identified in the dogfish shark are characterized further. The CCK-X receptor appears to be ancestral to the CCK-A and CCK-B receptors identified in amniotes. The evolution of gastrin and of CCK-A and -B receptors may have played roles in the evolution of the stomach and the evolution of endothermy in vertebrate phylogeny.
3882607|A current model concerning the process of limb regeneration in vertebrates is examined. According to this model (Bryant et al., 1981), new positional values in the proximal-distal limb axis are laid down as a result of local interactions between cells in the limb circumference. Cells with disparate circumferential positional values come together at the site of future outgrowth and intercalation between them generates more distal levels of the pattern. The results of a number of experiments on surgically created symmetrical limb stumps are discussed in relation to this model. In addition, an extension of this model to account for digit formation is presented, and the implications of this formulation for limb evolution are discussed.
3881611| Androgen secretion by the testis has been demonstrated in several representatives of all classes of vertebrates, and sex hormone biosynthesis does not show remarkable differences among them; however, it is not known which is the true androgen working in vivo in nonmammalian vertebrates. The presence of steroid transforming enzymes in the gonads of Ciona intestinalis leads us to presume that sex hormone biosynthesis of protochordates has long preceded the pattern present in vertebrates. The site of steroid hormone biosynthesis has been shown to be the interstitial tissue, although in the embryonic testis of Sauropsida 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase is present only in the seminiferous tubules. These findings are discussed in the light of embryological and experimental research. 
3881757|Obligate thelytokous parthenogenesis and, more rarely, facultative thelytoky are known to occur in psocids. The former phenomenon is known in 28 species. The latter is known only in two species, both of which have obligatorily thelytokous forms as well as bisexual ones. Attempts to force thelytokous females to mate have been carried out for four nominal species. All have failed. Differences in color or color pattern between the bisexual and thelytokous forms of a nominal species have been observed in two instances. In Echmepteryx hageni this seems to involve divergence where the two forms occur sympatrically but on different habitats. Investigations of geographic distribution of bisexual and thelytokous forms of a nominal species show in several cases that the thelytokous forms are much more widespread than the bisexual ones. In eastern United States, bisexual forms tend to occur peripherally and in ecologically unusual areas. The areas of occurrence of bisexual populations may be relictual, and some of them may have been Pleistocene refugia. Most of these areas correspond to areas where coniferous trees now form an important part of the forest.
3883956|Amphibian metamorphosis is the developmental process initiated by thyroid hormone which transforms a tadpole into a frog. This transformation requires extensive remodeling of almost every tissue in the animal. One of the more well-studied tadpole tissues that undergoes remodeling is the small intestine. This tissue requires a shortening in length as well as internal anatomical restructuring to function in the adult frog. Briefly, the tadpole epithelial cells undergo programmed cell death (or apoptosis) and are replaced by a layer of newly formed adult epithelium. About 20 thyroid hormone-regulated genes participating in this intestinal remodeling have been identified. These genes can be divided into several groups based on the proposed functions of their products. One of these groups contains several secreted and/or signaling molecules. Most prominent among these are the Xenopus homologs of the hedgehog and stromelysin-3 genes. Based on the expression profiles and cellular localization, hedgehog appears to be involved in adult epithelial morphogenesis. Stromelysin-3 may participate in basal lamina modification which is potentially involved in the apoptosis of the larval epithelium and development of the adult epithelium. Here we will review in detail the potential roles for these secreted factors as well as the proposed molecular mechanisms responsible for their physiological functions. Furthermore, we will examine the effect of these proteins on the extracellular environment and how this impacts upon cellular processes involved in intestinal remodeling.
3882701|Biomechanical models of the mammalian masticatory system were traditionally based on a simple classification of feeding types and prediction of function from form. The functional significance of spatial relationships between teeth, muscles and jaw joint, the shape of the mandible and sizes of the jaw muscles were explained in terms of optimal transmission of muscle forces to a specific bite point. Direct, experimental study of jaw movements and muscle activities has revealed new data, highly relevant to the construction of realistic mechanical models and the explanation of aspects of the morphology of the chewing apparatus. The jaw muscles do not reach comparable percentages of their maximum force simultaneously. The relative involvement of each muscle depends on the bite point. During mastication they fire in complicated patterns of successive, partially overlapping contractions. The linear relationship between electromyogram and muscular tension may be employed to estimate muscular tension in vivo. Computed resultant forces gradually change in magnitude and direction during chewing cycles; there is a close correlation with the jaw movements. The necessity to perform the movements may be an extra constraint on jaw muscle morphology. If muscle force estimates are used in a three-dimensional static analysis, bite forces and joint reaction forces are found, different from those resulting from one- (simple lever) or two-dimensional static analysis. The explanation of tooth and joint morphology is influenced by these modifications.
3881638|Investigations into the behavior of molecules in organisms occupying unique environments may provide a better insight into the functions of these same molecules in organisms from more common habitats. An organism well suited for such analyses is the rattail (Coryphaenoides sp.), a deep-sea teleost. The photoreceptor cells of the retina are predominantly rods. Although the lactate dehydrogenase A
3881876|Evidence from several laboratories indicates that oogenesis in mosquitoes is divided into at least two discrete stages. First, emergence triggers development of the oocytes up to the resting stage where they remain until the blood meal. This stage is mediated by the juvenile hormone from the corpora allata. The second stage is triggered by the blood meal and involves the release of a hormone from the brain as well as the vitellogenin stimulating hormone (VSH) from the ovary. The mature oocytes then inhibit development of the penultimate oocytes until the first batch of eggs is laid. The evidence for an ovarian hormone, VSH, controlling vitellogenin synthesis by the mosquito fat body is reviewed. This hormone activates and maintains vitellogenin synthesis by the fat body in vivo and in vitro. The role of VSH in mosquito reproduction and the possibility of similar hormones in other insects is discussed.
3882202|The neurohypophysial hormone, arginine vasotocin, is depleted from the hypothalamus, and rises in concentration in the blood during oviposition in hens. The contractile responses of isolated oviducts from birds, reptiles and amphibians are more sensitive to arginine vasotocin than to oxytocin or mesotocin. This evidence clearly indicates that arginine vasotocin is involved in parturition or oviposition in non-mammalian tetrapods. Evidence for a physiological role for specific neurohypophysial hormones in the regulation of oviduct-or in some cases ovarian-contractility in fishes is unclear and occasionally contradictory. However, it appears unlikely that arginine vasotocin is involved in the fish species that have been investigated. It is evident that, much like the neurohypophysial hormones, the neurohypophysial hormone receptors of the vertebrate myometrium have undergone evolutionary change.
3883873|Comparative embryological studies of frogs and fish provide valuable information about the mechanisms and evolution of vertebrate development. First, by mapping developmental data from a range of species onto a cladogram, one can distinguish general features of a ground plan from variation within it. Two studies illustrate this: comparison of gastrulation mechanisms in sturgeon and Xenopus, and morphogenesis of the dorsal mesoderm in five species of anurans. Second, phylogenetic analysis of developmental data makes it possible to identify radical departures from the ground plan among related groups. Teleost gastrulation is a highly derived process that appears to have little in common with the ancestral version. However, teleost gastrulation may have evolved as a result of two specific developmental changes: loss of bottle cells in the surface layer, and changes in the yolk. The phylogenetic distribution of developmental characters forms the basis for mechanistic hypotheses about the origins of major evolutionary changes in development.
3884526|Ecologists have long been interested in factors that control the structure of communities and the relative importance of top-down effects of predators versus bottom-up effects of resources. There is a growing body of evidence that microbial symbioses are important determinants of plant community structure and indirectly affect herbivore and predator trophic levels. Studies with mycorrhizal fungi, N-fixing bacteria and endophytes of grasses have demonstrated that they can affect competition, coexistence, soil nutrient dynamics and plant-herbivore interactions. Long-term field experiments with one grass/endophyte interaction suggest that grassland community structure is determined by the fungus. While total plant productivity of experimental plots was similar, the composition of the vegetation was altered by endophyte symbiosis. The host grass tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) dominated plots when infected while other grasses greatly increased in uninfected plots. Indirect evidence suggests that changes in prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) grazing patterns and reproductive physiology may be in part responsible for vegetational changes. These results provide evidence that, in addition to bottom-up and top-down forces, microbial symbionts of plants are important determinants of community structure.
3883730|Evolutionary "old" nervous systems such as those of coelenterates are peptidergic: Using various radioimmunoassays we have now isolated 13 novel neuropeptides from sea anemones and several others from hydrozoan polyps and medusae. These peptides are all structurally related and contain the C-terminal sequence
3881409|Variable amounts of white particulate matter occur in the hemocoel of the land crab, Cardisoma guanhumi. This material, mainly uric acid, accounts for 0.2-15.9% of the total dry weight of a series of crabs. The material appears to increase during intermolt. Concentrations of uric acid in the blood varied from 0.2 to 13.2 mg/100 ml. Urine and feces contained little or no uric acid. Estimates of NH
3884225|Living corals are routinely collected and shipped to destinations thousands of miles from their point of origin. The fact that corals can survive the rigors of collecting, transport, and acclimation to totally artificial environments was considered impossible not long ago, but hobbyists and some researchers have persevered and have developed aquarium systems and techniques capable of maintaining corals in apparently healthy condition for many years. In particular, new lighting equipment, advances in the control of water chemistry, and new technology for simulating water movement have all contributed to the ability to keep corals alive indefinitely in captivity. Despite the completely artificial conditions of most aquariums, coral extension rates and calcification rates in some aquarium systems are close to those reported for natural reefs, although anomalies have been observed such as decreased skeletal density and unusual changes in colony morphology. Nonetheless, aquariums present real opportunities to culture corals for a variety of bioassay, medicinal, and conservation purposes. As model reef communities ("microcosms"), these systems allow us to test hypotheses concerning the effects of rapidly changing environmental conditions.
3883860|Examination of larvae and juveniles of Ridgeia has revealed the presence of a prototroch, metatroch and neurotroch. A complete digestive tract is present in juveniles, the esophageal portion of which passes through the brain. The major longitudinal, pulsatile blood vessel is on the side opposite the nerve cord and, along with the longitudinal blood vessel adjacent to the nerve cord, is situated in the medial mesentery separating lateral coelomic cavities. The posterior body region is multisegmented, and the lateral cavities of each segment are separated by a medial mesentery. Newly forming segments exhibit paired spaces that expand to form coelomic cavities of that segment. All of these characters are held in common with the Annelida and strongly suggest that the nerve cord is ventral and the major pulsatile blood vessel is dorsal; the brain is, in effect, a circumesophageal ganglion; and coelom formation is by schizocoely and mesodermal origin is teloblastic. It is suggested that the Vestimentifera are allied with the gastroneuralians and may well have arisen near the base of the phylogenetic line leading to the Annelida. Avenues of future research, likely to shed more light on the position of the Vestimentifera in invertebrate phylogeny, are suggested.
3884483|Hypotheses of relationships are critical to describing and understanding patterns of evolution within groups of organisms. But rarely has a comparative, historical approach been employed to study developmental change, particularly among anurans. A recent resurgence of interest in collecting basic ontogenetic information provides us with the opportunity to compare ontogenetic trajectories in a phylogenetic framework. Larval skeletons and osteological development were examined for 22 taxa and compared to two hypotheses of relationships-that of Cannatella, and one proposed herein based on 41 morphological characters from larvae and 62 from adults. Larval characters were mapped on the alternate cladograms using the ACCTRAN optimization criterion. Several larval features are highly conserved among some anurans, suggesting that there is some level of canalization of morphology early in ontogeny. In contrast, a number of morphologies vary among groups, supporting the fact that there have been major evolutionary modifications to anuran larval morphologies early in ontogeny and in the early evolutionary history of anurans.
3882667|An apparent anomaly exists in the size of riverine fish faunas of the Nile and Zaire; the Nile while considerably longer, appears depauperate when compared with the Zaire. This paradox is explained when discharge, not length, is used as a measure of river size. Indeed, the number of freshwater fish species in African rivers is more closely related to discharge than to length or catchment area. Discharge is directly proportional to terrestrial productivity of a river basin, which in turn affects total biomass of fish and number of species. Changes in the size of rivers during the geologic past affected their capacity to sustain diverse fish faunas. Rivers flowing through especially arid lands during the late-Pleistocene were reduced in discharge, and concomitantly, fish faunas. Immigration of fish from refuge rivers during the Holocene partially restored these diminished faunas. We propose that fish are more mobile than they seem, and that the distinctiveness of riverine fish faunas may be maintained by competitive pressure from established residents, rather than by limited dispersal abilities of fish. Theories of the distribution of fish in Africa are considered, and we suggest that discharge as affected by climatic stability is largely responsible for the size of African riverine fish faunas.
3883906| Sexual differentiation in malacostracan Crustacea is controlled by the androgenic gland hormone (AGH). In males, the primordial androgenic glands (AG) develop and AGH induces male morphogenesis. In females, the primordial AG does not develop and the ovaries differentiate spontaneously. Implantation of the AG into females yields various results, showing that the sensitivity to AGH differs with the species and the receptive organs. Purified AGH of the isopod Armadillidium vulgare consists of at least two molecular forms, which exist as monomeric proteins with molecular weights of 17,000  800 and 18,300  1,000 Da and with isoelectric points of about 4.5 and 4.3, respectively. The antiserum raised against purified AGH makes it possible to measure AGH activity by immunoassay. Neurohormones control male and female reproduction. In males, they are involved in the maintenance of the male germinative zone and the control of AG activity. In females, the secondary vitellogenesis is controlled by the vitellogenesis-inhibiting hormone (VIH) and the vitellogenesis-stimulating hormone (VSH). VIH isolated from the lobster Homarus americanus is a peptide with a molecular weight of 9,135 Da and shows homology to the crustacean hyperglycemic and moltinhibiting hormone. Involvement of the molting hormone and the juvenile hormone-like compound in the secondary vitellogenesis have also been suggested. In the amphipod Orchestia gammarella, the vitellogenesis-stimulating ovarian hormone (VSOH) seems to control vitellogenin synthesis. 
3883133|Soon after the discovery of North America, Spain, Russia, Great Britain, France and slightly later, the United States, vied to exert political control over its Pacific coast. This article details the explorer/naturalists associated with those countries and the observations they made in the time period from 1500 to 1850. Although the principal concern is with observations made in California, some connection is made to Oregon. The paper relates the background of observers, their purposes for being there and the nature of their scientific contributions. Principal individuals mentioned (in chronological order) include: David Douglas (Great Britain-1830), Thomas Nuttall (United States-1834), the U.S. Exploring Expedition (United States-1841), William Gambel (United States-1841), John C. Fremont (United States-1843), William H. Emory (United States-1847). The account ends in 1850 because that is the year that California achieved statehood and the next two decades mark the origin of local institutions that changed in the way in which natural history observations were supported in California. Institutions begun in this time period were: the California Academy of Natural Sciences, 1853; the California State Geological Survey, 1860; and the University of California, 1868.
3883393| Models suited for quantitative analysis of cutaneous gas exchange and transport with particular emphasis on diffusion limitation are discussed. I. The diffusive transfer of gases between body and environment can be compared to diffusion across a homogeneous flat tissue sheet characterized by a diffusion conductance or diffusing capacity (D). II. A flat barrier separating the medium from blood flow (Q) is a widely useful model. The characteristic parameter is the ratio D/(Q), where  is the effective solubility of the gas in blood. A high D/(Q) value means predominant perfusion limitation; low D/(Q) signifies diffusion limitation. III. In some conditions, as in still water or at body-soil contact, a considerable diffusion resistance in the medium may become important. IV. Unequal distribution of D to Q may strongly reduce gas exchange efficiency. V. Diffusive arteriovenous shunting of gases may lead to additional reduction of gas exchange efficiency. VI. The parallel arrangement of skin circulation with respect to tissue circulation (in contrast to the arrangement in series present in fish gills and in tetrapod lungs) leads to mixing of arterialized with venous blood and reduced efficiency of blood flow in gas transport. 
3882544|Within the regenerating amphibian limb the regeneration blastema represents the focus of the dominant epimorphic regenerative process. More proximally, tissue regenerative processes are prominent within certain tissues of the stump. It is not yet known whether all tissues present within the limb regenerate are laid down as part of a single all-inclusive plan or whether the morphogenesis of some tissues is dependent upon secondary cues. Initial axial deviation of regenerates arising from oblique amputation surfaces (Barfurth's rule) is compared with the permanent axial deviation of regenerates from zeugopodial segments of limbs from which one skeletal element has been removed. Homeotic regenerates are commonly produced in arthropods, but they have yet to be demonstrated in regenerating vertebrate extremities. Individual tissue components of limbs regenerate well, and their morphogenesis appears to be controlled largely by the functional environment in which the regenerative process is taking place. Under appropriate conditions, terminally amputated mammalian, including human, digits produce well organized outgrowths complete with nails or claws. Whether or not this form of outgrowth is directly comparable with an epimorphically regenerating amphibian limb remains to be seen.
3884419|Nitric oxide serves as an orthograde synaptic cotransmitter between identified neurons in the cerebral ganglion of Aplysia. Nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme that produces nitric oxide, is localized in a few specific neurons in the ganglia, including neuron C2. Guanylyl cyclase the target enzyme of nitric oxide, is found in neurons C4 and MCC, which are synaptic followers of C2. Stimulation of C2 causes a vsEPSP in these neurons that is reduced to 50% of its amplitude by nitric oxide synthase inhibitors and guanylyl cyclase inhibitors. The remaining portion of the vsEPSP is mediated by histamine. Thus, nitric oxide and histamine act as orthograde cotransmitters in producing the vsEPSP. Both cotransmitters cause closure of a background potassium channel, which depolarizes the neuron and enhances its response to synaptic inputs. Exogenous nitric oxide (released by nitric oxide donor molecules) and histamine mimic the vsEPSP's depolarization and decreased membrane conductance. When neurons C4 or MCC are isolated in cell culture they respond just as they do in the ganglion, i.e., the nitric oxide response but not the histamine response is blocked by guanylyl cyclase inhibitors, and the membrane conductance is decreased by both histamine and nitric oxide. Aplysia hemolymph partially suppresses the response to nitric oxide, due to nitric oxide scavenging by hemocyanin, which contains copper and is the equivalent of hemoglobin. Neuron C2 followers that are hyperpolarized by histamine are insensitive to nitric oxide. Thus, only select follower neurons respond to both transmitters.
3881465|The distinguishing mechanical characteristics of cardiac muscle are (1) the presence of a significant and sometimes labile resting tension at functional lengths. Certain invertebrate skeletal muscles also possess this property, but the structural basis seems to be different. (2) Force-velocity characteristics of heart muscle are labile and constitute a mechanism for regulating cardiac performance. (3) Data on quick-stretch and release show that the active state in heart muscle is slow in its onset, probably preceding the development of isometric tension by only a short time. The onset of the active state is labile also, and probably forms the basis of the regulatory function of the force-velocity relation. Measurements of heat show a slow rate of increase of heat during a twitch consistent with the onset of contractility.
3883301|Structural evolution of the vertebrate lung illustrates the principle that the emergence of seemingly new structures such as the mammalian lung is due to intensification of one of the functions of the original piscine lung. The configuration of the mechanical support of the lung in which elastic and collagen fibers form a continuous framework is well matched with the functional demands. The design of the mammalian gas exchange cells is an ingenious solution to meet the functional demands of optimizing maintenance pathways from nucleus to the cytoplasm while simultaneously providing minimal barrier thickness. Surfactant is found in the most primitive lungs providing a protective continuous film of fluid over the delicate epithelium. As the lung became profusely partitioned, surfactant became a functionally new surface-tension reduction device to prevent the collapse of the super-thin foam-like respiratory surface. Experimental analyses have established that in lower vertebrates lungs are ventilated with a buccal pulse pump, which is driven by identical sets of muscles acting in identical patterns in fishes and frogs. In the aquatic habitats suction is the dominant mode of feeding generating buccal pressure changes far exceeding those recorded during air ventilation. From the perspective of air ventilation the buccal pulse pump is overdesigned. However in terrestrial habitats vertebrates must operate with higher metabolic demands and the lung became subdivided into long narrow airways and progressively smaller air spaces, rendering the pulse pump inefficient. With the placement of the lungs inside a pump, the aspiration pump was established. In mammals, the muscular diaphragm represents a key evolutionary innovation since it led to an energetically most efficient aspiration pump. Apparently the potential energy created by contraction of the diaphragm during inhalation is stored in the elastic tissues of the thoracic unit and lung. This energy is released when lung and thorax recoil to bring about exhalation. It is further determined experimentally that respiratory and locomotory patterns are coupled, further maximizing the efficiency of mammalian respiration. Symmorphosis is exhibited in the avian breathing apparatus, which is endowed with a key evolutionary innovation by having the highly specialized lung continuously ventilated by multiple air sacs that function as bellows. Functional morphologists directly deal with these kinds of functional and structural complexities that provide an enormous potential upon simple changes in underlying mechanisms.
3882014| In the past decade several laboratories began investigating the neuromuscular physiology of the arthropod subphylum, Chelicerata. This paper concerning chelicerate skeletal neuromuscular systems concentrates on three major areas: fine structural features of the skeletal muscles; fine structure of synaptic areas; and innervation patterns and neuromuscular physiology. For all chelicerates investigated, the fine structural features of the muscle fibers appear to be similar with the exception that the sarcomere lengths fall into two general size categories (ca. 4  and 7 ). Two types of synaptic areas are found in the chelicerates. In horseshoe crabs the synaptic region is formed in a large evagination of the sarcoplasm, and evaginations from more than one muscle fiber may combine into one synaptic region. In the arachnids the synaptic area is formed in a slight furrow in the muscle fiber or along the surface of the fiber. Studies of innervation patterns reveal that horseshoe crabs have a much greater number of motor axons innervating the skeletal musculature than do other chelicerates. The motor axons appear to be similar in function in horseshoe crabs, but in scorpions there are at least two functional types. In only one investigation has peripheral inhibition been demonstrated in Chelicerata. 
3884441|Paleontologists have documented the progressive origination of metazoan bodyplans beginning about 610 million years ago (Ma) with the major period of innovation occurring from 570 Ma to about 525 Ma. The breadth of this event is now well documented among soft-bodied, skeletonized and trace fossils. Changes in both the phytoplankton and in geochemical markers suggest pervasive transformation of the environment during this interval, implicating an ecological role in triggering this innovative burst. The extent to which developmental innovations contributed to this evolutionary burst requires placement of the protostome-deuterostome ancestor (PDA) in time: a PDA close to the radiation could indicate a greater role for developmental innovation. Molecular evidence points to a maximum age of about 670 Ma. Uncertainties over the extent of functional homologies among the widely conserved developmental control genes, and gene pathways, bracket plausible dates for such an ancestor: the maximally complex ancestor could not predate about 545 Ma; the least complex alternative could date to 575 Ma or even earlier. The nested hierarchical structure of developmental control genes and bodyplan originations suggests certain temporal inhomogeneities to the evolutionary process: as certain developmental patterns are established they limit subsequent evolutionary trajectories.
3882261|A research plan is outlined which combines two ordinarily separate lines of investigation, namely, the reciprocal interaction between hormones and behavior and the role of behavior in the evolution and maintenance of species, bringing both to bear on outstanding questions in behavioral and evolutionary biology. This integrative approach to animal behavior, which spans three levels-physiology, behavior, and evolution-should not only yield answers to specific questions within each level of analysis, but, by taking into account the adaptive value of each in nature, also demonstrate interrelationships between the levels.
3884506|Most snakes ingest and transport their prey via a jaw ratcheting mechanism in which the left and right upper jaw arches are advanced over the prey in an alternating, unilateral fashion. This unilateral jaw ratcheting mechanism differs greatly from the hyolingual and inertial transport mechanisms used by lizards, both of which are characterized by bilaterally synchronous jaw movements. Given the well-corroborated phylogenetic hypothesis that snakes are derived from lizards, this suggests that major changes occurred in both the morphology and motor control of the feeding apparatus during the early evolution of snakes. However, most previous studies of the evolution of unilateral feeding mechanisms in snakes have focused almost exclusively on the morphology of the jaw apparatus because there have been very few direct observations of feeding behavior in basal snakes. In this paper I describe the prey transport mechanisms used by representatives of two families of basal snakes, Leptotyphlopidae and Typhlopidae. In Leptotyphlopidae, a mandibular raking mechanism is used, in which bilaterally synchronous flexions of the lower jaw serve to ratchet prey into and through the mouth. In Typhlopidae, a maxillary raking mechanism is used, in which asynchronous ratcheting movements of the highly mobile upper jaws are used to drag prey through the oral cavity. These findings suggest that the unilateral feeding mechanisms that characterize the majority of living snakes were not present primitively in Serpentes, but arose subsequently to the basal divergence between Scolecophidia and Alethinophidia.
3884247|Two processes strongly influence the distribution of oxygen within egg masses and cells: the supply of oxygen by diffusion and the consumption of oxygen by embryos and mitochondria. These processes are differentially sensitive to temperature. The diffusion coefficient of oxygen depends only weakly on temperature, having a Q
3883865|The crustacean nauplius larva is a development stage characterized by the presence of three pairs of head appendages. All crustaceans pass through the naupliar stage whether embryonically or as free-living larvae. The nauplius is thought to be the phylotypic stage and represent a fundamental developmental constraint in crustaceans. However, free-living nauplii are primitive and I present evidence that this form is functionally plastic, e.g., locomotory modes are diverse even in closely related species. I argue that this functional plasticity allowed the persistence of nauplii in the early evolution of crustaceans and, as a consequence, naupliar development became a deep-seated feature of crustaceans. Thus, we see nauplii as phylotypic. This suggests that, in spite of the presence of phylotypic stages in various phyla, phylotypy itself may not represent a similar, underlying developmental constraint in every case.
3882493|The common intertidal sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima (Brandt) occurs in two forms, the clonal aggregating form and the solitary form. The obvious differences between the two apparently result from the presence of asexual reproduction in the clonal aggregating form and its absence in the solitary form; resulting differences in growth form suit the two anemones to different lifestyles. The clonal form is well suited to life higher in the mid-intertidal. Asexual reproduction, resulting in moderately small individual size and close association with clonemates, improves its resistance to physical stress (drag and desiccation), and makes it a superior competitor in exposed habitats higher in the intertidal where species diversity and predator pressure are low. The larger solitary animals live in more protected microhabitats lower in the intertidal and subtidal, and are probably more resistant to predation and less able to withstand physical stress or intense intraspecific competition. The two forms also have different biogeographic ranges. While the clonal aggregations are quite common at rocky sites at least as far north as Vancouver Island in British Columbia, populations of solitaries have not been found north of Point Reyes, California. Apparently the two forms are reproductively isolated; phenotype frequencies are very different for clonals and solitaries living at the same locations, while the between-sample variation within each form is relatively small. These differences in phenotype frequencies, biogeographic range and microhabitat suggest that the clonal anemones and the solitary anemones known as Anthopleura elegantissima are actually a sibling species pair.
3883336|The traditional concept of vertebrate motorpools suggests that muscles are supplied by motor neurons that are morphologically and spatially homogeneous. This view is based primarily on work on the limbs, but axial motorpools often have a different organization. This essay reviews two ways in which axial motorpools may differ from those of the limbs. (1) Axial motor neurons may have markedly asymmetrical dendritic fields that are oriented preferentially toward the contralateral spinal cord/brainstem. (2) A single axial motorpool may contain two spatially disjunct populations of motor neurons which differ in morphology, afferent circuitry, and synaptic targets. I first describe the innervation of turtle neck muscles to illustrate these two patterns. I then review the occurrence of these two patterns in several vertebrate nervous systems and attempt to formulate some hypotheses regarding their behavioral role. Taken together, these data suggest that in some respects rules governing the organization and recruitment of axial motorpools may differ from the classic view derived from work on limbs.
3882062|The growth and morphogenesis of Obelia loveni and Dynamena pumila asexual generation were studied. Their cell layers consist of tightly packed cells which are able to contract, to reorient and slide upon one another while remaining at the same time anchored to elastic enveloping membranes. Both growth and morphogenesis are of pulsatory character due to coordinated periodic contractions and relaxations of cells. Cell contraction results in a normalization of cell orientations, an upward shift of the entodermal column, and an expansion of the rudiment's tip. Cell relaxation is accompanied by reverse deformations and an upwards shift of the ectodermal column. The spatial pattern of active and passive forces and supporting structures is ascertained. Morphogenetic processes in hydroids are demonstrated to be the results of some natural modes of behavior of tightly packed contractile cells integrated into a single mechanical system.
3883529|The three themes of this chapter develop upon the nature of the neuromodulatory response. First, the neuromodulatory response is shaped by multiple second messenger pathways acting within positive and negative feedback loops. Second, second messenger pathways are interwoven, and it is their interactions that complete the feedback loops of the response. Third, the evolution of the neuromodulatory response in a special command system for a fixed action pattern of behavior is considered by comparative analysis and found to be elaborated simply from second messenger and ion conductance properties shared by many neurons.
3883721|Old-growth forests of the Pacific Northwest extend along the coastal region from southern Alaska to northern California and are composed largely of conifer rather than hardwood tree species. Many of these trees achieve great age (500-1,000 yr). Natural succession that follows forest stand destruction normally takes over 100 years to reach the young mature forest stage. This succession may continue on into old-growth for centuries. The changing structural complexity of the forest over time, combined with the many different plant species that characterize succession, results in an array of arthropod habitats. It is estimated that 6,000 arthropod species may be found in such forests-over 3,400 different species are known from a single 6,400 ha site in Oregon. Our knowledge of these species is still rudimentary and much additional work is needed throughout this vast region. Many of these species play critical roles in the dynamics of forest ecosystems. They are important in nutrient cycling, as herbivores, as natural predators and parasites of other arthropod species. This faunal diversity reflects the diversity of the environment and the arthropod complex provides a sensitive barometer of the conditions of the forest. Conservation efforts for forest arthropods are limited at present and controlled largely by land-use policies. For example, an effort is being made to include arthropods in conservation efforts for the Northern Spotted Owl and arthropods will be included in the Forest Health Monitoring program now underway by the U.S. Forest Service. Evidence from other parts of the world suggest that arthropods that depend upon large pieces of dead wood may be particularly threatened by forest management practices. Much remains to be done in the conservation of forest arthropods.
3884486|Past approaches to understanding the evolution of locomotory strategies among Paleozoic amniotes ("primitive reptiles" of previous parlance) have been influenced by preservational bias: early occurrences of some amniote taxa were used to polarize the acquisition or development of locomotory structures among the earliest amniotes. Using a phylogeny representing the current consensus in the literature, we investigate the major locomotory strategies that have been posited for Paleozoic amniotes (basal synapsids on one hand and early reptiles on the other) by optimizing the major locomotory styles identified for these taxa onto the consensus tree, in order to present an overview of the pattern of evolution of locomotory strategies inherited and adopted by various amniote lineages.
3882965|Melatonin has many actions in vertebrates, with some considered hormonal. But are some melatonin actions more ancient than others? A survey of the tissues which synthesize melatonin demonstrates that some are more recent vertebrate characters compared to others, indicating that melatonin action in these tissues also is more recent. The lateral eyes and pineal organs appear to be very ancient sources of melatonin and any action this molecule has within these tissues should be considered primordial. We hypothesize that melatonin's first actions (functions) were paracrine, that is, operating within these photoreceptive structures to facilitate the process of photoreception. Such actions have been documented. It is hypothesized that melatonin synthesis occurred at night within the pineal organs and retinas of ancient vertebrates, as is the case among extant vertebrates. Accompanying the nightly synthesis of melatonin for paracrine function, secretion of melatonin either incidental or for detoxification by the liver occurred, providing a faithful template of the onset and/or duration of the scotophase. This nightly pulse of melatonin could provide important timing information to distant tissues capable of receiving the signal. The number of physiological systems within vertebrates "using" the nightly circulating melatonin pulse, and the apparent increased importance of circulating melatonin in timing physiological events in mammals, like reproduction, is the result of recent cooptation.
3881673|Bacteria were recovered from loci within skeletal regions of the glomerate coral, Porites lobata. The origin of these bacteria is unknown, although areas of discoloration suggest invasion from the substratum in the region of basal attachment. Weakened areas of internal corallum contained from 10
3881636| At low temperature (3C), in the absence of substrate and cofactor, trout liver fructose diphosphatase (FDPase) is inactivated by exposures to relatively low pressures. FDP and Mg
3884009|Animals can lower the metabolic cost of swimming by using appropriately tuned, elastic springs. Jet-powered invertebrates use springs that lie in functional parallel to their swimming muscles to power half the locomotor cycle. The parallel geometry constrains the spring to be non-linearly elastic; muscle power is diverted to load the spring only when swimming muscles are not capable of producing maximal hydrodynamic thrust. The springs of jellyfish and scallops are forced at or near their resonant frequency, producing large energy savings. Measuring the contribution of elastic energy storage to jet-powered locomotion has been facilitated by the relatively simple geometries of invertebrate locomotor systems. In contrast, complex musculoskeletal systems and kinematics have complicated the study of springs in swimming vertebrates. Skins, tendons and axial skeletons of some vertebrate swimmers have appropriate mechanical properties to act as springs. To date, though, there exist just a handful of studies that have investigated the mechanical behaviors of these locomotor structures in swimming vertebrates, and these data have yet to be integrated with measures of swimming power. Integrating mechanical, kinematic, hydrodynamic and metabolic data are required to understand more fully the role of elastic springs in vertebrate swimming energetics.
3884001|Aquatic pedestrian locomotion represents an important mode of locomotion for many aquatic and amphibious animals, both extant and extinct. Unlike terrestrial locomotion where weight is the defining force, in aquatic locomotion buoyancy and hydrodynamic forces may be as important as weight. Aquatic pedestrian locomotion differs fundamentally from swimming because pedestrians must maintain contact with the substratum in order to locomote. Ambient water motion may constrain or prevent locomotion of aquatic pedestrians by requiring that they actively grip the substratum. A comprehensive biomechanical analysis of aquatic pedestrian locomotion will require an integration of hydrodynamics with terrestrial locomotor dynamics.
3882336|A quantitative and qualitative study of within-sample variation in the genus Sphenolithus Deflandre indicates the existence of significant polymorphism in this groups of nannofossils. Qualitative comparison between two samples of different ages from different localities reveals two distinct ultrastructural morphologies indistinguishable in the light microscope. Statistical treatment of the quantitative data shows that the same variation exists in both samples. A number of heretofore distinct taxa are interpreted to be variants of only two species.
3881633| Muscle pyruvate kinase from an abyssal Coryphaenoides species occurs as a single electrophoretic form with an isoelectric point of about pH 6.0. Maximum catalytic rates are dramatically reduced by pressure. For catalysis at 3C, the volume change of activation, V*, is about
3881902|The role of species of ciliate Protozoa in trickling filter waste treatment processes awaits redefinition. Using the small fresh-water Salt Fork stream for our study, a stream which receives all of the discharge from the Champaign-Urbana Waste Treatment Plant in east-central Illinois, analyses of samples of carefully identified ciliates taken from selected sites over a three-year period yielded some interesting results. Four specific situations were noted: (1) free-swimming microphagous forms feeding selectively on primarily attached bacteria, and, in turn, being fed on by carnivorous ciliates; (2) sessile ciliates (peritrichs) feeding on non-attached bacterial species, but with high selectivity; (3) free-swimming carnivorous gymnostomes feeding on the sessile peritrichs but, again in turn, serving as prey themselves to stalked suctorian species attached to the peduncles of the peritrichs; (4) attached peritrichs and suctorians both serving as food for several groups of small invertebrates frequenting the stream. With respect to numbers and diversity of ciliates found, some 155 different species, belonging to 93 genera, were identified (including several to be described elsewhere as new species) in the stream and/or the trickling filter settling basin. The highest populations and greatest diversity were found at sites closest to the waste water influx; such protozoan populations might thus be considered as a form of tertiary treatment in the drainage basin.
4620170|Thermoregulation of elevated thorax temperatures is necessary for bees to achieve the high rates of power production required for flight, and is a key factor allowing them to occupy widely varying thermal environments. However, the mechanisms by which bees thermoregulate during flight are poorly understood. Thermoregulation is accomplished by balancing heat gain and heat loss via the following routes: convection, evaporation, and metabolic heat production. There appears to be a diversity of thermoregulatory mechanisms employed during flight among bee species. Some species, particularly Bombus spp., actively increase the distribution of thoracic heat to the abdomen during flight as air temperature (T
3884346|During the past two decades there have been rapid advances in our knowledge of the structure and function of the protein hormones in the brain and gastroenteropancreatic system (GEP). Many published articles have highlighted the superfamily of hormonal peptides, specifically, the mechanisms and control of peptide synthesis in neural and non-neural tissues, and gene structure. Here we present an analysis of the annual trends, between 1980 and 1997, of research emphasis on six protein/peptide hormones, as reflected by their individual frequency of publication per year. Although this symposium is focused on the GEP hormones, we provide herein a perspective on the level of research activity of the hormones insulin, glucagon, cholecystokinin, insulin-like growth factor-I and -II, neuropeptide Y and somatostatin in the brain/gut systems throughout the vertebrates and invertebrates. Many publications deal with the evolution of these peptides and their superfamilies, yet as noted in this review, there are relatively few references to these peptides in invertebrates and non-mammalian species. Typically in invertebrates, the number of citations is low and mostly focused on three phyla, the arthropods, mollusks and helminths. Generally, in the vertebrates the smallest number of citations is in the cyclostomes and elasmobranchs. Because most groups of invertebrates and vertebrates have received scant attention, phylogenetic comparisons are limited. Evolutionary information concerning important groups of animals, such as helminths, mollusks, protochordates and cyclostomes, is essential to establish the phylogenetic histories of the hormonal peptides. The challenge to comparative endocrinologists is to examine species in key evolutionary positions in order to gain an understanding of the diversity and function of the hormones and to determine the molecular features that form clues to their phyletic interrelationships and progression.
3882047|All cells in hydra undergo continuous and systematic locomotion across the polyp body. Different patterns and mechanisms of movement are exhibited by the various cell types. Passive displacement is one of the most conspicuous forms of cell movement: The epithelial cells of the body column and tentacles move centrifugally due to the expansive growth of the tissues. Another factor in the passive displacement of epithelial cells involves the propagation of morphological characters across the tissue, rather than actual movement of cells or tissues per se. True cell locomotion, where cells move relative to neighboring tissue by means of self-propulsion, is also apparently exhibited by epithelial cells in certain situations, notably at sites where morphogenetic changes are taking place (e.g., bud and tentacle bases). Epithelial cells always migrate as sheets of cells, never individually. In contrast, nematocytes and interstitial cells undergo active migration individually. Nematocyte migration is strongly polarized, very possibly by the mat of epithelial cell muscular processes along which they move. Interstitial cell migration appears to occur under many conditions, but not nearly as commonly as was classically supposed. Finally it appears that interstitial cells and nematoblasts move in bulk through the intercellular spaces in some situations. This movement is probably due to epithelial cell activities and is used to redistribute cells located in the interstitial spaces.
4620150|The life histories of many vertebrates include complex, postembryonic developmental pathways that involve morphological and physiological changes that adapt juveniles to a new habitat. A survey of such developmental pathways, including lamprey metamorphosis, salmonid smoltification, and anuran metamorphosis, reveals a common strategy of lipid metabolism consisting of two distinct phases. The first phase is characterized by lipid accumulation in storage sites and results from lipogenesis prevailing over lipolysis. The second phase is characterized by lipid depletion from storage sites and results from lipolysis prevailing over lipogenesis. Regulation of lipid deposition and lipid mobilization is essential for ensuring availability of lipid during times of need. Lipogenesis is promoted by insulin and, in lamprey and anurans, also by thyroid hormones. Lipolysis is promoted by a number of hormones, including prolactin, growth hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, corticosteroids, somatostatins, and thyroid hormones. The coordinate regulation of development-associated changes in lipid metabolism results from interactions among hormones and other internal and environmental cues.
3883672|The role of infaunal predators in structuring marine soft-bottom communities was evaluated according to these predators': 1) effects on prey density based on manipulative field experiments, 2) feeding rates, 3) effects on prey distribution, 4) effects on species diversity, and 5) interactions with their prey. Estimates of feeding rates indicate that many predatory taxa have the potential to reduce the size of prey populations and suggest that nemerteans are likely to have a larger impact on infaunal abundances than polychaetes. Infaunal predators have been demonstrated to have a significant effect on infaunal densities and to affect the spatial and temporal distribution of their prey. The effects of these predators on species diversity apparently depend on the predator and the diversity of the system. These conclusions may not be applicable to all soft-bottom habitats or all groups of infaunal predators because they are based on studies of very few taxa conducted almost exclusively in intertidal, unvegetated, mud habitats. Additional studies are needed on the effects of predation by infauna on infaunal population dynamics and on the mechanisms of interactions between predator and prey. Further investigation will probably reveal that different groups of infaunal predators play different roles in structuring soft-bottom communities.
3883602|A fundamental assumption of the Hamilton and Zuk (1982) model of sexual selection is that parasite-free males should produce mate attracting displays that are substantially more vigorous and effective than those of their parasitized counterparts. Further, the model predicts that parasite-free males should be preferred as mating partners by females and, as a consequence, should have higher reproductive success than their parasitized competitors. Gray treefrogs (Hyla versicolor) constitute an ideal species for testing both assumptions and predictions of the Hamilton-Zuk model in that: (i) mate attraction by males requires the production of energetically costly calls and (ii) males of this species have been shown to harbor a wide range of helminth parasites. The present paper summarizes results of analyses of calling and mating behavior by male gray treefrogs in relation to their parasite infection levels. In general, these analyses revealed no consistent relationship between the number and kinds of parasites harbored by males and either the duration or duty-cycle (a direct measure of energetic cost) of their calls. Furthermore, males found in amplexus (i.e., males actually selected as mating partners by females) showed a slightly higher prevalence of parasite infection (but a slightly lower intensity of infection) than did a comparable sample of unmated males. In sum, the present study failed to support the major within-species prediction of the Hamilton-Zuk model of sexual selection and also calls into question one of the fundamental assumptions of the model.
3883937|Gas exchange in pulmonate snails of the family Helicidae occurs through a highly vascularized diffusion lung known as the mantle. The extent of ventilation of the mantle depends upon the duration and size of opening of an occlusible pore known as the pneumostome. In Helix aspersa and Helix pomatia, pneumostomal size and frequency of opening are exquisitely sensitive to CO
3882086|Microtubules deployed during early development of the sea urchin embryo are derived both from a preexisting pool of subunits present in the egg and from microtubule protein subunits synthesized in the embryo. Several aspects of microtubule protein synthesis and utilization are reviewed. Microtubule protein synthesis in early development utilizes oogenetic messenger RNA species. Translation of this mRNA is under regulation. Microtubule protein synthesis rises concomitantly with overall protein synthesis at fertilization, but rises at a relatively higher rate later in cleavage stages. Microtubule protein labeled with [
3884308|Because of limited research, a generally accepted hypothesis has not emerged for the phylogeny of the Asteroidea. The fossil record is a potential source of needed data, although fossil asteroids are rare, and they tend to be poorly preserved. Emphasis in the taxonomy of both recent and fossil asteroids has been on characters visible from the exterior, and paleontologists have sought to fit even the most ancient (i.e., Ordovician) specimens into taxonomic ordinal schemes devised for recent asteroids. Animal form and arrangement of body wall ossicles of Paleozoic asteroids can be similar to those of younger species, thereby suggesting close affinities, yet ambulacral arrangements indicate clear separation of Paleozoic stem groups from the crown group. Traits taken from the ambulacral column that mark crown-group asteroids include presence of dorsal podial pores (which allowed transfer of the ampullae to the arm interior), an offset arrangement of ambulacrals on the adambulacrals, and increased complexity of the articulation structures between ambulacrals and adambulacrals. Transfer of ampullae to the arm interior provided protection and more space for ampullae within the arm, as well as space within the furrow and between the ambulacral and adambulacral ossicles for elaboration of the soft tissues that enhance arm motion.
3882898|Behavior can be regarded as a result of various processes of decision based on the information provided by the sensory organs. In this review the role of the so-called additional heat sense, next to vision, smell and mechanoreception is discussed with respect to the feeding behavior of snakes. The hierarchy of the sensory information in various phases of the feeding behavior differs between snakes possessing heat receptors (e.g., species of the Crotalinae and Pythoninae) and those without (e.g., species of the Viperinae and Colubrinae). Probably depending on the influence of ecological demands, visual or chemical cues are the main information in the behavioral phases before the strike. However, in situations with little visual input, e.g., in darkness, rodents' burrows, etc., hunting behavior is guided in the first place by radiation of warm objects in Crotalus, Python and Trimeresurus flavoviridis, and by substrate vibrations in Vipera aspis, Pituophis melanoleucus and Boa constrictor. I suggest that in the sensory hierarchy, heat information functionally replaces the mechanical information which is utilized by snakes without pit organs. Poststrike behavior on the other hand is mainly guided by chemical cues in all snakes.
3884016|Soft-bodied oligochaetes that reside in soil and benthic environments are frequently exposed to pesticides and other environmental toxicants. Using noninvasive electrical recording techniques, some of the sublethal neurophysiological effects of these toxicants have been assessed in selected terrestrial and freshwater oligochaetes: Lumbricus terrestris, Eisenia foetida, and Lumbriculus variegatus. Under laboratory conditions, short-term cutaneous exposure to a wide variety of toxicants produces sublethal and reversible disruptions of giant nerve fiber spike activity and other bioelectric events that mediate rapid escape reflexes. Generally, electrophysiological effects include one or more of the following: (a) hypo- or hyper-excitability of giant fibers to mechanosensory stimulation, (b) reduction in giant fiber conduction velocity, (c) induction of abnormal giant fiber activity (i.e., spontaneous, rebound, or ectopic spiking), (d) increased delay or block of central transmission between the medial giant interneuron (MGF) and its associated pool of motorneurons, and (e) attenuation of MGF-mediated electrical potentials in longitudinal muscle. These efforts to describe the systemic impact and time course of neurotoxicant effects in vivo are necessary steps in ultimately predicting the ecological consequences of neurotoxicant exposure in situ.
3883760|When used with observations of behavior and physiology of animals in known microclimates, a biophysical approach is a powerful tool for predicting body temperatures of insects. For ectothermic insects, solution of the energy budget equation and use of operative temperature models have been used to determine the range of temperatures which an insect can exhibit in a given environment. Knowledge of body temperature has allowed predictions of when important behaviors are possible in the field, thereby directly relating biophysical models to fitness parameters of animals. A proper understanding of the physiological mechanism(s) controlling heat exchange is prerequisite to application and interpretation of information obtained using biophysical techniques. For endothermic insects, physiological regulation of heat exchange forces a more complicated analysis. Evaluation of thoracic heat exchange alone (aside from indicating whether insects are regulating T
3883281|A brief account of some of the influences that environmental factors, such as the lunar cycle, daylength and temperature, may have on thyroid activity in certain salmonids and the killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus, is presented. The rapid and immediate character of temperature effects is discussed and a role for central neuroendocrine control in mediating the effects of photoperiod and lunar phenomena involvement is suggested.
3882709|The reliability of a phylogenetic hypothesis is largely dependent on the diversity and abundance of characters. The meaning and complexity of these is furthermore a significant factor in choosing some characters over others to reflect the relative recency of taxa. Studying mechanical function and biological roles of character complexes yields new characters and a more profound appreciation of the "known" ones. This growth in available information invariably results in more convincing assembly of morphocline polarities or more clearly established homologies. This procedure of character analysis permits the construction of phylogenies which are more probable and based more securely on the foundations of any phylogeny: biologically researched homologies. When ontogenetic, functional and adaptational studies result in equivocal veiws, as to the polarity of a character cline, often the fossil record offers a clear and testable hypothesis on character cline polarity.
3882762|Since
3884527|Mutualisms are of central importance in biological systems. Despite growing attention in recent years, however, few conceptual themes have yet to be identified that span mutualisms differing in natural history. Here I examine the idea that the ecology and evolution of mutualisms are shaped by diverse costs, not only by the benefits they confer. This concept helps link mutualism to antagonisms such as herbivory, predation, and parasitism, interactions defined largely by the existence of costs. I first briefly review the range of costs associated with mutualisms, then describe how one cost, the consumption of seeds by pollinator offspring, was quantified for one fig/pollinator mutualism. I compare this cost to published values for other fig/pollinator mutualisms and for other kinds of pollinating seed parasite mutualisms, notably the yucca/yucca moth interaction. I then discuss four issues that fundamentally complicate comparative studies of the cost of mutualism: problems of knowing how to measure the magnitude of any one cost accurately; problems associated with using average estimates in the absence of data on sources of variation; complications arising from the complex correlates of costs, such as functional linkages between costs and benefits; and problems that arise from considering the cost of mutualism as a unilateral issue in what is fundamentally a reciprocal interaction. The rich diversity of as-yet unaddressed questions surrounding the costs of mutualism may best be investigated via detailed studies of individual interactions.
3882949|Pituitary gonadotropins and thyrotropins have been purified from diverse tetrapod species, representing all four classes. There has been sufficient conservation of structure in these hormones to allow recognition of a separate (homologous) follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone and thyrotropin in each class. Thus, the dual gonadotropin system appears to be a common (primitive) feature of the tetrapods. However, variations in the nature of the hormones exist at several levels. Intra-individual heterogeneity in each type of hormone may have important physiological consequences, especially for clearance rates. In at least one group, the squamate reptiles, the gonadotropins may have diverged from the basic tetrapod condition; they possess a relatively unique, and possibly only a single, gonadotropin. Among other species having two gonadotropins, interspecific divergence in the "active sites" of each hormone is evident from the marked species specificity in hormone action. Also, despite considerable conservation in structure, pronounced divergence in the function of each molecule is indicated by interspecific variations in hormonal specificity of certain functions, such as steroid secretion. Such changes in function may be due in large part to evolution in the receptor sites. However, tests with heterologous hormones suggest that there has also been some convergence between the active sites of the different types of glycoprotein hormone; one type of hormone may mimic the action of another when tested in a heterologous species. Generalizations about evolution in gonadotropin structure or function should not be made from a limited representation of species, since even related species of hormone (same order or family) may show distinctive properties, and physiological studies based on heterologous hormones must be interpreted cautiously. Surprisingly, neither species or hormonal specificity of the gonadotropins show clear phylogenetic patterns.
3881370|A brief review of relationships between brain and pituitary gland is presented. The primary portal plexus of the pituitary and hypothalamic neurones terminating upon these vessels represent the prime mechanism for neural influence upon adenohypophyseal function. The vascular architecture here may also permit a feedback loop from the adenohypophysis to the hypothalamus. Neurones ("final neural components") are presumed to be responsible for the elaboration of releasing factors (hypophysiotrophins). Influencing these cells is a wide variety of afferent neural circuits with both excitatory and inhibitory components. In addition to the question of identity of many of these circuits, a major problem for future research is the manner in which this diverse neural information is processed into an integrated signal to the final common neurone.
3882486|The sea turtle clutch of about 100 eggs is buried deeply in the nesting beach. The eggs exchange respiratory gases with the surrounding beach as their metabolic activity increases throughout the 60 day incubation. The O
3883091|The development of the modern methodologies of cell biology in the fifties and sixties and of molecular biology in the seventies and eighties has led to a reductionist view of embryonic development that centers on the cell and the gene as the functional units of development. The functional units in most inductive and morphogenetic processes in the embryo are not single cells, however, but rather are collectives of interacting cells that give rise to the tissues and organs. Can these methodological developments reconcile a molecular analysis with the fact that form arises epigenetically from the increasing number of embryonic cells during development? To answer this question one must link genetic regulation to mechanochemical processes that coordinate cell division, cell movement and cell death. Recent studies of cell adhesion suggest that one such link is provided by cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) that mediate cell-cell binding. These studies suggest that CAMs are involved in defining cell collectives and their borders as they interact during inductive events in morphogenesis. Although CAMs cannot be considered the "cause" of induction, they play key roles among the complex causal chains of inductive interactions involving hormones and growth factors, extracellular matrix components and cellular receptors. We provide here a brief summary of modern developments in the field centered about the function of CAMs in morphogenesis and using recent experimental results in the developing feather as a paradigmatic example.
3882016|Many, but not all, visceral muscles in insects are innervated by neurosecretory axons. The neurosecretory junctions with the heart muscle of the American cockroach, Periplaneta americana, show ultrastructural and electrophysiological evidence of chemically transmitting synapses, and cytochemical evidence for the presence of monoamines. Electron microscopy of nerve terminals shows that synaptic vesicles may be formed directly from electron-dense "neurosecretory" granules. Neurotomy of motor axons to skeletal muscles in insects leads to aggregation and clumping of synaptic vesicles after 48 hours. Treatment of in vitro nerve-muscle preparations with various respiratory poisons caused aggregation similar to that developed in neurotomized animals. This suggested that vesicle aggregation in both cases may have resulted from a decrease in available adenosine triphosphate in the nerve terminal with subsequent alteration in the normal charge density which supports a repulsive force between the vesicles.
3884447|In this paper we present preliminary results on the expression of Hoxa-11 in the frog Xenopus laevis and the newt Notophthalmus viridescens. In amniote limbs, Hoxa-11 is expressed exclusively in the prospective zeugopodium and is involved in the development of zeugopodial character identity. While the Hoxa-11 expression pattern in Xenopus is similar to those described in mice and chick, the newt Notophthalmus has a phase of autopodial Hoxa-11 expression starting with the development of digit III. Expression is particularly strong in the buds of the postaxial digits. This Hoxa-11 expression pattern is unique among tetrapods and adds to the list of developmental peculiarities of urodele limb development, which also include an anterior to posterior polarity of digit development. We propose a scenario to explain the evolutionary origin of urodele limb development. We assume that recent urodeles are derived from a lineage of amphibians which underwent partial digit reduction, leaving only two digits intact, most likely digits III and IV according to Morse's law. This implies that urodele digits I and II are homologous to amniote digits III and IV, and that the postaxial digits of urodeles are an evolutionary innovation (re-invention). Supporting evidence for this homology hypothesis is found in the developmental connections between the basale commune and the postaxial zeugopodial element.
3883647|The recruitment of juvenile corals and post-settlement mortality are important processes for coral population dynamics and reef community ecology. I monitored juvenile coral recruitment and survival on a severely disturbed reef in Bermuda from 1981 to 1989 and on adjacent healthy reefs from 1986 to 1990. Porites astreoides was the dominant recruiting species at all sites, due to the release of brooded planulae that may settle rapidly. The dominant corals on Bermuda's reef, Diploria spp., were poor recruiters, perhaps due to the broadcast mode of reproduction of these species. However, Diploria spp. have lower juvenile mortality rates compared to P. astreoides, which may explain their abundance on Bermuda's reefs. Brooding corals, primarily agariciids, were the dominant recruits on Atlantic reefs compared to high recruitment rates by spawning acroporids in the Pacific, which may be the result of different environmental conditions and/or evolutionary trends in the two oceans. The latter group also suffered high post-settlement mortality compared to brooding corals in both the Atlantic and the Pacific. Massive corals in both oceans had generally low recruitment rates, related to their spawning mode of reproduction, and low rates of post-settlement mortality. The dominant role of long-lived massive corals on the Atlantic and Pacific reefs can be understood in terms of their life-history strategy in comparison to the relatively short-lived Pacific acroporids and Atlantic agariciids that rely on different strategies to maintain their populations.
3882971|Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), a small peptide in the brain, is essential for reproduction. It is now clear that GnRH is part of a family of closely related molecules. The primary structure has been identified for 4 GnRH molecules: mammalian, chicken I, chicken II and salmon. During evolution the molecule has been conserved in length, terminal amino acid structure, 70-90% of amino acid sequence and the
3884229|Many reef taxa are predominantly clonal, and their clones can spread over tens of meters and live for hundreds of years. Colony growth, which produces large colonies, and vegetative propagation, which can generate many clonal replicates of colonies, affect the response of clonal taxa to climate change through a variety of mechanisms, some of which mitigate and some which amplify effects on individuals. The large numbers of replicate individuals generated among clonal taxa may enable some individuals to survive catastrophic mortality events such as storms and then expand following the perturbation. In those circumstances clonality buffers the effects of environmental change. Conversely, the genetic uniformity of populations dominated by few genotypes may leave clonal taxa more susceptible to physiologic stress than aclonal taxa. Consequently, clonal species may be more sensitive to climate change that has chronic and/or acute effects on survival. Chronic stresses that reduce recruitment will have less obvious effects on clonal taxa than aclonal taxa. Under conditions of reduced recruitment, clonality will allow some species to persist as relict populations due to the longevity of genets. The presence of relict populations has the appearance of resistance to climate change. In fact, these taxa are responding, but at a slower rate. The long generation time of genets will slow the pace of evolution among clonal species, making adaptation at projected rates of climate change unlikely. The differential response of species to environmental change will lead to transitions in community structure as climate changes.
3883384|We develop a simple single dimension model incorporating the time and energy commitments of breeding altricial birds in an effort to understand the evolutionary constraints on parental care. We chose time as the dimension of preference, because it is a naturally bounded constraint, e.g., length of day or breeding season. The utility of the model was evaluated by comparing simulations of time allocation of various breeding scenarios for the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) to field data. The structure of the model may prove useful in determining the evolutionary constraints on parental care imposed by the developmental pattern of chicks.
3881399| Larvae of the land-crab, Cardisoma guanhumi, Latreille, were maintained in 24 different combinations of salinity and temperature from the time of hatching. Survival to the first crab occurred in salinities of 15-45 p.p.t., 25 and 30C. Duration of the five zoeal and one megalops stages was similar in salinities of 20-40 p.p.t., but at 15 and 45 p.p.t. a greater period of time was required for total development. Mortality of all the larvae at 20C suggests that temperature plays a more important role in survival and distribution of the larvae of C. guanhumi than salinity. Increments of size in crabs during the first seven post-larval molts were similar in salinities of 5-35 p.p.t., 25C, but in fresh water increase in size at the time of molting was reduced. Although there was no apparent relationship between frequency of molting and salinities of 5-35 p.p.t., the duration of intermolt was reduced in crabs maintained in fresh water, and survival was also lower. From the present study there is no indication that the morphological and physiological processes that are associated with adaptation of the adult crab to the terrestrial environment are initiated during larval development. Although the adult crabs have successfully penetrated the terrestrial environment, the pelagic larvae are still subject to the numerous ecological variables of the estuarine and marine environments. 
3883361|Due to the tissue dynamics, the entire nervous system of a hydra is in a steady state of production and loss of neurons. Neurons arise by differentiation from the interstitial cells in the ectoderm. Nerve cell intermediates migrate along the body column, settle and complete differentiation. The type of neuron formed is a function of axial or regional location in which the differentiation intermediate settles. Another result of the tissue dynamics is that all neurons are constantly changing their location. As a consequence, many neurons switch from one type of nerve cell to another in accord with positional changes.
3882599| In this review we describe data of experiments which interfere with the formation of the metameric pattern during embryogenesis. Ligating embryos before blastoderm stage leads to a gap in the segmentation pattern of the differentiated embryo. The gap can extend up to 6 segments but terminal segments are always recognizable. In posterior but not in anterior fragments we find abnormally large but fewer segments. This increase in segment size results from a different determination of blastoderm cells after ligation. During nuclear multiplication stages when a gap can be produced, the zygotic genome is not yet active. Information to develop the metameric pattern in ligated embryos must therefore have been made during oogenesis. Recently Nsslein-Volhard and Wieschaus (1980) have described three zygotic mutations which form embryos with a gap of segments similar to our ligated embryos. We have discussed these mutant phenotypes in connection with our experimental data. Segmentation is controlled at several levels. During oogenesis the anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral axes become established (Nsslein-Volhard, 1979). Also during oogenesis, but extending into early embryonic life, information is generated to subdivide the embryo into blocks of cells forming the metameric pattern. At blastoderm the identity of segments becomes established. 
3882564|This paper reviews the current concepts of recognition of non-self in crustaceans and relates these concepts to recognition in the invertebrates in general. It focuses primarily on a decapod crustacean, the blue crab (Callinectes sapidus), and on results using this animal as a model to study the clearance of viruses and xenogeneic proteins. Clearance studies indicate that blue crabs possess a quasi-specific recognition system in the normal or "non-immunized" state. This system is capable of rapidly clearing foreign proteins and certain viruses from the circulation, and results in concentration of such proteins into the gills and viruses into the hepatopancreas or gills. Although humoral factors which bind foreign proteins or neutralize viruses have been isolated, transfusion exchange experiments involving depletion of circulating cells and/or humoral factors indicate that the blue crab does not require circulating hemocytes or humoral factors for clearance of foreign proteins. These results suggest that a population of fixed cells, possibly those in the gills, may be the critical component for recognition of foreign proteins by normal crabs.
3883866| Nonfeeding larval forms of echinoderms are believed to have evolved repeatedly from feeding larval forms, and these transformations usually result in major shifts in morphogenesis. Current hypotheses on form change invoke relaxation of stabilizing selection on traits that function in feeding, coupled with selection for rapid development of juvenile traits. However, comparative evidence from 51 species of nonfeeding larvae, representing 19 independent origins, suggests that body form, patterns of ciliation, and possibly buoyancy reflect functional requirements for maintenance of swimming performance. Nonfeeding larvae with body lengths less than 600 m usually have several transverse ciliated bands, while those with body lengths greater than 800 m usually have uniform ciliation. A preliminary model which compares estimated drag and buoyancy forces with ciliary propulsive forces predicts that bands of simple cilia do not produce sufficient propulsive forces to permit swimming in larger larvae. For larger larvae, increases in areal coverage of cilia may be required to produce propulsive forces sufficient to oppose drag and buoyancy forces and permit movement. For these larger larvae, estimates of water velocities at the tips of uniform arrays of cilia are well below the upper limits of water movements by cilia of echinoderms. Functional constraints on nonfeeding larval forms should be considered, along with (above mentioned) current hypotheses, in explanations of morphogenetic changes associated with transition from feeding to nonfeeding larval development. 
3881348|Techniques were developed for the measurement of two cyclic responses in the opilionid, Leiobunum longipes. These responses were an overt locomotor behavior and an internal secretory activity, both measured over a 24-hour period. An activity platform was designed to measure and to record continuously the movements of the opilionid. The procedure of fluorometric analysis, used to quantitate indoles, was adapted for use with the opilionid and the presence of the neurosecretory compound, 5-hydroxytryptamine, was established. A method was developed for maintaining tissues in culture over extended periods. Adult males and females of Leiobunum longipes showed a unimodal pattern of locomotor activity. The pattern of secretion of 5-HT was also shown to be unimodal in character. There was an interesting parallel between the patterns of activity and secretion of 5-HT, with greatest peak at 2:00 AM, which suggested a relationship between the two. The secretion of 5-HT from tissues in vitro showed a bimodal cyclic output with a primary peak at 2:00 AM. A secondary peak occurred at midmorning, when the secretion in intact animals was at a low point.
3883785|Two transient glands, the hatching and cement glands, define critical boundaries on the head of the frog embryo. They can be used to monitor formation of the head, which in turn is a sensitive indicator of development of the dorsal axis, characteristic of chordates. Experimental treatment of embryos generates a variety of head abnormalities. Alteration of inductive patterns can produce large heads (macrocephaly), and comparable alterations may yield new phenotypes naturally. Several paths lead to decreased head development, and one of these may mimic in reverse the path which led to the evolution of the vertebrate head.
3881521|During the reproductive cycle, the females of avian species metabolize large amounts of calcium, deposit large amounts of apatite in intramedullary bone, and develop hyperplastic and hypertrophied parathyroid glands. Secondary hyperparathyroidism develops when the amount of calcium in the diet is low. Hyperparathyroidism, either endogenous or from injections of parathyroid extract, produces resorption of endosteal bone and not mobilization of the deposits of intramedullary bone that normally store calcium for calcification of the eggshell. The specificity of the site of action of the hormone suggests that the process of mobilization of mineral from intramedullary bone and fluctuations in the level of calcium in the blood are attributable not to the action of the parathyroid hormone but indirectly to cyclical changes in the output of estrogen. Methods of measurement of calcium kinetics, parathyroid hormone-induced metabolic processes, and cellular reactions of bone cells to calcitonin should be investigated in vitro in explants of intramedullary bone to learn more about the specialized physiological characteristics of the tissue.
3883880|We review two potentially important approaches to predicting the consequences of environmental change for populations of short-lived organisms. First, we examine the concepts of "feasible life histories" and "feasible demographies" and present the results of a set of simulations in which the effects on population growth rate of varying one of the demographic variables (average nest survival, average juvenile survival rates, average annual adult survival rates, or age-specific fecundity) over a broad range of values while the others are maintained at long-term population average values for the Grapevine Hills, Texas population of the short-lived lizard Sceloporus merriami. The results of these simulations are compared to an analogous set of simulations for a Michigan population of the relatively long-lived snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina, Congdon et al., 1994). The implications of differences in feasible demographies and life histories such as described for these two species are discussed. We also discuss the approach of using individual-based, physiologically structured models to predict population response to environmental variation and present the results of simulations using a model developed for predicting population-level effects of operative environmental variation in the lizard S. merriami under two different climate change scenarios. This individual-based, physiologically structured model incorporates population-specific data on ecological energetics, thermal and size dependence of digestive physiology and metabolic rates, energetics of individual growth, allometric relationships, social structure and mating system, and the dependence of mortality rates on age, size, and social status of individuals. The data necessary to such models of population response to environmental variation can come only from detailed long-term studies of individual populations.
3882662|In this paper we consider various aspects of the anatomy and ultrastructure of the actinopterygian ear and make a number of suggestions on the possible adaptive significance of the structural specializations. The focus of the arguments is based upon the substantial inter-specific variation in teleost auditory systems as measured anatomically, behaviorally, and physiologically. It is potentially of considerable significance that the major points of inter-specific variation in the teleost ear are associated with the gross morphology and ultrastructure of the otolithic organ most often implicated in sound detection, the sacculus. Analysis of patterns of sacculus ultrastructure has led to the conclusion that there are, in effect, only about five different saccular ultrastructural patterns but that these patterns are broadly found throughout the teleost fishes. Based upon patterns of inter-specific variation in the sacculus and in other aspects of the ear and more peripheral auditory structures (e.g., swimbladder), it is argued that adaptations encountered in the teleost auditory system cannot be used as reliable taxonomic indicators among fishes. Rather, it is proposed that the teleost auditory system is quite maleable in the evolutionary sense, and that interspecific similarities in many features of the auditory system reflect convergent evolution, rather than phylogenetic affinities. The actual selective pressures operating in the evolution of the fish auditory system are still essentially unknown. In addition, we cannot be certain that similar ear patterns in different species reflect convergent evolution (or common ancestry), or that conversely, different ear patterns among species reflect differences in auditory function.
3881832|Reproductive isolation between species is the major factor responsible for the evolution of species-specificity in communication signals. However, the actual physical or chemical structure of signals may be determined by a number of factors such as the physical laws regulating the transmission of signal energy, locatability, the functional properties of sensory organs, the physical characteristics of the habitats in which communication occurs, and prey-predator relationships. This fact implies that there is some degree of predictability in design features of signaling systems.
3882214|Treatment of aleurone layers of barley seed with gibberellic acid increases the observable phosphorylcholine glyceride transferase activity in a membrane fraction prepared from extracts of the aleurone cells. This gibberellic acid-dependent increase in glyceride transferase activity requires neither RNA synthesis nor protein synthesis. Membrane fractions prepared from mixtures of extracts of gibberellic acid-treated layers and control layers have a specific activity of glyceride transferase higher than expected on the basis of simple addition of the activities from the two sources. Therefore, some kind of activation is occurring.
3882307|In this paper I review some aspects of neural and endocrine interactions in the control of reproductive behaviors of frogs and song birds. In Xenopus laevis, we have shown that castration will eliminate a male sex behavior, clasping, and that this behavior can be restored by the administration of exogenous testosterone or dihydrotestosterone but not by estradiol. This difference in hormone action is paralleled by differences in the locations of androgen and estrogen concentrating cells in the CNS of Xenopus. Certain brain regions contain autoradiographically demonstrable labelled cells only after the administration of tritiated testosterone; others only after estradiol injection. The possibility that label in a third group of nuclei, which contain radioactive steroid after either hormone, is due to metabolism of testosterone to estradiol is discussed. Studies in other anuran species have demonstrated that regions of hormone uptake are also involved in neural control of frog sex behavior. The song of oscine birds represents another hormone sensitive reproductive behavior whose neural control is probably influenced by the activity of hormone concentrating CNS cells. Some of the brain nuclei which comprise the efferent pathway for control of song in the canary have been shown to concentrate tritiated androgen in autoradiographic studies on song birds. The uptake of androgens by medullary motor neurons involved in the control of reproductively important vocalizations is common to anurans and oscine song birds. Whether this feature of hormone action on the CNS represents a special feature of the frog and bird brain or whether the phenomenon may also be present in other vertebrate groups awaits further investigation.
3882279|Recent work on the immune responses of marsupials is reviewed, with emphasis on cellular immune responses of the macropod marsupial Setonix brachyurus (quokka). Adult marsupials show immunological responses broadly comparable to those of eutherian mammals. However, two immunological mechanisms have evolved to protect the immunologically immature neonate: namely, the passive transfer of antibody and the rapid maturation of immune competence. Thymectomy in marsupials causes a marked lymphocytic depletion of the lymph nodes and spleen, and, in the quokka, a transient abolition of the humoral immune response to SRBC and depression of the response to other antigens. The blood leucocyte response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) in vitro is also depressed. Although a wasting syndrome does not occur in the quokka, neonatally thymectomized animals have a markedly reduced lifespan. Thymus grafts in either intact or neonatally thymectomized pouch young persist, and in the latter case, fully reconstitute the in vitro leucocyte response to PHA. However, a concomitant restoration of the hemolytic antibody response was not achieved. A high level of lymphocyte chimaerism was found in the grafted animals. These results are discussed with reference to the specificity of cell-cell cooperation in the antibody response, and the possible implication of thymic humoral factors.
3881404| Thermal stress is one environmental parameter that has greatly influenced the migration of crustaceans from the sea to land. Since a greater number of species of terrestrial crabs are found in the tropics than in the temperate zone, comparative studies of the influence of temperature on latitudinally separated populations were undertaken. Two tropical species, U. rapax and U. thayeri, may occur as far north as St. Augustine, Florida, or, following a severe winter, may be rare north of Cape Kennedy. The lethal effect of the low temperatures recorded during one severe winter (1957-58) is supported by laboratory studies in which LD
3882313|It is widely believed that the adult mammalian brain is insensitive to thyroid hormones unlike the neonatal brain which is critically dependent on these hormones for the development of normal structure and function. Recent studies have demonstrated the presence of limited capacity, high affinity, triiodothyronine (T3) binding nuclear sites in tissues that are considered responsive to thyroid hormones. Furthermore, there is evidence from studies on peripheral tissues that these T3 binding sites act as true receptors in initiating thyroid hormone action. This report examines whether the higher sensitivity of neonatal brain to thyroid hormones and the purported decline in sensitivity in adulthood are related to changes in the concentration and affinity characteristics of thyroid hormone receptors in rat cerebral nuclei. Analysis of Scatchard plots of in vitro T3 binding data indicate that cerebral nuclei from adult rats contain T3 specific nuclear binding sites at a concentration comparable to that present during the period when the brain is critically dependent on the presence of thyroid hormones and exceed that in the liver, a tissue generally considered thyroid sensitive. Neonatal thyroidectomy significantly increased the number of binding sites. The results show that the apparent unresponsiveness of the cerebral cortex of adult rats to thyroid hormones is not due to the absence or a low density of T3 nuclear binding sites. The significance of these results is discussed.
3881437|The communicatory function of howling was studied in three adult male timber wolves (Canis lupus). Approximately 700 howls were subjected to spectrographic and auditory analysis. The fundamental frequency of howls was divided into beginning, mid-section, and ending, and each section was studied separately. Harmonic features were also examined. Much variation was found within the howls of each individual. However, unique features were found in all howls of two wolves, of potential value in individual recognition. The variation in characteristics of the fundamental within howls of individuals was tested to see if it related to features of the animal's behavior or environment. Eleven significant relationships were found. The characteristics involved were considered potentially functional in conveying information of a behavioral or environmental nature. Auditory discrimination was studied by stimulus-response experimentation involving simulated wolf howls by humans. By either howling in response or remaining silent, one wolf demonstrated an ability to detect the slight difference between live howls and recorded, played-back howls. This ability enhances the possibility that individual recognition and conveyance of information may take place by means of differences in howls. Analysis of the circumstances in which spontaneous howling (no known auditory stimulation) occurred demonstrated that isolation resulted in increased howling. A form of long-distance communication is important to a social unit whose members are often separated. This study suggests that howling identifies the species, functions in the location of specific animals, provides specific information about the howling animal, and is, therefore, of great value in coordinating the social activities of wolves.
3881671| Dans le Miocne moyen du Sud-Est de l'Europe on rencontre trs rarement des exemplaires fossiles de lamellibranches lithophages, quelques-uns de ceux-ci appartenant au genre Lithophaga et d'autres au Pholas, Clavagella, Saxicava, Petricola, et Barnea. Certaines espces de Pholas et de Barnea sont rlativement souvent rencontres non seulement dans le Miocne moyen (tage Tortonien), mais aussi dans le Miocne suprieur (tage Sarmatien). En gnral ces espces se rencontrent sur un substrat calcaire.  la fin du Miocne les espces de lamellibranches fossiles lithophages disparaissent du basin de la Mer Noire,  cause que celui-ci est devenu un basin d'eau douce. Mais, dans le temps actuel trois espces de lamellibranches lithophages vivent aussi dans la Mer Noire, venues dans le Quaternaire de la Mer Mediterrane. C'est--dire: Pholas dactylus L., Barnea candida var. pontica Mil., qui vivent sur un substrat form surtout de marnes argileuses ou de marnes calcaires. Sur un substrat de grs dures calcaire se rencontre presque exclusivement Petricola lithophaga Retzius, sur la plateforme rocheuse du sud de Constantza (Roumanie). 
3882253|Newborn and newly hatched reptiles show diverse types of social behavior. Aggregation behavior in snakes, dominance in turtles, vocalization in crocodilians, and synchronized nest emergence, migration, and foraging behavior in iguanas are documented. Such evidence casts doubt on inferences about a generalized reptilian level of social organization qualitatively inferior to that found in birds and mammals.
3884461|Among the primary contributions of phylogenetic systematics to the synthesis of developmental biology and evolution are phylogenetic hypotheses. Phylogenetic hypotheses are critical in interpreting the patterns of evolution of developmental genes and processes, as are morphological data. Using a robust phylogeny, the evolutionary history of individual morphological or developmental features can be traced and ancestral conditions inferred. Multiple characters (e.g., morphological and developmental) can be mapped together on the phylogeny, and patterns of character association can be quantified and tested for correlation. Using the vertebrate forelimb as an example, I show that by mapping accurate morphological data (homologous skeletal elements of the vertebrate forelimb) onto a phylogeny, an alternative interpretation of Hox gene expression emerges. Teleost fishes and tetrapods may share no homologous skeletal elements in their forelimbs, and thus similarities and differences in Hox patterns during limb development must be reinterpreted. Specifically, the presence of the phase III Hox pattern in tetrapods may not be correlated with digits but rather may simply be the normal expression pattern of a metapterygium in fishes. This example illustrates the rigorous hypotheses that can be developed using morphological data and phylogenetic methods.
3882937|Melanotropin stimulates melanin synthesis in Cloudman S91 melanoma cells, the accumulation of melanin being preceded by a number of events which are understood to various degrees. In this review I will discuss the control of melanogenesis by melanotropin; emphasis will be on the early events of the process, although other aspects will be discussed. The probes (fluorescent and radioactive labels) used to examine the binding of the hormone to the cells will be described, as will be the results of initial binding studies. One of the events immediately following the binding of the hormone is the activation of adenylate cyclase; the evidence supporting this, plus the role of cyclic AMP in stimulating melanin synthesis, will be discussed. Also examined is the role which internalization of the melanotropin-receptor-adenylate cyclase complex may play in mediating hormone action.
3884002|The evolution of fully aquatic mammals from quadrupedal, terrestrial mammals was associated with changes in morphology and swimming mode. Drag is minimized by streamlining body shape and appendages. Improvement in speed, thrust production and efficiency is accomplished by a change of swimming mode. Terrestrial and semiaquatic mammals employ drag-based propulsion with paddling appendages, whereas fully aquatic mammals use lift-based propulsion with oscillating hydrofoils. Aerobic efficiencies are low for drag-based swimming, but reach a maximum of 30% for lift-based propulsion. Propulsive efficiency is over 80% for lift-based swimming while only 33% for paddling. In addition to swimming mode, the transition to high performance propulsion was associated with a shift from surface to submerged swimming providing a reduction in transport costs. The evolution of aquatic mammals from terrestrial ancestors required increased swimming performance with minimal compromise to terrestrial movement. Examination of modern analogs to transitional swimming stages suggests that only slight modification to the neuromotor pattern used for terrestrial locomotion is required to allow for a change to lift-based propulsion.
3882439|Fishes released from constraints of their previous thermal history tend to limit thermal exposure to a narrow range of temperatures. Thermoregulatory behavior (final preferendum) is a stable characteristic of each species studied, suggesting strong regulation by natural selection. However, the adaptive significance of the final preferendum has not been documented for most species. Species with wide geographic distributions, such as bluegill sunfish and largemouth bass exhibit constant laboratory final preferenda regardless of their geographic origin or thermal histories. This apparent evolutionary anomaly of the final preferendum requires further study. It is no longer adequate to describe responses of fish to thermal gradients, rather falsifiable hypotheses concerning adaptive relations between thermoselection, and physiological, biochemical, life-history and genetic correlates must be developed and tested experimentally.
3884490|Underlying any analysis on the evolution of development is a phylogenetic framework, whether explicitly stated or implied. As such, differing views on phylogenetic relationships lead to variable interpretations of how developmental mechanisms have changed through time. Over the past decade, many long-standing hypotheses about animal evolution have been questioned causing substantial changes in the assumed phylogenetic framework underlying comparative developmental studies. Current hypotheses about early metazoan history suggest that three, not two, major lineages of bilateral animals originated in the Precambrian: the Deuterostomes (e.g., seastars, acorn worms, and vertebrates), the Ecdysozoans (e.g., nematodes and arthropods), and the Lophotrochozoans (e.g., annelids, mollusks, and lophophorates). Although information in Hox-genes bears directly on our understanding of early metazoan evolution and the formation of body plans, research effort has been focused primarily on two taxa, insects and vertebrates. By sampling a greater diversity of metazoan taxa and taking advantage of biotechnological advances in genomics, we will not only learn more about metazoan phylogeny, but will also gain valuable insight as to the key evolutionary forces that established and maintained metazoan bauplans.
3884383|The axial musculature of all vertebrates consists of two principal masses, the epaxial and hypaxial muscles. The primitive function of both axial muscle masses is to generate lateral bending of the trunk during swimming, as is seen in most fishes. Within amphibians we see multiple functional and morphological elaborations of the axial musculature. These elaborations appear to be associated not only with movement into terrestrial habits (salamanders), but also with subsequent locomotor specializations of two of the three major extant amphibian clades (frogs and caecilians). Salamanders use both epaxial and hypaxial muscles to produce lateral bending during swimming and terrestrial, quadrupedal locomotion. However during terrestrial locomotion the hypaxial muscles are thought to perform an added functions, resisting long-axis torsion of the trunk. Relative to salamanders, frogs have elaborate epaxial muscles, which function to both stabilize and extend the iliosacral and coccygeosacral joints. These actions are important in the effective use of the hindlimbs during terrestrial saltation and swimming. In contrast, caecilians have relatively elaborate hypaxial musculature that is linked to a helix of connective tissue embedded in the skin. The helix and associated hypaxial muscles form a hydrostatic skeleton around the viscera that is continuously used to maintain body posture and also contributes to forward force production during burrowing.
3881530|The ecosystem concept has been particularly useful and extensively employed in the study of aquatic primary productivity. The flow of energy through the system is an attractive area of investigation when it involves some process, but has a more restricted value when units of biomass are simply converted to calories. Although we are able to measure primary productivity in terms of the carbon fixed, we are not yet able to measure the actual change in the oxidative state of the newly fixed carbon. The fate of photosynthate as food for higher trophic levels is therefore dependent upon a considerable array of biological and environmental variables. Primary productivity is considered in terms of its evolution from measures of standing crop and yield, which have been gradually replaced by measures of rate of carbon uptake or oxygen production, or by measure of nutrient loss, or by change of CO
3882435|Ontogenetic and non-thermal seasonal effects on thermal preferenda of fishes were sought both by a general review of the literature and by examining those papers in which such effects were evident. The growing list of other non-thermal factors that have been shown to influence thermal preferenda made this search difficult, since these factors could conceivably obscure subtle ontogenetic and non-thermal seasonal effects. Those few studies, however, in which ontogenetic effects were intentionally studied support the hypothesis that young fishes select higher temperatures than do older conspecifics; this is consistent with distributions in nature, in which younger fishes are often found in shallower, warmer waters than the adults. Pronounced non-thermal seasonal effects have been demonstrated in some species, while in others little or no such influence was evident. In spite of conflicting evidence which precludes generalities, the age of a fish and the season of the year are among the factors to be considered or specified in describing the preferred-temperature relations of species.
3882225|The ratio of species per family in North American local mammal faunas is lowest in Eocene time due to increased phyletic separation between surviving species. In respect to changes in adaptive zone, morphology may be relatively slow to change when an organism is using several different resources. If an organism's fitness set is concave, morphology may not change to adapt to the new resource until it has become a significant proportion of its resource set. Even when a resource has been important to the organism for some time, there may be little morphologic adaptation to the resource.
3883981|The establishment and inheritance of individualized structural units is a key feature of morphological evolution, embodied in the concept of homology. In current debates, homology is often equated with identical genetic encoding. The empirical evidence for this assumption is ambiguous. Genetic identity can indicate morphological identity in some cases, but several examples show that gene expression patterns and regulatory systems of development may be highly conserved while morphological characters undergo dramatic evolutionary innovation. This indicates some independence of structural homology from its genetic and developmental makeup. It is proposed that phenotypic evolution depends strongly on the epigenetic context in which genetic redundancy becomes available for the control of new developmental interactions. The integrated character of developmental systems may represent an important factor in the origin and identity of morphological characters and can stabilize incipient structures before their full genetic integration. The origin of the autopod section of the tetrapod limb is an example which suggests that novel homologues can arise in evolution as a consequence of changing the epigenetic context of conserved gene function.
3883333|A variety of morphological features that affect locomotion distinguish larvae of the three living amphibian orders from fishes and their larvae. The oddest amphibian larvae are anuran tadpoles. With their globose bodies, concealed forelimbs, abruptly compressed and terminally tapered tails, tadpoles not only differ radically from fishes but they-unlike caecilians or salamanders-also differ radically from their adults. Tadpoles typically have less axial musculature and much simpler myotomes than fishes. Surprisingly, in terms of mechanical (propeller) efficiency and maximum sprint speeds, tadpoles still perform as well as many teleosts of comparable sizes. From a consideration of hydromechanics, no amphibian larvae appear to be designed for sustained swimming at high speeds. High maneuverability, rather than sustainable speed, are important for amphibian larval survival. Two key features of tadpoles are the absence of caudal vertebrae and unexposed pectoral appendages. With only a notochord to serve as a skeleton, the tadpole tail is extremely flexible. Because of this exceptional flexibility, tadpoles can fold their tails up against the body and turn rapidly with virtually no displacement of their center of mass. Caudal flexibility can be regulated by muscle activity in the tadpole to effect turning. Lateral appendages are not needed for this movement and are free to develop directly into their adult morphology; the anterior ones develop under cover of an opercular fold where they do not contribute to drag. A case is presented, based on the ecology of metamorphosis, that anuran transformation should be as brief as possible. With no bone to resorb, metamorphosis of the anuran caudal appendage can, indeed, be very rapid. The basic kinematics of constant velocity straightforward swimming for tadpoles and salamander larvae is reviewed, as well as the kinematics and electromyography of starting, stopping, and turning in tadpoles. An attempt is made to relate swimming kinematics to the characteristic morphologies of amphibian larvae. Swimming speed in Rana, Bufo and Ambystoma larvae, which swim only intermittently, is modulated by changing tail beat frequency. However, Xenopus, which swims constantly by sculling with its tail, regulates swimming speed (at low to intermediate velocities) by varying the length of the propulsive wave in its tail. Xenopus and Rana differ in the morphology of their notochord, spinal cord, spinal nerves, and spinal motor pool distribution within the spinal cord. These differences may underlie the different way these larvae regulate swimming. They may also reflect their phylogenetic history.
3882048|We have used tissue maceration to quantitate interstitial cell nests in Hydra attenuata and thiolacetic acid-lead nitrate staining to quantitate differentiating nematocytes. Most I-cell nests have 2, 4, 8, or 16 cells. Differentiating nematocytes occur in nests of 4, 8, 16, and 32. All classes of I-cell nests and nests of differentiating nematocytes are abundant in the gastric region. In contrast, the hypostome, basal disk and the regions immediately adjacent to them have no nests of differentiating nematocytes, virtually no nests of 4, 8, or 16 I-cells and reduced numbers of 1 and 2 I-cell nests. Since nests of 4 or more I-cells are found only where nematocyte differentiation takes place, these nest classes are probably nematocyte precursors. Since differentiation of nerves occurs in the hypostome and basal disk where only single or paired I-cells are found, these size classes include nerve precursors. The disproportionately large number of I-cell nests of 2 suggests that these include the autoreproductive stem cells responsible for maintaining the populations of I-cell derivatives in growing hydra.
3881998|Ferrets are the domesticated form of the European polecat. Changes in ferret kit, face to face orientation (en face) were described for littermate dyads at 46, 62, and 94 days after birth. En face characteristics were discussed in terms of their appropriateness for reported burrow attachment and subsequent dispersal of polecat kits to illustrate both the transactional and the developmental nature of our approach and to emphasize the neglected developmental problem of knowing the organization of kit behavior in its ecological setting. This emphasis brings into question the appropriateness of play criteria, reduces the heuristic value of play for those interested in development, and suggests the importance of multiple endpoints for developmental investigations. Play also limits developmental investigations because of the nature of ethological behavioral categories: Their adult, motivational, and evolutionary emphases direct attention to "functional" rather than "analytic" questions. Although these questions are complementary, they are not equally appropriate for problems of evolution and development because the former direct our attention of behavior of young organisms while the latter direct our attention to mechanisms of the developmental process. Our evaluation of play applies equally well to other functional categories of behavior, such as sexual and aggressive behavior.
3882487|The patterns of phylogenetic differentiation in the closely related sea turtle families Toxochelyidae and Cheloniidae followed strikingly different courses. In the Toxochelyidae there is a gradual increase in specialization toward a pelagic mode of life with time. The phyletic picture is thus that of a shrub. In the Cheloniidae, by contrast, the geologically oldest representatives of the family are the most advanced, pelagic species, and the Recent species, except for Eretmochelys imbricata, are among the least specialized members of the family. There is good evidence that the living species are the only cheloniids that have their hind limbs modified as rudders, and the very close similarity between the limb skeletons of these species suggests that they are more closely related to each other than any of them are to any earlier form. A similar case can be made for the early Caenozoic cheloniids. The phylogenetic pattern, therefore, suggests repeated episodes of pelagic specialization from a central, unspecialized stock, a pattern referred to as iterative evolution.
3882969|Since the discovery of the enkephalins in 1975, three separate families of opioid peptides have been identified, proopiomelanocortin, proenkephalin, and prodynorphin. The latter two have multiple copies of the enkephalin sequence in larger enkephalin containing polypeptides (ECPs). The amino acid and nucleotide sequences of these two proteins from human as well as other species have been determined. A comparison of each of the proteins between species indicates a number of highly conserved regions in not only the bioactive peptides but at other locations as well. A number of common features between the two proteins suggested a common ancestral protein. Using computer-aided metric analysis, it is possible to align their DNA segments so that the cysteine residues at the amino end are aligned, as well as the enkephalin sequences at the carboxyl end. The exact alignment of the central regions is currently being studied. Metric analysis thus provides strong evidence that proenkephalin and prodynorphin diverged from a single ancestral protein.
3884491|The Hox genes are widely regarded as candidates for involvement in major evolutionary changes in body plan organization. We examine Hox gene expression data for several taxa, in relation to recent work on the polychaete annelid Chaetopterus. The work in Chaetopterus shows the basic conservation of colinearity of anterior expression boundaries seen in other groups. It also reveals novel patterns including early expression in the larval growth zone and later formation of posterior boundaries that correlate with morphological transitions in the polychaete body plan. The polychaete gene expression pattern is compared with those of Hox gene homologs in other taxa to reveal differences that represent evolutionary changes in Hox gene regulation between lineages. Correlations between Hox gene expression differences and morphological differences are examined, focussing on a number of cases in which posterior Hox gene expression boundaries correlate with morphological transitions. Differential regulation of these posterior expression boundaries is proposed as a possible mechanism for changes body plan regionalization.
4620191|Amphioxus is widely held to be the closest invertebrate relative of the vertebrates and the best available stand-in for the proximate ancestor of the vertebrates. The spatiotemporal expression patterns of developmental genes can help suggest body part homologies between vertebrates and amphioxus. This approach is illustrated using five homeobox genes (AmphiHoxl, AmphiHox2, AmphiOtx, AmphiDll, and AmphiEn) to provide insights into the evolutionary origins of three important vertebrate features: the major brain regions, the neural crest, and rostrocaudal segmentation. During amphioxus development, the neural expression patterns of these genes are consistent with the presence of a forebrain (detailed neuroanatomy indicates that the forebrain is all diencephalon without any telencephalon) and an extensive hindbrain; the possible presence of a midbrain requires additional study. Further, during neurulation, the expression pattern of AmphiDil as well as migratory cell behavior suggest that the epidermal cells bordering the neural plate may represent a phylogenetic precursor of the vertebrate neural crest. Finally, when the paraxial mesoderm begins to segment, the earliest expression of AmphiEn is detected in the posterior part of each nascent and newly formed somite. This pattern recalls the expression of the segment-polarity gene engrailed during establishment of the segments of metameric protostomes. Thus, during animal evolution, the role of engrailed in establishing and maintaining metameric body plans may have arisen in a common segmented ancestor of both the protostomes and deuterostomes.
3881928|Reptiles produce sound by three categories of devices: those involving massive air expulsions or movements, those involving modulations of intermittent air movements through a modified glottis, and those involving rubbing or vibration of the integument. Each occurs in numerous species and there is good evidence of multiple origins. Most of the devices are used as predator deterrents, but there are a few cases of sound being used as an intraspecific communicating device. The various structures are here discussed. One may ask the general question whether the distribution of reptilian sensory modalities may not have forced this rather miscellaneous distribution of signalling devices.
3883148|Constantinea subulifera, a perennial red alga with a bushy type growth, uses a short day (long night) photoperiodic response to initiate a new blade at the tips of several stipes in September to October. These blades complete the lag phase of their growth during the winter via a food transfer from the old blade. Under a 9L-15D photoperiod it requires 21-28 days to initiate a new blade. The critical photoperiod is 11-12 hr. This is a phytochrome-mediated response which can be negated by a low quantum dose light break of red or blue light in the middle of a 16-hr dark period. Blades will initiate and grow in complete darkness. The initiation of new blades in the fall and their slow growth throughout the winter (lag phase) gives Constantinea subulifera an advantage in capture of habitat space.
3882333|Questions, a perspective, and problems in the study of communication are discussed in an attempt to relate these to current developments in the study of animal ultrasounds.
3881387| During transformation of the dorsal marginal iris into lens tissue after removal of the lens in the adult newt, the cells undergo gradual changes in synthetic activities. Autoradiographic data indicate an enhancement of RNA synthesis in the nucleus of iris cells, which is followed by enhancement of protein synthesis and onset of DNA synthesis. After discharge of pigment granules and a period of cellular multiplication accompanied by ribosome production, the cells stop DNA synthesis and start to show detectable amounts of lens-specific proteins (-, -, and -crystallins). This time coincides with initiation of differentiation of primary lens fibers. In the later stages of regeneration, - and -crystallins are present in the dividing cells of the lens epithelium, as well as in the cells of the fiber area, but -crystallins are detected only in the cells of the fiber area. The data were interpreted as suggesting that the gene utilization pattern typical for the iris is not directly converted into that for the lens, but goes through intermediate patterns before the tissue transformation is completed. 
3883080|Plants may play an active role in the evolution of territoriality and associated animal behaviors such as spacing and cannibalism. I hypothesize that these behaviors have in part evolved in direct response to plant defenses that would otherwise diminish individual success. These defenses limit resource availability and concentrate herbivores at specific sites where they then suffer from induced plant defenses, increased predation and competition. Plant traits that enhance the negative effects of competition and increased predation must be included in the suite of plant defenses against herbivory. In a specific example with Pemphigus gall aphids, plant defenses result in a strong selection pressure favoring territorial behavior. The negative effects of competition give territorial individuals a 2.3-fold advantage over non-territorial individuals. Induced defenses (i.e., density dependent leaf abscission) can be just as important as competition as a selection pressure for territorial behavior. With the addition of induced plant defenses territorial individuals realize a 4.4-fold advantage. Furthermore, rough approximations suggest that in the absence of territorial behavior predation would increase by 52%. The same traits which promote territoriality also encourage cannibalism, a surprisingly common herbivore behavior. To the extent cannibalism reduces the herbivore population, plant traits which promote this behavior may realize a selective advantage. Viewing plants as dynamic rather than passive in their interactions with pests may lead to a better understanding of animal behaviors.
3884529|Previously we have shown how a range of physical and chemical characteristics of acorns influences the behavioral decisions of food-hoarding rodents which in turn affects the dispersal, establishment and spatial arrangement of oaks. One such behavior involves the selective caching of acorns of red oaks (subgenus: Erythrobalanus) over those of white oaks (Quercus) because of reduced perishability that results from delayed germination of acorns in the red oak group. In this study, we sought to identify the specific proximate cues (visual and olfactory) that eastern gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) use when making these decisions. In two series of field experiments, we presented individual, free-ranging animals with pairs of experimentally altered acorns (that differed with respect to a single chemical or visual characteristic) and recorded their feeding and caching responses. Squirrels cached artificial acorns with pericarps (shells) of red oak acorns and ate those with shells of white oak regardless of the internal chemical composition of either type of acorn. Only when the shells of artificial acorns were first soaked in acetone (to remove potential chemical odors) did animals eat artificial acorns made with the shells of red oak acorns. Squirrels also ate one-year old red oak acorns that had broken dormancy, even when they exhibited no signs of germination. We argue that a chemical cue in the shell of acorns is important in the detection of seed dormancy and the decision to cache acorns, and that such a cue might ultimately contribute to the differential dispersal of red and white oaks by rodents.
3882868|This paper summarizes evidence for the following picture of Fundulus epiboly, with an eye toward laying groundwork for future investigation. The major force in epiboly is the yolk syncytial layer (YSL). Prior to epiboly, it spreads well beyond the border of the blastoderm to form the wide external YSL (E-YSL). This has contractile properties, which, however, are restrained prior to epiboly by the attached enveloping layer (EVL) of the blastoderm. Epiboly begins when the E-YSL contracts and narrows, throwing its surface into folds and pulling the internal YSL (I-YSL) and the attached EVL vegetally. When the narrowing of the E-YSL has ceased, it is postulated that its contractility continues as a circumferential wave of vegetally directed contraction that moves over the yolk toward the vegetal pole, dragging the I-YSL and the attached EVL (and blastoderm) with it. The most obvious visible manifestation of this wave is a marked marginal constriction, where the YSL joins the yolk cytoplasmic layer (YCL). As this contractile wave passes over the yolk, cytoplasm from the YCL mingles with that of the advancing E-YSL, and YCL surface adds to the already highly convoluted surface of the E-YSL. This folded surface is the site of a thin, highly localized band of rapid endocytosis that encircles the egg and passes over it with the E-YSL in a wave throughout epiboly. This internalization, which is receptor independent and therefore somehow programmed, accompanies the putative contractile wave, and accounts for the disappearance of the surface of the YCL. Since the YCL surface stands in the way of the advancing YSL, its internalization is part of the mechanism of epiboly. As the I-YSL expands in response to this marginal pull, its abundant microvilli gradually disappear, providing surface for its epiboly. The firmly attached EVL likewise expands toward the vegetal pole in response to the pull of the autonomously expanding YSL. As epiboly of the EVL progresses, it adjusts to the geometric problems posed by a sheet expanding over a sphere by active cell rearrangement within the cell monolayer. Thus, epiboly of the EVL has an active as well as a passive component. Deep cells are not causally involved in epiboly, but move about in coordinated ways in the constantly increasing space between the I-YSL and the EVL provided by epiboly and form the germ ring and the embryonic shield and eventually the embryo proper. An attempt is made to pull all of this together, and more, in order to achieve as comprehensive an understanding of epiboly as present evidence will allow.
3882862|Time-lapse videomicrographic and SEM analyses of normal and microsurgically altered gastrulation show that the morphogenetic movements of the dorsal marginal zone (DMZ)-extension, convergence, and involution-all result from behavior that occurs after the marginal zone has involuted. Before its involution, the DMZ shows no detectable capacity for autonomous convergence or extension. If its involution is prevented, the DMZ will show convergence and extension but only at developmental stages at or beyond the stage at which it normally would have involuted. Thus autonomous convergence and extension, which have been ascribed to the DMZ are, in fact, properties of the dorsal mesodermal mantle (DMM) and the archenteron roof. SEM analysis of cell shape and packing patterns, suggest that cells of the DMM merge (interdigitate) mediolaterally, between one another, beginning just beyond the point of involution. This behavior is thought to reduce the width and increase the length (postinvolution convergence and extension) of the DMM. The decrease in circumference (width) at the vegetal-most part of the newly involuted DMM forms a constriction ring just inside the blastopore. Constriction and concurrent elongation of the DMM act in concert to move the blastoporal lip vegetally. The DMZ is passively pulled vegetally and over the blastoporal lip as deep cells are recruited for participation in mediolateral interdigitation at the vegetal end of the DMM.
3882239| Fertilization in the Phoronida appears to be internal. Three different types of eggs were found: (1) Eggs rich in yolk, about 125  in diameter, which are retained in the parent's tube, without a true pelagic life; (2) Eggs moderately rich in yolk, about 100  in diameter, brooded up to the actinotroch stage in the lophophoral concavity owing to the nidamental glands, with a more or less long pelagic life; (3) Eggs, yolk-poor, about 60  in diameter, which are directly discharged into sea-water and which have a long pelagic life. Cleavage in the Phoronida is total, equal or subequal. The pattern is typically radial though biradial in some stages, but there are instances in which the blastomeres exhibit a spiral appearance. The gastrula arises generally by emboly. The blastocoel is extensive in embryos of type 3 (see above) and virtually obliterated by wall compression in type 2. The blastopore is reduced to an anterior remnant. The differentiation of the ectoderm leads to the formation of the preoral lobe, the apical plate, the tentacular ridge, the nephridial anlage, the oesophagus (issued from the posterior part of the vestibule) and the mouth which does not originate as a stomodeum; the blastopore is located between oesophagus and stomach. Differentiation of the archenteron (endoderm) produces the stomach, the intestine and the anus which opens by perforation of the ectoderm, without formation of a proctodeum. The anus appears to be independent of the blastopore. The mesodern originates as isolated cells proliferated from the anterior and ventrolateral areas of the archenteron, in two phases. The mesoderm is formed in a modified enterocoelous manner. The protocoel is produced first from the anterior archenteric wall and occupies the cavity of the preoral lobe; the metacoel originates from the ventrolateral mesodermal proliferations. The mode of formation of these cavities seems to vary with species. 
3883225|In intertidal animals rates of oxygen consumption span an order of magnitude (even when standardised for body size and temperature). This may reflect different adaptations to this variable habitat. Temperatures range widely and potentially increase metabolic expenditure during the heat of the day, while periods of feeding may be restricted. The balance between intake and expenditure of energy may limit zonation, body size, and even mode of reproduction. One pattern is that species suffering shortage of food ("conservers") have low rates of oxygen consumption while those with abundant food ("exploiters") have high rates. Conservers appear to have several means of reducing metabolic costs, but exploiters maintain high (seemingly wasteful) rates of oxygen consumption. Oxygen consumption cannot, however, be considered separately, since it reflects turnover, including growth rate and reproductive output. There is also the question whether differences between species are genetically controlled, or simply phenotypic responses to food availability. Comparisons of populations with different amounts of food suggest that exploiters substantially reduce oxygen consumption when food is scarce, but conservers are relatively fixed in their pattern of slow growth and low reproductive output, even if food is experimentally increased. Growth and reproduction are positively correlated, at least within taxonomically related groups (as exemplified by patellacean limpets) but both are inversely related to longevity. Thus growth and reproduction are not necessarily "traded off," but are both low in "conservers" and both high in "exploiters."
3884472|In crustaceans, secretion of ecdysteroid molting hormones by Y-organs is regulated by molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH), a neuropeptide produced by the X-organ/sinus gland complex of the eyestalks. The current review considers recent research on MIH, with a primary focus on MIH of brachyurans (crabs). New data on the production of recombinant MIH (rMIH) are also included. Available data indicate the MIH gene of brachyurans encodes a 113 amino acid prohormone composed of a 35 residue signal peptide and a 78 residue mature MIH. The primary structure of MIH is highly conserved among brachyurans. The MIH transcript is detectable in eyestalk neural ganglia throughout the molt cycle of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus. Stage-specific changes in the abundance of MIH mRNA in C. sapidus eyestalks are generally consistent with the hypothesis that MIH negatively regulates ecdysteroid production during the molt cycle. MIH transcripts have also been detected in the brain of two species. Recombinant MIH was produced using prokaryotic (pET vector/Escherichia coli) and eukaryotic (baculovirus/insect cells) expression systems. Recombinant MIH produced in E. coli was of the predicted size and was MIH immunoreactive; it did not have MIH bioactivity. Polyclonal antisera raised against the prokaryotically expressed rMIH bound specifically to neurosecretory cells in the X-organ, their associated axons, and axon terminals in the sinus gland. Recombinant MIH expressed using the baculovirus system was of the predicted size, was MIH immunoreactive, and inhibited ecdysteroid production by Y-organs in vitro.
3882343|The task of identifying characters that have relevance to systematics and phylogeny relies on the methodology of the homology theorem. The systematist will classify organisms according to similarities that can be recognized in these organisms, and the central problem is to distinguish homologs (similarities whose causal explanation is common ancestry) from analogs (similarities independent of ancestry). This problem of distinction is especially acute for systematists dealing with ultrastructural characters. In order to identify homologs, the systematist should apply a series of criteria, each of which provides an estimate of probability of homology. We propose three criteria for homology here, developed from criteria proposed by Remane (1952). As a countercheck, the probability of analogy should be weighed against that of homology. We propose five criteria that are designed to reveal analogy. No single criterion, either homology or analogy criterion is sufficient in itself to establish homology or non-homology. The proper methodology for applying the homology theorem is first to estimate probability of homology through consideration of homology criteria as a unit, and secondly to estimate probability of non-homology through consideration of analogy criteria as a unit. The applicability of these criteria to ultrastructural characters is illustrated with examples from ultrastructural studies, especially of adhesive systems in lower metazoans.
3884541|The escape swimming pattern generator of the notaspid opisthobranch Pleurobranchaea drives a high threshold, override behavior. The pattern generator is integrated with neural networks of other behaviors so as to coordinate unitary behavioral expression and to promote general behavioral arousal. These functions are separately produced by different swim network elements. One set of swim premotor neurons, the A1/A10 ensemble, A3 and
3882531|This paper addresses the question of how, and under what ecological circumstances, bird pollination will be optimal for a plant, and which or how many of the available nectar-feeding bird species will be optimal pollen vectors. Pollination by birds is energetically expensive for the plants, and should accur only when birds can mediate optimal patterns of pollen flow and seed set. Each nectar-feeding bird has potential advantages and disadvantages as a pollen vector, related to its size, morphology, and foraging behavior. Which available bird is the optimal pollinator depends on the plant's growth habit, spatial distribution, and breeding system. The various adaptations shown by plants favoring one pollinator over another all revolve around the secretion of nectar and the manner of presenting it to the birds. However, other aspects of plant morphology, physiology, ecology, or life cycle may affect the production and presentation of nectar, and influence plant-pollinator coevolution. Many question remain regarding the interrelations between pollination and the total biology of the plant; bird pollination systems may prove fruitful in yielding meaningful answers.
3881172|Sectioning experiments and electrical recording indicate that there are many potential pacemakers in polyps of the hydroid Tubularia. Functionally the pacemakers are organized primarily into pacemaker systems, groups within which there is tight coupling. The different pacemaker systems of a polyp are loosely coupled to one another. There are two principal systems in Tubularia, one in the polyp neck (the NP system) and one in the hydranth (the HP system). In addition, there are pacemakers controlling activities of individual tentacles. Activity in the NP system is usually not associated with observable polyp behavior. HP system activity is correlated with behavioral responses termed concerts. Concerts are probably digestive activities; they result in the mixing of food being digested and the distribution of the products of this digestion. The NP systems of polyps on a colony are loosely coupled to one another through one of the three conducting systems found in Tubularia stalks. The loose coupling between NP systems of polyps on a colony and the loose coupling between NP and HP systems within single polyps results in there being some coordination of concert activity throughout a colony.
3882082|Studies carried out on reaggregating sea urchin embryonic cells reveal that reaggregating cells can give rise to normal pluteus larvae by three developmental pathways: (i) from clusters, (ii) from chains of beads, and (iii) from a tissue culture phase. Experiments carried out on a mixture of cells from two different species, Arbacia punctulata and Lytechinus pictus, demonstrate that reaggregation is species specific and that the sorting out of cells according to species occurs. Movement of cells within an aggregate is non-random and unidirectional. Electron microscope analysis of mixed aggregates of cells of the two species indicates that cells of the same species make initial contact and adhere to one another by means of numerous microvilli and with the formation of an intercellular hyaline-like material. Cells of the two different species adhere, but never by means of microvilli and no hyaline-like material can be detected on the cell surfaces. The results indicate a role in reaggregation of an intercellular material, possibly an intercellular cement.
3881613|Plasma hormone levels during the estrous cycle of the cow, ewe, and sow have been measured, and the patterns of secretion of estrogens, progesterone, and luteinizing hormone during the cycle have been related to ovarian changes and other information concerning the cycle for each species. Peripheral plasma progesterone and LH levels are generally inversely related during the cycle in each species, and it seems clear that progesterone exerts a negative feedback on LH secretion in all three species, at least insofar as the cyclic release of preovulatory amounts of LH is concerned. Peak plasma progesterone levels are highest in the sow, lowest in the ewe, and intermediate in the cow. Plasma LH levels at estrus are highest in the ewe, lowest in the sow, and intermediate in the cow. Sharp peaks in plasma LH occur at the onset of estrus in the cow, and a few hours after the onset of estrus in the ewe and sow; these peaks are of about 6-8 hr duration. LH exerts a luteotrophic action on the corpora lutea of all three species, and very low levels of LH secretion appear capable of maintaining the corpus luteum in the ewe and cow. There is no good evidence that prolactin is luteotrophic in any of these species. Three peaks of plasma estrogen levels are seen in the ewe and the cow and these appear related to periods of accelerated follicle growth. One peak occurs early in the cycle and before plasma progesterone levels rise appreciably and another occurs during the luteal phase just prior to corpus luteum regression. The third peak occurs after plasma progesterone levels decline and is associated with growth of the ovulating follicle. The luteal phase estrogen peak has not been found in the sow. The rapid rise in blood estrogens after the corpus luteum regresses facilitates the preovulatory surge of LH in all three species. Cyclical regression of the corpus luteum in all three species appears to be under local control of the adjacent horn of the uterus. Exogenous estrogens are luteolytic in the cow and ewe, but luteotrophic in the sow. The ovaries of all three species contain very poorly developed interstitial tissue, probably because of the nearly complete dedifferentiation of the thecal cells during atresia. Thus, these animals lack an important source of steroid hormones present in the rodents and certain other species.
3882871|As brains do not fossilize, most proposed phylogenetic sequences for central nervous system characters must be based on the patterns of variation of those characters in living organisms. Similarly, hypotheses regarding how brains change through time, and the evolutionary processes that produce these changes, are ultimately based on the character patterns recognized. It is critical in these analyses to distinguish between homologous and homoplasous characters if errors in the reconstruction and interpretation of phylogenies are to be minimized. Definitions of homology and homoplasy are reviewed, as are the concepts that bear on their application. Cladistic definitions are adopted, and criteria for distinguishing homologous from homoplasous characters are discussed. Analysis of a number of CNS characters that are usually assumed to be homologous reveals that homoplasous characters appear among them. As in other organ systems, homoplasous characters are actually common. A number of previous hypotheses regarding CNS evolution are reviewed in the context of new data on neural connections and their cladistic analysis. Some of these hypotheses may be falsified by a cladistic treatment of CNS characters, whereas sufficient data do not exist to evaluate others.
3884434|Growth in crustaceans is an intermittent process centered around the principal event of ecdysis. A major problem facing decapod crustaceans at the time of ecdysis is the withdrawal of the large muscle mass of the chelae through the narrow basi-ischial joints. To overcome this problem the muscle undergoes an atrophy triggered by the molt, which reduces the muscle mass. Once the animal is freed from the old exoskeleton, the muscle fibers, must elongate to accommodate the new larger exoskeleton. Despite this major myofibrillar remodification, the muscles are thought to remain functional over the molt cycle. Studies using skinned muscle fibers have shown that long-sarcomere fibers maintain their function over the molt cycle while the contractile properties of the short-sarcomere fibers are modified, as fibers could not withstand maximal activation with Ca
3881845|Interest in the developmental basis of symmetry and asymmetry, as old as experimental embryology itself, has recently become reactivated. A brief survey is made of recent or current activities in the following areas: (i) development of asymmetry in the chick limb bud, as related to the so-called zone of polarizing activity (Saunders et al.); (ii) situs inversus viscerum in amphibians, as induced by transplantation and defect experiments, radiation, and chemical treatment (von Woellwarth, von Kraft, Wehrmaker); (iii) situs inversus viscerum in mammals as related to (a) twinning (Cockayne, Torgerson, Baker-Cohen); (b) genetics (Feldman, Cockayne, Torgerson for man, Tihen et al., Hummel and Chapman for mouse); and (c) teratogens (Layton and associates); (iv) ultrastructure in snails (Morrill and Perkins); (v) asymmetry developing as a result of changes in chemical instability in homogeneous systems (Ortoleva and Ross); (vi) asymmetrical mentality (Sperry and associates). No general conclusions are attempted.
3882624|The silkmoth eggshell (chorion) is a complex extracellular structure, with important physiological functions concerning survival of the developing embryo. The chorion proteins are encoded in several families of genes, generated during evolution by gene duplication and diversification. The gene families are highly regulated during development, so that more than 100 distinct chorion proteins are produced during specific stages in choriogenesis. Chorion genes are clustered in a single chromosome, and in the aggregate account for more than 350 kb of DNA. They have been cloned and their structure and organization have been studied by recombinant DNA techniques. I summarize the information currently available, and relate it to the processes of gene evolution and regulation of gene expression during development.
3882271|Thymic dependence has been studied in the clawed toad, Xenopus laevis. Examination of toadlets thymectomized as larvae at 8 days post-fertilization shows that: (i) The body weights are normal; (ii) The spleen is smaller than normal and there are fewer lymphocytes in the red pulp; (iii) There is an overall suppression of specific antibody, including all IgM, following immunization with human gamma globulin (HGG) in adjuvant or with sheep erythrocytes (SRBC); (iv) Stimulation using HGG elicits some splenic pyroninophilia but the spleens are less reactive than in controls; (v) The normal pattern of HGG localization in the splenic white pulp is absent; (vi) There is an increased susceptibility to Mycobacterium marinum; (vii) Serum immunoglobulin levels and the amounts of surface-associated immunoglobulin on splenic cells are increased; (viii) First-set rejection of skin allografts is prolonged but eventually goes to completion. These findings are discussed both in relation to the role of the thymus in the dichotomy of cell-mediated and humoral immune responses and in a phylogenetic context.
3884265|During the last half century or more, studies of diving physiology and biochemistry made great progress in mechanistically explaining the basic diving response of aquatic mammals and birds. Key components of the diving response (apnea, bradycardia, peripheral vasoconstriction, redistribution of cardiac output) were found in essentially all species analyzed and were generally taken to be biological adaptations. By the mid 1970s, this approach to unravelling the diving response had run 'out of steam' and was in conceptual stasis. The breakthrough which gave renewal to the field at this time was the development of microprocessor based monitoring of diving animals in their natural environments, which led to a flurry of studies mostly confirming the basic outlines of the diving response based upon laboratory studies and firmly placing it into proper biological context, underlining its plasticity and species specificities. Now towards the end of the millenium, despite ever more detailed field monitoring of physiology, behaviour and ecology, mechanistic studies are again approaching a point of diminishing returns. To avoid another conceptual stasis, what seems required are new initiatives which we anticipate may arise from two differing approaches. The first is purely experimental, relying on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) to expand the framework of the original "diving response" concept. The second-evolutionary study of the diving response-is synthetic, linked to both field and laboratory studies. To date the evolution of the diving response has only been analyzed in pinnipeds and from these studies two kinds of patterns have emerged. (1) Some physiological and biochemical characters, required and used in diving animals, are highly conserved not only in pinnipeds but in all vertebrates; these traits are necessarily similar in all pinnipeds and include diving apnea, bradycardia, tissue specific hypoperfusion, and hypometabolism of hypoperfused tissues. (2) Another group of functionally linked characters are more malleable and include (i) spleen mass, (ii) blood volume, and (iii) hemoglobin (Hb) pool size. Increases in any of these traits improve diving capacity. Assuming that conserved physiological function means conserved sequences in specific genes and their products (and that evolving function requires changes in such sequences), it is possible to rationalize both above trait categories in pinniped phylogeny. However, it is more difficult for molecular evolution theory to explain how complex regulatory systems like those involved in bradycardia and peripheral vasoconstriction remain the same through phylogenetic time than it is to explain physiological change driven by positive natural selection.
3882213|Domes are multicellular structures generated from confluent monolayers of mammary epithelium under the influence of insulin and a corticosteroid hormone. The hemicyst structure and occurrence patterns of domes suggest an in vitro analogy to organized acini of mammary parenchyma. Two activities of dome cells, vegetative replication of the mammary tumor virus and synthesis of casein, suggest a functional analogy between domes and acini. The corticosteroid hormone is considered the primary hormonal stimulant for dome formation. Evidence is presented that RNA and protein synthesis is required for the corticosteroid effect, as are intact active transport functions of epithelial cells.
3882142|Acting through differential reproductive success, natural selection has produced a great diversity of existing reproductive tactics, each of which presumably corresponds to a local optimum that maximizes an individual organism's lifetime reproductive success in its particular environment. A body of theory on so-called reproductive "strategies" has yet to be adequately related to an independent theoretical framework on optimal foraging tactics. Some of the possible interactions and constraints between an animal's input of matter and energy via foraging and its output in offspring using these same materials are briefly considered. For example, storage and utilization of lipids allow an organism to gather and sequester matter and energy during a period that is not suitable for successful reproduction, but enable the organism to expend those materials at a later, more satisfactory time. Such interactions between foraging and reproduction lead to a sort of temporal integration, which greatly complicates estimation of reproductive effort (current investment in seed, eggs, or progeny) in variable environments. An optimal reproductive tactic maximizes an individual's reproductive value (the sum of all present plus the expected probable number of all future offspring) at every age. Reproductive effort should vary inversely with residual reproductive value (expectation of future offspring); moreover, the precise form of the trade-off between present offspring versus future progeny, which is itself sensitive to a multitude of environmental influences including resource availability and the immediate environmental conditions for reproduction and survival, dictates the optimal tactic at any given age. Simple graphical models of optimal reproductive tactics are presented and discussed. Finally, some promising directions for future work, as well as certain potential difficulties, are noted.
3881343|The neurosecretory cells in the cerebral ganglia of the snail, Planorbis trivolvis, have been examined for structural details and distribution of phosphatase activities. A more preliminary study on the localization of phosphatases in the neurosecretory cells of Helix aspersa has also been made. These neurons in both species contain typical elementary neurosecretory granules which appear to be elaborated or condensed in the Golgi saccules. Immature elementary granules are identifiable as "primary lysosomes" in that they contain acid phosphatase activity as well as nucleoside phosphatases. The mature elementary granules display no phosphatase activity. Some saccules of the Golgi are also reactive for several nucleoside phosphatases, including thiamine pyrophosphatase (TPPase). In Planorbis, TPPase is also present in the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum. Larger, membrane bound, electron-dense bodies (lipochondria) are found in close spatial association with the Golgi region. These also possess acid phosphatase; in addition, they contain nucleoside diphosphatases and (in Planorbis) adenosine triphosphatase. Their content of acid phosphatase and the features of their fine structure indicate that they are lysosomes akin to the dense bodies of vertebrate neurones. The significance and implications of these results are considered, as are other details of the neuronal and glial structure in Planorbis.
3881735|What distinguishes man from all other primates is his archaic hair cover. Nearly all the details that make his skin unique are traceable to this single fact. In various degrees, all nonhuman primates have a good pelage, which is characterized by some morphological and physiological similarities but often differs even between closely related species. It can be thick or thin, short or long, woolly or shaggy, dense or sparse, and it assumes many varied colors. All primates have dermatoglyphics on their friction surfaces; they are also present on the volar surface of the tail of some New World monkeys and on the knuckle pads of chimpanzees and gorillas. The epidermis is uniformly thin and has little undersculpture. Every species of primate has epidermal and dermal melanocytes which are often relatively distinct from all others. Eccrine sweat glands are found on the friction surfaces of all species, but only the true prehensile-tailed New World monkeys and Old World monkeys and apes have them also in the hairy skin. Although chimpanzees and gorillas have more eccrine than apocrine glands in their bodies, in neither do the sweat glands respond to heat stimulation as they do in man. All primates have numerous apocrine glands in the hairy skin, but only man, the chimpanzee, and gorilla have an axillary organ. The Order Primates is large and heterogeneous; most species have some common cutaneous features but the details in each are so distinct as to preclude generalizations.
3884408|A number of bird species swim underwater by wing propulsion. Both among and within species, thrust generated during the recovery phase (upstroke) varies from almost none to more than during the power phase (downstroke). More uneven thrust and unsteady speed may increase swimming costs because of greater inertial work to accelerate the body fuselage (head and trunk), especially when buoyant resistance is high during descent. I investigated these effects by varying relative fuselage speed during upstroke vs. downstroke in a model for wing-propelled murres which descend at relatively constant mean speed. As buoyant resistance declined with depth, the model varied stroke frequency and glide duration to maintain constant mean descent speed, stroke duration, and work per stroke. When mean fuselage speed during the upstroke was only 18% of that during the downstroke, stroke frequency was constant with no gliding, so that power output was unchanged throughout descent. When mean upstroke speed of the fuselage was raised to 40% and 73% of mean downstroke speed, stroke frequency declined and gliding increased, so that power output decreased rapidly with increasing depth. Greater inertial work with more unequal fuselage speeds was a minor contributor to differences in swimming costs. Instead, lower speeds during upstrokes required higher speeds during downstrokes to maintain the same mean speed, resulting in nonlinear increases in drag at greater fuselage speeds during the power phase. When fuselage speed was relatively higher during upstrokes, lower net drag at the same mean speed increased the ability to glide between strokes, thereby decreasing the cost of swimming.
3882645|This review discusses development and growth of the retina. A geometric model of retinal differentiation is proposed in which four phases are recognized; the first three are common to all vertebrate embryos. The last, post-embryonic growth phase has two alternate routes, one followed by birds and mammals and the other by fish and amphibians. All retinas grow by expansion, and retinal cells are spread apart as the retina enlarges. In fish (and larval amphibians), the retina not only expands but also adds cells. In these retinas a marginal germinal zone persists and continues to produce neurons, which are added appositionally in concentric annuli around the perimeter. The genesis of one class of photoreceptor cell, the retinal rods, is different from all other retinal neurons in that the proportion of rods increases with growth in central retinal regions far from the germinal zone. The source of these centrally-added rods is not yet established; several hypotheses are discussed. Alterations of synaptic connectivity within the retina and between retina and brain are suggested by the pattern of growth and cell addition. The capacity of adult fishes to generate new neurons and to form new synapses is a remarkable property, one which most animals abandon much earlier in life.
3883303|Paleontology and the fossil record contribute an historical perspective on the form-function relationship that is essential to an understanding of the particular range of biological forms and functions that exist in the living world. The record contains rich evidence of forms and functions that do not exist in the modern world and provides a context for exploring arenas of theoretical possibility and impossibility for organisms. Although the basic data of the fossil record are static forms and patterns in the rocks, paleontologists have developed methods of inferring function. Analogy is the most important source of hypotheses for the function of extinct organisms and enigmatic structures. Paleontological analogy frequently extends beyond biological form and structure to engineering solutions in familiar simple machines and a variety of other human artifacts. Three tools have proved especially useful in the analysis and interpretation of form in fossils. The paradigm method is a useful procedure for rigorous evaluation of alternative functional possibilities for enigmatic structures in a predominantly adaptive context. Constructional morphology reaches beyond the adaptive context to provide a conceptual framework for understanding the full range of factors that contribute to organic form. Theoretical morphology provides the basis for examining the range of forms and functions that have actually evolved against possible morphological and functional space. This essay is structured to provide applications of these paleontological tools and to encourage incorporation of paleontological data and perspective into instruction in introductory biology courses.
3883001| After a brief account of my early education, study at the University of Wien, and preliminary experiments on hybridization conducted at the Augustinian Monastery in Brnn, Austria, I state the reasons for selecting certain features of the edible pea, Pisum sativum, for extensive investigation of their inheritance. After eight years I reported my results to the Brnn Society for the Study of Natural Science, and they were published in the following year (1866) in the Proceedings of the Society. I discovered two basic principles of inheritance: the law of segregation and the law of independent assortment of hypothetical units of heredity that I called Elemente. I conclude with some remarks on the possible relation of my work to the evolution of organic form and on my disappointment that my studies do not seem to be known or understood, and that because of my administrative duties at the monastery, now being the Abbot, I have no time for further investigations. 
3883652|Composition and zonation of coral reef communities are unstable on the scale of human lifetimes, but stable on average over thousands to hundreds of thousands of years. Traditional small-scale ecological studies can miss community patterns which are obscured by the noise of short-term change. Tests for stability require monitoring of populations over many generations-millenia for long-lived corals and forest trees. The only recourse is the fossil record.
3883351|Analysis of the anatomy of the pharyngeal apparatus of parrotfish demonstrates extraordinary specialization of the grinding jaws. The epibranchials have lost their gill-bearing function. The first epibranchial is the structural element of the pharyngeal valve that is operated by the first levator externus, first branchial adductor and part one of the transversus dorsalis muscles. Five pairs of muscles (fourth levator externus, levator posterior lateralis and medialis, fifth branchial adductor, part two of the transversus ventralis) are positioned to adduct the lower pharyngeal. The retractor dorsalis and fourth obliquus dorsalis are positioned to retract the upper pharyngeal. The third levator internus and transversus dorsalis posterior protract the upper pharyngeal. The fourth levator externus, both parts of the levator posterior and the fifth adductor are massive and pinnate. Deep fossae for the attachment of the fourth levator externus and levator posterior muscles are sculpted out of the neurocranium. A ventral spike process of the prootic and expanded hemal postzygapophyses of the first three vertebrae are skeletal features associated with the elaborated musculature of the pharynx. Synovial joints are present between the basicranium and upper pharyngeals, between the upper pharyngeals and fourth epibranchials and between the lower pharyngeal and cleithrum. The upper pharyngeals act as a single unit bound by cruciate ligaments. The fourth epibranchial is a key element in the pharyngeal apparatus and serves to direct forces generated by the transversus ventralis, fifth adductor, levator posterior lateralis, transversus dorsalis posterior and fourth obliquus dorsalis.
3882364|The existence of complex organ systems has always been a serious challenge to the synthetic theory of evolution. This essay considers two aspects of the problem in the case of the vertebrate visual system. The first is how to resolve the visual system into structural components which can be related to evolutionary processes. I use the visual system of the red-eared turtle, Pseudemys scripta elegans, to illustrate how a neural system can be decomposed into three, nested levels of organization. The first level consists of individual neurons. Analysis at this level considers the types of neurons which are present and the interactions which occur between them. The second level consists of groups of neurons called modules. They form a unit structure which is repeated throughout some particular region of the system. The third level consists of a network which is composed of aggregations of neurons (nuclei) which are interrelated by bundles of axons. Several projections converge upon modules in many of the nuclei. The second aspect is the extent to which the vertebrate visual system can be accommodated into the synthetic theory. Analysis of genetic abnormalities provides evidence that some aspects of visual system structure are under genetic control. Analysis of variations in visual system structure indicates that interspecific variations occur frequently, particularly at the lower organizational levels. Serious difficulties arise, however, in attempts to establish causal relationships between visual system structure and the organism's behavioral adaptations. These difficulties stem from applications of the neurological concept of the localization of function. The available evidence is, then, consistent with the hypothesis that the visual system evolved in accordance with the synthetic theory. It remains, however, to establish more clearly the relationship between visual system structure and environmental demands.
3883300|Relationships between the form and function of vertebrate animals are engaging, logical, and thought provoking. They can be introduced into a first year biology course in lessons that are large or small, that require scant technical vocabulary, and that stand alone or are combined with some other subjects. Material can be structured in various ways, and interest and conceptual value may be increased by following more than one. Thus, the teacher can (1) analyze the function(s) of one particular form, or study the various forms that contribute to one general function; (2) explore how, in general, animals generate and translate force and motion, and utilize energy; (3) present animal applications of biomechanical laws; or (4) illustrate such central ideas of functional morphology as the significance of ancestry, of morphogenetic process, and of complex functional units. Examples are given of how most of these ways of organizing instruction in vertebrate form and function might be followed in the classroom.
3883297|The idea of a form-function correlation implies some benefit for the individual that displays it. This is subsumed under the heading of adaptation, the reality of which has recently been questioned. Some caution in the application of adaptationist explanations may be necessary, but the key point is the perceived risk of the extension of adaptationist explanations to the human species. This review documents that adaptation exists and represents the basis for the match of form and function. It stresses that the underlying adaptive mechanisms are much more complex than sometimes assumed. The complexity has led to misunderstanding. Most important, there is no reason to expect perfection or optimization in any simple match. The review concludes with a review of procedures for the study of seemingly adaptive aspects of phenotypes.
3882824|Glucose levels in crayfish hemolymph are enhanced by the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH); at present there is some evidence that this action is mediated by cyclic nucleotides. CHH is capable of stimulating adenylate cyclase in the abdominal muscle. There is an increase in cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP contents in hepatopancreas and abdominal muscle after CHH injection. Cyclic nucleotides are able to evoke the same reaction as CHH in vivo and in vitro. Cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinases are activated by the hormone, which leads to a phosphorylation and therefore inhibition of glycogen synthase. So far, an effect of purified hormone on phosphorylase and phosphorylase kinase has not been demonstrated in the abdominal muscle.
3884153|The patterns of adaptive changes in intestinal glucose and amino acid absorption often parallel those in digestive enzymes during ontogeny, growth, and reproduction. Unlike the endocrine control of digestive enzymes, that for nutrient absorption is not well understood. Hence, the regulation of enzyme activity during development is first presented as a model for understanding how the related process of nutrient transport may be coordinated by hormones. In particular, the effects of thyroid hormones and glucocorticoids are best known and illustrate how these mediators act independently in some cases and synergistically in others to produce the observed patterns of intestinal adaptation. Because there is information about these two classes of hormones and their actions in diverse vertebrate groups, I trace their known and suspected effects on nutrient uptake in mammals, birds, amphibians, and fishes.
3881792|A colony of attine ants begins with a recently fecundated female carrying hyphae from the parental garden in a pellet in an infrabuccal pocket. All future food of the colony will be derived from this nucleus. She digs a cavity in the ground, ejects this pellet and manures it with her liquid excrement. As the hyphae proliferate, eggs are laid on them and the colony is launched. She continually licks both the hyphae and the brood. Thus, both salivary and anal excretions play a vital role in the beginning of a colony and this pattern is repeated by the resulting workers. About 60-65% of them in Atta are the minima and these are intimately involved in brood and fungus care. Their excretions are disproportionately large. About 1/3 of the workers in Atta are 4-6 mm media and these cut and prepare the substrate. The 7-9 mm maxima sizes and the soldiers (over 9 mm) are less directly involved in culturing the fungus. The effectiveness of fungus culturing is shown by the rapid build-up of gardens. The ants maintain their garden despite surrounding contamination after a fragment with ants is introduced to a plate of sterile nutrient agar.
3881183|Animals are essentially predatory behavior machines. So also are insectivorous plants which have developed raptorial feeding devices. Diploblastic and triploblastic animals meet the specification of such machines in different ways. In the Cnidaria both muscle and nerve-net seem organised on the basis of two-dimensional continuous sheets with local specialization. The condition is simplest in Anthozoa; in Scyphozoa, and still more in Hydrozoa, there are further complications. This simple picture of the Anthozoan nerve-net meets difficulties. Quick and slow contractions of the same muscle sheet are in fact operated by the same nerve-net. The slow contraction involves muscle-conduction and recruitment. A method of directly observing this is described. No complete explanation is yet forthcoming for reciprocal inhibition. The preservation of functionally significant shape seems to require proprioceptive machinery not yet discovered. It now seems well-established that both through-conduction and the original notion of interneural facilitation are valid elements in simple reflex responses. Knowledge of the importance of rhythmic phasic activity has, however, greatly increased in coelenterates generally. Many of these sequences of rhythmic activity seem to be based on modifications of the similar pattern sequences to meet different functional needs. Particularly in connection with these phasic activities, multiple action potentials both in response to stimuli and by spontaneous occurrence have been demonstrated. In Calliactis, 30% of records to threshold stimuli show evidence of multiple impulses. There is reason to associate such repetitive discharges with multipolar ganglion cells. The relation of these multiple discharges to the functional behavior is not always apparent. Complication of behavior in coelenterates is charactically on the motor side. Contrasted with triploblastic animals with probably the same order of number of nerve-cells (roughly 10
3881405| Parameters relating to transport of oxygen were measured in the pericardial blood and venous outflow from the first walking leg of Gecarcinus lateralis.
3883935|The episodic, or intermittent, breathing of frogs and many ectothermic vertebrates results in important fluctuations of arterial blood gases. This pattern of breathing differs from the rhythmic and continuous alternation of inspiration observed in most homeotherms, which maintain O
3882361|This survey of hemoglobin function in mammals reveals a broad range in oxygen affinity. The concentration of red cell 2,3-DPG varies widely among groups of mammals. Those animals (feloids and ruminants) that have very low levels of this intracellular mediator have hemoglobins of intrinsically low oxygen affinity which fail to respond to the addition of 2,3-DPG. Mammals which have adapted to various types of hypoxia tend to have increased oxygen affinity, primarily mediated through reduced levels of red cell 2,3-DPG. In contrast, mammals who are experimentally subjected to low oxygen tensions develop decreased oxygen affinity owing to increased red cell 2,3-DPG. Mammals employ one of three different mechanisms for the maintenance of higher oxygen affinity of fetal red cells, compared to maternal red cells. Many of these phenomena can be satisfactorily explained at the molecular level but their adaptational significance is less clear.
3882800|Lilian Vaughan Morgan was an important geneticist of the first part of the 20th century. She discovered both the attached-X and closed-X chromosomes as part of her extensive research on the X chromosome of Drosophila. She received A.B and M.S. degrees in Biology from Bryn Mawr College and became an independent investigator in the 1890s at the Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts. Although her research at the turn of the century was in embryology, she made the successful transition to genetics. In 1904 she married T. H. Morgan, raised four children, managed the Morgan household, and when the children were grown resumed full time research. She always worked independently, and in her lifetime published 16 single author papers.
3883859|There is interest in assembling a robust hypothesis of animal relationships based on molecular and other character-based evidence, but even if a high degree of phylogenetic resolution is available, there remain challenging problems for postulating ancestral larval traits. This distinction between hypotheses of genealogies and our knowledge of specific traits is illustrated with specific examples of the portion of variable larval traits that are homoplastic (i.e., they require convergences, parallelisms, or character reversals) with respect to specific molecular-based genealogical hypotheses. Corresponding molecular studies suggest (1) maximal incongruity in larval form and metamorphosis for extant echinoderm classes, (2) convergences in larval size and form associated with coloniality in ascidians, (3) multiple losses of the locomotory larval tail in molgulid ascidians, (4) multiple losses of larval feeding and gain of apomictic parthenogenesis within a genus of bivalves, (5) multiple losses of larval feeding in echinoids, (6) alternative explanations of the distribution of feeding and non-feeding larvae among gastropods, and (7) recent modifications in embryonic and larval development of echinoids following prolonged stasis. These examples show that inferences from phylogenetic studies will ultimately be limited by the extent to which homoplasy and polarity can be unambiguously assessed for larval traits. These limitations are illustrated by alternative hypotheses for larval trait synapomorphies among phyla, evolution of feeding with opposed prototrochal and metatrochal ciliary bands, and the retention or reacquisition of the locomotory nauplius of the Euphausiacea and Dendrobranchiata. Inferences on the evolution of larval traits require other sorts of evidence, perhaps including information on the evolution of genes that play important roles in morphogenesis and their sites of expression.
3884262|Past findings have established how the faster growth, greater reproductive output and/or longer survival that are associated with heterosis and genomic diversity measured as multi-locus heterozygosity stem from slower intensities with which proteins are renewed and replaced (=protein turnover). Slower turnover results in lower energy requirements and reduced metabolic sensitivity to environmental change, representing a mechanistic basis for evolutionary consequences of genetic polymorphism. To determine the genetic and functional basis of differences in whole-body protein turnover, we have begun to resolve different proteolytic pathways, searching for genetic polymorphisms with a direct effect upon proteolysis, and assessing the metabolic and physiological consequences of those genetic influences in the mussel Mytilus edulis. Our recent work has established the physiological importance of lysosomal enzymes under normal conditions of basal proteolysis, and shown that associated effects on energy flux may vary according to functional differences between separate enzymes. Data are presented here which compare metabolic consequences of polymorphism in the lysosomal aminopeptidases Lap-1 and Lap-2. Findings establish that metabolic and phenotypic effects of genetic polymorphism result directly from genetic variation at the loci coding for these peptidases, rather than from linked loci. They also illustrate the complexity of interrelations that ultimately influence the evolutionary consequences of genomic diversity, including associated influences of both Lap-1 and Lap-2 on energy requirements and animal condition. We impress that energy requirements for protein turnover may represent a functional basis for epistasis, including associations whereby advantages of genetic polymorphism are greatest at loci that code for enzymes acting in both protein catabolism and energy provision.
3883123|Adhesive interactions have long been proposed to play a central role in the patterning of neural structures and their interconnections. Many of these ideas are based upon experiments on the projection from the eye to the optic tectum (the retinotectal projection) in lower vertebrates. In order to test the feasibility of such proposals, a detailed model, based largely on adhesive interactions between cells, has been developed. Computer simulations of the model show that simple adhesive interactions are sufficient to explain much of the literature on the patterning of the amphibian retinotectal projection. Aspects of the model have been experimetally tested through the use of antibodies to known adhesive molecules. The results of these experiments appear consistent with the role of adhesion in the patterning of the connections and with the predictions of the model. Although such experiments demonstrate the power of adhesive cell interactions in the patterning of nerve connections, additional experiments and simulations demonstrate that some other non-adhesive processes may play a role. In particular, the addition of a process that is dependent on the activity of the neurons allows the model to better fit the literature. An activity-dependent competition between neurons for adhesive sites on the target cells appears to be sufficient to play this role.
3883737|In many species of birds, individual males possess "repertoires" of multiple versions of the species song. Females of several of these species have been shown to respond preferentially in courtship to larger song repertoires. The female preference for large repertoires usually has little effect on female settlement, but is likely to affect mate choice in extra-pair copulations. A number of hypotheses have been proposed to explain the evolution of the female preference. Some of these posit a natural selective advantage for the preference, in securing for the female a better territory, better paternal care for the offspring, or a mate with good genes. Another hypothesis suggests the male trait and female preference have coevolved in a process of runaway sexual selection. Here I show that female common grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) court preferentially for repertoires of four song types compared to equal numbers of repetitions of single song types. The female preference exists in common grackles despite the fact that males in this species sing only one song type each. None of the usual hypotheses, based on natural or sexual selection, can explain the occurrence of the female preference in a species in which males lack the preferred trait. Instead, the female preference may be a simple consequence of two properties of most response systems: habituation and stimulus specificity. If so, female preferences for repertoires may in general pre-date the evolution of male song repertoires, which evolve to exploit the pre-existing female response bias.
3882650|The fundamental evolutionary position of the fishes and the plasticity of their gene expression render them well suited for developmental genetic analyses. Isozymes, encoded in related loci, have proven to be effective probes of differential gene expression in the fishes. The advanced bony fishes exhibit a higher temporal and spatial specificity of isozyme locus expression than the primitive fishes. Some isozyme loci are limited in their expression to specific developmental periods such as hatching. The more phylogenetically recently derived loci have a more restricted tissue expression, and tend to be expressed later in development than more ancient loci exhibiting a more generalized tissue expression. More closely related isozyme loci tend to overlap more in their cellular expressions than do more distantly related loci. The role of gene and genome relatedness in regulating gene expression also has been studied by the investigation of preferential allele expression in interspecific hybrids. The schedules of gene expression are often perturbed in interspecific fish hybrids. A progressive increase in the severity of developmental abnormalities, at the morphological and enzymatic levels, occurs during embryogenesis of hybrids formed from progressively more distantly related species. In most instances of allelic repression, the paternal allele is preferentially inhibited but occasionally the maternal allele is selectively repressed. A non-reciprocal developmental success is often observed for hybrid embryos derived from reciprocal crosses. These aberrant nucleocytoplasmic interactions have been related to models of gene regulation and the evolutionary divergence of gene regulatory mechanisms.
3882035| The pH of the hemolymph of selected invertebrates decreases as their body temperature increases. The magnitude of this change (pH/C) is very similar to the change of the pH of water with temperature (pN/C) and suggests that these invertebrates, like poikilothermous vertebrates, regulate the pH of their extracellular fluid so that its degree of alkalinity relative to the pH of water remains constant. The degree of alkalinity (
3882021|Crustacean muscles are known to contain muscle fibers of variable properties and to be innervated by phasic and/or tonic motoneurons which may possess synapses of diverse physiological properties. Frequently, phasic motor axons innervate short-sarcomere phasic muscle fibers and tonic motor axons innervate long-sarcomere tonic muscle fibers, but some muscles receiving a single (tonic) motor axon contain both phasic and tonic muscle fibers. Although it is not known whether neural trophic influences are involved in muscle differentiation, some neural trophic effects have been found in crustaceans, and it is reasonable to assume that such influences may be involved in establishing the definitive properties of the muscle. Several other postulates must be made: (1) Phasic and tonic motor axons differ in their trophic effectiveness; (2) muscle fibers innervated relatively early in development by a tonic motor axon acquire the properties of tonic muscle fibers, while those innervated later become intermediate or phasic muscle fibers; (3) the developmental stage of a growing or regenerating axon terminal plays a role in determination of synaptic properties. Studies on regenerating limb buds support the hypothesis, which can account for the genesis of all observed types of crustacean neuromuscular system. Further experimental work is necessary to test the hypothesis.
3884407|Most physiological and ecological approaches to animal locomotion are based on steady state assumptions, yet movements of many animals are interspersed with pauses lasting from milliseconds to minutes. Thus, pauses, along with changes in the duration and speed of moves, form part of a dynamic system of intermittent locomotion by which animals adjust their locomotor behavior to changing circumstances. Intermittent locomotion occurs in a wide array of organisms from protozoans to mammals. It is found in aerial, aquatic and terrestrial locomotion and in many behavioral contexts including search and pursuit of prey, mate search, escape from predators, habitat assessment and general travel. In our survey, animals exhibiting intermittent locomotion paused on average nearly 50% of their locomotion time (range 6-94%). Although intermittent locomotion is usually expected to increase energetic costs as a result of additional expenditure for acceleration and deceleration, a variety of energetic benefits can arise when forward movement continues during pauses. Endurance also can be improved by partial recovery from fatigue during pauses. Perceptual benefits can arise because pauses increase the capacity of the sensory systems to detect relevant stimuli. Several processes, including velocity blur, relative motion detection, foveation, attention and interference between sensory systems are probably involved. In animals that do not pause, alternative mechanisms for stabilizing the perceptual field are often present. Because movement is an important cue for stimulus detection, pauses can also reduce unwanted detection by an organism's predators or prey. Several models have attempted to integrate energetic and perceptual processes, but many challenges remain. Future advances will require improved quantification of the effects of speed on perception.
3881414|Sand fiddler crabs are ill-equipped to inhabit either the terrestrial or permanently submerged littoral zones. They are obligate inhabitants of the intertidal region in which, at any point, extremes of conditions continually fluctuate. The crabs must constantly move about to specific areas in order to carry out life-supporting processes while avoiding detrimental physical conditions. For this reason, directional orientation is basic to their existence. The typical activities of adult sand fiddlers during diurnal low tides have characteristic directional components. Some directed movements have immediate survival value under conditions of stress, such as the approach of a predator. For example, crabs on the lower beach (well away from their burrow area) often run landward and enter burrows or vegetation, thereby obtaining refuge. Those which are chased offshore or inland are able to reorient to the beach. Experiments conducted both in the field and under controlled conditions indicate that these adaptive oriented movements are guided primarily by visual mechanisms. Adult crabs exhibit a time-compensated, menotactic orientation to the sun and polarized sky-light that enables them to maintain a heading coincident with the landward compass bearing of their particular shoreline. New directional preferences can be induced by holding crabs in simulated habitats with specific shore-water spatial configurations. The crabs also exhibit a telotaxis toward gross landmarks, such as mangroves or clumps of beach grass, that stand in optical contrast to the background. This orientation occurs in most individuals if celestial cues are obscured or if the animals become desiccated. Upon reaching the object, crabs enter suitable interstices affording refuge. Since they can orient by either celestial cues or landmarks, or both, there are probably few times in nature when they are disoriented from lack of guidance-stimuli.
3881532|Secondary productivity is one portion of energy flow in a community, which includes the ingestion and assimilation of energy, and the expenditure of energy in metabolism by consumer organisms. The purpose of this paper is to describe the ecological significance of energy flow in consumers and to discuss methods of measuring its components. Data pertaining to 20 terrestrial animal populations are presented. About 20% of the energy assimilated by invertebrates is manifested as net production, while only about 2% of the assimilated energy is represented by net production in populations of birds and mammals. The relationship between production and metabolism appears to depend on the capacity for homeothermy. For a given amount of assimilated energy, homeotherms produce less than heterotherms.
3882454|Preliminary data are provided suggesting that hummingbirds compete with bees and hawkmoths for flower nectar while on southward migration through the Sierra Nevada of California during the summer. Evidence is given that removal of hummingbirds enhances foraging in bees and hawkmoths on plants shared with the birds. The birds were aggressive against moths but not usually against bees. Competition between these taxa leads to temporal and spatial partitioning of the resource that is apparently behaviorally mediated. It is speculated that for hummingbirds competition with insects is less predictable and more difficult to contend with than is competition with other hummingbirds.
3883201|The common mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus, functions as both predator and prey in the trophic structure of east coast tidal marshes. Although mummichogs are generally considered important to energy transformations within marshes, few studies have convincingly demonstrated that predation by F. heteroclitus affects the abundance of salt marsh benthic invertebrates. Thus far investigations of this type have dealt only with the direct effects of adult mummichogs. The results of recent experiments have suggested that by controlling smaller predators, mummichogs may indirectly have a positive effect on the densities of some infaunal marsh invertebrates. Our current knowledge of larval and juvenile mummichogs in their natural habitat is minimal. Unlike the adults, which can utilize the intertidal zone only when it is flooded, the young remain on the marsh even at low tide, inhabiting shallow puddles of residual tidal water that form between clumps of vegetation and around fiddler crab (Uca sp.) burrows. The importance of F. heteroclitus in salt marsh communities will remain incompletely understood unless future studies consider the role of larval and juvenile mummichogs. Although many species of fishes and wading birds feed on mummichogs, the blue crab (Callinectes sapidus) is probably the major predator of adult F. heteroclitus in the intertidal salt marsh. Predation by adult mummichogs and xanthid crabs (e.g., Eurytium limosum) may contribute to the high mortality of larval and juvenile Fundulus.
3883027|Experiments are reviewed that indicate embryonic fields are capable of regulating the neoplastic attributes of their closely related carcinomas. In the case of blastocyst regulation of embryonal carcinoma cells the reaction is mediated by contact of the cancer cells with trophectodermal cells in the presence of blastocele fluid. In the case of regulation of melanoma, the reaction is mediated in the embryonic skin at the time normal melanocytes migrate into it. A diffusible factor that inhibits cell division and seems to affect differentiation is involved. In the case of neuroblastoma, a degree of regulation is demonstrable in the neural crest migratory pathway, but the maximal effect is found in the adrenal, renal, and testicular primordia. A factor inhibitory of mitosis for adenocarcinoma of the breast can be demonstrated in the breast primordium. It is concluded that there must be an embryonic field capable of regulating every kind of carcinoma: understanding of the phenomena may lead to a noncytotoxic cure for carcinoma, and through the use of cancer cells as probes of embryonic development to an understanding of embryonic induction.
3882632|We propose that particles, 7-15 nm in diameter, observed on the apical plasma membranes of cation transporting cells of insect midgut, salivary glands, and Malpighian tubules are modified
3882820|The involvement of the molting hormone, 20-hydroxyecdysone, in the mediation of molting in decapod crustaceans is briefly reviewed. Aspects of the secretion and metabolism of its precursor, ecdysone, are discussed. Experiments are described that demonstrate the presence of a molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH) in the sinus glands of juvenile lobsters (Homarus americanus). Assays for MIH include measurement of the molt interval and radioimmunoassay of circulating titers of ecdysteroids in eyestalk-ablated lobsters. This latter assay indicates that sinus gland extracts significantly decrease the concentration of circulating ecdysteroids 24 hr after injection. Data are also presented on the circulating titers of ecdysteroids during multiple molt cycles of lobsters following eyestalk ablation. These data indicate that there must be another factor that ultimately regulates the circulating levels of the molting hormone.
3882874|Vertebrates display a variety of sensory and motor adaptations in addition to a set of generalized systems. In some cases functionally equivalent adaptations have evolved independently in one or more vertebrate lines. In each case the central nervous system (CNS) is remodeled to accommodate the peripheral change. In functionally equivalent, but independently derived, systems many of the CNS areas involved are homologous even when the peripheral adaptations are clearly homoplasous. The pattern of CNS remodeling reflects two pressures: the need for functionally equivalent peripheral systems to interface with equivalent central control centers and the interaction of a peripheral change with processes controlling neural development. These developmental processes allow peripheral perturbations to cause changes many synapses deep within the CNS while at the same time restricting the pattern of CNS remodeling.
3882097|A set of hypotheses are developed for the origin of living sharks and rays and the interrelationships of their major groups, using some methods of cladistic analysis to relate groups with shared derived characters. Comparative studies on living sharks and rays combined with new data on fossil sharks suggests that the living groups ultimately stem from a common ancestral group of "neoselachian" sharks with many modern characters. Reinterpretations of "amphistyly" in modern sharks is presented on new data.
3884457| Allometry designates the changes in relative dimensions of parts of the body that are correlated with changes in overall size. Julian Huxley and Georges Teissier coined this term in 1936. In a joint paper, they agreed to use this term in order to avoid confusion in the field of relative growth. They also agreed on the conventional symbols to use in the algebraic formula: y=bx
3882013|Molluscs have become increasingly popular in the study of central neural mechanisms. More recently, there have been attempts to relate activity in central neurons with behavior in animals of this phylum. The latter studies necessitate an understanding of the effectors of such behaviors. This requires not only information about the neuromuscular junction, but also an awareness of the capabilities of the muscles themselves. Therefore, we have discussed some structural and related functional characteristics of molluscan muscle. We suggest that invertebrate mucles might be compared on three scales: the amount of myofilament organization, the amount of vesicular specialization and organization, and the amount of paramyosin. We have considered some characteristics of the widely-studied sustained contraction, known as "catch." Finally, we have discussed the neuromuscular junction-the types of junctions, the multiplicity of innervation, and some aspects of pharmacology. The results of such a study indicated many areas in which further research is essential before we can understand behavior in terms of activity in the central nervous system.
3882683|Colonies of the compound tunicate Botryllus show the capacity for self-nonself discrimination by fusion between separated pieces of the same colony and rejection between pieces of unrelated colonies. We have found that genes controlling this colony specificity are similar to those which cause transplant rejection in the vertebrates. Like the loci within the vertebrate major histocompatibility complex (MHC), Botryllus fusibility (or histocompatibility) genes are highly polymorphic. In Botryllus, the histocompatibility complex also controls self-sterility, and limits cross-fertilization between colonies sharing histocompatibility alleles. The mouse MHC, the H-2 region, is linked to loci which also affect the frequencies of alleles at H-2 loci in mouse populations. Thus both systems contain characters which could act to promote the heterozygous condition at the linked histocompatibility loci. We suggest that such linked characters are responsible for the evolution of allogeneic polymorphism in vertebrates (however currently maintained), and that tunicate fusibility loci may be the evolutionary procursors of vertebrate MHC genes.
3883733|The courtship songs of male Drosophila have been studied at the behavioural, genetic and molecular levels. Less attention has been paid to the female's responses to these songs. Playback experiments are described which suggest that courtship songs are an important component of female mate choice. Some of the implications of the behavioural responses of hybrid females between D. melanogaster and D. simulans are examined in the light of theories concerning the mechanisms by which insect communication systems might evolve. The role of the period gene in both male song production and in female song reception is considered, and the neural regions in the female which may be important for song integration are briefly discussed.
3884093| The reproductive cycle of the zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) is highly variable throughout its range in Europe, Russia, and North America. The environmental factors influencing this variation are poorly understood, but successful reproduction is occurring in areas where it was initially believed that adult zebra mussels could not survive (i.e., southern United States). The differences in mussel reproduction occurring from site-to-site make it difficult to predict timing of specific events, such as the start of larval production, that are important in initiating containment or control procedures. For example, the amount of time required for a fertilized egg to develop into a juvenile mussel can be as short as 8 days, or as long as 240 days. Release of gametes by adults can be a highly synchronized event, focused over a 1-2 week period, or it can be completely non-synchronized, occurring throughout the year. Zebra mussels in some localities start spawning at water temperatures of 12-13C, but do not start until water temperatures reaches 22C at other sites. While some of this variability in reproductive behavior stems from mussel adaptation to local conditions, part is due to difficulties in sampling these events. It is difficult to determine reproductive success of a specific population because of the problems in separating locally produced larvae from larvae drifting in from other areas. Further research is needed not only on the relationship between reproduction and environment at the community level, but also on the variability in response of individual mussels. 
3883321|Based on electrophysiological and histochemical data, four types of muscle fibers (types I, II, III and IV) can be identified in the closer of the crab Eriphia. Although characteristics used for typing vary among the fibers of a particular type, the combination of several parameters permits an assignment. Of particular significance for typing is the myosin ATPase activity and its stability after preincubation at different pH levels. The fiber types defined for the closer muscle can also be found in the other leg muscles of Eriphia. Single, electrophysiologically identified fibers of each type were quantitatively analyzed for several key enzymes of oxidative and glycolytic energy metabolism (GAPDH, LDH, CS, IDH, HAD). Despite the variations found, different metabolic types can be defined. The typing derived from biochemical studies correlates well with that obtained electrophysiologically and histochemically. The variability of the biochemical properties, however, seems to be considerably larger. The type I fibers can be regarded as slow oxidative, the type II and III fibers as fast oxidative glycolytic, and the type IV fibers as fast glycolytic.
3884046|The social behavior of anurans (frogs and toads) is mediated by a number of acoustic signals, or calls, that show both inter- and intra-specific differences in temporal pattern and spectral content. These differences provide cues useful for call recognition. Neural mechanisms responsible for detecting and analyzing the temporal and spectral cues of the species vocalizations have been the subject of investigation for almost three decades. Here, I summarize the results of studies conducted in the northern leopard frog, Rana pipiens. These results demonstrate that (1) sound analysis is performed in the central auditory system of anurans by an array of neural filters operating in the time and frequency domain, (2) behaviorally relevant sounds are represented by stimulus-dependent spatio-temporal patterns of excitation among differentially tuned filter neurons, and (3) the time and frequency selectivity of these neurons is determined, in part, by GABA-mediated inhibitory interactions that shape their excitatory input.
3882549|Prebiotic synthesis of short length macromolecules from precursor molecules results in a dynamic of spontaneous creation, which allows for growth from zero density. At this prereplicator stage in the evolution of life there is no life history, since the birth and death processes are intimately coupled through the physical chemistry of a single reaction. With the emergence of nonenzymatic, template-directed replication, the birth and death processes could diverge for the first time, since selection could act differently on the birth and death rates of the replicating molecule. Thus, with replication, natural selection and life-history evolution began. The genotype, or nucleotide sequence, of the replicating molecule gave rise to several phenotypic properties, the most important of which was its three-dimensional structure which in turn affected the birth and death processes. However, at this stage of nonenzymatic template replication, the phenotype was the physical structure of the genotype, nothing more. For the divergence of the phenotype from the genotype it was necessary for the replicator to produce a protein. It is shown here that the evolution of enzyme production is facilitated by the existence of population structure in the distribution of the macromolecules associated with replication. Initially, this structure was created passively by the localization of the macromolecules in rock crevices, suspended water droplets, etc. Ultimately, the replicator along with its proteins were localized in a protocellular structure and this became the first organism. Thus, initially, the organism was one extreme of the population structure of the macromolecules associated with life. The organism was the culmination of the encapsulation phase of evolution which proceeded through initial phases of passive localization.
3882257|We compare and contrast the signalling systems and social behaviors of Alligator mississippiensis, Crocodylus acutus, and Crocodylus niloticus. Our qualitative analysis focuses primarily on the behaviors of adults during three phases of reproduction: I. Defense of Territory and Courtship, II. Nesting and Incubation, and III. Hatching and Post Hatching. Signals and signal elements are very similar among the three species. For example, all have vocal, non-vocal acoustic, and visual signals, some transmitted through air or water and others through both media. In addition, each species' repertoire is composed of discrete, graded and complex signals. A few signals are unique to each species. However, their signalling systems differ in the temporal organization of the behaviors, and in the relative frequency in which certain functional groups of signals occur or in which signals occur in a particular sensory mode. Apparently, the signalling systems of C. acutus and C. niloticus are more similar to each other than either is to the signalling system of A. mississippiensis. The signalling systems of the crocodile species appear to be adapted to open water habitats in which visual signals are advantageous and to high density breeding groups and post-copulatory intersexual contact. In contrast, the Alligator signalling system appears adapted to a marsh habitat in which vocal signals are likely favored and to low density breeding groups.
3882838|Movements of the oral apparatus begin during the fetal period and develop in a consistent order. Jaw opening appears first, followed by active jaw closure and tongue movements, lip movements, sucking, and finally masticatory movements. The later developing movements appear prenatally in precocious mammals such as guinea pigs and sheep, but are postnatal in altricial mammals such as rats, hamsters and rabbits. The orderly development of oral behavior is probably related to the progressive maturation of the nervous system and neuromuscular connections. Most newborn mammals feed exclusively by suckling, a combination of the tongue working against the nipple and negative pressure at the back of the oral cavity. The transition from suckling to mastication is gradual and involves considerable learning. In at least one species, the domestic pig, infant animals chew using a somewhat different muscular contraction pattern from that of adults. Age changes in muscle action lines are the most likely explanation for this difference. After being established in infancy, the process of mastication undergoes only minor changes in rate and relative muscle activity during the juvenile period. Throughout ontogeny there is a reciprocal relation between morphology and behavior. While masticatory performance depends on structure at any given stage, it also has profound effects on further musculoskeletal growth and differentiation.
3882788|The earliest fossil vertebrates, the ostracoderms, more than 500,000,000 years ago had skeletons which included the hard tissues calcified cartilage, bone, dentine and enamel. It seems plausible that the modes of mineralization pioneered in these primitive tissues have persisted throughout vertebrate radiation without major changes. All four types utilize the calcium phosphate mineral apatite to form inorganic crystallites which develop in close association with matrix proteins. In the collagen-associated tissues-calcified cartilage, bone and dentine-the short, needle- or lath-like crystallites develop along collagen fibrils. Non-collagenous components of the matrix in these tissues include proteoglycans, glycoproteins and matrix vesicles. Special calcium-binding or phosphatebinding constituents may promote crystal nucleation and growth. In enamel (enameloid) large hexagonal crystallites develop in association with the glycoproteins amelogenin and enamelin secreted by cells of the inner dental epithelium (ameloblasts). Enamel (enameloid) of the shark tooth resembles mammalian enamel in size and shape of crystallites. Biochemical and immunohistochemical techniques are being used in several laboratories to determine how these proteins control the mineralization of enamel, and whether they are homologous in all vertebrate classes.
3882012| Cellular interrelationships and synaptic connections in tentacles of several species of coelenterates were examined by means of electron microscopy to determine if neuromuscular pathways were present. The presence of sensory cells, ganglion cells, epitheliomuscular cells, interneuronal synapses, and neuromuscular junctions suggests that neuromuscular pathways are present in coelenterates. Naked axons without sheath cells form several synapses en passant with the same and with different epitheliomuscular cells as well as with nematocytes and other neurons. Interneuronal synapses and neuromuscular and neuronematocyte junctions have clear or dense-cored vesicles (700-1500  in diameter) associated with a dense cytoplasmic coat on the presynaptic membrane, a cleft (100-300  in width) with intracleft filaments, and a subsynaptic membrane with a dense cytoplasmic coat. At scyphozoan neuromuscular junctions there is a subsurface cisterna of endoplasmic reticulum, which is separated from the epitheliomuscular cell membrane by a narrow cytoplasmic gap (100-300  in width). Neuromuscular junctions in coelenterates resemble en passant axonal junctions with smooth muscle in higher animals. Morphological evidence is presented for a simple reflex involving a two-cell (sensory or ganglion-epitheliomuscular cell) or three-cell (sensory-ganglion-epitheliomuscular cell) pathway that may result in the coordinated contraction of the longitudinal muscle in tentacles of coelenterates. 
3883371| Severed distal stumps of nerve axons have now been reported to survive for months to years in both vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems. While low (<15C) temperatures may increase survival times in some preparations such as unmyelinated garfish olfactory axons, temperature between 15 and 25C is not the only significant factor determining the time course of survival in goldfish Mauthner axons and for many invertebrate axons. For example, when different axons in a crayfish are all studied at the same temperature, long term survival differs in different axons. In some cases, these differences appear to be due to differences in the nature of the glial reaction or the presence of synaptic contacts. The possible cellular mechanisms for long term survival fall into three general categories: slow degradation of axonal proteins, de novo axoplasmic protein synthesis, and transfer of proteins from adjacent cells to severed axonal stumps. In crayfish and squid giant axons, there is evidence that proteins are indeed transferred intact from glia to axons or from axon to axon, possibly via exocytotic/endocytotic processes. However, cellular mechanisms for long term survival may well differ in different axons of the same organism, much less between axons in organisms from different phyla. In particular, the glial sheaths of myelinated vertebrate axons which demonstrate long term survival might be expected to impede glial/axonal or axonal/axonal protein transfer. The study of long term survival of severed distal stumps is important for studies of axonal regeneration because axons in organisms having long survival times often show functional reconnection much more rapidly and with higher specificity than do axons in organisms lacking long survival times. The study of long term survival is also important to cell biologists for an understanding of the molecular mechanisms which allow a piece of cytoplasm separated from direct cytoplasmic contact with any nucleus to remain morphologically intact and functionally competent for months to years. 
3882379| In premetamorphic amphibians, the Mauthner cells (M-cells), a single pair of large neurons, are present in the medulla. M-cells differentiate early, are easily recognized morphologically, and in the axolotl embryo, may be approached experimentally: This system is a unique one for the study of neuronal development. The withdrawal of a neuron from the cell division cycle is an early event in its differentiation. Gastrulae, neurulae and tailbud embryos were each given a single injection of
3882152|The polar coordinate model for pattern regulation in epimorphic fields (French et al., 1976) predicts that bilaterally symmetrical fields will show different kinds of regulative behavior depending on the direction of the cut. These predictions have been tested using the male genital disc of Drosophila melanogaster. First, a detailed fate map was established by examining the fate of disc fragments subjected to immediate metamorphosis in host larvae. Then the regulative abilities of various fragments were examined by culturing them for seven days in adult abdomens, before transfer to larvae for metamorphosis. When the disc was bisected by a vertical cut (parallel to the line of symmetry) then fragments smaller than half of the disc underwent duplication with some simultaneous regeneration, while fragments larger than half of the disc underwent regeneration. If the disc was bisected by a bilaterally symmetrical cut across the line of symmetry, wound healing resulted in the confrontation of cells from similar positions on the right and left sides of the fragment, and no regulation occurred. With the exception of regeneration occurring during duplication of small lateral fragments, these results are as predicted by the polar coordinate model.
3883922|The nineteenth century was critical for the empirical and conceptual growth of developmental biology. Fishes played a central role in this process. The study of fish development, mainly that of teleosts but also chondrichthyans, can be traced back to classical times. In the nineteenth century, it merged with modern descriptive embryology, continued with the rise of comparative embryology associated with evolutionary studies, and moved into the experimental and physiological analysis of development. Any consideration of fish development must take into account that fishes phylogenetically are the most diverse group of the vertebrates and also the most speciose. These features are reflected in the diversity of their development. The descriptive embryology of fishes is reviewed from Aristotle to the beginning of the nineteenth century. The study of chondrichthyans, especially viviparous species, was characteristic of this period. During the nineteenth century, there was a progressive development of knowledge of the descriptive embryology of teleosts and chondrichthyans. Teleosts came to the fore because artificial fertilization ensured a ready supply of material and their transparent eggs were well suited for microscopy. The subsequent development of embryological microtechnique made possible the examination of sectioned material and moved research to a more cellular level. By the end of the century, an in-depth description of development was in place. Interest in the comparative embryology of fishes was stimulated by Haeckel's melding of embryology and evolution and led to a description of development of agnaths, chimaeras, lungfish, and primitive actinopterygian fishes. Experimental and analytical methods of inquiry began to be used at mid-century. The experiments of Ransom on the contractility of egg cytoplasm, Lereboullet's experimental teratology, chemical studies of embryonic nutrition in viviparous fishes, in vitro observation of blastomeres, His's concrescence theory of embryo formation and Kastschenko's and Morgan's testing of it are considered.
3883825|Though only a few naturalists have read much economic theory, current understandings of how biological diversity is being lost are largely framed by the models developed by economists over the past two centuries. There is more than a touch of irony here. While conservation biologists are challenging the course of economic development, their perception of the process of biodiversity loss is driven by historic patterns of economic reasoning that have become a part of popular consciousness. To be sure, the early economic models were designed to address the development of agriculture and the use of land. But agriculture is the most dependent on biodiversity. At the same time, the geographic expansion of agricultural activities and the choice of agricultural technologies have been the key driving force of biodiversity loss. Later economic models addressed the limits of markets to provide guiding signals for human interaction with the complexities of ecosystems. Even the way we frame how we should respond to the greatest long-term threat to biodiversity, the likelihood of climate change, is rooted in the economics of more than half a century ago. This article elaborates these economic framings of the interaction of economic systems with the environment and discusses their policy implications. One of the major problems is that even existing economic understandings of the processes of biodiversity loss are only accepted within a part of the economics profession because these understandings conflict with political ideologies held by most American economists. Thus processes of biodiversity loss are maintained, not for a lack of knowledge, but for a desire among people to maintain simple views of biological systems. Even the patterns of reasoning held by economists who do ponder biological systems, however, are inadequate. The paper concludes with suggestions of additional ways of modeling the interactions between human activity and biological systems which may provide further insight into how we might better maintain biological diversity.
3883616|In 1979 Bliss predicted that, "land crabs are and will undoubtedly continue to be promising objects of scientific research." Studies of rapid running ghost crabs support her contention and have resulted in several general findings relating to locomotion and activity. 1) Energy exchange mechanisms during walking are general and not restricted to quadrupedal and bipedal morphologies. 2) "Equivalent gaits," such as trots and gallops, may exist in 4-, 6- and 8-legged animals that differ greatly in leg and skeletal (i.e., exo- vs. endoskeletal) design. These findings support the hypothesis that terrestrial locomotion in many species can be modeled by an inverted pendulum or spring-mass system. 3) An open circulatory system and chitin-covered gills do not necessarily limit the rate at which oxygen consumption can be increased or the factorial increase in oxygen consumption over resting rates. 4) Interspecific and intraspecific (i.e., ontogenetic) scaling of sub-maximal oxygen consumption and maximal aerobic speed can differ significantly. 5) Locomotion at speeds above the maximal aerobic speed requiring non-aerobic contributions may be far more costly than can be predicted from aerobic costs alone. The cost of transport may attain a minimum at less than maximum speed. 6) The speed which elicits maximal oxygen consumption during continuous exercise is attained at moderate walking speeds in crabs and probably other ectotherms. Speeds 15- to 20-fold faster are possible, but cannot be sustained. 7) The low endurance associated with the low maximal oxygen consumption and maximal aerobic speed of ectotherms moving continuously can be increased or decreased by altering locomotor behavior and moving intermittently. Ectotherms can locomote at high speeds and travel for considerable distances or remain active for long periods by including rest pauses. Alternatively, intense activity with extended exercise periods or with short pause periods may actually reduce behavioral capacity or work accomplished relative to continuous activity during which the behavior is carried out at a lower intensity level without pauses.
3882170|Prolactin was first known as a stimulator of mammary secretion. It has since been found to induce secretion in the sebaceous glands of the mammal as well. It likewise stimulates secretory activity in the avian cropsac and in the mucous glands of fishes and of amphibians when thyroid hormone is also present. Prolactin has mitogenetic effects on a variety of structures including the amphibian stratum corneum and induces growth of the tail fin in larval anurans and in both larval and adult newts. Prolactin causes the regression of cornified tubercles in the skin of the newt yet synergizes with androgen in the presence of the thyroid hormone to induce the formation of keratinized nuptial pads. A similar synergism between prolactin and steroidal hormones produces avian incubation patches. There is indication that prolactin may facilitate the growth of hair in mammals but detailed information is lacking. Effects on pigmentation are attributed to prolactin in two fishes.
3882825|The color change system of crustaceans is being investigated along a broad front. The techniques being used include physiological, pharmacological, biochemical, immunocytochemical, and ultrastructural ones. The problems investigators are seeking answers to include the cellular bases for pigment granule translocation, the number and specificity of the chromatophorotropic hormones responsible for the color changes, and the identity of the neuroregulators (neurotransmitters and neuromodulators) that control the release of these hormones. With respect to the cellular bases of pigment granule translocation, microtubules and a microtrabecular lattice are prime candidates as organelles that might be responsible for the pigment granule movements. Pigment dispersing and pigment concentrating neuropeptides have been identified. Some exhibit no specificity with respect to the chromatophore type they activate. Others show high specificity, affecting only one specific type of chromatophore, such as the melanophore. Several putative neuroregulator candidates have been identified as possibly having a role in controlling chromatophorotropic hormone release. These include 5-hydroxytryptamine, dopamine, norepinephrine, octopamine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid. Some, like the first three, stimulate hormone release, whereas the latter two have inhibitory actions.
3881568|Evidence presented at this symposium lends support to the concept that the reptilian auditory apparatus shows major modifications which correlate with large taxonomic groups, and that lesser anatomical differences suggestive of adaptive change can be seen at subfamilial levels. Structures concerned with transmission, reception, and dampening of sonic vibratory energy are most frequently involved in modifications noted; thus, anatomical differences may account for diverse results of acoustic testing in reptiles. Preliminary investigation of the histology and cytology of certain features of the reptilian cochlear duct indicates considerable specialization at the cellular level and the need for continuing anatomical and physiological study.
3884134|The molecular processes by which estuarine organisms adjust to salinity change are the central focus of this review, with emphasis on identifying the relevant mechanisms in euryhaline crustaceans using the techniques of molecular biology. This review is not intended to be complete with respect to ecological and physiological aspects but rather is an attempt to outline a molecular approach which other investigators may find useful as they address their own specific questions. Membrane transporters of sodium ions serve as the major focus, beginning with an examination of candidate transport systems in gill epithelial cells. Particular emphasis is placed on the recent identification and sequencing of a putative Na
3882640|During oogenesis the fish oocytes accumulate several substances of which lipids and glycogen are the major energy substrates. Oocyte maturation is accompanied by an increase in all the enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism. After fertilization, respiration and glycogenolysis are increased and the energy charge is decreased. During early embryogenesis glycogen appears to be the only substrate of glycolysis. Glycolysis and the citric acid cycle are the main sources of energy for the biosynthetic activities and for the maintenance of embryo morphology. There are two patterns of ontogeny of glycolytic enzymes in trout embryos. One group of enzymes does not undergo appreciable changes whereas enzymes within the second group exhibit variable activities. Marked changes in enzyme activity occur during fertilization and gastrulation. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is of particular interest. Its activity increases during gastrulation. This increase in LDH activity is followed by a change in the isozyme pattern and in the adenylate charge. Immunochemical and histochemical localization of LDH revealed that its cellular distribution depends on the position of the cells in the embryo. Moving cells had higher levels of LDH activity. The lactate dehydrogenase isozymes appear to play an important role in the regulation of energy metabolism during fish embryogenesis. These gene products are useful biochemical markers of cellular differentiation and organogenesis.
3884350|In fish, the structural and functional characteristics of insulin and IGF-I receptors have been well studied. Current evidence indicates that all gnatostome animals, from fish to mammals, contain separate insulin and IGF-I molecules and specific receptors for insulin and IGF-I. However, qualitative differences in the functional aspects of insulin and IGF-I receptors among vertebrate species can account for variations in the biological activity of insulin and IGF-I. In this paper we will focus on the functional evolution of the insulin and IGF-I receptors in vertebrates and on the appearance of the unrelated IGF-II receptors.
3882301|The subject is the localization of three different hypophysiotropic centers in the brain of amphibians and fish. The thyrotropic hormone-releasing hormone (TRH) in Xenopus may originate from the dorsal magno-cellular neurons of the preoptic nucleus. This hypothesis is based on correlative changes between these cells and alterations in thyroid activity during metamorphosis. Experimental data are in support of a functional relationship between certain preoptic neurons and the thyrotropic activity of the pituitary. The MSH inhibiting activity of the hypothalamus is effected by means of an aminergic innervation of the pars intermedia in amphibians, teleosts and elasmobranchs. In amphibians the aminergic fibers originate from the caudal part of the paraventricular organ (PVO); in elasmobranchs probably from the nucleus medius hypothalamicus (NMI); in teleosts the origin still has to be investigated. Two centers producing gonadotropic hormone-releasing hormone (GRH) have been demonstrated. Lesion experiments lead to the hypothesis that GRH is produced in the caudal hypothalamus, i.e., in the nucleus infundibularis ventralis of amphibians and in the nucleus lateralis tuberis of fishes. Immunofluorescence studies indicate in both groups the presence of neurons, in front of the preoptic area in the telencephalon, and these neurons are immuno-reactive with anti-mammalian LH-RH.
3883806|In general, the song of each adult songbird is unique to that individual. Although some of the parameters of song result from maturational processes which are innately specified, the spectral and temporal parameters of song that confer individual specificity are acquired by learning. The specifics of an individual's song are reflected in idiosyncratic physiological properties of auditory neurons in song system nuclei such as the nucleus hyperstriatum ventrale pars caudale (HVc). We are exploring the transformation from classical auditory to song-specific neuronal properties. This transformation is a complex one which to date has not yielded to classical neuroanatomical and neurophysiological methods of analysis. Furthermore, the idiosyncratic nature of song system auditory response properties makes it difficult to collapse data across individuals. To address these issues, we have investigated a connectionist modelling approach. Our initial efforts have been directed at auditory neurons of the thalamus. In the thalamus, simple linear-static models that use average firing rates of responses to tone bursts have proven to be poor predictors of responses to song. In contrast, time-delay neural network (TDNN) architectures that are trained with time-varying responses to tone bursts using the backpropagation algorithm make excellent predictions of the responses to songs. We are currently extending these architectures in an attempt to capture salient features of the responses of song system auditory neurons.
3881898|The protozoan populations of soil, both free-living and parasitic, are discussed in relation to their size, distribution, biomass, and metabolic activity. Flagellates, small amoebae, and ciliates are the most widespread and active of free-living forms, while the distribution of parasites is related to the distribution of their hosts. The theory of partial sterilization, which first related protozoan populations to soil fertility, is discussed within the broader context of the soil organic cycle. The role of free-living protozoa as micropredators and the importance of the soil biomass, as well as fresh plant debris, as a substrate for microbial activity are emphasized. The nature and activity of the microbial population are related to plant productivity and the size of the soil animal biomass. It is suggested that comparatively small changes in population and biomass may be associated with greatly accelerated metabolic turnover where micropredation takes place. This suggestion is supported by data from microrespirometry experiments.
3883248|The low prevalence of schistosome-infected snails in hyperendemic habitats, and the demonstrated ability of snails, in general, to recognize and eliminate a myriad of foreign substances and/or infectious agents, lead to the postulate that host resistance to larval trematodes must be considered the "rule," while susceptibility (compatibility) represents an exceptional occurrence. In this review, we discuss a variety of possible mechanisms by which compatibility between trematodes and their molluscan host might be attained. Included among these are parasite mimicry of snail host molecules, prevention of opsonization, interference with hemocyte behavior or differential stimulation of hemocyte metabolic processes. Evidence that compatibility is the result of the ability of larvae to resist toxic host molecules or to acquire protective host components on their surface membranes is lacking. Clearly, there are multiple variables of both host and parasite origin which ultimately determine compatibility. Careful identification and dissection of these variables will be required before we achieve a complete understanding of how compatible snail-trematode associations are established and maintained.
3883526|Leeches have distinct advantages for investigating the behavioral functions of monoamines. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is synthesized by a population of identifiable neurons and stored at unusually high intracellular concentrations. Identified serotonergic neurons evoke biting, salivation and pharyngeal pumping, and neuronal 5-HT is required for these physiological components of leech feeding behavior. Those stimuli which initiate and terminate ingestion by intact leeches, excite and inhibit the 5-HT neurons respectively. Hence, leech 5-HT neurons are active in contexts in which the animal feeds. In leeches representing different orders of Hirudinea, homologous 5-HT neurons appear to have similar roles in feeding. Serotonin not only affects salivation, biting and pharyngeal peristalsis in these annelids, but also in nematodes, arthropods and molluscs. These comparative data suggest that serotonin may function generally in the modulation of feeding.
3882068|The theory of differentiation during regeneration by polarized specific repression in the bioelectric field as worked out in Tubularia is reviewed and brought up to date. Similarities between the studies with Tubularia and those on a variety of other organisms are discussed.
3884161|The stomatogastric nervous system of crustaceans, which controls the four parts of the foregut, is subject to modulation at all levels, sensory, central and motor. Modulation of the central pattern generators, which are themselves made up largely of motor neurons, provides for increased behavioral flexibility in a variety of ways. First, each of the pattern generators can be reconfigured to give multiple outputs. Second, the "boundaries" of the different pattern generators are in fact somewhat fluid, so that the neuronal composition of the pattern generators can be altered. For example, neurons can switch from one pattern generator to another, or two or more pattern generators can fuse to generate an entirely new pattern and thereby produce a new behavior. The mechanisms responsible for many of these modulations include alterations of both intrinsic properties and synaptic interactions between neurons. In addition, the alteration of membrane properties contributes more directly to the behavioral output by changing action potential frequency. Finally, the muscles of the stomatogastric system can themselves be modulated, with the cpv1 muscle, for example, becoming an endogenous oscillator in the presence of either dopamine or the peptide FMRFamide.
3882940|The objectives of this paper are to describe 1) the development of new research systems for biochemical comparison of cellular traits between normal and tumorous pigment cells of fish origin, 2) the similarity and dissimilarity between these two categories of pigment cells with regard to growth, differentiation and pigment translocating activities and 3) the potentials of these tumorous pigment cells to manifest multiple differentiation. The development of research systems has been achieved by the establishment of 1) methods to obtain homogenous populations of viable, cultivatable xanthophores (erythrophores) and melanophores from goldfish skins, 2) permanent cell lines from goldfish erythrophoromas (tumors derived from erythrophores) and from Nibe croaker irido-melanophoromas (tumors composed of mixed populations of iridophore- and melanophore-like cells) and 3) procedures to induce differentiation in normal and tumorous stem cells (including the formation of pigments and ability to undergo pigment translocation in response to cAMP, to the neurotransmitter epinephrine and to the hormones ACTH and melatonin). Two kinds of tumorous pigment cell lines examined herein have the ability to form, in addition to various pigments, structures similar to dermal skeletons and lentoid bodies. These findings strongly suggest the possibility that these fish pigment cell tumors are neural crest stem cell tumors in nature.
3883382|Measures of energy expenditure by free-living birds can provide quantitative tests of a number of ecological theories, regarding such diverse phenomena as foraging strategies, resource competition, or parental investment. Our confidence in these tests rests heavily on the confidence we have in the estimated rates of energy expenditure. The most common approach to obtaining such estimates is the construction of time-energy budgets, in which the durations of an animal's daily activities are multiplied by the respective energy costs of the activities, and these costs are summed. Our knowledge of the energy costs of activities, particularly locomotion, has greatly advanced in recent years, as has the ability to adequately assess thermoregulatory costs. Comparisons between time-energy budgets and direct measures of energy expenditure obtained using doubly labeled water indicate that time-energy budgets can yield accurate estimates of energy expenditure. However, this is likely to be achieved only under fairly rigorous conditions in which resting costs, activity costs, and thermoregulatory costs are all well described. Evidence is accumulating to suggest that, under some conditions, energy expenditure by birds reaches a maximum sustainable level, at which point it is limited by the physiological capacities to ingest and assimilate energy. Under these conditions, behavioral responses to changing physical environments and resource availability may be critical to the maintenance of energy balance.
3883724|Endemic terrestrial tree snails of the Hawai'ian Islands, like those of other oceanic islands and even some continental areas, are extremely sensitive to disturbance because of their low population numbers and small geographic ranges. Like many other plants and animals of oceanic islands, they have evolved no defenses against introduced predators and competitors. The range of Achatinella mustelina, a tree-snail species found only in a short mountain range on the island of O'ahu, typifies this problem. Mark-recapture studies at two field locations reveal that the snails exhibit slow growth and late maturity (3-5 years). Fecundity is estimated at about 7 offspring per adult per year. The young are born live at about 4.6 mm. Population growth typically depends on considerable longevity (>10 years). Demographic effects of the depredations by alien predators, rats and a North American predatory snail, Euglandina rosea, were documented in two long-term study sites. The predatory snail eats all sizes of A. mustelina and can rapidly drive populations to extinction (less than one year). Rats tend to select larger snails as prey and may leave an area before destroying all of the prey snails present; while reproductive output is temporarily destroyed, populations may survive. Actions necessary to conserve Hawai'ian tree snails, or indeed any group of relatively sedentary invertebrates with small species ranges, must include predator abatement, but also preservation and restoration of sufficiently large and complex forest habitats that the invertebrates may find refuge from alien predators.
3882781|The integument of decapod crustaceans consists of an outer epicuticle, an exocuticle, an endocuticle and an inner membranous layer underlain by the hypodermis. The outer three layers of the cuticle are calcified. The mineral is in the form of calcite crystals and amorphous calcium carbonate. In the epicuticle, mineral is in the form of spherulitic calcite islands surrounded by the lipid-protein matrix. In the exo- and endocuticles the calcite crystal aggregates are interspersed with chitin-protein fibers which are organized in lamellae. In some species, the organization of the mineral mirrors that of the organic fibers, but such is not the case in certain cuticular regions in the xanthid crabs. Thus, control of crystal organization is a complex phenomenon unrelated to the gross morphology of the matrix. Since the cuticle is periodically molted to allow for growth, this necessitates a bidirectional movement of calcium into the cuticle during postmolt and out during premolt resorption of the cuticle. In two species of crabs studied to date, these movements are accomplished by active transport effected by a Ca-ATPase and Na/Ca exchange mechanism. The epi- and exocuticular layers of the new cuticle are elaborated during premolt but do not calcify until the old cuticle is shed. This phenomenon also occurs in vitro in cuticle devoid of living tissue and implies an alteration of the nucleating sites of the cuticle in the course of the molt.
3882181|Ultrastructural observations were made on the egg and early cleavage stages (2-, 4-, 8-, and 24-cell stages). An attempt was made to discern the nature of the "subcortical accumulations" (SCA) previously described at the light microscope level of resolution. A variety of organelles can be found at the periphery of the egg and embryos, but none of them are specific to this region. Although the morphological basis for the SCA could not be attributed to a particular morphological entity it is apparent that the SCA are not due to a specific large organelle (such as yolk platelets, lipid droplets, mitochondria) or a particular distribution or aggregation of such organelles. The SCA could be due to a cytochemical differentiation in the cytoplasmic matrix but it seems more likely that they reflect a differential accumulation of small organelles, possibly ribosomes.
3884455|Conrad Hal Waddington (1905-1975) did not respect the traditional boundaries established between genetics, embryology, and evolutionary biology. Rather, he viewed them together as a "diachronic biology." In this diachronic biology, evolutionary change was caused by heritable alterations in development. Stabilizing selection within the embryo was followed by normative selection on the adult. To explain evolution, Waddington had to invent many concepts and terms, some of which have retained their usage and some of which have not. In this paper I seek to explicate Waddington's ideas and evaluate their usefulness for contemporary evolutionary developmental biology.
3883213|In the 1840s and 1850s professional naturalists dredged shallow sea-water on the eastern coast of the United States to obtain marine specimens for teaching and research. In 1871 Spencer F. Baird, first U.S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, organized a marine biological laboratory at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, for basic biological research as well as for practical fishery biology. In 1873 Louis Agassiz established his summer marine station for teachers on Penikese Island, which stimulated others, especially some of his former students, to do likewise along the eastern coast in subsequent years, culminating in the renowned Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole (1888). On the Pacific coast the pioneer marine laboratories were the Hopkins Marine Laboratory (1892) and the prestigious Scripps Institute of Oceanography in California (1903), and the Puget Sound Biological Station, later known as the Friday Harbor Laboratories, in Washington (1903). Today, over 50 marine laboratories are in operation in the 21 contiguous coastal states for education and research in marine biology.
3882555|In 1905, mosquitofish were introduced to sugar plantation reservoirs in Hawaii. Collections of at least 250 fish from each of 24 reservoirs, 4 stable and 20 fluctuating in water level, demonstrated that there were small but significant differences in the life history traits of fish from stable and fluctuating classes of reservoirs, and large and significant differences among stocks from individual reservoirs. Fish from 2 stable and 4 fluctuating reservoirs were then raised in individual containers with controlled food and temperature. Age and length at maturity, growth rates, and size of offspring all differed significantly among stocks. Broad-sense heritabilities were significantly greater than zero for female age at maturity for fish from one of two stable reservoirs, and for male maturation traits for fish from two of four fluctuating reservoirs. Rates of evolution, calculated from the maximum difference between the means of lab-raised stocks and assuming 140 generations since 1905 and continuous change, ranged from 0.1% to 0.5% of the average value of the trait per generation. The traits that changed more rapidly were also more phenotypically plastic, thus suggesting that phenotypic plasticity cannot account for stasis in the fossil record. The concept of plastic trajectories is introduced and exemplified, and predictions are made about how age and length at maturity should alter under stress for organisms with different demographic histories.
3882951|The hypothesis is discussed that the general endocrine function of thyroid hormone in lower vertebrates is concerned with growth, development, and reproduction. Examples are given of possible heightened thyroid function during segments of the life cycles of lamprey, Pacific salmon, some amphibians, and some reptiles. Studies of the occurrence of components of the thyroid system in vertebrate classes suggest that pituitary control of the thyroid through thyroid stimulating hormone may be absent in agnathans and present in gnathostomes. The hypothesis is discussed that regulation of thyroid endocrine function through control of hormone metabolism and target tissue sensitivity is a phylogenetically ancient mechanism.
3881642| Electron microscopic studies are reported on glycerinated skeletal and cardiac muscle of a benthic fish, Coryphaenoides species. In white skeletal muscle, the sarcomeres have a resting length of approximately 1.8 , with thick filaments 1.4  and thin filaments 0.75  in length. These dimensions are somewhat shorter than filament lengths of other vertebrate muscles, possibly due to the effect of volume increase during assembly of thick and thin filaments at high hydrostatic pressure. During ATP-induced contraction of Coryphaenoides muscle from sarcomere lengths of 1.8  to 1.6 , there is a characteristic interdigitation of thick and thin filaments, with decrease in I band length and no change in length of thick or thin filaments. However, in sarcomeres contracted to lengths of 1.5  to 1.2 , there is a slight shortening of the A band, apparently due to shortening of thick filaments, that occurs despite the presence of residual I band in the same sarcomeres. There is no obvious crumpling or distortion of thick filaments during contraction to sarcomere lengths as low as 1.0 , but filament organization undergoes extensive disarray at sarcomere lengths approaching 0.7 . Although effects from heterogeneity of filament length cannot be excluded with certainty, the present evidence does suggest that contraction of Coryphaenoides muscle from 1.6  to 1.0  sarcomere length is accompanied by shortening of thick filaments consequent to a structural change within the thick filament core. 
3882367|One prevalent view of phylogenetic events in advanced snakes holds that the fangs evolved along at least two pathways, one (e.g., elapids) from ancestors with enlarged anterior and the other (e.g., viperids) from ancestors with enlarged posterior maxillary teeth. Selective forces driving these changes are presumed to arise from the increasing advantages of teeth and glands in venom injection. In this paper, another plausible view of these events is proposed. First, fangs of both elapids and viperids likely evolved from rear maxillary teeth. In non-venomous snakes, differences in tooth morphology and function suggest that there may be some division of labor among anterior and posterior maxillary teeth. Anterior maxillary teeth, residing forward in the mouth, likely serve the biological role of snaring and impaling prey during the strike. They are also conical, frequently recurved, and lack a secretion groove. On the other hand, posterior teeth, because of their geometric position on the maxilla and mechanical advantages, tend to serve as aids in preingestion manipulation and swallowing of prey. They are often blade-shaped and occasionally bear a secretion groove along their sides. Although both front and rear maxillary teeth of nonvenomous snakes may be elongated, this is likely to serve these different functional roles and hence they evolved under different selective pressures. When fangs evolved, they did so several times independently, but from rear maxillary teeth. In support, one notes a) the similar position, postorbital, of venom and Duvernoy's glands, b) similar embryonic development of fangs and rear maxillary teeth, c) secretion groove, when present, is found only on rear teeth, and d) similar biological roles of some rear teeth and fangs. For ease in clearance of the prey during the strike, the fangs are positioned forward in the mouth, accomplished in viperid snakes by forward rotation of the maxilla and elapids by rostral anatomical migration to the front of the maxilla. Second, the adaptive advantage first favoring initial rear tooth enlargement likely centered not on their role in venom injection, but rather on their role in preingestion manipulation and swallowing. However, once enlarged, teeth would be preadapted for later modification into fangs under selection pressures arising from advantages of venom introduction. This has implications for the function and evolution of associated structures. Besides possibly subduing or even killing of prey, the secretion of Duvernoy's gland may be involved in digestion or in neutralizing noxious or fouling products of the prey. The presence or absence of constriction need not be functionally tied to absence or presence of venom injection. The phylogenetic pathways outlined herein were likely traveled several times independently in advanced snakes.
3882598|The hypotrich ciliates possess a highly localized ciliature arranged in a predictable asymmetric and polarized fashion. They also possess a large repertoire of developmental alternatives, including morphogenesis of ciliature prior to fission, as well as during regeneration and reorganization. They also undergo a cystment process in which all visible ciliature dedifferentiates during cyst formation but redifferentiates upon emergence from the cyst. These organisms thus are highly suitable for analysis of cell patterning in eucaryotic unicells. Analysis of various types of experimentally induced cortical anomalies reveals that the final pattern of the cortex in these ciliates is determined by at least three distinct informational systems. Two of these systems are inherited cytotactically; one is independent of the presence of visible structure and provides information for the polarity and asymmetry of developmental fields as well as serving as a potential initiation site for a complete set of cortical structures, whereas the second is dependent upon visible ciliature and provides local information for structure-type and polarity of new ciliary structures. The third informational system, developmental assessment, operates coordinately with the other two and generates the final ciliary pattern of the morphostatic ciliate. Currently the molecular bases of each of these informational sets remain unknown.
3881643| The swimbladder gas gland is recognized as a cholesterol synthesis site in abyssal rattail fishes, Coryphaenoides sp. (from 2000 m depth), and Galpagos Islands surface fish, Orthopristis forbesi, Seriola mazatlana, and Sphoeroides annulatus. This relates to high levels of cholesterol in the gas gland (up to 21% of lipid) and high cholesterol levels in the fatty swimbladder interior (up to 49% of lipid). The gas gland has more protein (45.4%) than the internal fatty mass (18%). Lipids synthesized include phospholipids and triglycerides in 2:1 ratio in the gas gland and 1:2 ratio in the liver. Deep fish have fatty livers (66%) compared to shallow fish (28%). Shallow fish incorporated five times as much
3882575|The ability of animals to recognize and classify others reflects the selective pressures acting on individuals within a particular social framework. Data on recognition therefore allow us to consider social structure from the animal's point of view. Here we review data on recognition within groups of free-ranging vervet monkeys, and present evidence of recognition across groups. Within groups, experiments suggest that animals may proceed beyond simple discriminations of kin and non-kin to create a taxonomy in which group members are both distinguished as individuals and grouped into higher order units, apparently on the basis of matrilineal kinship. Across groups, observation indicates that male transfer is non-random, and that the exchange of males between groups is correlated with reduced aggression. Playback experiments demonstrate that monkeys associate the vocalizations of particular individuals with particular groups. We conclude that the social organization of vervet monkeys is best regarded as a "community" of groups, within which individuals recognize each other and share a high degree of genetic relatedness despite the maintenance of otherwise discrete social units.
3881991|Play among four pairs of adult male and infant rhesus monkeys is described and compared to mother-infant and peer play. Data were collected while the adult males reared the infants for a period of 7 months in the absence of mothers and peers. Types of play were categorized as solitary, parallel, and interactive. Sex differences in play patterns are described, as are antecedent and consequent events. Adult male-infant play was found to be of much greater intensity and mean duration than mother-infant play.
3881879|The sex-limited blood protein, vitellogenin, of the silkmoth Hyalophora cecropia was isolated by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose employing a Tris-citrate buffer system, and chemical and physical measurements have been performed on the purified product. It was found to be a lipophosphoprotein with a molecular weight of 500,000.
3884286|The evolution of birds and feathers are examined in terms of the aerodynamic constraints imposed by the arboreal and cursorial models of flight evolution. The cursorial origin of flight is associated with the putative coelurosaurian ancestry of birds. As presently known, coelurosaurs have a center of mass located in the pelvic region and an elongated pubis that is ventrally or anteriorly directed. Both of these characteristics make it difficult to postulate an origin of flight that would involve a gliding phase because the abdomen cannot be flattened into an aerodynamic shape. Moreover, the cursorial model must counteract gravity using the hindlimb and, thus, selection for the power requirement for lift-off would not focus on the forelimb. Therefore, if the hypothesis proposing a coelurosaurian ancestry of birds is to remain viable, it must be via an as yet undiscovered taxon that is compatible with the morphological and aerodynamic constraints imposed by flight evolution. The arboreal model, currently centers around non-dinosaurian taxa and is more parsimonious in that early archosaurs have short pubes that do not preclude an aerodynamic body profile. Moreover, the arboreal proavis uses gravity to create the airflow over the body surfaces and is, thus, energy efficient. Consideration of the initial aerodynamic roles of feathers and feather design are consistent with a precursory gliding phase. Whether avian ancestry lies among coelurosaur theropods or earlier archosaurs, we must remain mindful of the complex aerodynamic dictates of gliding and powered flight and avoid formalistic approaches that coopt sister taxa, with their known body form, as functional ancestors.
3884253|Newly settled or hatched juveniles of marine benthic invertebrates generally experience very high mortality. Juvenile mortality can profoundly affect adult populations, but little is known about how individual variation in juvenile quality affects performance. Several recent studies have demonstrated that differences in size, larval nutrient stores, or larval feeding history can strongly affect the performance (measured as growth and survivorship) of juveniles. Additional research suggests that the strength of the effect of juvenile size on performance may be mediated by variation in environmental stress in the intertidal, a habitat characterized by strong fluctuations in abiotic factors. The major sources of juvenile snail mortality are likely to differ in intertidal and subtidal habitats; abiotic stresses related to exposure, such as desiccation, are important in the intertidal but far less severe in subtidal environments. Previously observed trends in hatching or settlement size between intertidal and subtidal species from three gastropod taxa may be due to differing selective regimes acting on initial juvenile size.
3883025|The last 25 years have seen a renaissance in the use of structural principles in biological study. Analytical methods have been refined and new concepts introduced. Systematic applications have imposed new demands because cladistic methods have emphasized the need for correct interpretations of individual characters. Developmental approaches now permit association of characters; however, newly described genetic mechanisms may pose questions about structural criteria for homology. Structural characters prove significant, both in evaluation of the possible roles of morphological characteristics and in establishing the reality and level of adaptation. Morphology, ever more, is an area of active researches promising significant results.
3882903|Some hydrolytic enzymes are common to the pancreas, the mammalian salivary glands and the snake venom glands. Phospholipase A, which is found in elapid and viperid venoms and in the mammalian pancreas, shows 29 common amino acid residues out of 118-125 positions. Presynaptic neurotoxins and other venom toxins are usually composed of 2-3 units or subunits, one of which is a phospholipase. The Vipera palaestinae two-component toxin retains its lethality when the enzyme is replaced by heterologous venom phospholipases, but not by the pig pancreatic enzyme. This toxin is neutralized by a factor found in the blood serum of snakes, which binds to the phospholipase and inhibits its activity. The blood serum of snakes also neutralizes hemorrhagins and inhibits the protease activity of the venom. It is hypothesized that the developing venom glands first produced enzymes that were already secreted by the pancreas and against which inhibitors were present in the blood. These inhibitors facilitated the evolution of enzyme-based toxins by neutralizing any damaging substances that might have escaped from the venom glands.
3882023|The development of locomotor systems in the lobster Homarus americanus is described. The tail-flip escape response is fully developed when the larvae hatch, and occurs without the participation of giant fibers. The abdominal swimmerets are undifferentiated at hatching, but are fully developed two to three weeks later when the animals molt to the fourth larval stage. Forward locomotion in the pelagic larvae is achieved using thoracic swimming appendages until the fourth larval stage, when these degenerate and the swimmerets assume the locomotor role. The hypothesis that peripheral structures specify the central nervous connections of motoneurons during ontogeny was tested in the swimmeret system. Presumptive swimmeret appendages, including prospective muscle and sense organs, were extirpated prior to their differentiation in newly hatched larvae. The corresponding swimmeret motoneurons nevertheless grew and formed normal central connections, as evidenced by the appearance of normal patterns of rhythmic locomotor discharge and normal reflexes at the usual time. Moreover, swimmeret motoneurons retained normal patterns of motor output even when the regeneration of their target appendages was prevented for as long as two months. Therefore, the formation of normal motor output patterns during ontogeny is not dependent upon feedback from differentiated target muscle nor from sense organs which normally monitor the results of the motor activity.
3882748|The mechanical properties of a soft tissue are related to its structure. We shall illustrate this by the properties of the arteries and the lung. Viscoelasticity, strain rate effects, pseudo-elasticity, and constitutive equations are discussed. The mecahnical properties of an organ is, however, not only based on the tissues of the organ, but also on its geometry and relationship to the neighboring organs. A typical example is the blood vessel. The capillary blood vessels of the mesentery are "rigid"; those in the bat's wing are "distensible"; whereas the capillaries of the lung are "sheet" like: rigid in one plane, and compliant in another. The stress-strain relationship of the systemic arteries is highly nonlinear, stiffening exponentially with increasing strains; yet that of the pulmonary arteries in the lung is linear. The systemic veins are easily collapsible; yet the pulmonary veins in the lung are not: they remain patent when the blood pressure falls below the alveolar gas pressure. The explanation of these differences lies in the varied interactions between the blood vessels and the surrounding tissues different organs. The implications of these differences on blood circulation are pointed out. The role of ultrastructure is discussed.
3882686|Ascidian larvae settle and metamorphose after only a brief free-swimming period; they are all lecithotrophic. Extrinsic factors (chemical and physical) may trigger metamorphosis but none are known to be essential. The major larval structures may be classified as transitory larval organs (TLO), prospective juvenile organs (PJO) or larval-juvenile organs (LJO). TLO are phagocytized or otherwise destroyed at metamorphosis; the PJO and LJO become the functional parts of the juvenile or oozooid. Metamorphosis involves some rapid and some slow morphogenetic movements. Variations in larval morphology are reflected in metamorphosis. Some of the events of metamorphosis are fairly well known in terms of the role of specific cells but we know little about how the various events are initiated and coordinated. The nervous system is more complex than had been previously assumed. The nervous system, neuroid conduction and diffusion of one or more humoral factors are probably all involved in controlling metamorphosis.
3882157| The evagination of imaginal leg discs to produce legs is a useful model for studying morphogenesis. Evagination of imaginal leg discs occurs in vitro in defined culture media in the presence of the molting hormone -ecdysone. Evagination involves limited, organized movement of imaginal disc cells. The movement appears to be a result of contractile activity, coordinated with the presence of appropriate structural and surface properties of disc cells. However, ecdysone does not produce its effects directly, but acts through the genome to cause evagination. Evagination is a result then of increased synthesis of different proteins, one of which is myosin. If the results on discs are generalizable they indicate that similar morphogenetic processes are the direct result of the readout of the specific genetic programs. 
3884043| This review focuses on the energetics of advertisement calls in frogs and insects (mostly ensiferans). I also review a number of methodological questions relating to the most appropriate ways to normalize metabolic rates for calling animals and to calculate efficiency of sound production. Although the mechanism of sound production is very different in these groups (vocalization vs. stridulation), net metabolic costs normalized to mass are similar among species producing the most conspicuous calls. Features of the call that interact to determine energetic cost include repetition rate, call duration, and intensity (sound pressure level). Anurans tend to produce louder (more intense) calls while ensiferans tend to produce sound during a greater proportion of the calling bout. All evidence suggests that advertisement calls are produced aerobically and the aerobic costs are similar or exceed the aerobic (but not necessarily total costs) of terrestrial locomotion. The pattern of radiated sound tends to be constant within a species and can be predicted to some degree from characteristics of an animal's acoustic radiator. Efficiency of sound production (acoustic power/net metabolic power) is low (0.05 to 6%) and variable when compared to locomotion (10-20%). From the present sample it appears that frogs are more efficient than ensiferans, but as more katydids are studied this trend may not hold. Of the factors that have been identified as determining efficiency the most important are the match between the size of the radiator and wavelength radiated, the absorption properties of the environment immediately around the animal, and the presence or absence of structures such as baffles and acoustic burrows. 
3883756|We describe a mechanistic individual-based model of how global macroclimatic constraints affect the energy budgets of ectothermic animals. The model uses macroclimatic and biophysical characters of the habitat and organism and tenets of heat transfer theory to calculate hourly temperature availabilities over a year. Data on the temperature dependence of activity rate, metabolism, food consumption and food processing capacity are used to estimate the net rate of resource assimilation which is then integrated over time. We detail and explore the significance of assumptions used in these calculations. We present a new test of this model in which we show that the predicted energy budget sizes for 11 populations of the lizard Sceloporus undulatus are in close agreement with observed results from previous field studies. This demonstrates that model tests are feasible and the results are reasonable. Further, since the model represents an upper bound to the size of the energy budget, observed residual deviations form explicit predictions about the effects of environmental constraints on the bioenergetics of the study lizards within each site that may be tested by future field and laboratory studies. Three major new improvements to our modeling are discussed. We present a means to estimate microclimate thermal heterogeneity more realistically and include its effects on field rates of individual activity and food consumption. Second, we describe an improved model of digestive function involving batch processing of consumed food. Third, we show how optimality methods (specifically the methods of stochastic dynamic programming) may be included to model the fitness consequences of energy allocation decisions subject to food consumption and processing constraints which are predicted from the microclimate and physiological modeling. Individual-based models that incorporate macroclimatic constraints on individual resource acquisition, assimilation and allocation can provide insights into theoretical investigations about the evolution of life histories in variable environments as well as provide explicit predictions about individual, population and community level responses to global climate change.
3881870|Crickets, katydids, grasshoppers, and cicadas should be ideal for illustrating character displacement. Their species-specific calling songs are of direct importance to reproductive success, and species with similar songs and overlapping ranges should develop greater differences in their songs in areas of sympatry. Although many pairs of species have suitably similar songs and overlapping ranges and the data concerning songs are extensive for crickets and katydids, no convincing example of character displacement has been found in acoustic insects. Lack of such examples can be attributed to false premises, to divergence completed in allopatry, to elimination of geographical variation in song by gene flow between the zone of sympatry and the zones of allopatry, and to the scanty sample that has been intensively studied.
3883942|Internal hypoxia in vertebrates occurs during anemia, when blood oxygen ( O
3881657| Biochemical adaptation to environmental parameters such as temperature appears to involve two distinct types of changes in the organism's chemistry. On the one hand, the quantities of certain molecular species present in the cells may change. Alternatively, the actual types of molecules present may vary. Rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) acclimated to warm and cold temperatures exhibit a striking example of this latter type of adaptation. For all enzymes we have examined in this species, distinct "warm" and "cold" isozymes are present. The isozymes found in warm-acclimated (18C) trout function well only at temperatures above 10-12C. The isozymes present in cold-acclimated (4C) trout function optimally at 2-5C, temperatures this species normally encounters in winter. These data, plus information on comparable changes in membrane lipids, lead us to propose that adult poikilotherms may undergo a considerable degree of "biochemical restructuring" on a seasonal basis. The factors which control this "restructuring," and the rates at which the process occurs at high and low temperatures, are topics for future investigation. 
3882246|Histologic studies made on three species of articulate brachiopods provide information on the structural integrity, epithelial specialization and other cellular aspects of the lophophore. Similarities in staining properties of granular inclusions found in the matrix with those found in epithelial modifications of the brachial trough and the bases of the filaments suggest movement between cells within the matrix and the epithelium. The nature of the granular inclusions raises the possibility of intracellular digestion along the lophophore of these brachiopods.
3884022|There is a substantial literature exploring the behavioral consequences of developmental lead exposure in the monkey; deficits have been observed on a number of tasks assessing learning and memory including spatial delayed alternation, discrimination reversal, matching to sample, and concurrent discrimination. Differences in performance between control and lead-exposed monkeys have also been observed on intermittent schedules of reinforcement. Comparison of the effects of lead with the extensive literature on the consequences of lesions in discrete areas of brain on the same tasks may provide insight into the possible sites of brain damage responsible for lead-induced behavioral impairment. Available data strongly suggest that prefrontal cortical areas are damaged by lead, based on the pattern of performance deficits across specific tasks. In addition, a constellation of global deficits including perseveration, increased distractibility, inability to change response strategy, and inability to inhibit inappropriate responding are hallmarks of both prefrontal damage and developmental lead exposure. Evidence also implicates basal forebrain structures in behavior impairment produced by lead based on the pattern of deficits across numerous tasks, although the evidence is much weaker than for prefrontal cortex. In contrast, the pattern of behavioral impairment produced by limbic system lesions is different in many respects from that produced by lead; in addition, the scant neuropathological data available suggest that limbic structures are not a target of lead even at high blood lead levels in the monkey. Comparison of the pattern of damage following lead exposure with the effects of lesions, presented here, provides direction for further morphological or neurochemical exploration of lead-induced brain damage in the monkey.
3882220|Mammary explants from midpregnant mice were cultured for up to 96 hr with various combinations of insulin, prolactin, and corticosterone. Labeled glucose was added to cultures at 4 hr prior to termination, and explant morphology, glucose uptake, and lipid synthesis were studied in hormone-free and hormone-containing media. The results show that without hormones, explants take up glucose and synthesize lipid at minimal rates. After 48 hr these activities appear to be primarily those of adipose tissue since epithelial and connective tissue degenerate without hormones. Insulin increases cell number for 24 hr and maintains survival for 96 hr. Its stimulatory effect on lipogenesis precedes its enhancement of glucose uptake. The addition of prolactin to insulin-containing cultures has little effect on glucose uptake and lipogenesis, but stimulates minimal secretion in alveolar lumina. The absence of intracellular vacuoles indicates that these products probably contain little lipid. Corticosterone enhances the effects of insulin on lipid synthesis, but has little apparent effect on the secretory morphology of the alveoli. The three-hormone combination has no effect on glucose uptake above that obtained with insulin alone; however, it induces marked increases in lipid synthesis as well as maximal morphological secretion by 48 hr. Thus, as for other lactogenic responses in vitro, insulin, prolactin, and corticosterone act synergistically to stimulate lipid synthesis in mammary explants.
3883471|Migratory behavior and flight metabolism are influenced by many neuroendocrine factors. In fish engaged in migration from fresh water to the sea, prolactin and/or thyroid hormones often play key roles in migration and salinity preference. Prolactin induces migration to the water and the changes of second metamorphosis in a number of amphibians, and thyroid hormone may stimulate movement away from water. In birds there is evidence that prolactin, cortical steroids, thyroid hormones, gonadotropins and gonadal steroids can all influence migration; considerable interspecies variation exists. Juvenile hormone stimulates oogenesis and migratory behavior in several insects, but has no effect or causes flight muscle degeneration in others. It may serve to coordinate oogenesis, adult diapause and migration, particularly in colonizing species. Other neuroendocrine products have been implicated in control of migratory behavior or flight metabolism of insects including ecdysone, adipokinetic hormones and octopamine.
3884492|Flatworms (phylum Platyhelminthes) are favourite organisms in Developmental Biology and Zoology because of their extraordinary powers of regeneration and because they may hold a pivotal place in the origin and evolution of the Bilateria. Hox genes play key roles in both processes: setting up the new anteroposterior pattern in the former, and as qualitative markers of phylogenetic affinities among bilaterian phyla in the latter. We have searched for Hox and ParaHox genes in several flatworm groups spanning from freshwater triclads to marine polyclads and, more recently, in the acoels, the likely earliest extant bilaterian. We have isolated and sequenced eight Hox genes from the freshwater triclad Girardia tigrina and three Hox and two ParaHox genes from the polyclad Discocelis tigrina. Data from the acoels Paratomella rubra and Convoluta roscoffensis is also reported. Flatworm Hox sequences and 18S rDNA sequence data support clear affinities of Platyhelminthes to spiralian lophotrochozoans. The basal position of acoel flatworms supported from recent 18S rDNA data, remains still uncertain. Expression of Hox genes in intact and regenerating adult organisms show nested patterns with graded anterior expression boundaries, or ubiquitous expression. New approaches to study the function of Hox genes in flatworms, such as RNA interference are briefly discussed.
3884507|Both the anatomy and function of the mammalian masticatory system have attracted substantial interest. This review will discuss the general mammalian feeding patterns. An overview will be given of the evolutionary development and ontogeny of these patterns, the influence of occlusal forces, and recent developments in computer modeling. In mammals, basic symmetrical food transport cycles have been described for lapping and soft food ingestion. To increase chewing efficiency, a unilateral occlusal motion has been evolved replacing the slow closing phase in the basic cycle. The relative uniformity of the mammalian jaw-closer motor patterns during this chewing behavior, as characterized by electromyography (EMG), is striking. Nevertheless, several adaptations, clearly different from the primitive mammalian asymmetric masticatory motor pattern, can be distinguished. In contrast to the relative uniformity in motor patterns, the anatomical diversity of jaw systems is impressive and probably reflects the adaptation to diet. Detailed studies on the influence of occlusal force have been performed in the last decade. Data suggest that the masticatory cycles are largely shaped by sensory feedback. Also, the suckling food intake preceding mastication has been a point of interest. The suckling motor pattern resembles that of mastication, suggesting that the transition could be gradual during postnatal development. Recently, dynamic computer 3D-modeling has emerged as an analytical tool. The approach has the potential to help explain how structure and function interact.
3882168|In every instance tested, responses to prolactin in fish, frogs, lizards, birds and mammals vary markedly during the day. At certain intervals prolactin may stimulate gains in body fat stores, whereas at other intervals it may cause fat losses. Similarly, there are specific times for gonadal prosteroidogenic and antisteroidogenic activities, augmentation of body growth, inhibition of amphibian metamorphosis, pigeon cropsac stimulation, induction of migratory restlessness, and the control of migratory orientation. Prolactin interacts with other hormones in several ways depending on their temporal relations. Changing relations between the daily rhythms of prolactin and the corticosteroid rhythms are thought to control the orderly and coordinated sequences of physiological and behavioral conditions during the annual cycle and in development.
3881672|The predatory boring habit common to many recent snails probably arose first in the Polinicinae (Naticacea) during Upper Cretaceous (Cenomanian) times (100 million years B.P.). In the fossil record the frequency of bored shells increases greatly in rocks of latest Cretaceous age and becomes more widespread during early Tertiary times coincident with the major diversification of the primary groups of boring snails. The borings in these Cretaceous and Tertiary shells show the same characteristics of preference of penetration in one pelecypod valve rather than the other or in position of the boring site on the shell that are found in recent shell assemblages. Borings in Paleozoic brachiopod shells (230-550 million years old) that have previously been attributed to gastropod predation are herein attributed to other but unknown boring organisms. In part these borings are not accepted as evidence of Paleozoic gastropod predation because it necessitates: (1) Postulation of the separate development of a boring habit with its concomitant development of an accessory boring organ in a group whose descendants are all herbivores, and (2) The development of such a habit hundreds of millions of years before the appearance of any relatives of present day borers.
3882418| Although the neurogenic nature of the heartbeat in adult Limulus has been well studied and is undisputed, we contest the reports that the embryonic heartbeat is myogenic. This notion, based on histological, calorimetric, and drug studies, is challenged by evidence from transmission electron microscopy and intracellular recording. The first, infrequent heartbeats occur at the time of the third embryonic molt when only the anterior portion of the heart tube is formed and functional. Contractions extend further caudad concomitant with lumen formation in the rear heart segments. All lumen-containing heart sections that we have examined, from the earliest on, have revealed neural elements in a bundle at the dorsal midline of the heart. Axons 1m or less in diameter are prevalent: vesicle-filled terminal-like areas adjacent to muscle cells are often present as well, even in the youngest beating hearts. Myocardial cells show excitatory postsynaptic potentials as soon as heartbeat has begun, but they often fail to summate in the earlier stages so that contractions are few. Resting potentials remain at -65 to -70 mV from the onset of heartbeat until well after the larva has hatched, but heartbeat frequency, regularity, depolarization height (never overshooting) and duration all increase as embryos get older, probably as innervation of muscle fibers increases and coordination between pacemaker and follower neurons improves. We have found no evidence that embryonic Limulus heart passes through a myogenic phase and believe that it is neurally driven from the beginning. 
3883533|During insect metamorphosis, each life stage (larva, pupa, adult) exhibits a largely distinct behavioral repertoire. This turnover in behaviors is accompanied by extensive remodelling of the nervous system, which is controlled hormonally. A fundamental question raised by metamorphosis is how hormonal effects on the structure and function of individual neurons ultimately produce changes in behavior. We have examined this question in the tobacco hornworm moth, Manduca sexta. During the larval-pupal transformation of Manduca, the motoneurons innervating muscles of the abdominal prolegs (larval locomotory appendages) undergo an extensive dendritic regression that is triggered by ecdysteroid hormones. Over the same time period, behaviors involving the prolegs weaken and disappear. In this review we describe experiments examining the relationship between hormonally mediated proleg motoneuron regression, and the elimination of the proleg behaviors. In the case of a simple monosynaptic sensory-to-motoneuron reflex, and a peptide-activated rhythmic ecdysis motor pattern, we suggest that the ecdysteroid-mediated regression of the motoneuron arbors contributes to the developmental loss of the behaviors. In a third example, involving the activity of another class of motoneurons during peptide-activated pre-ecdysis motor patterns, the behavioral changes apparently originate at the interneuronal rather than motoneuronal level. We conclude that the hormonally mediated dendritic regression of neurons, and resultant modifications of their synaptic connections, is one of the mechanisms that contributes to the elimination of outmoded behaviors during metamorphosis.
3884468| Integumental color changes and eye pigment movements in crustaceans are regulated by pigmentary-effector hormones. The identified hormones include: an octapeptide RPCH (red pigment-concentrating hormone) and several forms of octadecapeptide PDH (pigment-dispersing hormone: -PDH, -PDH). RPCH-related peptides (AKHs, adipokinetic hormones) and PDH-related peptides (PDFs, pigment-dispersing factors) occur in insects, and are recognized as members of AKH/RPCH and PDH/PDF peptide families. The domain for mature peptide is located between the signal peptide and precursor-related peptide in AKH/RPCH precursors, and at the C-terminal end in the PDH/PDF precursors. The precursor-related (associated) peptides in RPCH and PDH precursors in Crustacea show little or no similarity to corresponding domains of AKH and PDF precursors in insects. Although the functions of precursor-related peptides are unknown, the mature peptides are shown to serve diverse functions. RPCH's actions in crustaceans include: pigment concentration in one or more types of chromatophores, dark-adaptational screening pigment movement in distal eye pigment cells, increase of retinal sensitivity, and neuromodulation. The related AKHs largely influence metabolism in insects, although they serve additional functions. PDHs trigger pigment dispersion in chromatophores and induce light-adaptational screening pigment movements in extraretinular eye pigment cells. The related PDFs appear to serve as a transmitter of circadian signals in the regulation of biological rhythms in insects. Evolutionary relationships among the PDH/PDF peptides and directions for future research are discussed. 
3883732|Toads, like many amphibians, display breeding site fidelity. Individuals that return to natal ponds to breed are likely to encounter siblings as potential mates. We examined the genetic structure of Bufo americanus breeding populations at five localities within a 1 km radius. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplotypes significantly differed among the breeding populations, but haplotype distributions did not differ from year to year within breeding sites. Natal philopatry may account for these results. Although incest is thus possible, siblings rarely mate. Comparing haplotypes of toads captured while mating, we found only 2 of 86 pairs that could possibly be siblings. We suggest that toads might recognize and actively avoid close kin as mates. Advertisement vocalizations given by males serve as potential cues by which females might recognize their kin. We recorded calls of males, in the field, and later obtained rank estimates of their relationships to one another by DNA fingerprinting of the nuclear genome. The resemblance of males' calls was positively correlated with the similarity of their fingerprints. Significant differences in call characteristics were also found among breeding populations. Temporal parameters, rather than frequency components, encode kinship information. Recently developed techniques in molecular genetics facilitate studies of the heritability of behavioral traits in natural populations.
3883279| Amphibia require thyroid hormone (TH) for larval development and metamorphosis, and secretion of TH by the thyroid gland is greatly increased just before the onset of metamorphic climax. This communication is concerned with changes which occur during development at three potential sites of regulation of TH action at the level of the target cell: the nuclear TH receptor, and the TH 5 monodeiodinase (5 D) and 5 monodeiodinase (5D) systems. The nuclear TH receptor was studied in isolated red blood cells (RBCs) and in liver. Both tissues were found to contain a single class of putative TH receptors with an affinity for T
3883514|Consideration of organisms in necessary for neurobiologists interested in the neural bases of behavior, because a behavioral act performed by an intact animal defines the problem to be solved and also constitutes the context in which the nervous system operates. In addition, observations of behaving organisms can introduce new preparations for study of general questions. Examples are given from rhythmic gill movements of Corydalus cornutus, insect flight, and development of the moth flight motor. In a concluding section, questions are raised about possible philosophical and judgmental influences on the current tensions between holistic approaches expressed in organismic biology and reductionist approaches expressed in biotechnology.
4620196|The function of muscles used to generate force economically and facilitate elastic energy savings in their tendons is compared with muscles that function to produce mechanical power. The underlying architectural design of the muscle and its tendon (if present) dictate much of their functional capacity and role in animal locomotion. Using methods that allow direct recordings of muscle force and fiber length change, the functional design of muscle-tendon systems can now be investigated in vivo. These studies reveal that, in the case of wallaby hindleg muscles, the fibers can maintain sufficient stiffness during tendon stretch and recoil to ensure useful elastic energy recovery and savings of metabolic energy. In the case of the pectoralis muscle of pigeons, although isometric or active lengthening of the muscle's fibers may occur late in the upstroke of the wing beat cycle to enhance force development, the fibers shorten extensively during the downstroke (up to 35% of their resting length) to produce mechanical power for aerodynamic lift and thrust. Oscillatory length change, with force enhancement during active lengthening may be a general feature of muscles that power aerial and aquatic locomotion. Similarly, force enhancement by active lengthening is likely to be important to the design and function of muscles that primarily generate force to minimize energy expenditure/unit force generated, as well as for elastic energy savings within a long tendon. Architectural features of muscle-tendon units for effective elastic energy savings, however, are likely to constrain locomotor performance when mechanical work is required, as when an animal accelerates, either limiting performance or requiring the recruitment of functional agonists with greater mechanical power generating capability (i.e., longer fibers).
3883862|The apical organ is a key structural landmark in a wide range of invertebrate larvae, but its homolog in chordates has not been identified. A widely accepted explanation of chordate origins, Garstang's auricularia hypothesis, suggests several possibilities. Structural and biochemical evidence both support the idea that the apical organ, in amphioxus, has been incorporated into the frontal eye complex. Structural and positional similarities between this eye-like structure and paired eyes in vertebrates suggest the two may be homologous. The implication is that the cells of the neural retina in vertebrates may be derivatives of the primitive apical organ. Other implications of Garstang's hypothesis are discussed: that it provides (1) an evolutionary rationale for the restriction of Hox expression in ectoderm to neural tissue, (2) grounds for doubting that the CNS in chordates and that of protostome invertebrates can in any way be homologous, and a starting point for exploring (3) whether the eyes of ancestral chordates were single or paired, and (4) the origin of the vertebrate telencephalon.
3881831|An analysis of allelic variation at genetic loci controlling several esterases and hemoglobin, as demonstrated by electrophoresis, indicates that wild populations of the house mouse (Mus musculus) are characterized by fine-scale genetic subdivision, which, through the territorial behavior of family groups (tribes), is achieved even in the absence of physical or ecological barriers to migration. Heterogeneity in allele frequencies among samples from farms in the same region and from barns on the same farm was demonstrated. Spatial variation in allele frequencies within single barns, involving a clustering of like genotypes, was shown by grid-trapping, thus providing direct evidence of tribal subdivision in continuously distributed populations. For two loci, Es-3 and Hbb, an excess of heterozygotes appeared in samples from small populations, while a deficit characterized samples from large populations. The evolutionary significance of subdivision and consequent drift in house mouse populations cannot properly be evaluated at this time. Although stochastic processes may play the dominant role in determining, at a given locus, the genotypes of individuals and frequencies of alleles in small populations, geographic patterns of variation, as studied in Texas, are characterized by uniformity of allelic frequency in major physiographic or climatic regions, as would be expected if selection is determining the frequencies.
3882150|Extensive sequences of morphological differentiation have been described for Drosophila melanogaster neurogenesis and myogenesis. Neuroblasts and myoblasts become determined in the blastoderm or shortly thereafter. Each blast cell will then morphologically differentiate in vitro in sequences that closely resemble the events in vivo. Functional neurons, muscle cells and neuromuscular junctions form and these have normal biochemical and ultrastructural characteristics. A mutant hunt was conducted which was designed to generate mutations specific to neurogenesis or myogenesis. One mutation was recovered that apparently interfered only with myogenesis. The frequency of recovered mutations that affected cell differentiation was low and led to estimates that relatively few genes are required to preserve the structural integrity of cells during neurogenesis and myogenesis.
3881909|The predictable pattern of cell shape changes characterizing animal development must be a consequence of control mechanisms that are at least analogous to those operating in dividing cells. When cells change shape by an internal mechanism, it is implied that they also contain systems that will activate and deactivate the mechanism, localize it within the cell, insure proper timing, and impart the proper vectoral qualities. Experimental investigations designed to elucidate similar processes in dividing cells reveal that the physical mechanism that accomplishes cytokinesis is established at or near the equatorial cell surface by the mitotic apparatus. The process is completed by late metaphase or early anaphase. In cleaving eggs a pair of asters can substitute for the intact mitotic apparatus. The nature of the stimulus which apparently passes from the mitotic apparatus to the surface is presently unknown. It moves toward the surface at about 6 microns per minute and requires about 1 minute to establish the mechanism. The resulting equatorial contractile activity is initially isotropic but becomes anisotropic at the beginning of visible constriction.
3881733|Cyclic epidermal cellular proliferation, with or without keratinization, is a vertebrate characteristic. Such activity probably obeys an autonomous rhythm which is regulated through neuro-humoral systems in response to environmental (proximate) stimuli and related to adaptive (ultimate) factors. In seeking cause and effect relationships, however, it becomes apparent that the same environmental parameter may be both an ultimate and a proximate factor, the latter also regulating the rate of response. With regard to molting in homoiotherms, temperature acts in such a capacity in many species. Periodic shedding of the outer epidermis in fish, amphibians, and reptiles does not appear to be correlated with seasonal factors to the extent that avian and mammalian molts are. The evolution of vertebrate molting cycles has amounted to the entraining of inherent epidermal cycles with seasonal demands by the organism itself and the environment; these demands act as regulating mechanisms. Preadapted structures such as feathers and hairs function collectively as plumage and pelage in their various roles but separately in their growth and replacement cycles which, however, are coordinated for maximum functional efficiency. Molting is also synchronized with the seasonal cycle according to the availability of energy resources and time to complete the essential functions (in addition to molting). The evolved molting systems, as manifested in the great variety of patterns and types in the vertebrates, may thus be regarded as almost individual responses to selective pressures acting on a universal vertebrate character. The basic regulatory system involves the neuro-hypophyseal complex which controls target endocrines affecting various functions which themselves influence epidermal mitosis and, ultimately, molting. The mechanism in its simplest form controls the animal's metabolism through the thyroid acting independently in a permissive capacity or synergistically with the adrenal and gonadal hormones which are regulated directly and/or indirectly through negative feedback.
3884347|The extant jawless fishes (Agnatha) include the hagfishes and lampreys whose ancestry can be traced through a conserved evolution to the earliest of vertebrates. This review traces the study of the enteropancreatic (EP), endocrine cells and their products in hagfishes and lampreys over the past two centuries. Erika Plisetskaya is one of several prominent comparative endocrinologists who studied the development, distribution or function of the agnathan EP system. Her physiological studies in Russia laid the foundation for her subsequent isolation in North America of the first lamprey EP peptides (insulin and somatostatin) and providing the first homologous radioimmunoassay for agnathan (lamprey) insulin. This review also emphasizes the nature and the method of development of the agnathan endocrine pancreas (islet organ), for it reflects the earliest vertebrate endocrine pancreas originating from intestinal and/or bile-duct epithelia. The lamprey life cycle includes a protracted larval period and a metamorphosis when the adult EP system develops. Differences in morphogenesis during metamorphosis of southern- and northern-hemisphere lampreys dictate that a single cranial mass (islet organ) appear in the former and both a cranial and a caudal principal islet comprises most of the islet organ in holarctic species. There are differences in distribution of cell types and in the primary structure of the peptides in the definitive islet organ of hagfishes and lampreys. The primary structures of insulin, somatostatins, glucagons, glucagon-like peptide, and peptide tyrosine tyrosine are now available for three lamprey species representing three genera and two of the three families. Differences in structure of peptides within, and between, families is providing support for earlier views on the time of divergence of the families and the different genera. It is concluded that due to the ancient lineage and successful habitation of lampreys and hagfishes, and the importance of the EP system to their survival, that their EP systems should be a research focus well into the next century.
3881930|The echolocative pulses emitted at high repetition rates by bats pose a number of questions regarding the mechanism of their production. We have investigated some physiologic parameters of vocalization in the North American Vespertilionid bat Eptesicus fuscus, including pulse insertion within the respiratory cycle and subglottic pressure changes accompanying these intense sounds. Subglottic pressures are considerably higher than those characteristic of human speech and, therefore, require a substantial structure to act as a glottal stop. We suggest that this is the role of the vocal fold and that the thin, paired vocal and ventricular membranes are the ultrasonic generators. The cricothyroid muscle, which is thought to influence sound frequency by altering the tension on these membranes, contracts just prior to each ultrasonic vocalization and relaxes during phonation. Cricothyroid muscle relaxation may gradually decrease the tension on the membranes and create the downward frequency sweep characteristic of most pulses.
3881126|Recent (mostly unpublished) work indicates that the present classification of salamanders needs modification. The fossil record of salamanders has been markedly improved recently, and tends to support these conclusions, but does not offer any clues to the origin of salamanders or of the Lissamphibia as a whole. The structure of the sirenid salamanders, both recent and fossil, does not support the establishment of a separate Order Trachystomata for this group. Re-evaluation of the Paleozoic amphibians suggests that the primitive temnospondyl labyrinthodonts (especially the Dissorophidae) show the greatest number of resemblances to lissamphibians, and at this state of knowledge are the most probable group of origin. Nevertheless, at the present time, the ancestral group cannot be indicated with any high degree of confidence.
3883532|While the widespread occurrence of peptidergic neurons has been amply demonstrated, their physiological significance, particularly with regard to co-release of peptides and conventional transmitters, remains a topic of considerable interest. The innervation of arthropod muscle by proctolinergic neurons provides favorable opportunities for analysis of cotransmitter actions and their physiological consequences. Three uniquely identified neurons are described, each of which releases the neuropeptide proctolin (Arg-Tyr-Leu-Pro-Thr) as a cotransmitter at a well-defined muscle target. Activity in the neurosecretory LW neuron increases the force and frequency of insect heartbeat in a manner similar to that obtained by bath application of the peptide. This neuron may release peptide hormones together with multiple cardioacceleratory peptides at the heart to achieve, through increased blood flow, rapid changes in hormonal state. Two motoneurons co-release proctolin with a conventional neurotransmitter to produce both direct and joint actions on muscle targets. The cockroach Ds motoneuron induces slow, sustained tension in the coxal depressor muscle in the absence of depolarization, and slows the relaxation of fast twitch events caused by L-glutamate. In the crayfish tonic flexor muscle, proctolin release from the f1 motoneuron amplifies depolarization-dependent tension, but does not affect the time course of relaxation. Proctolinergic cotransmission may be an adaptation for amplification of synaptic input and/or maintenance of long-term tension, both of which increase the efficiency of muscle activatioin by motoneurons.
3882770|Decapod crustacea appear to utilize two overall strategies for excretion of anionic wasteproducts and xenobiotics. One strategy utilizes a potent renal secretory system; the other utilizes both modest renal secretion and strong gut secretion (possibly aided by midgut gland conjugation). In crabs, the level of participation of the renal system in overall excretion is primarily determined by the location of an anion pump and a carrier protein. The bladder of Cancer borealis, which strongly secretes the model organic anion, p-aminohippuric acid (PAH), has a serosal organic anion pump and a luminal facilitated carrier. The bladder of Cancer irroratus, which reabsorbs PAH from bladder urine, has a luminal organic anion pump and a serosal facilitated carrier.
3882610|The genic control of the development of neural morphology and specific neural connections is little known, primarily because of a paucity of neurological mutants in animal models suitable for experimental manipulation. However, by using cell markers-such as tetraploidy, a large cell marker whose development is described here-the development of single retinal cells in tetraploid embryos, the growth of marked polyclones in chimeric eyes, and the central connections of various chimeric eyes have been analyzed to identify the strategies used in molding eye morphology and establishing precise central connections. Theoretical models and computer simulations were used to draw inferences about the information used to accomplish the identified strategies. This analysis resulted in predictions about the sorts of mutant genes which might be found to affect neural ontogeny.
3882589| This paper reviews present knowledge on the transport mechanisms responsible for integumentary uptake of exogenous monosaccharides and amino acids in marine invertebrates. The discussion is based on work in the author's laboratory, using the polychaete Nereis diversicolor Mller as the main experimental model. Comparison is made with solute transport in other animal epithelia, especially those of vertebrate origin. Transport across the apical epidermal membrane via specific transport systems or by diffusion in the lipoid plasmalemma is described with emphasis on the trans-membrane concentration gradients maintained. The epidermal cells seem to be functionally asymmetric, favoring outflux across the basolateral membrane (into the extracellular fluid) over that across the apical one. The intercellular spaces provide a paracellular pathway for nutrient diffusion from the extracellular fluid to the exterior, but the quantitative importance of this route needs further investigation. Although a net uptake from low external concentrations into the epidermis is clearly established, there is insufficient evidence specifically related to a true trans-epidermal net flow, a problem of critical importance for evaluating the nutritional role of exogenous organic material. Accumulating transport systems in the apical membrane seem to be involved in solute recycling at the cuticular-epidermal interface, thereby decreasing the effective epidermal permeability to diffusional loss of valuable nutrients. 
3881468|High-sensitivity recording techniques demonstrate a continuous relation between the onset and magnitude of tension and the membrane depolarization that is induced by increasing K in the bathing medium or by intracellularly applied outward currents. This finding is not consistent with the mechanism of signalling e-c coupling by electrotonic spread of a "critical" depolarization inward along the membrane of the transverse tubular system. It is in accord, however, with the channelled current mechanism that is based on the known anion-perm-selectivity of the membrane in the terminals of the TTS. The channelled-current model also predicts a direct role of Cl and a possible interaction between Ca and Cl in e-c coupling. The initiation and maintenance of tension as well as its magnitude, are in fact dependent upon the concentrations of Ca and Cl in the medium. Thus, both the signalling to, and the activation of, the contractile system appear to be performed by a flow of current in the loop: cell membrane - cell interior - TTS membrane - TTS channels - exterior, as is envisaged in the channelled-current model of e-c coupling.
3882326|The auditory sensitivity of adult mice has been investigated using a method that has not been previously described. This method involves recording the electromyogram (EMG) from the post-auricular muscles in response to tonal stimuli. The preliminary results presented here show a secondary, high-frequency peak of sensitivity in the audiogram, which approximately corresponds to the frequency of sound emitted by that species; this confirms the findings of previous workers. The advantages and disadvantages of using the post-auricular EMG response as a measure of auditory sensitivity are briefly discussed in comparison with other behavioral and physiological methods.
3882276|Data from mammalian systems on the molecular basis of immune recognition, on the structural and functional heterogeneity of lymphocytes, and on the interactions between lymphocytes have provided guidelines for examining the lymphocyte from a phylogenetic perspective. Current information indicates that regardless of the variability of organized lymphoid tissues and the sometimes subtle diversity of immune responses in evolutionarily distant forms, the small lymphocyte has been maintained both morphologically and as an effector of immune reactivities throughout vertebrate phylogeny. Moreover, the basic properties of the mammalian lymphocytes-the discriminatory recognition of nonself plus the amplification steps that follow such a recognition event appear to be common to lymphocytes from all vertebrates. Although examples of lymphocyte heterogeneity and cellular cooperation have been reported for representative elasmobranchs, teleosts, and amphibians, the extent and nature of lymphocyte diversity remain as major unsolved problems currently being investigated by immunologists.
3883505|From Aristotle through the nineteenth century, biology was directed to investigating the organism. In this tradition, natural historians utilized a descriptive methodology to study the structure and function of the organism. By the end of the nineteenth century, however, a number of factors contributed to reorient biological investigations methodologically; that is, biologists searched for causal explanations, borrowing methods from physics and chemistry. These methods have characterized the bulk of biological research during the twentieth century, thereby ignoring the importance of the organism as a whole. Several contemporary biologists have critically evaluated this situation and have attempted to formulate biological methods that would once again consider the entire organism as the central focus for biological investigation.
3883389|The potential reproductive success of a food energy maximizer increases with foraging time, while that of a foraging time minimizer increases with time spent in nonforaging activities given a set energy requirement has been met. How can these foraging "goals" be distinguished for nonbreeding animals in the field? If individuals of two species occupying the same habitat consume the same foods, face similar foraging constraints, and have similar meal sizes (food intake per foraging bout), then relative to a time minimizer, an energy maximizer should: (1) spend more time foraging, with greater foraging-bout frequency, but no difference in foraging-bout duration; (2) spend less time sitting, with lower sitting-bout duration yet greater sitting-bout frequency; (3) gain mass more rapidly, if net energy intake results in mass accumulation; and (4) exhibit no other differences in time budgeting. These assumptions and predictions were verified by population- and individual-level comparisons of immature males of two species of nectar-feeding hummingbirds studied over three field seasons. The results suggest that, relative to each other, migrant Rufous Hummingbirds are energy maximizers and nonmigrant Costa Hummingbirds are time minimizers. Despite significant differences in time budgeting, by far the most striking difference between the species was that the Rufous gained mass four to eight times as rapidly as the Costa. This was due to the Rufous entering torpor at night, resulting in relatively little overnight loss in body mass. These patterns underscore the importance of measuring net energy intake as directly as possible (in this case by fat accumulation) in testing foraging theory. Indirect measures (such as time budgets) may not always provide the resolution necessary to detect important energetic differences between different foragers.
3883895|This symposium on arthropod development is dedicated to the memory of Howard A. Schneiderman, who died on December 5, 1990. Howard devoted much of his professional life to research on arthropods and was the author of numerous publications on the developmental biology of moths and flies. At Case-Western Reserve University and at the University of California-Irvine he founded research institutes devoted to developmental biology on arthropods as well as other organisms. Howard Schneiderman championed the use of insect growth regulators, which derived from his research on the chemistry and physiology of juvenile hormone, as environmentally innocuous methods of controlling insect pests of our food and fiber. In recent years he was a proponent of the use of molecular biology to alter the plant genome so that insect-resistant crops might be grown and thereby reduce the use of insecticides. His global perspective was evident in his understanding of how biotechnology could be applied to world agriculture. Moreover, he quickly achieved prominence in promoting industry-university relations in his capacity as Senior Vice President for Research and Development at the Monsanto Company. The cooperation among academic and industrial institutions that he fostered stands as a model for such relationships. Howard Schneiderman's influence on science and its applications, and on the university-industry interface was profound and will be felt for many years to come.
3883002|An examination of research on heredity in the years between Mendel's scientific work and his multiple rediscovery (approximately 1850-1900) suggests that at the turn of the century the elucidation of the mechanism of the transmission of hereditary traits from parent to offspring was inevitable. By 1900, a variety of different investigators were either attacking the problem of genetic transmission directly and successfully, or were examining specific aspects of the issue. However, it appears that the identity of analysis used by Mendel and by his rediscoverers was primarily the result of the latter all following Mendel's formulation. Had Mendel not been rediscovered, the "Laws of Heredity" would likely have been formulated quite differently, and been discovered and refined over a period of time rather than all being discovered and given their final form at the very outset.
3883194|Our present understanding of the structure of the gonads and of gametogenesis in Fundulus heteroclitus is briefly reviewed. The testes contain spermatogenic tubules which distally are composed of linearly arranged germinal cysts with clones of synchronously developing germ cells, and proximally of efferent ducts with mature sperm. Within the tubules, those cysts containing spermatogonia are found close to the testicular periphery, whereas cysts with mature sperm are contiguous with the efferent ducts. Cytological details of the three principal stages of spermatogenesis, namely spermatocytogenesis, meiosis, and spermiogenesis, are presented along with examples of the various somatic cells of the testis. The ovary consists of numerous ovigerous lamellae which contain randomly arranged follicles in various stages of development. Since follicular growth is asynchronous, follicles of all sizes are present in the ovary during the breeding season and eggs are continuously ovulated into the ovarian lumen. Oocyte growth is divided into five distinct stages: Primary growth (substages A and B), cortical alveolus formation, vitellogenesis, oocyte maturation (substages A and B), and the ovulated egg. This series of stages is based both on cytological observations and physiological events.
3884213|The planktonic larva of the red abalone, Haliotis rufescens, must develop competence and recognize an appropriate exogenous morphogenetic cue before it can settle and metamorphose. The molecular mechanisms underlying the development of larval competence and the induction of metamorphosis in this and other marine invertebrates are only now starting to be understood. In Haliotis, some of the morphogenetic cues, chemosensory receptors, and receptor-mediated signal transduction pathways controlling the induction of metamorphosis from the planktonic larva to the benthic post-larva have been identified. To ascertain how these initial signaling pathways regulate the global changes that occur at metamorphosis, we have investigated the expression of two classes of genes: (i) those that are expressed but not thought to be functionally required in the veliger larva, and (ii) those that exhibit marked changes in tissue-specific expression induced at metamorphosis. Expression of the genes encoding a larval chymotrypsin and a muscle-specific tropomyosin reveal two distinct developmental pathways governing gene expression and metamorphosis in Haliotis; changes in the synthesis of other proteins and in morphology support this conclusion. One of these pathways, termed the morphogenetic pathway, is linked directly to the processes of settlement and metamorphosis; the induction of tropomyosin in the adult columellar muscle progenitors 48 hr after induction of metamorphosis provides the best and most direct evidence at the molecular level for the existence of this pathway in Haliotis. The other pathway, which we have termed the anticipatory (or preparatory) pathway, is first activated prior to or at the attainment of larval competence, and is induced again at metamorphosis. The induction of expression of a chymotrypsin gene in migrating digestive amoebocytes in the larva, and the depletion of tropomyosin mRNA from cells of the larval retractor muscle, provide molecular evidence for this program. We review here the patterns of expression of these genes, and suggest that the uncoupling of these pathways reflects an adaptation of Haliotis larval development to meet the future demands of benthic life.
3882408|Oxygen transport to avian embryo tissues occurs by three steps, two of which are driven by diffusion. This results in a series of stepwise decrements in Po
3882338|Such characters as surface ultrastructure of asexual and sexual propagules, wall and septal ultrastructure, the fine structure of ascal tips, and ultrastructural aspects of nuclear division have taxonomic significance for major groups of fungi. Information derived from fine-structural analyses can be correlated with that obtained from light-microscopic, chemical, and developmental investigations. The versatility of electron-microscopic facilities makes them powerful research tools in the hands of the innovative taxonomist.
3881635|The predominant lactate dehydrogenases (LDH's) occurring in liver, heart, and muscle of a benthic Coryphaenoides species are electrophoretically distinguishable from each other. Maximum rates of pyruvate reduction catalyzed by heart and muscle LDH's show an optimum pH near neutrality, while liver LDH activity displays an unusual alkaline pH optimum. Pyruvate saturation curves are Michaelis-Menten in form for all three preparations. Maximum catalytic rates and the apparent K
3883036|In this paper we propose an explanation for (a) the predominance of male care in fishes, and (b) the phylogenies and transitions that occur among care states. We also provide a general evolutionary model for studying the conditions under which parental care evolves. Our conclusions are as follows: (i) Parental care has only one benefit, the increased survivorship of young. It may, however, have three costs: a "mating cost," an "adult survivorship cost," and a "future fertility cost." (ii) On average, males and females will derive the same benefit from care. They probably also pay the same adult survivorship cost. However, their mating cost and future fertility costs may differ. (iii) A mating cost usually applies only to males. However, this cost may be reduced by male territoriality and, in some situations, be entirely removed. Under this condition, natural selection on present reproductive success is equivalent for males and females. (iv) When fecundity accelerates with body size in females, while male mating success follows a linear relationship with body size, future fertility costs of parental care are greater for females than males. Although further tests are needed, a preliminary analysis suggests this often may be the case in fishes. Thus, the predominance of male parental care in fishes is not explained by males deriving greater benefits from care, but by males paying smaller future costs. Males thus accrue a greater net fitness advantage from parental care (see expressions [6] and [12]). (v) The evolution of biparental care from uniparental male care may occur because male care selects for larger egg sizes and increased embryo investment by females. This increases the benefit to the female of parental care. (vi) By contrast, uniparental female care may originate from biparental care when males are selected to desert. This occurs when female care creates a mating cost to males. In some cases male desertion may "lock" females into uniparental care. However, in many other cases females may be selected to desert, giving rise to "no care." (vii) The origin of uniparental female care from no care is rare in externally fertilizing fishes. This is because the benefits of care rarely outweigh a female's future fertility costs (expression [9]). For internally fertilizing species, however, the benefit of care is high whereas the cost is probably low. Most of these species have evolved embryo retention. (viii) When parental care begins with male care and moves to biparental care, our analysis suggests that care evolution will include cyclical dynamics. Parental care in some fishes may thus be seen as transitional and changing through evolutionary time rather than as an evolutionarily stable state. In theory, "no care" may be a phylogenetically advanced state.
3882900|The adaptive radiation of colubroid snakes has involved the development of numerous prey capture specializations combined with conservation of a swallowing mechanism characterized by independent movements of the right and left toothed bones of the skull. Synchronized electromyographic and cinematographic recordings of swallowing in Nerodia, Elaphe, Heterodon and Agkistrodon, four diverse genera of colubroid snakes, allow a preliminary evaluation of the relationship between prey capture and swallowing. The results indicate that the movements of the palatopterygoid bar and advance of the mandible as closing of the jaws begins as well as patterns of muscle activity producing these movements are similar among the four genera. Conversely, the patterns of activity of external adductors and, to some extent, the depressor mandibulae differ among the four genera sampled. Analysis of bone movements during swallowing suggest that swallowing is effected primarily by the palatopterygoid bars. The mandibles and their connecting soft tissues mainly press the prey against the palatopterygoid teeth. The mandibular teeth evidently play little active role in swallowing. Also, the maxilla, which displays considerable morphological diversity among colubroid snakes, has little independent or direct function in swallowing, its teeth rarely contacting the prey. The data suggest that the heads of colubroid snakes have evolved two partially separated structural-functional units, a medial swallowing unit and a lateral prey capture unit.
3884223| The present concern about future climate change and sea-level rise due to the enhanced greenhouse effect is put in the context of past changes. Best estimates of future changes are detailed, with an explanation of methods and uncertainties. Considerable progress is being made in regard to estimates of future sea-level rise and its regional variation, and towards predicting likely changes in the behaviour of the El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and tropical cyclones. Changes in rainfall amounts and intensity, and in extremes of surface temperature are other critical climatic variables for coral reefs. Impacts on coral reefs will result from a combination of stresses arising from several aspects of global change, including stresses due to sea-level rise, extreme temperatures, human damage (from mining, dredging, fishing and tourism), and changes in salinity and pollutant concentrations (nutrients, pesticides, herbicides and particulates), and in ocean currents, ENSO, and storm damage. These may be exacerbated by any reduction in calcification rates of corals due to changes in ocean chemistry. In view of ongoing uncertainties regarding future rates of change, especially at the local scale, impact and adaptation assessments cannot provide unequivocal answers, but rather must be couched in terms of probabilities and risk. Reef communities which are presently under stress are likely to be particularly vulnerable. Both autonomous and managed (or planned) adaptations should be considered. 
3884205|Most organisms reproduce episodically rather than continuously. Forms of discontinuity may include seasonal breeding in annual cycles, and delayed breeding and/or senescence over the lifespan of individuals. In addition, age can have profound effects on the annual reproductive success (RS) of a wide variety of animals. Explanations of the effects of age on RS can be confounded, however, by the acquired breeding experience of individuals, and the duration of pair-bonds, both of which have effects on RS similar to those of age itself. However, most studies of the effects of age on RS prior to senescence have not accounted for the effects of pair-bond duration, and many have treated age and experience as synonyms. In this paper I summarize the effects of all three factors, discuss the simultaneous and interrelated nature of their effects, and suggest ways to separate the relative contributions of each.
3883684|For many years the general body surface has been recognized as the primitive site of respiratory gas exchange in the animal kingdom. Even in simple animals such as the sea anemones, however, some specialization has occurred. In epifaunal species the tentacular crown appears to be the major site of gas exchange while in one infaunal species dermal papillae are more important. In both, the columnar body wall remains an additional site of O
3881818| The physiological regulation of color changes in reptiles as studied in the lizard, Anolis carolinensis, is discussed. In Anolis, the ability to adapt to a background is dependent upon the level of circulating MSH, the release of which is dependent on information received through the eyes. Blinded (or intact) lizards are brown under conditions of strong illumination and green under conditions of lower light intensities, and, again, these color changes are regulated by MSH. According to Kleinholz, color changes in the blinded lizard are regulated by dermal photoreceptors. High or low temperatures directly affect the color of Anolis skins and alter the rate at which skins respond to hormones. Aggregation of melanin granules within Anolis melanophores in response to sympathomimetic stimulation is regulated through alpha adrenergic receptors whereas dispersion of melanin granules in response to such stimulation is controlled through beta adrenergic receptors possessed by the melanophores. Most Anolis melanophores possess both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors, but some melanophores possess only beta adrenergic receptors. In the normal physiology of the lizard, under conditions of stress, stimulation of alpha adrenergic receptors by catecholamines leads to an "excitement-pallor" followed by an "excitement-darkening" resulting from stimulation of beta adrenergic receptors which causes dispersion of melanin granules within localized populations of melanophores. Thus, in Anolis, dispersion of melanin granules within melanophores is regulated by both MSH and by catecholamines. Evidence is presented that the intracellular level of cyclic 3, 5-AMP within melanophores may be responsible for the regulation of movement of melanin granules. 
3882952|Metamorphosis commonly occurs in lower vertebrates, but its endocrine regulation is not well known outside of the Amphibia. Paedomorphosis (progenesis and neoteny) is a frequent occurrence as well. The only endocrine-related hypothesis is that of Etkin for amphibians. This hypothesis has been modified to accommodate some of the recent findings, but other data have not been incorporated and still other parts remain untested. Presumably, the hypothesis relies entirely on endogeneous factors, and the importance of external factors needs to be examined. Facultative neotenic amphibians may be useful animals for testing certain aspects of the Etkin hypothesis. There are insufficient data for fishes at this time to evaluate the possible universality of the amphibian hypothesis.
3882403| Metabolic rates of embryos of precocial birds increase rapidly until about 80% through incubation, then increase slowly, remain constant or even decline. In altricial species, embryo metabolic rates increase continuously and at an accelerating rate throughout incubation. Total energy cost of development is higher in precocial than in altricial species. Growth patterns of altricial and precocial embryos differ in the same way as does metabolic rate. Embryo growth rates decline late in incubation in precocial species, but increase continuously in altricial species. Embryo metabolic rate in cal/hr (P) is related to embryo mass in grams (M) and growth rate in grams/day (GR) by the equation P = 12.17GR + 1.66M + 1.81. The energy cost of growth in avian embryos is 292 cal/g. The energy cost of maintenance is 1.66 cal/ghr and appears to be independent of embryo mass. Differences in growth patterns account for the observed differences in metabolic rates and total energy costs of development. High energy costs of maintenance account for high total developmental costs in precocial species and in species that have unusually long incubation periods. 
3882216|This report describes the use of clonal strains of rat pituitary tumor cells to study the regulation of prolactin and growth hormone production. Emphasis is placed on the effects on prolactin production of the hypothalamic tripeptide
3881913|In the salamander embryo, the morphogenetic movements of neurulation are correlated with two cell shape changes in the neural epithelium: elongation and apical constriction of the columnar neural plate cells. Cells first elongate to form the flat open neural plate and then constrict apically as the plate rolls up to form the neural tube. Evidence is presented that these cell shape changes are intrinsic to the cells themselves and that they play a causal role in the morphogenetic movements. Neural plate cells contain numerous microtubules oriented parallel to the axis of elongation. These microtubules are critical to the elongation process. Possible mechanisms for microtubule function in cell elongation are considered. During apical constriction the cells contain bundles of microfilaments which encircle the cell apex in purse-string fashion. Evidence is presented which suggests that microfilament bundles play an active role in apical constriction, and that this localized contraction is produced by filament sliding.
3883340|This paper proposes a biomechanical model for locomotor-respiratory coupling (LRC) in galloping mammals in which gait and breathing cycles are phase-locked on a 1:1 basis. It also explores some of the physiological and neuromotor implications of LRC. The mechanical coupling of locomotor and respiratory cycles depends upon the coordinated, reciprocal oscillations of the cranio-cervical and lumbo-pelvic components of the axial system and their attendant actions on the intervening thorax via muscular linkages. Concurrently, accelerational and decelerational forces imparted to the axial system by the limbs help to drive lung ventilation by inducing inertial displacements of a "visceral piston" connected to the diaphragm. Several lines of evidence (including cineradiographic data) suggest that an important function of the crural diaphragm is to control the displacement of the visceral piston. The kinematics of LRC indicate that the interosseous intercostal muscles must simultaneously operate to assure thoracic stability against locomotor stresses as well as to promote breathing. The former may be their more essential role, however. The characteristic design of the rib cage in cursorial mammals (=deep and narrow) appears to maximize the leverage of certain "accessory respiratory muscles" (i.e., sternocleidomastoid, scalenes) while minimizing torsional loading of the thorax during forelimb support. Physiological implications of LRC include the prediction that large mammals will breathe relatively faster and with relatively smaller lung volumes when galloping than small species. An additional prediction, that running mammals could automatically gear lung ventilation to speed by simply linking breathing rate to stride frequency and depth of breath (=tidal volume) to stride length, appears to be supported by experimental data from horses. Finally, the neuromotor basis of LRC probably depends upon the direct interaction of central pattern generators for locomotion and respiration. This interaction might be modulated, however, by afferent input from thoracic mechanoreceptors, particularly the intercostal stretch receptors.
3883936|Cineradiographic studies of magpies and pigeons in flight, coupled with measurements of air sac pressures and tracheal airflows, indicate a significant compressive effect of downstroke and expansive effect of upstroke. These mechanical impacts of the wingbeat cycle upon the respiratory system likely contribute to a phasic coordination of the two cycles that, in these species, ensures that upstroke corresponds to the transition into inspiration and downstroke corresponds to the transition into expiration, regardless of the ratio of wingbeats to breaths. Similar phasic patterns have been reported for other birds. Respiratory muscle activity patterns indicate that the upstroke may indeed assist inspiratory airflow and that the downstroke may assist expiratory airflow. Stimulation of ventilation with 5% CO
3881588|The first part of the paper is devoted to the methods used for studying transfer of ions between intact aquatic animals and their environments. The use of flux-force relationships is described, and some alternative criteria for delimiting active transport are examined. The second part discusses recent research on hyper- and hypotonic regulators.
3881706|Since the early part of this century, controversy has surrounded the origin of the cells of the regeneration blastema in annelids. Cells of the epidermis and reserve mesodermal cells have each been thought to form the entire blastema. With increasing frequency, it is being suggested that in numerous polychaetes each layer of tissue in the regenerate arises from the corresponding old germ layer. Evidence presented here from experiments utilizing techniques of radioautography, histochemistry, X-irradiation, and electron microscopy in addition to histological observation largely supports the last hypothesis. In the light of recent experiments, it appears that the new epidermis and gut arise from the corresponding old tissue. The formation of the mesoderm cannot yet be generalized, but reports indicate that it may arise from dedifferentiated muscle cells, cells of the peritoneal epithelium, and free coelomocytes.
4620122|Studies on color patterns of fishes have focused on relationships between bright, relatively permanent colors, such as those of fishes inhabiting coral reef and tropical freshwater habitats, and ecological factors, such as competitors, predators, and the visual background. By comparison, the functions of, and hence the selective pressures acting on, temporary changes in nuptial coloration have received much less attention. Temporary color changes associated with reproduction occur in many freshwater and marine groups. Nuptial coloration in fishes functions both in agonistic interactions among males and courtship of females, so that it is subject to both intrasexual and intersexual selection as well as natural selection. Temporal variation in nuptial color patterns is sensitive to temporal changes in the male's physical condition, motivation, and social status. Physiological processes, such as neuronal and endocrine changes, play important roles in the expression of breeding colors, including rapid responses to changes in social conditions. The importance of proximal mechanisms and ultimate selective processes in mediating rapid changes in the blue, melanin-based breeding colors of pupfish, and the red, carotenoid-based color patterns in guppies are discussed in the context of signal function and evolution.
3882303|The cellular and subcellular distribution of
3883252|The host-parasite relationship of intravascular helminths in mammalian hosts is complex, consisting of several interrelated aspects. These organisms are often very long lived in these hosts that possess highly evolved immune systems, which implies the existence of mechanisms in these complex parasites for evading the immune response. On the other hand, mammalian hosts appear to be very successful in limiting their worm burdens, mainly by preventing reinfection. Thus, a balance between host and parasite is often achieved. This balance extends to the immunopathological consequences of the infections as well. Especially in the schistosomes, where relatively more is known about immunopathology, it is becoming increasingly apparent that immunopathological reactions to the eggs are multifunctional and paradoxical: they cause disease, they limit disease, and they even serve the schistosome by making possible the escape of its eggs, laid deep within the tissues, from the host's body to propagate the life cycle. The comparative approach, using different species of schistosomes and filarids in different mammalian hosts, has proved to be valuable for understanding the immunological basis of these complex relationships. The knowledge gained from these model systems is already being vigorously applied to the human diseases, two of the great scourges of the tropics, schistosomiasis and lymphatic filariasis, to the end of their eradication from the earth by mass immunization.
3883555|This essay is part of the seventh yearly presentation of an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists, Science as a Way of Knowing. It is also the second part of a "Conceptual Framework for Biology." Part II begins a discussion of evolution and deals with an overview of living metazoans and then discusses their history during the Phanerozoic Eon. Part III will complete the discussion of evolution and then consider "Classification," "Ecology," "Geographic Distribution," "Methods of Science," and "Science and Human Welfare." The intended readers are those who teach the first-year biology courses in colleges and universities as well as teachers of the precollege grades.
3884285|Most current phylogenetic hypotheses based upon cladistic methodology assert that birds are the direct descendants of derived maniraptoran theropod dinosaurs, and that the origin of avian flight necessarily developed within a terrestrial context (e.e., from the "ground up"). Most theoretical aerodynamic and energetic models or chronologically appropriate fossil data do not support these hypotheses for the evolution of powered flight. The more traditional model for the origin of flight derives birds from among small arboreal early Mesozoic archosaurs ("thecodonts"). According to this model, protoavian ancestors developed flight in the trees via a series of intermediate stages, such as leaping, parachuting, gliding, and flapping. This model benefits from the assemblage of living and extinct arboreal vertebrates that engage in analogous non-powered aerial activities using elevation as a source of gravitational energy. Recent reports of "feathered theropods" notwithstanding, the evolution of birds from any known group of maniraptoran theropods remains equivocal.
4620143|The hydrophobic nature of lipids means that they provide good barriers to the movement of charged and polar molecules. Barrier function appears to depend on the physical state of the lipids. Two well-investigated examples include cell membranes and epicuticular lipids of arthropods. Ecologically relevant changes in temperature significantly affect lipid properties, and both evolutionary and acclimatory differences in lipid composition appear to preserve the physical properties of lipids under different environmental conditions. These differences are generally believed to be beneficial to the organism, but rigorous examination of their adaptive significance is rare. Important issues are how lipid properties are regulated; which properties are physiologically relevant, how are these properties sensed, and what biochemical and molecular mechanisms regulate lipid properties? Progress has recently been made in understanding how membrane lipid properties are regulated, but regulatory mechanisms for cuticular lipids and other lipid systems remain completely unknown.
3883057|Amphibians and reptiles rely upon anaerobic glycolysis to support their energetic requirements under a variety of circumstances. Although adult frogs derive most of the energy for muscle contraction during intense, short-term locomotion from glycolysis, anuran tadpoles have a very low rate of lactate formation during 30 sec of burst swimming; instead, they rely largely on the use of phosphocreatine stores. Among squamate reptiles, the rate of lactate formation during vigorous exercise is largely related to the duration of activity and to body temperature. Recent studies have shown that fossorial, limbless reptiles do not differ from surface-dwelling, quadrupedal species in the rate of glycolysis during intense activity. The energetics of locomotion differs significantly between swimming and running turtles; thus the site of activity influences the role of anaerobiosis in movement. Lactate levels increase in some frogs during calling and nest building and in some reptiles during prey capture and ingestion. However, voluntary locomotion and diving by reptiles are rarely accompanied by an increase in lactate levels. Freshwater turtles rely heavily on glycolysis during aquatic hibernation. Thus, it can be concluded that amphibians and reptiles derive a significant proportion of their energetic requirements from anaerobic metabolism only under selected circumstances when the benefits outweigh the costs associated with the accumulation of lactate.
3883833|Flamingos (Aves, Phoenicopteridae) represent an ancient lineage of long-legged, microphagous, colonial wading birds. Although often perceived as tropical, flamingo distribution is more closely tied to the great deserts of the world, and to hypersaline sites, than it is to equatorial regions. Many aspects of flamingo behavior and ecology can be studied in captivity. Experimental studies involving captive birds, when combined with observational studies of free-ranging birds, offer researchers opportunities to address questions that are unanswerable with field work alone. Zoo populations of flamingos are prime candidates for such studies. Here, we use samples of our own work to illustrate the synergistic effects of combining zoo and field research. Our first example describes how studies of salt tolerance in captive birds are playing a key role in assessing the impact of salt as an ecological determinant of flamingo distribution. Our second example describes how aggression and dominance interactions affect the feeding behavior of flamingos. We assess the implications of this research in terms of both avicultural practices and the fundamental ecology of the birds. We believe that similar collaborations involving other zoo animals would yield comparatively productive results.
3883605|When strong positive heritability of fitness arises due to host-parasite coevolution, consequent sosigonic mate preference undermines monogamy through tendencies to extra-pair copulation. "Low" females bonded to "low" males try to parasitise their partnership by obtaining fertilization, surreptitiously if possible, from "high'" males: correspondingly, in the case of birds, "low" males may parasite by encouraging egg dumping in their nests by "high" females who have allowed copulation. It follows that nests of birds of low status should sometimes show evidence at times of both types of parasitism while nests of high status should show faithful monogamy. Rather differently from the argument in Hamilton and Zuk (1982), showiness in monogamous species is more likely to be related to such extra-pair objectives than to pair-bonding for nesting. Venereal disease makes males cautious about copulating with any female. Although prevented by true monogamy, when monogamy is partial, venereal disease may become the incentive for increasing female sexual advertisement. In extreme cases it may combine with other ecological factors to initiate sex role reversal, in which the female becomes the non-parenting sex of the species. As regards source of the heritability that backs the sosigonic selection assumed in such speculations, reasons are given for preferring a coevolutionary cycling of ancient, preserved, parasite-defense alleles to the alternatives of an abundant stream of good new defense mutations, or a process of elimination of purely deleterious mutations.
3883234|Most mammals use symmetrical gaits (such as the trot) at moderate speeds but change to asymmetrical gaits (gallops) at high speeds. A mathematical model of quadrupedal gaits failed to show any advantage in this change: it seemed to show that, even at high speeds, there was always a symmetrical gait that was at least as economical as galloping. That model treated the back as rigid, but another model seemed to show that back movements such as occur in galloping could only increase the energy cost. However, metabolic measurements on horses showed that galloping is more economical than trotting at high speeds. The explanation seems to be that kinetic energy fluctuations, due to backward and forward swinging of the legs, become very large at high speeds. Galloping makes it possible for kinetic energy associated with leg movements to be stored briefly as strain energy in elastic structures in the back, and returned in an elastic recoil. The most important of the strain energy stores in the back, that have been discovered so far, is the aponeurosis of the longissimus muscle.
3883671|This paper explores the extent to which life histories of infaunal prey have been molded and maintained by predation. It is argued such relationships should be most evident for episodic predation, where the predation is predictable, intense and short-lived. Migratory shorebirds are used herein as model episodic predators. Four stop-over areas in North America, for which experimental data exist, are compared. Evidence exists that Semipalmated Sandpipers in the upper Bay of Fundy maintain the observed life history of their major prey, the amphipod Corophium volutator. In southeastern Massachusetts, shorebirds significantly reduce the abundance of their prey but in a frequency-dependent fashion, precluding life history responses of the prey. For Grays Harbor, Washington and Delaware Bay, there is no detectable effect of shorebird predation on the infauna. In three of the four studies, there is no apparent effect of early shorebird migrants in significantly increasing the required stop-over of later migrants by depression of prey densities. The data support the characterization of soft-sediment communities as loosely organized assemblages whose specific constitution is determined more by ecological combining ability than by specific evolutionary responses to associated species.
3881866|Patterns of distribution of morphology in the fossil record should be examined more rigorously to evaluate the relative effectiveness of alternative evolutionary models and to integrate the dimension of true evolutionary time more directly with evolutionary theory. Grant (1972) has discussed three main problems in the detection of character displacement: we must assume that sympatry followed allopatry, that the state in allopatry represents the static, pre-contact state, and that there are no other reasons accounting for differences within a species in allopatric and sympatric zones. These problems can be largely avoided with suitable paleontological data. In an example involving the coincident 10 million-year histories of two congeneric species of Devonian trilobites, the one known instance of sympatry reveals marked divergent shifts in one species and a "mixed" reaction of convergent, divergent, and neutral shifts in the other species. The characters undergoing these shifts are largely those which (i) serve as specific differentia, and (ii) show the most change within one of the species over its entire history. This suggests that character displacement may be simply a magnified microcosm of a general pattern of interaction between two species even when allopatric, provided that allopatry is sustained through competitive exclusion.
3881985|How are social organization and ecology related to each other? Yellow baboons, hamadryas baboons, and gelada monkeys are all large, terrestrial African primates, but they have three different patterns of social organization, and they live in three, markedly different habitats: savannah, steppe-desert, and alpine heather-meadowland, respectively. An attempt is made to provide testable hypotheses and heuristic principles that can relate these two classes of phenomena.
4620176| This paper develops a model based on egg-laying rates and female oviposition temperature preferences in two species of cicada, Cacama valvata and Tibicen bifidus, from a central New Mexico desert grassland habitat. Output from the model indicates that C. valvata achieves maximal daily egg production (eggs female day) on days when maximum shade ambient temperatures reach 41C; the corresponding value for T. bifidus is 33C. These differences correlate with the thermal regime experienced by each species in its respective typical habitat. Simulations of the effects of variation in mean habitat ambient temperature on egg production demonstrated that known distributional limits for T. bifidus correspond to thermal conditions that reduce daily egg production by only about 5-10% relative to long-term means at the study site. The same is true for C. valvata only in lower-ambient temperature habitats. In higher-temperature habitats, C. valvata exhibits an unusual plasticity in the timing of adult activity and reproduction that allows it to occupy a much wider geographic range than T. bifidus. Contrary to expectations, frequency distributions of predicted daily egg production rates were negatively skewed in each species' respective 'typical habitat', and Gaussian only in thermally marginal habitats. The findings are discussed in the context of attempts to model population- and community-level effects of climatic change. 
3881686|Acrothoracican cirripeds burrow in a variety of shelly materials dating back to the Carboniferous. The burrow is usually less than 5 mm in depth, with a smaller, tapered, slit-shaped aperture. Chemical action is proposed for initial penetration, and as an aid to the abrasive action of the teeth on the mantle and along the lateral bar. The burrowed shell is usually dead, and varies markedly in hardness.
3882873|Some major trends in the evolution of vertebrate motor systems are illustrated by examples taken from studies of the reticulospinal pathways. Using the tools of modern systematic zoology, we try to determine whether certain features of these complex motor systems represent shared primitive characters, arrived at early in evolution, or whether they represent shared derived characters, which have arisen more recently. Several hypotheses are proposed in a manner which makes them testable and which suggests directions for future studies of reticulospinal systems. Recent evidence illustrates that reticulospinal systems are equally complex in a wide variety of vertebrates, not only mammals. Have these complex systems evolved independently several times or only once in vertebrate phylogeny? For purposes of illustration, we take two medullary reticular nuclei, reticularis (r.) gigantocellularis and r. magnocellularis of mammals (or r. inferioris pars ventralis and r. ventrolateralis of reptiles), and analyze their distribution, first in various vertebrate taxa and then within various families of the repitilian suborder Lacertilia (lizards and snakes). The evidence is strong that both of these nuclei are primitive characters for amniotes and we hypothesize that they are primitive for all vertebrates. The second nucleus, Rmc/RVL, shows considerable variability in appearance within one major taxon where it has been carefully studied, the Reptilia. We suggest that it should be studied in a wider variety of species within other classes. Among several possible functions for this nucleus, one of the most prominent (in mammals, at least) and seemingly basic (e.g., widely useful) is a role in mediating pain at spinal levels. Why then would its presence among the reptiles be so erratic?
3882102|Osmoregulatory mechanisms were examined in major groups of fishes including hagfish, holocephalans, elasmobranchs, the coelacanth, and ray-fin fishes. Four main patterns of body fluid composition emerged. These represent the three main osmoregulatory processes in the marine environment and the one in fresh water. Some possible interrelationships among these four types are discussed. Urea retention in marine elasmobranchs and the coelacanth, although similar, may have been acquired independently during evolution. The importance of gills and the rectal gland in elasmobranch osmoregulation is discussed. The importance of amino acids in intracellular osmoregulation in elasmobranchs is also reviewed. Recent studies on water and electrolyte regulation in freshwater stingrays are summarized.
3883527|The feeding motor program in Limax maximus is the neural correlate of feeding and consists of a discrete pattern of cyclical efferent activity generated by the buccal ganglia in response to stimulation of chemosensory pathways. The small cardioactive peptide, SCP
3884519|Evolutionarily, adaptation to hyperosmotic stress through accumulation of osmotically active organic solutes (organic osmolytes) is a highly conserved mechanism. Hyperosmotic accumulation of organic osmolytes is transcriptionally regulated: e.g., betaine in bacteria (e.g., Escherichia coli), glycerol in yeast (e.g., Saccharomyces cerevisiae), betaine in plants (e.g., Spinacea oleracea L.) and sorbitol, betaine, and inositol in cells of the mammalian renal medulla. Renal medullary cells, among mammalian cells, are uniquely exposed to hyperosmotic stress; in these cells, hyperosmotic stress results in accumulation of sorbitol as one of the predominant osmolytes. Sorbitol accumulates due to a rise in the synthesis rate of aldose reductase (AR), which catalyzes the conversion of glucose to sorbitol. Hyperosmotic stress increases transcription of the AR gene which leads to a rise in AR mRNA levels. In cloning and characterizing the rabbit AR gene, the first evidence of a eukaryotic osmotic response element (ORE) was found. Since then, several mammalian OREs (also called TonE) have been discovered. Sequence containing an ORE was identified for the canine Na
3882424|In the central nervous system of Helix pomatia 22 cells taking part in the regulation of the cardio-renal system have been identified. These cells are scattered throughout the visceral and right parietal ganglia. Among identified cells sensory, motor, and interneurons were found and the hierarchical character of the network was stated. The network regulating heart activity was found to be of the over-guaranteed, convergent type, where the inputs predominate and the outputs form independent, parallel pathways, being coordinated by interneurons. This neural network can be divided into two levels: collectors and coordinators, which are responsible for the conduction or analysis of the afferent inputs, respectively. The localization of identified cells was studied by intracellular and retrograde injection of CoCl
3881507|Experiments are reported in which 114 Zygiella x-notata Cl. spiderlings were taken out of the cocoon before the time at which they normally left (2 weeks after the second molt); 67 were placed on wooden frames and 47 on wire frames. Both groups built partial, irregular thread-patterns at first, and, as they grew older, constructed more and more regular geometric orb-webs: the transition can be traced through several stages. The shape of the web, particularly the presence of the free-sector, was dependent on the frame; webs built in a circular wire frame lacked the free-sector. It is assumed that the accomplishment of full, regular orb-webs is essentially based on the progressive histological differentiation of the central nervous system in the spiderlings during the developmental phase under observation; the wire frame could influence the shape of the web through making construction of a retreat difficult.
3884352| Glucose metabolism in mammalian species and teleost fish is controlled by different metabolic pathways. These include differences in the function of several major hormones, especially insulin and GLP-1. The major physiological role of GLP-1 in mammals is to connect the consumption of nutrients with glucose metabolism. The glucose lowering effects of GLP-1 in the postprandial state of mammals are regulated predominantly through metabolic pathways that integrate different physiological processes. These are: (i) stimulation of insulin release from the pancreatic -cell during hyperglycemia and (ii) inhibition of nutrient absorption in the gastrointestinal tract. These effects are mediated by a same type of a highly selective GLP-1 receptor, often referred to as the "pancreatic GLP-1 receptor." In teleost fish GLP-1 increases glucose levels through the activation of glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis from liver. Functional characterization of the recombinant GLP-1 receptor from zebrafish, which is the first example of a recombinant fish GLP-1 receptor, demonstrated that zebrafish GLP-1 receptor has a binding specificity towards a wider range of GLP-1 structures than the mammalian GLP-1 receptor. This property of the zebrafish GLP-1 receptor, and most likely other fish GLP-1 receptors, sets apart the structure of the zebrafish GLP-1 receptor from the structures of mammalian GLP-1 receptors. These differences in the binding specificity between the zebrafish and mammalian GLP-1 receptors might reflect in part the differences in the mechanism by which GLP-1 regulates glucose metabolism in mammals and teleost fish. 
3881983|A comparative analysis of sandpiper social systems on arctic and subarctic breeding grounds (24 species in the family Scolopacidae, subfamily Calidridinae) shows four major patterns. In a majority of the species (15), populations are dispersed through a strongly developed territorial system, with strong monogamous pair bonds and only minor yearly fluctuations in numbers. The second pattern is seen in three species in which the female of a pair may lay two sets of eggs in quick succession, one for each member of the pair to incubate. This opens opportunities for facultative polygyny or polyandry ('serial polygamy') and for the evolutionary weakening of the strong pair bond seen in the first pattern. The third and fourth patterns are those of polygyny (three species) and promiscuity (three species). These six species show clumped dispersions; their year-to-year fluctuations tend to be strong; the males defend compressible, often small, territories; and high densities can occur locally. It is suggested that the pattern of overdispersion and monogamy represents a conservative mode of adapting to high-latitude environments, while the pattern of clumped dispersion with polygyny or promiscuity represents an opportunistic mode in that the birds are concentrated into breeding areas where and when weather, food, and/or some other environmental factors are particularly favorable. Apparently falling evolutionarily between these two basic patterns are several species conservative in their life-styles, but polygamous at least occasionally and showing some features of opportunism. There is thus a striking diversity of social systems in calidridine sandpipers, that is, in the styles of habitat exploitation they have evolved in the arctic and subarctic habitats to which their breeding is confined. A graphic model suggesting paths of evolutionary development and of interplay among factors considered critical in the evolution of these systems is proposed.
3883295|"Beaumont" first gives a brief description of the anatomy of the human stomach, using a crude chalkboard diagram. This is followed by an account of the shotgun accident to the fur-trapper Alexis St. Martin at Fort Mackinac in Michigan Territory in 1822. "Beaumont" then recounts his classic observations and experiments on gastric digestion, conducted through the hole in Alexis' stomach that never healed. He demonstrates digestion of egg albumin. He selects some of the more important of his 51 conclusions from his book Gastric Juice and the Physiology of Digestion, and offers advice on keeping a full, rigorously accurate journal and of following truth wherever it leads. "Truth is most adorned when unadorned."
3882764|Studies of arthropods and other animals including man have revealed that the interstitium, cytoplasm, and nucleus each contain a matrix or ground substance composed of various biopolymers. The extracellular ground substance consists of chains of glycosaminoglycan molecules which may be linked with hyaluronate to form supramolecular complexes called proteoglycans. The cytoplasmic ground substance contains microtubules, microfilaments, microtrabeculae, and intermediate filaments, and constitutes a movable cytoskeleton. This framework interconnects the cell surface, the various organelles, and the nuclear envelope. The nuclear matrix consists of a peripheral pore complex lamina and an internal matrix. Glycophorin, fibronectin, and other proteins appear to provide specific linkages between the extracellular and cytoplasmic ground substance. The nuclear matrix has peripheral elements that appear to interact with the cytoskeleton at specific sites. Intimately associated with the ground substances is a dynamic matrix composed of water and counterions. The structure of the whole system, macromolecules, water, and ions, is being built up from basic laws and principles, enabling quantum mechanical descriptions to be extended to domains containing many interacting components.
3882384|Pigmentary mutants in amphibians provide important vehicles for studying basic problems in development. Some of these mutants exert influences on the tissue environment in which the chromatophores differentiate and others involve the expression of pigment in specific types of pigment cells. Melanophores are the best known of all chromatophores,and albinism has been much studied. Genes controlling its expression may operate at different levels. Some are involved in the production of tyrosinase, while others affect the melanosomal matrix. In contrast, melanoid mutants are characterized by an overproduction of eumelanin, usually through the differentiation of an excessive number of melanophores. Melanoid mutants of the axolotl also exhibit a great diminution in xanthophore and iridophore number, and the same seems to be true of some melanoid-like mutants of leopard frogs. The pteridine pigments of xanthophores and purines of iridophores are often products of xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH) activity, and it is suspected that the expression of the melanoid phenotype may result from a genetic defect involving this enzyme. This is supported by experiments involving the administration of an XDH inhibitor, allopurinol, to normal larvae. This inhibitor results in the production of partial phenocopies of the melanoid condition. Blue mutants involving either partial or complete diminution of xanthophore and iridophore pigments may also be based upon deficient XDH activity.
3882999|Apart from providing students with the fundamental concepts and some of the data supporting these concepts, an introductory university course in biology should suggest ways of thinking about important human problems that relate to biology. Most of these problems such as abortion, genetic engineering, right to life, environmental pollution, and overuse of natural resources, have no single solution that will be accepted by all people. Science cannot specify what the solution should be-that must be a human choice. However, the data and procedures of science can be invaluable in helping human beings make informed choices and, once a choice has been made, make more probable the achieving of the desired goal.
3881993|One adaptive function that has been suggested for social play in higher primates is the learning, refining, or practicing of communicative skills. Despite the absence of experimental data, a comparison of the structure of aggressive play and communication may shed light on this hypothesis. The great majority of rhesus monkey agonistic interactions are mediated by stereotyped signals. Deprivation experiments have shown that appropriate interpretation and use of such signals requires early social experience. Such experience seemingly must have the following characteristics: (i) The relevant agonistic signals must occur. (ii) These signals must regularly be paired with other stimuli for appropriate responses to signals to be learned. Signals must produce regular responses in other monkeys for appropriate use to be learned. Aggressive play seems to be an unpromising context in which to learn, refine, or practice agonistic signals. These signals are not observed in play, and the signals that do occur are restricted to play and are not regularly paired with unconditioned stimuli.
3883987|To test the hypothesis that developmental integration coordinates evolutionary change through history, we dissect the spatial and temporal integration of ontogenetic allometries of piranha body form and examine the evolutionary coordination among ontogenetic features by a phylogenetic analysis. Few of our characters provide evidence in support of the hypothesis. In general, we find that developmental integration is historically labile, being modified at virtually every speciation event. Most of the ontogenetic features are dissociated in their phylogenetic changes and evolve in a mosaic fashion. Indeed, developmental integration is so labile that primitively integrated features of ontogeny usually evolve subsequently as independent characters. Evolutionary changes in developmental integration can result in increased or decreased integration on the ontogenetic time scale. When localized features are deleted from ontogeny, or when spatially integrated features are gained, the derived ontogenies may be more integrated in a spatial sense. The end result of phylogenetic dissociations may be a more highly developmentally integrated ontogeny. Thus, in the piranhas we studied, we find a historically coupled increase in developmental integration caudally and a decrease in developmental integration cranially.
3881519|The parathyroid glands have received relatively little attention with regard to their impact on the internal milieu in amphibians. Present information, however, clearly indicates that distribution of mineral in frog tissues and body fluids is under hormonal regulation; further modifications are imposed by season and temperature. Under conditions of cold acclimation or during winter normal amphibian bone shows minimal rates of carbohydrate utilization; simultaneously, phosphate is conserved by reduced excretion and increased incorporation in tissue. Exogenous parathyroid hormone, injected under these conditions when endogenous titers may be low due to glandular degeneration, reverses these effects, and phosphate is lost in a hyperphosphaturic urine. During summer or periods of warm acclimation, hormone promotes incorporation of phosphate in tissues, and increases rates of carbohydrate metabolism in bone; citric acid, which may act in solubilizing bone mineral, is elevated in the bone. Concurrently, pre-existing sulfated mucopolysaccharides of "old" bone may be degraded, while epiphyseal zones enlarge and may exhibit accelerated or abnormal elaboration of sulfated components of cartilage and/or osteoid matrix.
3881840|Autoradiographic techniques are reviewed which have been recommended for the localization of diffusible substances, such as steroid hormones. Advancement in techniques, including low temperature tissue sectioning, section freeze-drying, and dry-mounting of sections, led to the development of the dry-mount autoradiographic technique. This progress in technique has enabled the cellular and subcellular topographic localization of steroid hormones in peripheral and central target tissues, including the identification of hormone target cells in the pituitary and mapping of hormone neurons in the brain. In the pituitary, tritiated estrogen, androgen, and glucocorticoid are concentrated and retained in nuclei of certain anterior lobe cells. In the brain, estrogens, androgens, and glucocorticoids are attracted by and concentrated in nuclei of certain neurons located mainly within the phylogenetically old periventricular brain. In view of the widespread distribution of sex steroids in different brain areas, the generally held concept of a topographically confined single or dual "sex center" is challenged. While estrogen and androgen neurons in the hypothalamus, in the preoptic-septal-parolfactory region, and in the amygdala overlap, or are even identical in part, glucocorticoid neurons are more heavily concentrated in the gyrus dentatus, hyppocampus, indusium griseum, dorsal nuclei septi lateralis and medialis, as well as in the piriform cortex and portions of the amygdala. It is conceptualized that the steroid hormone neurons are hypophysiotropic neurons, being involved in the neurosecretion of releasing factors, and that they represent sought for hormone "feedback" areas in the brain. This challenges the generally held view of the "hypophysiotrophic area" in the hypothalamus as the anatomical site where releasing factors are produced.
3883497| Incubation of alligator eggs at 30C produces 100% females, at 33C 100% males; temperatures in between produce varying sex ratios. Wild nests of Alligator mississippiensis show similar effects and the populations are biased towards females. The incidence and patterns of temperature dependent sex determination (TSD) in other crocodilians are reviewed. Temperature also affects hatchling size and pigmentation patterns, post-hatching growth rates and thermoregulation by juvenile crocodilians. The significance of temperature sensitive periods defined by temperature shift experiments is questioned in relation to a hypothesis to explain the mechanism of TSD in crocodilians. It is postulated that there is an initial sex differentiation mechanism which involves a quantum period of time and a threshold for a dose of a male determining factor. The conditions for induction of males are precise but exhibit variation between individuals within the population. Females develop by default. The hypothalamus may have an important role in a later sex differentiation mechanism. The hypothesis is used to explain the late temperature sensitive periods defined by high to low temperature shift experiments, why cooler temperatures are more effective at determining sex, how intermediate temperatures can produce both sexes, the differences in the pattern between turtles and crocodilians and geographical similarities in the pattern of TSD within crocodilians despite differing climates. The phylogenetic advantages of TSD in crocodilians are concerned with the overall reproductive strategy of the animals. Those crocodilians which are incubated and grow to maturity under optimal environmental conditions will be both large and male. Larger males are more likely to produce more offspring. A review of the effects of the environment on sex determination in amphibians and fish suggests that there is a general relationship between size and sex in vertebrates. 
3882660|Structural and functional patterns in the evolution of the actinopterygian feeding mechanism are discussed in the context of the major monophyletic lineages of ray-finned fishes. A tripartite adductor mandibulae contained in a maxillary-palatoquadrate chamber and a single mechanism of mandibular depression mediated by the obliquus inferioris, sternohyoideus, and hyoid apparatus are primitive features of the Actinopterygii. Halecostome fishes are characterized by having an additional mechanism of mandibular depression, the levator operculi-opercular series coupling, and a maxilla which swings anteriorly during prey capture. These innovations provide the basis for feeding by inertial suction which is the dominant mode of prey capture throughout the halecostome radiation. A remarkably consistent kinematic profile occurs in all suction-feeding halecostomes. Teleost fishes possess a number of specializations in the front jaws including a geniohyoideus muscle, loss of the primitive suborbital adductor component, and a mobile premaxilla. Structural innovations in teleost pharyngeal jaws include fusion of the dermal tooth plates with endoskeletal gill arch elements, the occurrence of a pharyngeal retractor muscle, and a shift in the origin of the pharyngohyoideus. These specializations relate to increased functional versatility of the pharyngeal jaw apparatus as demonstrated by an electromyographic study of pharyngeal muscle activity in Esox and Ambloplites. The major feature of the evolution of the actinopterygian feeding mechanism is the increase in structural complexity in both the pharyngeal and front jaws. Structural diversification is a function of the number of independent biomechanical pathways governing movement.
3881331|Life histories of species of Plasmodium, Hepatocystis, Leucocytozoon and Haemoproteus are reviewed. The last two genera are considered in more detail than the others and some data from recent experiments on Leucocytozoon are given to support the concept of the life cycle that is presented. The importance of the feeding habits and host preferences of the vectors is noted as well as the specificity of the parasites in determining their occurrence. Plasmodium and Hepatocystis are transmitted by mosquitoes and biting midges respectively; the latter as well as hippoboscids are vectors of Haemoproteus while simuliids and biting midges transmit species of Leucocytozoon. These differences together with others in the life cycles suggest that revisions in classifications may be desirable. The need is emphasized for further research on the life cycles of species in all genera and for more details on species that are better known.
3883460|Work on the life histories of common antarctic benthic marine invertebrates over the past several decades demands a revision of several widely held paradigms. First, contrary to expectations derived from work on temperate species, there is little or no evidence for temperature adaptation with respect to reproduction (gametogenesis), development, and growth. It remains to be determined whether the slow rates of these processes reflect some inherent inability to adapt to low temperatures, or are a response to features of the antarctic marine environment not directly related to low temperature, such as low food resources. Secondly, contrary to the widely accepted opinion designated as "Thorson's rule," pelagic development is common in many groups of shallow-water marine invertebrates. In fact in some groups, such as asteroids, pelagic development is as prevalent in McMurdo Sound, the southern-most open-water marine environment in the world, as in central California. In other taxonomic groups, especially gastropods, there does seem to be a genuine trend toward non-pelagic development from tropical to antarctic latitudes. Although this trend has been predicted by theoretical models, its underlying causes appear to be group specific rather than general. Thirdly, pelagic lecithotrophic development, often considered to be of negligible importance, occurs in many shallow-water antarctic marine macroinvertebrates. Pelagic lecithotrophy may be an adaptation to a combination of poor food conditions in antarctic waters most of the year and slow rates of development. Nevertheless, some of the most abundant and widespread antarctic marine invertebrates have pelagic planktotrophic larvae that take very long times to complete development to metamorphosis. These species are particularly prevalent in productive regions of shallow water (<30 m), which are frequently disturbed by anchor ice formation, and the production of numerous pelagic planktotrophic larvae may represent a strategy for colonization. Although planktotrophic larvae tend to be seasonal in occurrence, their production is not linked particularly closely to the mid-summer pulse of phytoplankton production. These larvae show no evidence of starvation, even during times when phytoplankton abundance is very low, and they may depend on unusual sources of food, such as bacteria. How they escape the selective conditions that apparently led to a predominance of non-feeding modes of development in antarctic marine invertebrates remains as a major challenge for antarctic marine biology.
3881976| Breeding bird populations were studied on seven riparian woodland study plots in north-central Arizona. The densities of breeding birds varied from 193 to 847 pairs per 40 hectares. These differences were, in part, related to the vegetative structure of the habitat. Bird species diversity (BSD) was not correlated with foliage height diversity (FHD) in riparian habitats consisting of one major vegetational component (the cottonwood tree Populus fremontii) where these habitats are bordered by agricultural fields. These areas supported the largest breeding bird populations (847, 612, 512, and 425 pairs per 40 hectares) while areas consisting of a mixed deciduous tree and shrub component (Populus, Platanus, Salix, Acer, Fraxinus, Prosopis, etc.) had smaller populations of breeding birds (322, 312, and 193 pairs per 40 hectares). On the mixed deciduous woodland areas the correlation between BSD and FHD was similar to what others have found in Eastern deciduous forests. The average weights of individual birds were significantly greater on the homogeneous cottonwood areas (X = 46.4 g) than on the mixed deciduous areas (X = 22.9 g). Data gathered indicate that two systems of social organization are being maintained. In areas of relatively low population density (mixed deciduous) 57% of the pairs maintained "class A" territories. On areas of relatively high population density (homogeneous cottonwood) only 22% of the pairs exhibited this form of spacing; here, most birds forage freely outside of the riparian habitat. We suggest that the differences in population density and average weights of birds found in the two habitat types are a result of the following: (i) relative productivity of areas adjacent to the riparian habitat, and (ii) degree of intra- and interspecific competition effected by avian populations found breeding in areas adjacent to the riparian habitat. 
3884245|This review discusses three questions pertaining to gamete release by fucoid algae at low tide: 1) Are gametes viable and does fertilization occur at low tide?, 2) How many gametes are released at low tide versus at high tide? and 3) Is gamete release at low tide maladaptive or is it selectively advantageous? Gamete release at low tide (LT) in fucoid algae is observed commonly in monoecious species from the lower and mid-intertidal zones (e.g., Fucus distichus, F. evanescens, F. gardneri, Pelvetia compressa); in dioecious species, intact antheridia (containing sperm) are commonly released at low tide (e.g., in Ascophyllum nodosum, F. vesiculosus). Fertilization at low tide can be determined with a calcofluor white assay and occurs in at least three species (F. distichus, F. gardneri, P. compressa). In general, fucoid algae have high levels of fertilization success, but substantial mortality occurs during early embryogenesis in some intertidal zones due to physical stresses. The agarose bead assay is useful to assess desiccation on an egg-sized scale. Constitutive dehydrin-like proteins are present in sperm, eggs, and embryos. The release of gametes at low tide appears to be a consequence of a mechanism selected to permit gamete release under calm conditions in seawater; this mechanism is described. The timing of adhesion by zygotes at low and high tide is unknown. Such information and additional data on the relative proportions of zygotes produced by monecious species at low tide versus high tide are required in order to assess effects of gamete release at low tide upon dispersal and population structure.
3881622| Molting in crayfish, essential for growth, is preceded by a decrease in total organic content during premolt. Mineral, as calcium, is conserved in gastroliths after mobilization from the exoskeleton. Crustecdysone treatment results in gastrolith formation by intact crayfish in intermolt, state C, but does not influence the rate of gastrolith formation in eyestalkless animals. Moreover, the rate of gastrolith formation is not increased at higher hormone doses; conversely, less dense, abnormal gastroliths result, while apolysis is evident by 48 to 60 hours after treatment. It appears that crustecdysone promotes reabsorption of the organic matrix since treatment with this hormone does not lead to a measureable decrease in calcium content of shell based on dry weight. Premolt crayfish normally have a higher amino acid pool in all tissues than do those in intermolt, and eyestalk removal from intermolt crayfish results in an increase in the free-amino acid level of all tissues by 24 hours; crustecdysone treatment results in a significant increase in muscle amino acids by 12 hours after a hormone dose of 5 g/g body weight. In the context of integumentary growth and protein synthesis low doses of crustecdysone (1 g/g) increase the in vivo incorporation of amino acid into hypodermis, but not hepatopancreas, by 24 hours, and the increase is significant by 36 hours; a higher dose (5 g) does not change this rate of incorporation. Selective increase in hypodermis protein is not evident in acid phosphatase levels from 12 to 48 hours, but respiration of this tissue is significantly elevated within two hours after hormone injection. 
3883216|A conflict exists at many universities today between the demand to maintain a competitive position as a research institution, contributing to the rapidly advancing scholarship in science, and the need to provide available and sympathetic communication between undergraduate students and the most vigorous faculty. This conflict is especially apparent at marine stations. A marine station is usually geographically and politically isolated from the main campus with its advantage of size and opportunities to obtain and share sophisticated equipment used in today's science. There is also a historical trend of smaller teaching laboratories evolving into larger research-oriented facilities. And, financial support is not as readily available for research and education in natural history and whole animal biology, ideal subjects for study at marine stations, as it is for some other fields. In this presentation I examine the following questions: 1. What is the role of teaching at marine stations today? 2. What are some of the current pressures that conflict with this role? and 3. What are some solutions to these conflicts? I approach these questions from my experience as a teacher and research scientist at a small marine station which has been concerned with undergraduate teaching. I propose that marine field stations of diverse sizes and roles, both teaching and research, can be and should be supported financially and that this support of diversity will return strong health to marine science nationally and internationally.
3882715|Rodents discriminate and prefer familiar odors early in life. Almost from birth young rats suckle in response to maternal odor, but suckle less when nipples are cleaned with organic solvents. In two-choice tests, young prefer familiar nest odors, whether naturally occurring or artificially presented, and can even be made to tolerate odors normally aversive or to avoid odors normally pleasant. Variations in maternal diet can alter odor preferences of the young. Nest odors can affect vocalization of young rodents. In contrast to the consistent effects of cold temperature and handling in the many rodents studied, nest odors may affect vocalization differently in different species. For example, familiar odors reduce calling in rats, but increase calling in pine voles. Nest odor also alters spontaneous activity in young rats, which locomote less when maternal odor is present. In this paper I report that home nest odors enhanced locomotion in rodents of three species (pine voles, Microtus pinetorum; white-footed mice, Peromyscus leucopus; and wild house mice, Mus musculus), but that the age at which this pattern occurred and the relationships of nest odors to vocalizations differed among the species.
3884471| Molting and regeneration of lost appendages are tightly-coupled, hormonally-regulated processes in decapod crustaceans. Precocious molts are induced by eyestalk ablation, which reduces circulating molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH) and results in an immediate rise in hemolymph ecdysteroids. Precocious molts are also induced by autotomy of 5-8 walking legs; adult land crabs (Gecarcinus lateralis) molt 6-8 wk after multiple leg autotomy (MLA). Autotomy of one or more of the 1 limb buds (LBs) that form after MLA before a critical period interrupts proecdysis until 2 LBs re-regenerate and grow to the approximate size of those lost. Based on these observations, Skinner proposed that limb buds produce two factors that control proecdysial events. Limb Autotomy Factor-Anecdysis
3883550|Hormones and neurohormones act on the nervous system to produce important changes in behavior. This article uses studies of amine actions in the lobster nervous system and their possible relationship to aggressive behavior in lobsters to explore how such changes might come about.
3883353|This paper explores the proposition that in morphology, or any other scientific subject, every statement is based on multiple assumptions already in our minds before we begin to teach or do research in the field. Progress in morphology is intimately related to its philosophical and historical foundations. Personalities, social pressures and cultural traditions also play major roles in the often complex and circuitous routes of scientific discovery. General education provides a foundation for understanding these many interactions. Morphology, itself, is a metaphor for inter-relatedness, and this metaphor can be used to explore general education in the broadest sense. Morphology is not only a body of knowledge and processes for producing that knowledge but also groups of people deciding on directions, collaborating on methods, and consulting on concepts. A morphologist is a member of a community of understanding in a culture composed of diverse and often conflicting influences. I suggest that exploring these issues is an important pedagogic tool for discovering and understanding the foundations of morphology as a scientific endeavor. This paper is appropriately dedicated to Professor Milton Hildebrand who understands well the interdisciplinary nature of scientific discovery.
3883817|Enhanced by recent technical and conceptual advances, two classical endeavors in biology play vital roles in understanding, appreciating, and managing biodiversity. Systematics defines the fundamental units and relationships among living things; natural history chronicles the lifestyles of organisms in relation to environments. For example, analyses of evolutionary relationships emphasize the uniqueness of certain taxa, help prioritize groups of organisms for conservation, and enable us to estimate the biology of unstudied taxa. Radiotelemetry permits repeated location of snakes and other stealthy animals, facilitating previously impossible behavioral studies and thus laying the groundwork for effective management. Natural history in a systematic and geographic context provides a "rule-of-thumb" for predicting extinction due to global climate change. Educators should emphasize the urgency of the biodiversity crisis, inform debates about priorities for funding and other conservation matters, and teach about the goals, methods, and applications of systematics and natural history.
3882456|Reciprocal increases in rodent and ant densities on 0.1 ha plots from which the other taxon had been excluded demonstrate that these distantly related desert granivores compete for seeds. Relative to unmanipulated control plots, numbers of ant colonies increased 71% on plots where rodents were excluded; rodents increased 20% in numbers of individuals and 29% in biomass in the absence of ants. Comparisons of seed levels in the soil and of annual plant densities on experimental and control plots provide evidence that the rodent and ant populations are limited by and compete for food. Greater numbers of seeds and annuals occurred on plots where rodents and ants had been excluded than on plots where both taxa were present. Particular species of annuals were reduced in density by foraging of rodents. Ants increased species diversity by differentially harvesting seeds of the most common species. Results of these and other recent studies suggest that competition among distantly related organisms plays a major role in the organization of ecological communities.
3881122|Microsaurs are Paleozoic lepospondylous Amphibia with slender bodies and weak limbs. Their solidly roofed skulls lack otic notches, have large supratemporals widely separating the squamosal from parietal, and double occipital condyles. The stapes consists of a large footplate and extremely short columella. Vertebrae lack intercentra. Originally based on a reptile, Hylonomus lyelli, by Dawson in 1863, the Order Microsauria has long been restricted to these small amphibians (Romer, 1950). Repeated confusion between primitive captorhinomorph reptiles and microsaurs stems from superficial similarities between both skulls and vertebrae. This confusion and occasional microsaur-like vertebrae in early Carboniferous deposits have led to suggestions that microsaurs are reptilian ancestors (cf. Vaughn, 1962). Captorhinomorphs differ from microsaurs in their small supratemporal bone, single occipital condyle, stapes with long columella reaching a pit in the quadrate and bearing a dorsal process, and dorsal intercentra. Captorhinomorph ancestors were probably not labyrinthodonts, as Vaughn (1960) has pointed out, but they could not have had the characteristic specializations of microsaurs. Their source must be sought in forms much closer to crossopterygian fish. Microsaurs resemble both urodeles and gymnophionans in their double occipital joint and otic region. They differ from Lissamphibia in the absence of a non-clacified zone in the teeth. At present, no criteria indicate decisively which structures developed convergently. Microsaurs are possibly but not demonstrably related to the ancestry of modern salamanders and caecilians.
3881874| Vitellogenin is the serum precursor of the yolk proteins -lipovitellin, -lipovitellin, and phosvitin. The precursor can be dissociated to produce the yolk proteins only by proteolytic enzymatic action, to which it is very susceptible. Denaturation in sodium dodecyl sulfate, combined with reduction of disulfide bridges and blocking of thiols, yields a complex with a molecular weight of 200,000 to 250,000. -Lipovitellin contains three polypeptides, with molecular weights of about 135,000, 105,000, and 40,000, and -lipovitellin is composed of two polypeptide chains with molecular weights of 135,000 and 30,000. The 40,000 subunit of -lipovitellin and both -lipovitellin subunits are phosphopeptides. We tested RNA isolated from the liver of estrogen-treated roosters for mRNA activity in a cell-free reticulocyte system. The vitellogenin mRNA has a sedimentation coefficient greater than 28S and thus contains enough information to code for a long polypeptide chain. Estrogen administration to roosters induces the appearance of vitellogenin and a low-density lipoprotein, the syntheses of which are not coordinated. The course of vitellogenin synthesis was calculated from accumulation and turnover data, and it was found that from about 25 hr after estradiol-17 administration the rate of vitellogenin synthesis increases linearly for several days, paralleling an increase in vitellogenin-synthesizing polysomes. Thus, we estimate a constant translation rate of about 8 amino acids per ribosome per sec. A "memory" effect is observed when a second hormone dose is given some time after the vitellogenin induced by the first dose has disappeared from the blood. After the second dose vitellogenin synthesis is detected sooner, and its initial increase is more rapid, than after the first dose. Although the synthesis of vitellogenin starts 3 to 4 hr after the second as well as after the first injection, the rate of synthesis after the first injection increases much more slowly during the first 15 hr than during the subsequent period of linear accumulation, whereas after the second injection the linear increase in the rate of synthesis begins immediately after the lag period of 3 to 4 hr. The "memory" effect is undiminished even 50 days after the first hormone dose; thus, the causative factor either is very stable or is synthesized in great excess during the first stimulation. When the second injection is given during the descending part of the turnover curve, an increase in vitellogenin synthesis is observed within 3.5 hr. There are thus at least three different effects of estradiol; (i) the "memory" effect, which probably is due to commitment or differentiation of vitellogenin-synthesizing cells; (ii) the effect that causes the committed cells to give full response after the 3- to 4-hr lag period; and (iii) the effect that causes the immediate response. To explain these results we suggest that committed cells can synthesize vitellogenin mRNA only during a certain period of the cell cycle. 
3882096|Preliminary cladistic analysis corroborates the hypothesis that the Elasmobranchii and the Holocephali are sister groups, and that the Chondrichthyes are more closely related to the Teleostomi (Acanthodi plus Osteichthyes) than either is to the Placodermi. In regard to the Paleozoic and Mesozoic elasmobranchs, a theory of relationships has been proposed for six better known genera (Xenacanthus, Denaea, Cladoselache, Hybodus, Ctenacanthus and Paleospinax) by evaluation of certain characters in the skull, postcranial axial skeleton, fin supports, and fins.
3883761| Among 17 species of mammals, field metabolic rates exclusive of thermoregulatory and productive costs (designated FMR*) averaged 2.65  standard metabolism (SMR). Daily activity costs were calculated by subtraction from FMR* of the daily energy expenditure associated with SMR and assimilation of nutrients. Total expenditure for activity was of a similar magnitude to that for daily standard metabolism. Calculations indicate that expenditures by mammals for locomotion probably account for less than half of daily activity costs. Expenditures by mammals engaged in other kinds of activities are also reviewed. During their daily activity periods, terrestrial mammals expend energy at a rate of about 4.1  SMR. The utility of energetic increments for activity in time-energy budgets, thermal energy budgets, and analyses of the economics of foraging are discussed. 
3881826|Long-range stability in natural communities is mediated through avenues of communication. One of the most important pathways of communication involves nutrient exchange, although other types of communication are suspected as being of considerable importance. The potential role of special "regulator species" in community stabilization is discussed and illustrated with two original examples, one dealing with brackish-water communities of the North Carolina coast, and the other dealing with communities of the piedmont streams of eastern Mexico. The significance of multi-species groups in evolution is also considered in the second example. It is suggested that the functional ecosystem is the fundamental selectional unit of evolution and that evolution proceeds by mutual adjustment of ecological entities into harmonious systems with some degree of permanence.
3881567|The gross morphology of the cochlear ducts of approximately half (150) of the living genera of lizards and a third (130) of the living genera of snakes have been studied. The differences in the structure of the cochlear duct are related to both the acoustical capacities and the taxonomic relationships of certain lizards and snakes. The cochlear duct of lizards consists of fairly well joined lagenar and limbic portions. By contrast, the cochlear duct of snakes consists of a lagenar sac somewhat constricted from the limbus. Each family of lizards has a morphologically characteristic cochlear duct, but taxonomic relationships are indicated by certain anatomical similarities. The cochlear duct of snakes is more primitive than that of lizards, and, unlike lizards, does not exhibit marked specializations of its various parts. Differences in morphology of the cochlear duct in snakes are much more related to habitat than family. The limbus and papilla basilaris of snakes regardless of family, are most elongated in burrowing species, are only moderately elongated or ovoid in terrestrial species, and are small or reduced in certain arboreal and aquatic species.
3882376|In order to understand development it is necessary to elucidate the mechanisms behind both gene regulation and cell type determination. I have approached these problems in three ways utilizing the amphibian system. The first involves the injection of somatic cell nuclei into oocytes. The oocytes are used as a coupled transcriptional-translational system to detect the translational products of the injected nuclei. In this way it becomes possible to examine the regulation of genes coding for ubiquitous or housekeeping functions as well as those coding for differentiated functions. The results indicate that in the case of the proteins examined, the oocyte cytoplasm appears to be able to regulate the synthetic activity of the transferred nuclei so as to conform to its own synthetic output. A second approach involves the examination of the expression of various classes of genes in interspecific amphibian hybrids. These studies show that there appears to be preferential expression of the maternal allele of a differentiated product, alcohol dehydrogenase, while the maternal and paternal alleles of ubiquitous products such as lactate dehydrogenase and superoxide dismutase are expressed simultaneously. These results suggest that there may be differences in the regulation of various classes of genes. The third approach involves the injection of bacterial plasmids containing eukaryotic genes into amphibian oocytes. A plasmid, pSp2, containing sea urchin histone genes H1, H2b, and H4 was injected into the germinal vesicle of Xenopus laevis oocytes. The genes coding for sea urchin histones H1 and H2b were expressed. The applicability of this system to problems of gene regulation and cell type determination is discussed.
3884330|No consensus exists concerning the mechanisms, distribution, or adaptive significance of consciousness. Agreement on any one of these issues would aid in resolving others. Given a reliable behavioral or neuroanatomical test for consciousness, we could map its distribution and describe its evolution. Conversely, if we knew its distribution, we could assess its adaptive value and look for similarly distributed neuroanatomies to help us get at its mechanisms. Morgan's Canon-the rule that we should avoid attributing humanlike mental states to other animals whenever possible-impedes the use of the comparative method in unraveling this knot. If interpreted in this context as a parsimony criterion, Morgan's Canon is logically equivalent to epiphenomenalism. It is parsimonious if and only if conscious mental events play no causal role in human behavior and human consciousness has no adaptive significance. Rejecting this conclusion entails rejecting the parsimony interpretation of Morgan's Canon.
3882245|Cell differentiation in the mantle edge of Notosaria, Thecidellina and Glottidia, representing respectively, the impunctate and punctate calcareous articulate and chitinophosphatic inarticulate brachiopods, is described. Comparison of electron micrographs suggests that outer epithelium which secretes periostracum and mineral shell, is separated from inner epithelium by a band of "lobate" cells, of variable width, exuding an impersistent mucopolysaccharide film or pellicle. The lobate cells always occupy the same relative position on the inner surface of the outer mantle lobe; but the outer epithelium is commonly connected with the inner surface of the periostracum by papillae and protoplasmic strands which persist during mineral deposition and ensure that both shell and attached mantle remain in situ relative to the outwardly expanding inner surface of the outer mantle lobe. In the prototypic brachiopod, the lobate cells are likely at first to have occupied the hinge of the mantel fold but later to have been displaced into their present position by the rigid outward growing edge of the mineral shell.
3884017| Lead (Pb) is a neurotoxic element that causes behavioral dysfunction in fishes within days of exposure to sublethal concentrations. To test the hypothesis that internal stores of Pb have long-term behavioral effects, Pb-exposed (0.3 ppm) fish were either treated with the Pb-chelating drug meso-2,3 dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) or returned to control conditions (0.0 ppm Pb). Swimming capacity improved after a 7-day DMSA (1.5 ppm) exposure (ANOVA P < 0.05). Removing fish from conditions of waterborne Pb did not achieve this result; DMSA alone without Pb pretreatment had no significant effect. Blood Pb (BPb) levels in control or DMSA-only fish were not detectable. Treated groups had significantly higher BPb (ANOVA, P < 0.05): Pb-exposed fish-530.5  156.7, 884.6  130.0 ppm (1, 2 wks, respectively); Pb-exposed  0.0 ppm water-488.8  67.3 ppm after 2 wks; Pb-exposed  1.5 ppm DMSA-202.0  116.0 ppm after 2 wks. Norepinephrine and vanillylmandelic acid levels were altered by Pb exposure (ANOVA, P < 0.05). Whereas removing Pb did not facilitate a return to control values, adding DMSA did (ANOVA, P < 0.05). Temporal-spatial response patterns to a stimulus in Pb-exposed (0.1 ppm) and Pb-exposed  0.0 ppm Pb water groups differed from controls (0.0 ppm Pb; 0.0 ppm DMSA) for stimulus response angle, and rate and extent of movement away from stimulus source. While the two control types were similar for stimulus response angle and reaction time, DMSA-only controls, unlike 0.0 ppm Pb controls, did not respond as a tightly-associated group after the stimulus. 
3883771|Almost all substances that are passively transferred fall into two classes. Their transfer is either purely "flow limited" or purely "diffusion limited," with few in between. Diffusion limited transfer (most lipid insoluble materials) is determined by the diffusion permeability of the interhemal membrane. In the epitheliochorial placenta, this permeability declines precipitously with increasing molecular weight and with the presence of electric charge. In the various hemochorial placentas, molecular weight is not discriminated, except to the extent that it affects the coefficient of free diffusion in water and electric charge is of little or no consequence. Flow limited transfer applies to those substances (lipid soluble) whose concentrations in maternal and fetal blood equilibrate in a single pass through the placenta. Transfer of oxygen is flow limited or nearly so. The effectiveness of flow limited transfer depends on vascular geometry. The "counter current" labyrinthine placentas of the rabbit and the guinea pig are highly efficient, whereas the villous placentas of sheep, monkey and man, which appear to allow end venous equilibration, are much less so. The price of efficient flow limited transfer may be less reserve when one of the blood flows declines. Maternofetal water flow per unit surface area of the placenta may be much greater in the embryo than in the fetus. If so, ultrafiltration may play more than a negligible role in the embryo in the transfer of lipid insoluble solutes and species differences may be less pronounced than in the fetus. A relation between placental transfer regime and evolutionary pressure is not yet apparent.
3881784|Single nerve cells readily recordable in the ventral nerve cord of locusts and crickets respond to moving targets but not to the forced movement of the eye. This asymmetry of response is shown to be due to an inhibition generated whenever large areas of the hemispheric receptive fields of these units are stimulated. Dimming of a large, stationary target, movement of a large field of vertical bars, or movement of the eye while viewing a large pattern are all potent inhibitory stimuli which can prevent the cell's otherwise vigorous response to a small target or arrest a response which is already under way. These properties of single insect neurons are phenomenologically similar to human sensations described by psychophysicists as saccadic suppression and backward masking, as well as to the properties of some vertebrate visual neurons. It is argued that the spatial and dynamic characteristics of neurons in visual input pathways may well acount for some psychophysical findings generally interpreted in terms of central mechanisms such as "efference copy," and must be incorporated in models seeking to explain perceptual stability during eye movement.
3883645|Major physical disturbances impacted fringing reefs at 4 to 12 m depth off the south coast of St. John, at intervals of 28, 14 and 12 months over a 6 year period (1985-1991). The most wave exposed habitats were dominated by the hydrocoral Millepora alcicornis and the encrusting gorgonian Erythropodium caribaeorum. Both of these species displayed high resistance stability in response to the 1987 bleaching event and to Hurricanes Gilbert (1988) and Hugo (1989). Although Hurricane Hugo was ranked as the most severe hurricane of the past century, it caused comparatively little damage to the shallow exposed reef, illustrating that the effects of physical disturbance may not always conform to a priori predictions based on wave exposure. This counter-intuitive result is explicable when the chronology of disturbance is considered. For example, the shallow exposed community was more heavily damaged than the protected reef by Hurricane Gilbert occurring one year prior to Hurricane Hugo. Sponges and thick mats of E. caribaeorum had accumulated on the protected reef during a 54 month period of little disturbance and were vulnerable to disturbance by virtue of their elevation above the substratum. These organisms were dislodged by extreme water motion generated by Hurricane Hugo. In contrast, the shallow exposed community was still recovering from Hurricane Gilbert when Hurricane Hugo struck. Monitored populations of two coral species, Agaricia agaricites and Tubastrea coccinea, declined over the six year period, but recruitment in 1990 partially compensated for high mortality caused by Hurricane Hugo. There were significant increases in the abundance of algal turf on three out of the four study reefs (4 m exposed and protected, 12 m protected) in response to the creation of patch space by the multiple physical disturbances. This study demonstrates the need to interpret recent disturbances in light of the history of past disturbance on the reef.
3883872|In situ hybridization analyses of the developmental patterns of expression of the members of the MyoD family of myogenic regulatory factors have been carried out in several vertebrate species. Differences between the temporal sequence of appearance of these gene transcripts seen in mouse embryos and those detected in avian and in Xenopus embryos suggest that these transcription factors may serve overlapping or redundant functions. Targeted inactivation of two myogenic factor genes in the mouse supports this hypothesis. These factors appear to be necessary but may not be sufficient for muscle-specific gene activation during embryogenesis. The distinct spatial and temporal patterns of gene activation and transcript accumulation of the four related factors in mouse embryos as detected by in situ hybridization are reviewed and discussed in the context of the embryological origins and developmental patterning of muscle in somites and in limb buds. These results are compared briefly with those on myogenic factor gene expression patterns in chick, quail and Xenopus embryos.
3882783|Aurelia ephyrae which were maintained in thyroxine during their metamorphosis from the polyp state and another group of ephyrae which were in thyroxine for four and eight days of starvation, had significantly reduced numbers of statoliths as compared with control ephyrae in equimolar concentrations of iodine and in artificial sea water. We conclude, therefore, that thyroxine significantly affects the mineralization and demineralization of statocytes resulting in changes in statolith numbers. A mineralization role of thyroxine in other invertebrates has not been reported in spite of the fact that thyroxine and its precursors, monoiodotyrosine and diiodotyrosine, have been located in numerous invertebrates, particularly in mineralizing areas such as developing shells. On the other hand, an important role of thyroxine in mineralization and demineralization of bones and teeth of vertebrates including humans, has been known for some time. The specific role of thyroxine in affecting mineralization in vertebrates is not known, due perhaps to the presence of many other hormones and second messengers which also affect mineralization. The use of the relatively simple Aurelia statolith test systems and the exploration for other invertebrate mineralizing systems which respond to thyroxine will hopefully lead to a better understanding of the basic mechanisms of thyroxine action in mineralizing systems in the future.
4620152|The outer surface of insects is covered with a lipid layer that provides water-proofing and protection against environmental stresses. Hydrocarbons (HC) are major constituents of this epicuticular wax and they also serve as semiochemicals. In some insects HC are also exploited as biosynthetic precursors for pheromones. HC are synthesized by oenocytes which are situated in the integument or hemocoel. Shuttling of HC to the epicuticle, fat body, and gonads requires transport through an aqueous medium. Insects, unlike vertebrates, use a versatile lipoprotein to effect lipid transport and to selectively deliver lipids to specific tissues. A high-density hemolymph lipoprotein (lipophorin [Lp]) serves this function. In adult females of the German cockroach (Blattella germanica), Lp carries both HC and a contact sex pheromone. Lipophorin is a multi-functional lipid carrier serving also as a juvenile hormone binding protein in many insects. Studies of the interactions between Lp and HC are beginning to unravel the routes used in delivering HC to target tissues. We discuss the pathways and dynamics of loading of Lp with HC and HC-derived pheromones, their transport through the hemolymph, and deposition in various tissues, including the epicuticle, ovaries, and pheromone-emitting glands.
3884300|COUP-TFs comprise a family of highly conserved transcription factors within the steroid-thyroid-retinoic acid super-family of nuclear receptors. The high degree of conservation among the COUP-TFs suggests that their function among distantly related species might also be conserved. In order to give some insight into this question, we have tested the ability of human COUP-TF to mimic a specific sub-cellular localization pattern characteristic of endogenous SpCOUP-TF in early sea urchin embryos. Similarly, experiments were undertaken to determine if five conserved domains within COUP-TF could act as distinct entities, independent of the complete COUP-TF protein. Fusion constructs were created between the Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) and the entire human COUP-TF as well as various sub-domains of the sea urchin SpCOUP-TF. Intracellular trafficking of the fusion proteins in live embryos was monitored by confocal fluorescent microscopy. The results of this study suggest that, independent of intact COUP-TFs, the various domains tested are not by themselves sufficient for maintaining the correct subcellular localization pattern. The two intact transcription factors, although they belong to such evolutionarily distant animals, do demonstrate similar intracellular localization in the developing sea urchin embryos, indicating functional conservation between the COUP-TFs.
3882923|Public understanding of science is appalling. The major contributor to society's stunning ignorance of science has been our educational system. The inability of students to appreciate the scope, meaning, and limitations of science reflects our conventional lecture-oriented curriculum with its emphasis on passive learning. The student's traditional role is that of a passive note-taker and regurgitator of factual information. What is urgently needed is an educational program in which the students become interested in actively knowing, rather than passively believing. The use of problem-based learning provides a rich vehicle for making our students active participants in the learning process. One of the most effective ways of implementing problem-based learning is to organize the students in small discussion groups. The potential of small, carefully structured learning groups in higher education has yet to be realized.
4620148|Two polyunsaturated essential fatty acids, linoleic acid and linolenic acid, are important for their inherent energy during lipid oxidation. In addition, they influence the length of hibernation bouts and the metabolic rates of mammals that hibernate. Hibernators that lack linoleic acid in their diet or that are fed a diet high in saturated fatty acids have significantly shorter bouts of hibernation and have a higher mass specific metabolic rate. The decrease in the length of a bout of hibernation is significant because the animal arouses from hibernation more frequently, using more of its energy stores. This could result in a decreased chance of survival. How the essential fatty acids exert their actions in hibernators is just beginning to be elucidated. Essential fatty acids are the sole precursors for the eicosanoids that influence thermoregulation. Thus, studies of eicosanoid function during hiberna are warranted. The recent discovery and characterization of the protein leptin, which can regulate energy balance and may be regulated by polyunsaturated fatty acids, may prove to be important to hibernation and the regulation of body mass. Future investigations of the regulation of body mass during hibernation should consider the fatty acid composition of the diet and the effect of the essential fatty acids on gene transcription.
3884283| It is likely that feathers evolved from a conical shaped tubercle rather than a plate-like structure. Although the morphology of the presumably most primitive feather is unknown, minimal conditions for its production include the cellular capacity to synthesize feather proteins (=-keratin) which provides the molecular phenotype, and a follicular mechanism for production and assembly of molecular and gross structure. Once the minimal structural element, presumably recognizable as a barb, existed, a variety of phenotypes followed rapidly. A tubercular growth center of appropriate size could produce a simple bard-like element, with cortex and medulla. This might be recognized externally as a bristle, but need never existed as a separate morphological unit. Rather, if individual placodes gave rise to multiple barb ridges that fused proximally, a structure resembling natal down would have resulted. Subsequent differentiation is controlled by the follicular symmetry, and the feather shape is regulated by barb length. Barb length is directly related to growth period. As feathers appear to grow at roughly similar, size independent rates, shape is determined by individual barb growth periods. The simple fusion of individual proto-barbs would produce a morphology identifiable as natal down. Although this might be the simplest feather structure, others could emerge quickly, perhaps simultaneously, a consequence of the same redundant processing. Once the machinery existed, broad phenotypic plasticity was possible. I constructed a feather phylogram based on these conditions, the fossil record, and ontogeny. I organized the subsequent changes in morphology by perceived complexity. The changes are simply individual responses to similar processes that might be time (when in ontogeny) and space (where on body) dependent. 
3882938|New brain peptides are being discovered with increasing frequency. The discovery of multiple forms of MSH and evidence for a novel peptide structurally related to MIF-1 may provide avenues for new insights into the mechanisms controlling MSH release. Demonstration that levels of the new tetrapeptide Tyr-MIF-1 are higher in some parts of the brain than in others and can be altered by neuroendocrine manipulations raises the possibility that this peptide may affect CNS functions regardless of any effects on MSH release. Early studies on the extra-pigmentary effects of MSH and MIF-1, which ushered in the field of brain peptides, provide models for the exploration of these possibilities. Explanations for unusual dose-response relationships, chronic effects after neonatal injections, and the mechanisms by which peripherally administered peptides reach the brain to exert behavioral and EEG actions remain to be found.
3881463|The muscles of molluscs show a wide variety of structural types, a variation that is paralleled by the behavior of the muscles. All these muscles have certain features in common; they contain long filaments of two types, but differ in the length and thickness of the thick filaments and in the proportion of the protein, paramyosin, in the muscle. Structural and physiological experiments suggest that the basic contractile mechanism is the same in all molluscan muscles. The muscle-relaxing mechanism, however, may be specialized, particularly in certain smooth muscles which have the very slow relaxation characteristic of "catch" muscles.
3883408|We first review the suite of general problems mammals confront during their social development, and then focus on the specific problem of how group-living mammals acquire their social rank. In particular, we examine maternal rank "inheritance" (MRI) in those mammals for which maternal rank is the primary determinant of female rank. This occurs in many primates and in spotted hyenas. Young primates and spotted hyenas usually attain their adult status in two stages: they first attain ranks correlated with those of their mothers in peer interactions, and subsequently challenge and outrank older conspecifics subordinate to their mothers. Observational learning may be necessary, but is not sufficient, for MRI. In some primates, but not hyenas, youngsters appear to learn their ranks from direct aggression against them by higher-ranking adults. Third-party support appears to promote MRI in all species examined: the probability and style of maternal interventions on behalf of infants often vary with rank, and both kin and non-kin frequently form coalitions that may assist juveniles during rank reversals.
3882501|In the center of their distribution in North America, members of a complex of parthenogenetic and bisexual lizards of the genus Cnemidophorus may be found side by side with one or more of the others in a bewildering variety of patterns and ecological associations. Exactly why so many congeneric species are found living together and exactly what their ecological, physiological and geographical requirements are remains virtually unknown. Here I summarize all reported cases of sympatry among six species of Cnemidophorus, and discuss in detail specific examples of some of these interactions based on several years of field collections and observations. In addition I present the first field experimental study designed to understand the ecological relationships of sympatry in Cnemidophorus.
3883966|In this chapter, the known mechanisms that enable diverse sulfur-oxidizing chemoautotrophic bacteria to conserve energy are summarized. The mechanisms known to be utilized by symbionts constitute a relatively small subset of those used by free-living chemoautotrophic bacteria; therefore, a search for additional pathways in symbionts should be fruitful. The emerging evidence for the use of nitrate as an alternative electron acceptor in sulfur oxidation by two types of symbionts is also discussed. Thus far, the data are not completely consistent with the operation of either a classical dissimilatory or classical assimilatory nitrate reductase. Lastly, previous literature calculations regarding the efficiency of coupling between sulfur compound oxidation and carbon dioxide fixation are reexamined. For both free-living and symbiotic sulfur bacteria, the published efficiencies are shown to have been overestimates by up to four-fold due to an inappropriate assumption about the source of electrons used for carbon reduction.
3881729|The comparative histology of the dermis is reviewed. Some recent data on the connective tissue components of this vertebrate organ are summarized with emphasis on collagen and ground substance. The biomechanical role of the dermis is stressed within the concept of the integumental skeleton. The series of homologous developmental events involved in the formation of these "skeletal" structures are described, with some emphasis on the hypothesis of epidermal co-participation. Finally, a classification of the spectrum of integumental skeletal structures is given.
4620145|Cholesterol is an essential component in the plasma membranes of animals with multiple effects on the physical properties of membranes including membrane order (fluidity), phase behavior, thickness, and permeability. Cholesterol also affects functional attributes of cell membranes such as the activities of various integral proteins. Because cholesterol provides rigidity to fluid phase membranes, it is a likely candidate to counter some of the temperature-induced perturbations in membrane order that would otherwise be experienced by animals that live at varied body temperatures. If cholesterol contributes to homeoviscous adaptation (HVA), more cholesterol is likely to be present in plasma membranes from warm-bodied animals than from cold-bodied animals. This prediction is generally supported by studies examining cholesterol contents in membranes from endothermic and ectothermic animals. Comparisons of cholesterol levels in temperature acclimated (or acclimatized) ectotherms reveal an increase in cholesterol with temperature, no change in cholesterol content, or an increase in cholesterol with a decrease in temperature. These different patterns largely represent tissue and regional differences in the membranes (membrane domains). The membrane-specific nature of the cholesterol response to temperature is likely to arise from the multiplicity of the effects that cholesterol exerts on membranes, as well as the heterogenous nature of plasma membranes. These factors also allow cholesterol to perform more than a single role in temperature adaptation of plasma membranes in animals.
3883431|Unlike life on land, animals that live in seawater are surrounded by a medium that contains organic nutrients in dilute solution. Larval forms of soft-bodied marine invertebrates are adapted to take advantage of the fact that most of the organic carbon in their environment is in solution as dissolved organic material (DOM). New evidence for the importance of DOM to metazoans is presented by showing that larval forms can increase in biomass, even in the absence of particulate foods. Such increases occurred only in those species capable of transporting DOM. The physiological basis for using DOM as an energy source is dependent upon an increased transport capacity for DOM as growth proceeds. Using bivalve larvae, mass coefficients and exponents were determined for (i) alanine transport rates and (ii) metabolic rates. These coefficients were not statistically different when determined over the life span of a larva. Thus, as growth proceeds, these larvae increase their ability to obtain a potential supply of metabolic fuel (DOM) in direct proportion to the increase in their metabolic demand. The percent of this increased transport capacity that larvae could actually utilize in nature will depend upon the substrate concentrations in their environment. Current views on what these concentrations are in seawater may be altered as more attention is given to the fine scale distributions of organic chemicals in the ocean. After DOM has been transported by the animal, its metabolic fate can now be rigorously studied using bacteria-free larvae. Measurements of amino acid synthesis in larvae cultured under axenic conditions suggest that a much greater plasticity may exist in the biochemical requirements of larvae for dietary amino acids.
3882970|The temporal sequence of evolution of new peptide hormones and their receptors is examined. Analysis of the evolutionary history of the vertebrate cholecystokinin/gastrin family of peptides and their receptors is used in an attempt to differentiate among hormone/receptor coevolution, delayed receptor evolution, and receptor pre-evolution as patterns of evolution leading to the generation of regulatory diversity. The evidence that cholecystokinin is the ancestral peptide in this family is reviewed and compared to the pattern of evolution of cholecystokinin and gastrin receptors in vertebrates. Evidence for delayed receptor evolution in this system is presented along with the possibility that receptor pre-evolution may also have occurred. Conspicuously, no evidence presently exists that hormone/receptor coevolution is a feature of the cholecystokinin/gastrin family. Finally, possible molecular mechanisms of linking the evolution of new hormones with the evolution of new receptors specific for those hormones are described. It is concluded that rapid progress in this field requires study of the structural properties of peptide hormone receptors.
3884539|Comparisons of the nervous systems of closely related invertebrate species show that identified neurons tend to be highly conserved even though the behaviors in which they participate vary. All opisthobranch molluscs examined have a similar set of serotonin-immunoreactive neurons located medially in the cerebral ganglion. In a small number of species, these neurons have been physiologically and morphologically identified. In the nudibranch, Tritonia diomedea, three of the neurons (the dorsal swim interneurons, DSIs) have been shown to be members of the central pattern generator (CPG) underlying dorsal/ventral swimming. The DSIs act as intrinsic neuromodulators, altering cellular and synaptic properties within the swim CPG circuit. Putative homologues of the DSIs have been identified in a number of other opisthobranchs. In the notaspid, Pleurobranchaea californica, the apparent DSI homologues (As1-3) play a similar role in the escape swim and they also have widespread actions on other systems such as feeding and ciliary locomotion. In the gymnosomatid, Clione limacina, the presumed homologous neurons (Cr-SP) are not part of the swimming pattern generator, which is located in the pedal ganglia, but act as extrinsic modulators, responding to noxious stimuli and increasing the frequency of the swim motor program. Putative homologous neurons are also present in non-swimming species such as the anaspid, Aplysia californica, where at least one of the cerebral serotonergic neurons, CC3 (CB-1), evokes neuromodulatory actions in response to noxious stimuli. Thus, the CPG circuit in Tritonia appears to have evolved from the interconnections of neurons that are common to other opisthobranchs where they participate in arousal to noxious stimuli but are not rhythmically active.
4620117| Major events in the history of the blood O carriers in multicellular animals include: 1) The origin of the red blood cell hemoglobins, which are both the most primitive and the most advanced O carriers. At the molecular level, they are believed to have arisen only once; at the animal level, there is no cogent reason to postulate more than two origins. 2) The origin of the hemerythrins, which occur at about the same phylogenetic level as the primitive red blood cell hemoglobins. They may not have been selected in higher animals because of their temperature sensitivity. The origins of 3) the molluscan hemocyanins and 4) the arthropod hemocyanins. These two events occurred independently, though for similar reasons. Both kinds of hemocyanins offered physiological advantages over the primitive hemoglobins that were important in the context of the more advanced molluscan and arthropod cardiovascular systems. 5) The origins of extracellular heme proteins, which arose independently many times, and probably for as many different reasons. 6) The loss of urea sensitivity, and the acquisition of organic Po sensitivity and additional cooperativity and pH dependence by the red blood cell hemoglobins, which occurred well after the origin of the vertebrates. 
4620135|The canid reproductive system includes many features that are unusual or even unique among mammals. Focusing on gray wolves, for example, these include monogamy, monestrum with exceptionally long proestrous and diestrous phases, a copulatory lock or tie, incorporation of adult young into the social group, behavioral suppression of mating in these subordinate young, obligate pseudopregnancy in subordinate females, and alloparental care. These features can be analyzed on the levels of both proximate and ultimate causation by considering them in the context of the reproductive system as a whole. First, when assessing possible proximate mechanisms, monestrum appears to be pivotal. It is probably accomplished by the extremely long luteal or diestrous phase, which is followed by a seasonal peak in prolactin. Two sequellae of the extended diestrus (or pseudopregnancy) in non-pregnant subordinate females are to 1) suppress any subsequent cycles, and 2) hormonally prime them to behave maternally. The prolactin peak in all adult pack members, coincident with the birth of pups, also may stimulate parental behavior. The risk of monestrum (limited chance for conception) appears to be reduced by the relatively long proestrous and estrous periods, as well as by monogamy. The adaptive value, or ultimate cause, of this reproductive system is most obvious for the more social canid species, such as the gray wolf. That is, advantages to sociality, such as cooperative hunting, may have driven development of the anomalies of the reproductive system.
3883999|We present a mathematical model and numerical method designed to study the fluid dynamics of swimming organisms. The full Navier-Stokes equations are solved in a domain of fluid within which an organism undergoing time-dependent motions is immersed. Of interest are both the dynamics of a single organism and the relationship of its morphology to its motility properties, as well as the collective hydrodynamic interactions of groups of swimmers with each other and their environment. Biological applications include spermatozoa motility in the reproductive tract, swimming of non-smooth filaments, and collective swimming of algal cells.
3883951|Potential causes for the global decline of amphibians include habitat loss, disease, environmental contaminants and climate changes. The diminishing ozone layer and consequent increase of ultraviolet-B radiation reaching the earth's surface has been hypothesized to be a mortality factor, especially in habitats otherwise undisturbed. We discuss the fundamental physics of UV and types of biological damage after exposure. A deleterious change in DNA, especially the production of pyrimidine dimers, is a main effect of UVB exposure. Damaged DNA can be repaired by enzymes such as photolyase when organisms are irradiated with UVA or visible light. We review studies including laboratory and field approaches on damage to amphibians from UVB exposure. Field studies in which embryos were exposed to natural sunlight or sunlight with UVB removed have shown conflicting results: some show increased embryonic mortality after UVB exposure, whereas others show that current levels of UVB are not detrimental to amphibian embryos. The abiotic factors such as water depth, water color, and dissolved organic content of aquatic oviposition sites effectively reduces UVB penetration through water and reduces exposure to UVB of all life history stages. Biotic factors such as jelly capsules around eggs, melanin pigmentation of eggs, and color of larvae and metamorphosed forms further reduce effectiveness of UVB penetration. We suggest areas of future research to test the hypothesis of the causal connection between current UVB levels and amphibian decline.
3882609|There is a consistent repeatable pattern of innervation of the vertebrate limb by sensory and motor axons from the spinal cord. We have been looking at the factors which control the generation of this pattern in the developing chick limb. The gross pattern of nerves in the limb is controlled by the limb tissue and arises as a result of the axon's response to its local environment. Each segmental root innervates a characteristic territory in the limb. Each muscle is innervated by a characteristically located motoneurone pool in the cord. Three models explaining the generation of these patterns are presented: active selection, selective cell death, and passive deployment. A review of recent experiments leads us to conclude that there is evidence for both passive deployment and local, short range, active selection.
3881936|The embryological origin of the islet tissue from a common entodermal anlage with the exocrine pancreas has been questioned recently. The islet tissue may be of neural crest origin, and the ancestral islet cells may have been "taste cells in the gut." Whether the scparation of exocrine and endocrine tissue in the cyclostomes is an original one or not remains an open phylogenetic key question. One or more islet hormones affect the exocrine pancreas tissue. However, the islet topography in various groups shows that intrapancreatic islet dissemination is not a general prerequisite for the normal function of the exocrine tissue. The D-cell is now generally recognized as the source of a third islet hormone. A fourth granular cell type (X-cell) may well secrete a fourth islet hormone. The significance of the amphiphil islet cells, found in various species, and of the "light" cells of the cyclostomes requires further studies. The islet function in lower vertebrates is largely unknown. So far, neither the islet cytology nor the known effects of pancreatectomy allow far-reaching conclusions. The evolution of the islet functions may be only understood when their interactions with the pituitary functions become clear.
3883815| The numbers of animal and plant species extant on Earth have fluctuated dramatically through geological time. Animals and vascular plants were absent from the first three billion years of Earth history, although there is ample evidence of prokaryotic life in rocks as old as 3.5 billion years and fossil eukaryotic organisms in rocks as old as 2.0 billion years. The Cambrian Metazoan Radiation, during a geologically brief interval about 540 million years ago (Ma), saw the appearance of most classes and orders of skeletogenous marine invertebrates. Vascular plants appeared in a subsequent radiation in the mid-Paleozoic (400 Ma), followed closely by terrestrial vertebrates. Over the past 400 million years, the trajectories of taxonomic diversity among marine invertebrates, vascular plants, and terrestrial vertebrates were roughly congruent; there were relatively few taxa in each group in the late Paleozoic followed by a striking increase from the late Mesozoic to the levels observed today. The reasons for these increases remain unclear, but both physical and biological processes are likely to have played important roles. Occasional mass extinctions severely reduced taxonomic diversity over geologically brief intervals of time. However, recovery from mass extinctions was invariably a prolonged process. The lesson that diversity, once lost, is regained only slowly over geologic time must not be forgotten as plans are developed to mitigate the coming biodiversity crisis. 
3884487|Adaptive scenarios in evolutionary biology have always been based on incremental improvements through a series of adaptive stages. But they have often been justified by appeal to assumptions of how natural selection must work or by appeal to optimality arguments or notions of evolutionary process. Cladistic methodology, though it cannot logically falsify hypotheses of process, provides hypotheses of evolutionary pattern independent of other considerations and so provides a useful test of consilience with genealogy. I illustrate the cross-test of hypotheses of the evolution of several functions and adaptations related to the origin of bird flight with independently derived phylogenetic analysis. Consilience does not support ideas that the close ancestors of birds were arboreal or evolved flight from the trees, nor that they were physiologically intermediate between typical reptiles and living birds, nor that feathers evolved for flight. Rather, the ancestors of birds were terrestrial, they were fast-growing, active animals, and the original functions of feathers were in insulation and coloration.
3883965|The discovery of the deep-sea hydrothermal vents and their associated fauna in 1977 was a watershed for the recent interest in the biology of sulfidic environments. From the initial questions concerning how organisms survived at the high sulfide concentrations around the vents, research quickly focused on the previously unrecognized sulfuroxidizing chemoautotrophic invertebrate/bacterial symbioses whose nature was discovered in 1980. There followed a successful and frenzied search for other reducing habitats harboring non-vent chemoautotrophic symbioses. The interest in the biology of species living in sulfidic habitats has since expanded to include the non-symbiotic species, species with sulfuroxidizing symbionts and species with methanotrophic symbionts, all of which must be adapted to tolerate sulfide and many of which are adapted to utilize sulfide in various ways.
3882219| As part of a comparative study of the occurrence of placental prolactins among mammals, studies were done to see if the placentae of a variety of mammals produce a prolactin, and if it is produced, during what period of gestation it is demonstrable. The lactogenic activity of baboon, sheep, chinchilla, hamster, mouse, rat, and rabbit placentae at different stages of pregnancy were examined by organ co-culture of placental explants with prelactating mammary tissue, as well as by the addition of placental extracts to mammary organ cultures. The lactogenic activity of human placental lactogen (hPL) was also examined. Mammary tissue from nulliparous (day 11 or 12) pregnant BALB/c Crgl mice were cultured in Waymouth's synthetic medium supplimented with insulin (5 g/ml) and aldosterone (1 g/ml). The lactogenic activity of the baboon, sheep, chinchilla, hamster, rat, and mouse placentae was clearly demonstrable. In the rabbit, the lactogenic activity was not detectable. 
3881693|Okadaia elegans Baba, 1930, a dorid nudibranch of the family Vayssiereidae (Opisthobranchia: Gastropoda), feeds on spirorbid and serpulid polychaetes. This is the first report of boring by members of the subclass Opisthobranchia. In penetrating the calcareous annelid tubes, specimens of O. elegans bore smooth, round, beveled holes presumably by chemical activity and mechanical rasping. It is hypothesized that the substratum is removed at the site of penetration by the synchronous use of secretion from a gland within the stomodaeum and rasping by cuspidate radular teeth. This hypothesis of the penetrative mechanism is based on observations of the boring behavior of the animals, shape of the borehole, speed of boring, and morphology of the feeding apparatus.
3883722|An overview is presented on the current worldwide status of aquatic insect conservation. Despite extensive habitat destruction or modification, aquatic insects as a whole do not appear to have suffered as great a proportional loss of species over the last century as members of other groups. In North America, for example, only 204 species are considered at risk out of a total fauna of over 10,000 species, and no species has been documented as having gone extinct. Even so, aquatic insect diversity is subject to a broad spectrum of threats, including chemical pollution of waters from industry and agriculture, physical destruction of habitat from impoundments or drainage, and introduction of alien aquatic biota, primarily sport or aquarium fishes. Adequate legislation exists in the United States and Europe to provide protection to aquatic insect taxa at risk, but the implementation of this legislation is often hampered by a lack of taxonomic and distributional knowledge, and by a concentration of recovery efforts on more highly visible vertebrate taxa. The case of the Ash Meadows Naucorid, the only aquatic species currently protected under the Endangered Species Act, is examined in detail. It is concluded that the listing of this species has had no discernable effect in halting its population decline, partly due to the fact that recovery efforts for endangered fishes have proven deleterious to the insect. It is recommended that future listing efforts be conducted in the context of national biological surveys, and that an ecosystem rather than single species approach be applied to aquatic conservation efforts.
3882741|The idea that biological interactions between species restrict their distributions beyond limits set by the inorganic environment was established by plant ecologists well before the work of Volterra, Gause, and the development of modern niche theory. Mechanisms of competition between plant species, and the influence of predation and environmental factors on the outcome of interspecific competition, were demonstrated by extensive field experiments. These early botanical achievements were ignored by zoologists whose subsequent, independently derived ideas about competition paralleled those of plant ecologists to a remarkable degree. Application of niche theory to the real world was closely tied to the advent of the "modern synthesis." The primary innovation of niche theory was not simply a new appreciation of the possible importance of competition between animals, but the incorporation of an evolutionary perspective to distributional problems largely absent among ecologists since Darwin.
3884276| Developmental anatomical data are insufficient to discuss plausible intermediates between an ancestral, scaled, reptilian skin and appendage-bearing, avian skin. We also review adult tissue replacement and ubiquitous mechanisms underlying skin morphogenesis. Combining developmental data sensu lato with consideration of necessary biological roles permits evaluation of major form/function trends in skin evolution. New data on feathers reveal retention of the sauropsid synapomorphy of vertical alteration of - and -keratogenesis. By identifying roles that were obligatorily maintained throughout evolution, we demonstrate constraints on hypothetical skin morphologies in preavian taxa. We analyze feather origins as a problem of emergence of complex form via modulations of morphogenesis. While existing data do not permit presentation of sequential, hypothetical, intermediates culminating in a plumage, the analysis: (1) implies that a protofeather and its follicle are most easily derived from isolated, flattened, elongate, reptilian scales; (2) explains diversification of feather morphs from a contour-like "basic" feather and the similarity between feather and hair follicles; and thus (3) reveals several developmental constraints on structures proposed as antecedent to avian feathers, whether hypothetical constructs or palaeontological interpretations. Although these conclusions do not depend on any previous scenario, they are consistent with Regal's (1975) model and the limited, fossil evidence, especially that of the "basal archosaur" Longisquama. 
3884469|I present an overview of recent research on the isolation and characterization of members of the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH) neuropeptide family. Members of this arthropod-specific family include CHH, molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH), vitellogenesis-inhibiting hormone (VIH), and mandibular organ-inhibiting hormone (MOIH). There are two subfamilies of this neuropeptide group, based upon the presence or absence of a C-terminal CHH precursor-related peptide. There are also sequence motif differences between these subfamilies. Most of the peptides comprising this neuropeptide family are synthesized and released by the eyestalk X-organ/sinus gland complex. Recent experiments have demonstrated the presence of extra-eyestalk cells that produce CHH and the assignment of additional functions to this hormone family.
3881500| The venoms of spiders are quite complex and contain an array of biologically active components. The majority of studies on the biochemical aspects of these venoms have utilized four species: Phoneutria fera, Lycosa erythrognatha, Atrax robustus, and Latrodectus mactans. They produce venoms which are lethal to mammals as well as arthropods. The following substances have been isolated from one or more of their venoms: -aminobutyric acid, histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, spermine, proteases, hyaluronidase, phosphodiesterase, and toxic and lethal polypeptides. With the possible exception of spermine, the lethality of these venoms appears to be the result of the actions of the polypeptides. The other substances apparently play a subsidiary role. 
3884555|Marine crustaceans present an extremely interesting set of examples in which to examine visual development and metamorphosis. Larvae of these animals are almost always planktonic, living in the light field of open waters. The presence of a simple, predictable photic environment, the relatively basic visual requirements of larvae, and the need to remain transparent to reduce predation lead to the use of a single eye type throughout all marine crustacean larvae. Adult crustaceans, on the other hand, use a greater diversity of optical designs than all other animals combined, occupy habitats from the deep sea to mountaintops, and have very complex visual systems and behaviors. Thus, visual development varies tremendously among modern Crustacea. In this brief review, we consider the structure and development of marine crustacean eyes, focusing on optics, retinal design, and metamorphosis of the visual pigments.
3882760|The ion-transporting epithelia of insects possess some unusual morphological adaptations which promote close juxtaposition of mitochondria and the ion-transporting plasma membranes. A particularly striking example of this adaptation is provided by the movement of branches of mitochondria into and out of the apical microvilli in the Malpighian tubules. In the hemipteran Rhodnius prolixus, the microvilli in the resorptive lower tubule are small and contain no mitochondria during the non-transporting period. When ion transport is stimulated, either in vivo or in vitro, there is a concomitant growth in microvillar volume and surface area. In addition, branches of mitochondria enter these microvilli. It has been shown that these mitochondrial movements are driven by an actin-associated process involving the microvillar core microfilaments. The stimulation for this movement in vivo is the insect diuretic hormone. In the lepidopteran Calpodes ethlius, the rates of fluid transport which the Malpighian tubules can sustain vary during the insect's life stages. Larvae and adults show rapid transport, while pupal Malpighian tubules show none. In the larvae and adults, microvilli in the Malpighian tubules are large and contain mitochondria. In the pupae, reduced transport is associated with mitochondrial retraction and microvillar shrinkage. These ultrastructural changes appear to be regulated by the insect's developmental hormones. In the Malpighian tubules of adult female mosquitoes of the genus Aedes, intracellular infection by microfiliarial nematodes has been shown to cause mitochondrial retraction and reduced rates of fluid transport. A model is presented which serves to summarize currently proposed mechanisms of membrane and mitochondrial function in the ion-transporting epithelia of insects.
3881341|Responses of isolated, perfused hearts of Homarus americanus to brief, internal application of extracts of pericardial organs (PO's) of Cancer borealis, or to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) are very similar over a thousand-fold range of concentration: an increase in rate and amplitude of beating. These reach their maxima after washing out has begun, and recover within ten minutes. External application is ineffective and the substances do not interact with effects of stretch stimulation. Intracellular recording from heart muscle fibers reveals facilitation of depolarization to bursts at heart beat frequencies. There may be some effect of 5HT directly on neuromuscular facilitation. Responses recorded from isolated cardiac ganglia show increased burst rate, burst duration, or both. Thresholds and the range of concentrations for which coordinated responses are recorded correspond to those for perfused hearts. It is concluded that the major sites of action of PO extract and 5HT are in the cardiac ganglion. 5HT tachyphylaxis and LSD block effects of 5HT, but not of PO extract or accelerator nerve stimulation. Intracellular recordings from the large ganglion cells show no effects on resting, synaptic, or spike potentials. Changes in membrane potential to current pulses revealed no changes in membrane resistance or in the resistance of the electrotonic pathway between cells. Results of selective application to large or small cells suggested that PO extract may contain a rate-increasing substance and one prolonging the duration of bursts. The former, and 5HT, may influence pacemaker potentials; the latter may increase the number of spikes a unit can produce before becoming refractory.
3882964|Data from the literature and from our own studies on the receptors for prolactin (PRL) and growth hormone (GH) are reviewed and analyzed. Receptors for PRL have been studied in a wider range of species and in a greater diversity of target organs than have the binding sites for GH. Although GHs are structurally more highly conserved among the vertebrates than are PRLs, the available data indicate that there is greater diversity among GH receptors than there is among PRL receptors. In general, GH receptors show greater species specificity but less hormone specificity than do PRL receptors. The reason for the greater diversity among GH receptors as compared to PRL receptors is unknown; it bears no relationship to phylogeny. Data on the binding of purified preparations of mammalian PRL, GH and placental lactogen (PL) to renal and hepatic receptors for PRL and GH, respectively, of several vertebrate species are reviewed. The species and hormone specificity of the binding of the hormones to the two types of receptors showed no consistent pattern. To explain this disarray, we propose that the receptor binding domains of PRL and GH were present in their common ancestral gene and that they have been retained to variable degrees by all of the descendant members of the PRL-GH family. We further propose that hormone and species specificity of binding is determined by hindering features on the hormones and on the receptors, rather than by merely the presence or absence of the appropriate binding determinants.
3882083|The extent of cellular determination at the blastula stage of sea urchins has been investigated by using as parameters the morphological differentiation and cellular interactions of dissociated blastula cells under conditions that either promote or discourage their reaggregation and reconstitution into embryos. The dissociated blastula cells have the capacity to differentiate into at least three different specific cell types that occur in the normally developing sea urchin embryo. Of these, ciliated epithelium is known to originate in the animal half, and spindle-shaped cells and polyfilamentous cells are of mesenchymal origin and are derived from the vegetal half. The formation of ciliated epithelium and blastulation requires calcium and hyalin; the cellular differentiation and interactions of the mesenchymal cells do not. This basic difference in calcium requirement is explored in terms of differential hyalin synthesis or secretion by the cells at either equatorial half of the embryo. The animalizing effect of zinc and the vegetalizing effect of lithium can be explained in part by their enhancement and reduction, respectively, of hyalin gelation by calcium. Literature relating to other basic differences along the animal-vegetal axis of the embryo is appraised. These differences include the use and the assembly of microtubule protein and quantitative RNA synthesis during both the cleavage and blastula stages.
3881615|Recent studies have demonstrated that biological rhythms have important roles in avian reproduction. In the photoperiodic stimulation of the reproductive complex, there are two systems involved in the interpretation of day length. One system is entrained by the photoperiod, probably by dawn. This entrained system in turn entrains two light-sensitive phases which occur later in the day. If the photoperiod is long enough, it is present during the sensitive phases when it can induce the production of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. The interrenal gland appears to be a part of the entraining system inasmuch as injections of corticosterone can set a sensitive phase when light can induce gonadal development. The annual cycle of photosensitivity and photorefractoriness appears to be controlled by the temporal relations between the daily rhythms of corticosterone and prolactin which change seasonally. When the hormonal relations of photosensitive and photorefractory birds are simulated by injections of the hormones, the appropriate conditions (photosensitivity or photorefractoriness) can be produced. Seasonal changes in the hormonal relations are not direct reflections of changes in the photoperiod; they depend on more complex physiological experiences. The systems involved in egg laying and parental behavior may also have a temporal basis of biological rhythms. For example, the intensity of the pigeon cropsac response depends on the time of daily injections of prolactin relative to those of corticosterone. It is apparent that the daily rhythm constitutes the basic structural unit in the temporal organization of avian reproduction.
3883487|Analyses of proteins, lipids and nucleic acids have been extremely useful for assessing the level of molecular divergence in the Crocodilia and for inferring the relationships of crocodilians to each other and to other vertebrates. A large body of traditional (morphological and paleontological), as well as recent non-traditional (cytogenetic and molecular) evidence concurs that birds are the closest living sister group to the Crocodilia. Relationships within the order have been much more difficult to resolve using traditional analyses due to the problems of convergence/parallelism and general morphological conservatism. Studies of protein divergence, while in agreement with traditional interpretations of affinities between the alligators and caimans, suggest that the true and false gharials are more closely related to each other than to other crocodilians and that the true crocodiles are all very close relatives that may have diverged recently. Preliminary analyses from an ongoing study of restriction endonuclease analysis of crocodilian mitochondrial and ribosomal DNAs corroborate both of these observations, suggesting that the molecular approach will be very valuable for resolving crocodilian phylogeny.
3882104|Examination of shark brain:body ratios reveals that these taxa possess relative brain volumes in a range overlapping those of bony fish as well as birds and mammals. Much of the variation is due to relative development of the telencephalon and cerebellum. Telencephalic weights vary from 24% in Squalus to 52% in Sphyrna. Analysis of the cytoarchitectonics of the shark brains reveals at least two patterns of development. Squalomorph sharks possess low brain:body ratios, and the telencephalon of these taxa possess well developed lateral ventricles and poorly developed pallial areas. The diencephalon is characterized by prominent periventricular laminae, and the cerebellum lacks foliation. The lamniform and carcharhiniform sharks are characterized by high brain: body ratios, and there is marked hypertrophy of the telencephalon. The roof (pallial) regions, as well as the diencephalon, are characterized by extensive cellular migrations. The cerebella of these forms possess extensive complex foliation. These brain patterns are compared with the brain organization of Holocephali, and I conclude that the holocephalans are a sister radiation of the elasmobranchs. Comparisons with bony fish and land vertebrates suggest that elasmobranchs have independently developed complex pallial fields and cerebellar foliation as a result of parallel evolutionary trends.
3882861|The initial phase of echinoid gastrulation, primary invagination, involves an inpocketing of a monolayered epithelium. To gain information about the nature of the mechanical forces that are responsible for primary invagination, several experimental approaches have been taken, using the transparent embryos of the sea urchin, Lytechinus pictus, as the principal material. Vegetal plates isolated microsurgically well before the onset of gastrulation will invaginate normally, demonstrating that the forces responsible for primary invagination are generated by the cells in the vegetal 1/3 to 1/2 of the embryo. As shown by serial reconstructions of L. pictus embryos, relatively few cells (about 100) take part in primary invagination. Both the number of cells and the total volume of tissue in the wall of the archenteron increase with time. Even so, it can be shown that very little movement of cells over the lip of the blastopore takes place during primary invagination, and this process is best viewed as a simple inpocketing of the vegetal epithelium. The cells in the wall of the archenteron have a distinctive shape; they are elongated along their apico-basal axes and frequently have enlarged, rounded, basal ends. However, they do not undergo any dramatic changes in shape during primary invagination. In particular, there is only a slight decrease in the height of the cells (length along the apico-basal axis), a result that is inconsistent with the hypothesis that invagination is due to cell rounding (Gustafson and Wolpert, 1967). Examination of L. pictus and Strongylocentrotus purpuratus gastrulae by transmission electron microscopy reveals that cells in the wall of the archenteron continue to be joined by typical junctional complexes during primary invagination. In addition, the morphology of the junctional complex at the gastrula stage is more elaborate than previously described. Sparse bands of microfilaments are associated with the plasma membrane at the level of the junctional complexes in both endodermal and ectodermal cells. These and other relevant data on early echinoid gastrulation are discussed in relation to several possible mechanisms of epithelial morphogenesis.
3881685|Giard (1893) described Caobangia billeti, a freshwater sabellid polychaete, based on material collected in what is now northern North Vietnam. Up to the present time it had not been re-collected and Giard's observations that it is hermaphroditic, that its eggs undergo internal development, and that, rather than having a posterior terminal anal opening, the anus opens far forward, have been questioned from time to time. Recently collected material, as well as older material in the collections of the Division of Molluscs, Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, has allowed the confirmation of Giard's findings and the observation of the burrows of Caobangia in 22 species of molluscs from fast-moving streams in Ceylon, northern India, Assam, Burma, Thailand, Laos, Java, Sabah, and various of the Philippine Islands. Burrowing in snail shells appears to take place subsequent to larval metamorphosis as young individuals grow posteriorly from a capsule-like structure through the periostracum and into the calcium carbonate of the snail shell. There appears to be no differentiated area of the worm which can be implicated as the site of acidic secretions, and the setae of the worms seem not to be unusually worn, as would be the case if they were used to wear away the shell material.
3883316|Morphological fiber typing is an attempt to group functionally related skeletal muscle fibers based on similarity of structure. Such grouping should bring a functional order or classification, based on structure, to a diverse set of skeletal muscle fibers which are each specialized so that the organism can produce a wide range of forces and movements. Fiber typing using morphological criteria is an attempt to identify a group of similarly performing fibers by simple visual inspection without the need for physiological measurement on each and every cell. If the typing system is unambiguous the system can then be used to study plasticity, maintenance, and development of particular functional/biochemical modifications. In such a case, the method may predict both function and perhaps even alterations occurring in fiber type properties. If on the other hand, the typing methods are somewhat more ambiguous, such that intermediate characteristics are difficult to interpret with relation to functional or biochemical alteration the typing loses its usefulness as a predictive tool for the study of regulatory events controlling maintenance and plasticity of the fibers. In the vertebrate case, particularly for mammalian and avian systems, morphological fiber typing is a potent tool for studying regulation of muscle fiber properties. Classical histochemical fiber typing based on the combination of myofibrillar ATPase, oxidative enzyme activities, and glycogen content predict physiological function fairly well. These methods have been improved and substantiated in large measure by immunohistochemical procedures based on differences in biochemical isozymes of both contractile and sarcoplasmic reticulum proteins between fast and slow contracting fibers. Additionally, electron microscopic evaluation of organelle content also separates fibers in accord with their physiological performance. Thus the methodology for typing muscle fibers morphologically is well-developed and correlates well with biochemical and physiological performance, and therefore is used extensively to study muscle fiber development and plasticity. Crustacean skeletal muscle also shows a wide range for single muscle fiber performance, and this performance can be matched to morphological type generally. Morphological typing in crustacean systems rests on two major differences between the extremes on the performance continuum. Slow contracting fibers have long sarcomere lengths and low myosin ATPase activities, while very fast contracting fibers have short sarcomere lengths and high myosin ATPase activities. These methods, while useful in the majority of cases, unfortunately do not always accurately predict physiological performance of every fiber typed into a particular group. This makes the methodology particularly difficult to use in studies attempting to predict changes from an individual fiber adapted to one type of performance into a different type of fiber. The ambiguity therefore has not allowed morphological typing by itself to be as useful a tool in studying the properties which maintain fiber type in crustacean systems. Thus in these cases morphological typing must be confirmed using physiological measurement for each muscle fiber. Recent work indicates that crustacean fibers may be more accurately typed using immunohistochemical methods based on specific biochemical differences found in muscle fibers. Such methodology is commonly in use for defining mammalian muscle fiber types, and now appears to be a useful tool for typing of crustacean fibers. Typing of protein isoforms should not be as ambiguous as some of the classic methods for crustacean muscle fiber typing, and may be the tool which allows further understanding of fiber development, plasticity, and maintenance in crustacean systems.
3883495| Incubation temperature determines sex in the mugger crocodile, Crocodylus palustris. Exclusively females are produced at constant temperatures of 28.0C through 31C. At 32.5C, only males are produced. Both sexes are produced in varying proportions at 31.5, 32.0, and 33.0C. Embryo survival is not affected within this range, but developmental rate and total incubation time are strongly temperature dependent. In natural nests laid in breeding enclosures, cool incubation temperatures produced only females whereas males were produced only in warm nests. Clutch sex ratios were female or male biased. Yearly sex ratios (=percent male) varied from 0.05 to 0.58; overall sex ratio during six nesting seasons was 0.24 (1 male: 3 females). Sex ratio and incubation time vary with nest location and temperature in a manner consistent with the constant temperature results. Incubation time decreases with increasing incubation temperature, and is an accurate predictor of sex ratio in the field and laboratory. To date, temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) has been reported in five species of Crocodylus and in three species of Alligatorinae; but the TSD patterns in these groups differ. The TSD pattern of C. palustris is similar to that of C. porosus. Nesting in C. palustris is synchronized with the seasonal availability of thermal regimes suitable for incubation. Resultant sex ratios are a consequence of when and where eggs are laid. Early nests are located in warm, sunny sites; in contrast, late season nests are located in the shade. An egg transplant experiment demonstrated that sex ratios could be altered by simple manipulations of nest temperatures in the field. The adaptive significance of TSD in crocodilians may relate to the influence of incubation temperature on various hatchling attributes, particularly growth. 
3883338|Locomotion is the result of transfer of momentum from the fish musculature to the surrounding water. The present paper discusses some basic principles of this momentum transfer and shows the effects of various adaptations of body shape and fin shape, size and positioning. Muscles take up a large part of the fish body volume in many cases. The effects of distribution of muscle mass on external shape, and drag (with its reciprocal influence on the muscular system) are analysed. Fins provide an effective means of momentum transfer, by allowing large amounts of water to be moved by small body masses. Fin shape, variable flexibility and positioning all interact to influence thrust producing performance. A framework for understanding the various combinations of fins, their shapes and motion is presented. Reasons for shifting the center of propulsion to the rear part of the fish, in anguilliform, and much more so in carangiform swimmers are discussed. This shift is shown to result from considerations of propulsive efficiency. Double-tailed fin configurations, defined as dorsal and ventral fins placed at the same longitudinal positions so as to produce a "continuous" fin are analysed. Examples of both fast starters (such as esocids) and cruising species (scombrids, etc.) are used to point out the advantages of such fin placement.
3883715|Historical or recent extinctions (here called neoextinctions) are rarely reported among marine and estuarine invertebrates. Four case histories of neoextinctions, using gastropod mollusks (snails) as examples, are reviewed: the periwinkle Littoraria flammea (last collected < 1840 in China), the rocky shore limpet "Collisella" edmitchelli (1861/3 in southern California), the eelgrass limpet Lottia alveus (1929 in Maine), and the marsh horn snail Cerithidea fuscata (1935, southern California) are all probably extinct. The central element in the demise of all four species may have been a vulnerable, extinguishable habitat. Three considerations suggest that neoextinctions among marine invertebrates have been generally overlooked: 1), hundreds of taxa have not been reported since the 18th and 19th centuries (these are treated by systematists as either unrecognizable, rare, or synonyms of known species); 2), species may have become extinct prior to their description; and 3), there has been a precipitous decline in systematics, biogeography, and natural history at the end of the 20th century-leaving too few workers to tell the story of neoextinction in the ocean. Searches in the literature and museums for overlooked neoextinctions would fruitfully focus on species reported from highly impacted, urbanized coastal habitats-saltmarshes, estuaries, lagoons, seagrass communities, and supralittoral (maritime) zones-habitats now largely obliterated on most coastal margins of the world.
3882033|Several models for the analysis of data relating the rate of oxygen uptake to environmental oxygen level have been evaluated. We conclude that the quadratic (or second-degree) polynomial, though hardly perfect, is the best. Data from 31 species of aquatic invertebrates are described by constants of the quadratic (or second-degree) polynomial equation. The results suggest a phylogenetic trend of increasing regulation of aerobic metabolism in response to declining environmental levels as animals acquire structures that effectively insulate their respiring tissue from the habitat. Many of these species apparently cease withdrawing oxygen from their external environment long before they have exhausted its supply. Presumably, those species with long lasting internal oxygen reservoirs, such as gas bubbles or pools of high oxygen affinity hemoglobin, continue to operate aerobic pathways, but those without substantial oxygen storage devices must switch over to anaerobic pathways, despite the availability of small residual volumes of external oxygen.
3882079|The ultrastructure of spermatozoa representing four echinoderm classes is presented. Sperm of these four classes are strikingly similar in their morphology, particularly with regard to the acrosomal region. This region consists of two major components, an acrosomal vesicle with a complete bounding membrane and the surrounding periacrosomal material. The events of the acrosomal reaction in an achinoid and a holothurian are described in detail and the functional role of the acrosomal region during fertilization is presented. The role of extracellular coats in the establishment of gamete specificity is also discussed with reference to echinoids. The later events of fertilization in echinoids, including sperm incorporation, pronuclear development, and pronuclear fusion are reviewed.
3881732|Pigment cells and their synthesized products play an important functional role in the skin of most all vertebrates, from cyclostomes to man. Both dermal and epidermal pigment cells function in physiological and morphological color changes and provide the cellular basis for vertebrate pigment patterns and differences in racial coloration. Epidermal melanization is of particular importance in homeotherms in the regulation of seasonal pelage and feather color changes. In addition, melanin pigmentation may: have a photoprotective function, influence vitamin D synthesis in the skin, protect or influence nervous system function, affect heat absorption and conservation, play an intracellular homeostatic role in the skin and (by leucocytic transport) elsewhere in the body, and provide a structural element to the integument. A consideration of the comparative evolution of the vertebrate integumental pigmentary system may be necessary for a proper interpretation of the supposed roles of melanin and other integumental pigments.
3882738|Recent theory about interactions between plants and their herbivores focuses on properties of individual plants that affect their resistance to herbivores, and it extrapolates from these individual properties to those of whole communities. In this paper I question three major assumptions of this approach-costs of defenses, basic differences between classes of defenses, and step-wise coevolution-and recast the theory from a different community perspective. I propose that major differences in defenses between plants with very different life-history characteristics arise from differences in community structure, especially the numbers of herbivore species involved in the interactions. In particular, because of the diffuse pattern of herbivory on persistent plants, a new model of coevolution-diffuse coevolution-becomes appropriate when many species are involved. Complex interacting assemblages have special properties that cannot be derived just by summing up all of the simple interactions that occur.
3881667|Sea water must be undersaturated for chemical solution of calcium carbonate to occur. A practical criterion for undersaturation is shown to be
3882643|Electrical coupling, the passive spread of charge between cells, is usually characterized by microelectrode measurements. It can be mediated by gap junctions, cytoplasmic bridges or extracellular space enclosed by specialized membranes. The morphological basis affects the classes of molecules that can be transmitted by way of the coupling pathway. Conductance of gap junctions is controllable; it is decreased by a modest increase in intracellular H ions or a much larger increase in Ca ions. In amphibian blastomeres junctional conductance is reduced by transjunctional voltage. Gap junctions form and disappear non-specifically or specifically in different cases, but the origin and fate of junctional material are unknown. The common occurrence of electrical coupling in embryos has suggested a role in intercellular transfer of information, but direct evidence is lacking. A number of examples are known where gap junctions are found at specific times appropriate to suggest that a message is transmitted between the coupled cells. The message probably can be a distinct qualitative signal or a quantitative one resulting in a gradient among cells. Gap junctions are clearly absent at some sites of embryonic interaction, but increasing evidence implicates an informational role at other sites.
3882538|Three nectar-eater systems differ in the degree and consistency with which nectar is limiting to the birds. A gradient of nectar limitation exists, ranging from no limitation to limitation some years but not others, to apparent limitation most of the time. The ecological and evolutionary effects of different limitation regimes on aggression and territoriality, on resource partitioning and avian community structure, and on plant pollination strategies are discussed.
3883786|The neural crest is a major source of mesenchyme in the head, but not the body, of the vertebrate embryo. For some of these mesenchymal derivatives, the differences between the normal fates of cranial and trunk neural crest cells are not necessarily due to differences in the potentials of the cells for the various derivatives, but reflect a lack of interaction with appropriate inductive tissues. Chondrogenic potential, however, is restricted to those axial levels which normally give rise to cartilage. This chondrogenic subpopulation is not homogeneous; even prior to neural crest cell migration, cells from different axial levels display differences in migratory and morphogenetic abilities. While the events which give rise to these segregations have never been examined, some models have been proposed for the establishment of the neural crest itself.
3883923|It has long been recognized that the notochord, a derivative of the gastrula organizer, is important for patterning the vertebrate embryo. Experimental manipulations of amphibian and chick embryos demonstrate the notochord's influence on neural tube and somite differentiation. Recent studies implicate the notochord-derived signal Sonic hedgehog. In zebrafish, genetic strategies have enabled the recovery of mutations that disrupt notochord development. Embryos mutant for floating head or no tail lack differentiated notochord and, consistent with encoding transcription factors, both genes behave cell autonomously in genetic mosaics: wild-type cells develop into notochord in mutant embryos, whereas mutant cells fail to contribute to wild-type notochord. In floating head mutants, axial mesoderm fated to form notochord respecifies to paraxial mesoderm, differentiating into muscle instead. As a result, fused somites develop across the trunk midline. In no tail mutants, mesenchymal cells related by lineage to notochord are found in the midline, and although trunk somites are bilaterally paired, they lack Engrailed-expressing muscle pioneer cells. In the presence of wild-type notochord, however, no tail mutant cells can differentiate muscle pioneers, suggesting that induction of muscle pioneers is a normal function of notochord. Notochord is also involved in induction of floor plate at the ventral midline of the vertebrate neural tube; yet in floating head and no tail mutants, floor plate cells develop in the absence of differentiating notochord. Expression of sonic hedgehog by newly-forming axial mesoderm at gastrulation may account for floor plate induction prior to notochord differentiation. Thus, analyses of zebrafish notochordless mutants suggest a role for both early and late signaling by cells of the notochord lineage during embryogenesis.
3882123|Melatonin is synthesized from serotonin in the pineal gland by N-acetyltransferase and hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT). The activities of these two enzymes have been compared in the pineal glands of rats, hamsters, chickens, and sparrows. Three different patterns of pineal biochemistry have been observed in the four species. Evidence for the regulation of pineal N-acetyltransferase activity by a noradrenergic system exists in rats but not in chickens, hamsters, and sparrows.
3883235|Growth studies of mammalian jaw muscles and studies determining the degree of plasticity of these muscles are few. There are questions concerning the degrees and types of morphological and physiological change occurring in these muscles during normal growth and the ability of external forces to modify this growth process. There are also questions on the effects of sensory loss on muscle growth and on changes in the motor system as these muscles change. In this report, questions are proposed and hypotheses presented that deal with these areas relative to the jaw muscles. It is suggested that (1) changes in the morphology and function of jaw muscles during growth vary regionally and are related to the action of the muscle and the loading forces imposed; (2) the degree of muscle plasticity varies regionally and varies depending on the type of loading forces and age of the animal; (3) loss of sensory input during the growth of the jaw muscles would produce marked changes in the histochemical profile, the distribution of motor neurons, and the activity pattern of these muscles; and (4) organization of the trigeminal motor nucleus changes as the jaw muscles grow and may also change in response to sensory loss or application of different types of loading forces. In addition, possible approaches to these questions are discussed.
3882606|Methods of generating supernumerary limbs by axial inversions of the regeneration blastema are described and recent data on this subject reviewed. The precise structure of supernumeraries has been determined by serially sectioning and examining muscle patterns. Supernumerary limbs from inversion of the antero-posterior or dorsoventral axis are always normal and of stump handedness. They regenerate well after amputation. Supernumeraries from inversion of both axes do not follow this pattern, but can be one of four classes of structure: normal, mirror symmetrical, partially mirror symmetrical or partially inverted. These four classes of supernumerary are described in detail. Their regenerative ability is also examined to reveal that precisely the same structure that was generated initially is regenerated. The implications of these findings for existing theories of pattern formation are discussed.
3882167|The promise and the problems associated with using radioimmunoassays (RIA's) for mammalian prolactins (PRL's) and growth hormones (GH's) for the measurements of these hormones in the blood of foreign species (mammalian and nonmammalian) are considered. When crossreactivity is found with the plasma of a foreign species in heterologously applied RIA's for these hormones of mammalian origin, one can have little confidence about the nature of the crossreacting material that is being measured. Extensive analysis is necessary to establish that a particular RIA system measures the PRL or GH in a foreign species. The question of whether RIA's for PRL and GH give physiologically meaningful measurements of the blood levels of these hormones is considered. In the case of PRL, analysis of our own results and data in the literature raises serious questions about the physiological validity of existing RIA's for mammalian PRL's. Evaluation of the available information on RIA's for mammalian GH discloses that there is no basis for concluding that any of them give measurements of the circulating levels of the hormone that are physiologically meaningful. It is also apparent that the physiological significance of the radioreceptor assays for PRL and GH remains to be established. From analysis of discrepancies between bioassay and RIA estimates of PRL and GH levels in adenohypophysial tissue, incubation medium, and plasma or serum, and of studies on the metabolism of purified and secreted forms of both hormones, it is suggested that the major intraglandular forms of PRL and GH are in fact prohormones.
3882891|The development of optimization theory has made important contributions to the study of animal behavior. But the optimization approach needs to be integrated with other methods of ethology and psychology. For example, the ability to learn is an important component of efficient foraging behavior in many species, and the psychology of animal learning could contribute substantially to testing and extending the predictions of optimal foraging theory.
3884505|Previous research indicated that the evolution of feeding motor patterns across major taxonomic groups might have occurred without large modifications of the control of the jaw and hyolingual muscles. However, the proposal of this evolutionary scheme was hampered by the lack of data for some key taxa such as lizards. Recent data on jaw and hyolingual feeding motor patterns of a number of lizard families suggest extensive variability within and among species. Although most lizards respond to changes in the structural properties of food items by modulating the activation of the jaw and hyolingual muscles, some food specialists might have lost this ability. Whereas the overall similarity in motor patterns across different lineages of lizards is large for the hyolingual muscles, jaw muscle activation patterns seem to be more flexible. Nevertheless, all data suggest that both the jaw and hyolingual system are complexly integrated. The elimination of feedback pathways from the hyolingual system through nerve transection experiments clearly shows that feeding cycles are largely shaped by feedback interactions. Yet, novel motor patterns including unilateral control seem to have emerged in the evolution from lizards to snakes.
3884075|Crayfish have a long evolutionary history in temperate fresh water (FW). Ion regulation is challenged by low external concentrations of Na, Cl, and Ca (<1 mM). In intermolt the primary concern is Na and Cl balance; around ecdysis the emphasis switches to Ca regulation as the cuticle is decalcified/calcified. Compared with marine crustaceans, intermolt crayfish maintain a reduced extracellular (EC) osmolality and have lower permeability to both ions and water. Hyperregulation involves active branchial uptake of Na and Cl and the unique ability to produce a hypotonic urine. Ion uptake involves apical electroneutral ion exchange ( Na
4620128|Integrating proximate and ultimate causes and effects simultaneously in the study of behavior is challenging and complex, but useful. This is equivalent to asking both "How?" (in the sense of proximate mechanisms) and "Why?" (in the sense of ultimate evolutionary payoffs) an organism operates in one way and not another. Sex differences in rattlesnake (i) size and growth and (ii) mating and reproductive strategies and tactics, provide a good theoretical and empirical context in which to attempt such integration. We employ interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approaches in our behavioral and physiological work, but we mean something different by "integrative," that amounts to the simultaneous study of both proximate and ultimate levels of causation and explanation. Though not always feasible, this approach represents an important goal to work towards because it attempts to represent faithfully the complexity inherent in living systems. To this end, we also employ a variety of modeling approaches, which entrain intuition, generate new hypotheses, and sharpen inference. Individual-based simulations, for example, offer promise for broad, integrative programs of biological research.
3883876|The power of genetic analysis possible with the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has yielded a detailed understanding of pattern formation controlled by homeotic and segmentation genes in early embryogenesis. We are studying the genetic regulation of embryogenesis in the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum. The dynamic process of germ rudiment formation and sequential segmentation exhibited by Tribolium provides a context different than Drosophila within which to assess the function of homeotic and segmentation gene homologs. Our analyses of the genes in the HOM-C suggest many similarities in structure and function with the well-characterized Drosophila genes. Abdominal resembles its Drosophila homolog abdominal-A in functioning to establish segmental identities in the abdomen, such that in each case mutations result in homeotic transformations to PS6. Although the anterior functional boundary of abdominal-A homologs is precisely conserved, the domain within which Abdominal is important extends more posterior than that of abdominal-A. The final expression pattern of the segmentation gene engrailed in Tribolium is identical to Drosophila, suggesting that these homologs are involved in a conserved developmental process. However, as expected the development of that pattern is different; engrailed stripes anticipate the formation of each new segment as they appear sequentially in the elongating germ band. Although the grasshopper even-skipped and fushi tarazu homologs are not apparently important in segmentation, the expression patterns of the Tribolium homologs strongly suggest that they have gained a role in segmentation in the lineage leading to beetles and flies. Nevertheless, differences between Tribolium and Drosophila in the dynamics of even-skipped expression and the fushi tarazu mutant phenotype indicate divergence in the regulation and roles of these genes.
3882348| Hemocyanins are high molecular weight, oxygen-carrying proteins that occur in the molluscs and arthropods. The oxygen-binding site in these proteins is a pair of copper atoms bound directly to amino acid side chains. The biscopper sites of these proteins bind single molecules of dioxygen or carbon monoxide. In arthropods, there are two copper atoms per approximately 70,000 daltons of protein. This corresponds to the molecular weight of the minimum polypeptide chain. In molluscs, however, there are two copper atoms per 50,000 daltons of protein. This does not correspond to the minimum polypeptide chain although it does correspond to the minimal "functional unit." The minimal polypeptide chain in molluscan hemocyanins is approximately 400,000 daltons and appears to be composed of eight or more 50,000 dalton units linked together like a string of pearls. In the molluscs, the native hemocyanins found in the hemolymph generally occur as giant cylindrical molecules 350  in diameter, 380  long, with molecular weights of 9,000,000! These large molecules are composed of approximately 20 polypeptide chains. In the hemolymph of the arthropods, depending upon the species, hemocyanins occur as hexamers, dodecamers, 24-mers, and 48-mers. The molecular weight of the 48-mers is about 3,600,000. The respiratory functions of hemocyanins show a wide range of allosteric properties. The large molecules commonly show cooperativity in oxygen binding. The number of interacting subunits is in some cases dependent upon external conditions of pH and ionic composition. The oxygen affinity is usually sensitive to pH and to low molecular weight cofactors like chloride, calcium, and magnesium ions. The intrinsic oxygen binding properties of an organism's hemocyanin and its allosteric control by modulators allow organisms possessing these giant molecules to adapt to their environmental conditions. 
3884313|The superorder Forcipulatacea (Asteroidea, Echinodermata) includes two orders, the Brisingida and the Forcipulatida. The Forcipulatida is diverse, including the Asteriidae, Coscinasteriinae, Pedicellasteridae, Labidiasteridae, Neomorphasteridae, Pycnopodiinae (Asteriidae), Heliasteridae, and the Zoroasteridae, whereas the Brisingida is limited to the Brisingasteridae, Brisingidae, Freyellidae, Hymenodiscidae, and Odinellidae. A phylogenetic analysis of forcipulataceans using morphological characters resulted in 12 most parsimonious trees at a tree length of 68 steps. The Brisingida, recognized as basal in one early analysis and derived in another, is here considered to be derived. Two genera of pedicellasterids emerged as the sister group to the remaining Forcipulatida. Bremer and bootstrap measures show strong support for the brisingidan and zoroasterid plus neomorphasterid clades. Certain other traditional taxonomic groupings, including the Pedicellasteridae, Labidiasteridae, Asteriidae, and Pycnopodiinae, are not supported as monophyletic. Support for the pedicellasterids as a sister group to the remainder of the Forcipulatida is not robust. Morphological data suggest widespread homoplasy and therefore comprehensive generic or even species-level analyses are required to further evaluate questions of derivation and relationships among these taxa.
3882621|In the oocyte-nurse cell syncytium of meroistic insect ovaries a gradient in electrical potential is shown to drive a micro-injected basic protein (fluorescein-labeled lysozyme) and its methylcarboxylated, acidic derivative in opposite directions. In the polytrophic Cecropia ovary the electrophoretic effect is greatest in the intercellular bridges, while in the telotrophic Rhodnius ovary it is greatest within the nurse chamber. We speculate that in both systems the potential gradient prevents the free diffusion of cell cycle and differentiative control proteins, while at the same time reinforcing the transport of acidic precursors toward the ooplasm. Because of its apparent ability to affect the distribution of polyions that govern nuclear function, electrical polarity can also be envisioned to have a more general role in the control of differentiation. The possibility is considered that it serves as a relay mechanism for the non-diffusing determinant that is already known to govern the differentiation of oocytes from nurse cells.
3881366|A survey of college courses in endocrinology reveals that about 80 instructors teach 105 such courses, 68 at the basic or introductory level, and the remainder specialized or advanced. Of the 68 introductory courses, only 47 admit undergraduates, and 45 have an associated laboratory. Prerequisite course work in chemistry and biology usually makes endocrinology unavailable to the undergraduate before the third year; when undergraduates are admitted, they most commonly make up about half of the enrollment in the course. The most frequent size of class is 15-20, and about 1700 students per year elect endocrinology. About three-quarters of college instructors in endocrinology have themselves had a course in the subject. It is recommended that endocrinology be used in the form of a seminar or course to integrate prior experience in biology courses for senior students.
3882935|Pigment movements in crustacean chromatophores are regulated by pigment-concentrating and pigment-dispersing neurosecretory hormones. The release of these hormones from the neurosecretory system is thought to be controlled by neural signals. Although the exact cellular sources of chromatophorotropins and the nature of synaptic input to the neurosecretory system remain unresolved, recent pharmacological studies on fiddler crabs indicate that certain biogenic amines contribute to the release of some of the chromatophorotropins. The current evidence suggests that: 5-hydroxytryptamine stimulates the release of RPDH (red pigment dispersing hormone), dopamine triggers the release of RPCH (red pigment concentrating hormone), and norepinephrine stimulates the release of BPDH/MDH (black pigment/melanin dispersing hormone). Nothing is known of the regulation of release of leucophorotropins and xanthophorotropins. Like most other peptide hormones, crustacean chromatophorotropins are thought to exert their effect by first binding to receptors on the cell surface and then triggering a series of events leading to cellular responses, but the details are far from clear. Recent work suggests that hormone-induced pigment movements may be modulated/mediated by alterations in cyclic nucleotide levels and/or by changes in Ca
3883490|Blood samples were collected for allozyme studies from 92 Crocodylus niloticus from the Runde River in Gonarezhou National Park, southern Zimbabwe. Two (glucose phosphate isomerase and erythrocyte acid phosphatase) of 27 protein coding loci were polymorphic when examined by starch-gel electrophoresis. This amount of variability is similar to that found in another crocodilian, Alligator mississippiensis and is not unusually low as has been found in a number of large vertebrates. In a single semi-isolated population, allele frequencies at both polymorphic loci were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium suggesting a random mating pattern with no severe bottleneck effect in the founding of this population. Population F-statistics suggest that panmixia exists within and among the three main breeding sites studied.
3882458|In this paper I ask two questions: Is fruit ever limiting to vertebrate frugivores and, if so, do frugivores presently compete for food, either with closely- or distantly-related species? A brief review of the fruiting strategies of tropical plants indicates that fruit can occasionally be superabundant, but it is often produced at low rates and in low quantities. Variation in fruit abundance results from several biotic selective pressures, including variation in the density, diversity, and reliability of potential dispersal agents. To judge from the size structure, dietary similarities, habitat preferences and foraging behaviors of taxonomically-restricted guilds of frugivorous birds and mammals, members of these guilds have competed for food in the past and must occasionally do so today. Unusual climatic conditions can occasionally "upset" phenological patterns and can create food shortages that promote competition among closely-related species of frugivores. Avian and mammalian frugivores, however, probably seldom compete with each other for food in present-day tropical ecosystems. A major reason for this is that many tropical plants have evolved fruits that are attractive to only a limited subset of frugivores (e.g., only birds or only bats). Plants apparently "perceive" qualitative differences in the dispersal services of birds and mammals and attempt to attract members of one group but not the other.
3881952|It is evident that fishes regulate their serum calcium efficiently but that endocrine systems involved may be different from those in tetrapods. A functional parathyroid gland has not yet been demonstrated in fishes. The majority of evidence indicates that calcitonin has little or no effect on fish calcium regulation. Instead, the corpuscles of Stannius and the pituitary gland are necessary for maintaining fish serum calcium levels. In the killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus, the removal of the corpuscles produces hypercalcemia in sea water but not in artificial sea water deficient in calcium. Transplants of the corpuscles or the administration of corpuscle homogenate corrects the increase in calcium. On the other hand, hypophysectomy elicits hypocalcemia under calcium deficient conditions but not in calcium rich sea water. Replacement therapy with pituitary homogenate or hypophysial transplant prevents the fall in calcium. It is postulated that the hypocalcemic corpuscles of Stannius and the hypercalcemic pituitary gland enable the euryhaline killifish to regulate its serum calcium levels in high calcium sea water and low calcium fresh water, respectively.
3881610|The original experiments, done by Witschi and his associates, on sexual differentiation of pituitary gonadotropins were interpreted as demonstrating the contrasting effects of testes on the subsequent output of luteinizing hormone (LH) and interstitial cell stimulating hormone (ICSH). The subsequent demonstration that these two hormones were identical has led to a theory that testes alter the hypothalamic centers which control the cyclic release of LH. "Masculinization" of the female hypothalamic-pituitary axis has been claimed following neonatal treatment with steroids. However, true sex-reversal of gonadotropin patterns has never been demonstrated; the male pattern has not yet been clearly defined. Consistent high levels of blood and pituitary follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) appear to be at least two characteristics of the male pattern, and neither can be induced in females by neonatal treatment with testosterone propionate. Furthermore, castration of males at birth with concomitant ovarian implantation, does not appear to remove the male pattern of high FSH. Considering that we understand so little regarding gonadotropin patterns in males, we cannot assume that this pattern can be induced simply by pre- or postnatal steroid treatment. Considerably more data on the positive and negative feedback effects of steroids, and steroid combinations, on FSH, LH, and prolactin, in both males and females, will be required before a meaningful concept of sexual differentiation can be formulated.
3881431|Studies of the interaction of wolves and their prey during the past twenty years have demonstrated that ungulates are the primary prey of wolves both in winter and summer and that predation in summer tends to be concentrated on the young of the year while in winter it is concentrated on animals in older-age classes. There appears to be intrinsic control of wolf numbers and there is evidence which suggests that a wolf per 10 square miles may approach the maximum density that is attainable in most ranges. The adaptations between ungulates and their predators may have evolved in relatively stable forest environments which could not support high-density prey populations. This could explain why wolves do not appear to be capable of controlling moose and deer populations in environments that have been drastically altered by man.
3882863|Xenopus laevis gastrulae show more incorporation of isotopically labelled glucosamine and galactose into TCA-insoluble materials than blastulae. These materials are high molecular weight and degraded by pronase as judged by their behavior in various gel filtration media. Labelled materials migrate slowly on cellulose acetate electrophoresis, bind to DEAE-cellulose and elute at low ionic strength, but are not precipitated by cetyl pyridinium chloride (CPC) in the presence of added carrier hyaluronic acid. Pulse-chase labelling experiments and light microscopic autoradiography were used to examine secretion and deposition of glucosamine- and galactose-labelled materials in different stages of developing Xenopus laevis embryos. After a 30-min pulse, grains are predominantly over cytoplasmic structures. After a 30-min pulse and a 60-min pulse chase, grains are commonly encountered over cytoplasmic structures but are predominantly localized over extracellular materials. Scanning electron microscopic studies show that extracellular fibrillar materials increase in number during gastrulation in Xenopus laevis. Increasing numbers of extracellular fibrillar structures occur in the blastocoel cavity and along the inner aspect of the roof of the blastocoel (Nakatsuji and Johnson, 1983).
3881174|Previous reports have described in detail the characteristics of two pacemaker systems in hydras. Each of these, the rhythmic potential (RP) system located near the base of the polyp, and the contraction burst (CB) system at the sub-hypostome, has its own conducting system running the length of the animal, so that the impulses originated at either end spread throughout the organism. It has been postulated that these conducted impulses of each system can reach and influence both the pacemakers of its own, and those of the other, system. The over-all behavior of the hydra would thus be the integrated responses of the effectors responding to these interdependent coordinating systems. Certain evidence favoring this hypothesis is presented. It is evident that there are interactions between the two systems, especially in the control of contraction burst initiation. During periods in which RP impulses are appearing at short, regular intervals, contraction bursts are characteristically absent. Paradoxically when RP frequency is low, CB firing is also minimal. Normal CB activity levels are associated with intermediate RP frequencies. There is also a frequency correlation between RP rate and the onset of individual contraction bursts. The interval between RP impulses is longer just before the first CB pulse than it is midway between bursts. It is shortest just following the burst. The longest RP intervals occur during contraction bursts. It appears that the initiation of endogenous CB activity is influenced by RP frequency in a manner comparable to the triggering of the distinctive locomotor CB after RP pacemaker stimulation. Comparable work with other coelenterates has stressed the importance both of endogenous rhythmicity and ordered interaction between separate pacemaker-driven coordinating systems. Hydras are not exceptional to this pattern, but they do show distinctive features compared to strictly sessile polyps. Further investigation may disclose how the so-far unique RP pattern of repeated individual pulses and the absence of pulse bursts or trains is responsible for hydras' distinctive behavior.
3882131|The high energy content of lipids makes these compounds attractive to active metazoans as a light form of fuel storage. Animals have evolved complex systems of enzymes and transport proteins in order to utilize lipids for the generation of energy. While the enzymatic systems responsible for lipid synthesis and oxidation are probably similar in all metazoans, mechanisms for control of the rates of these processes differ with taxonomic group. The means by which lipids are transported through the body fluids of metazoans also show phylogenetic variation. Complete, quantitative data on the mechanisms and rates of lipid digestion, synthesis, transport and utilization are available for only a very few mammals, birds and insects. This would seem to be a very fertile field for comparative physiologists.
3882443|A review of field and laboratory investigations suggests that many ectothermic vertebrates can exploit the spatiotemporal distribution of environmental temperatures to maximize energy utilization and to enhance survivability. Diel and seasonal cycles in thermal preference, acclimation rate, thermal tolerance and heat-hardening may well be adapted to temporal variations in environmental temperature. In addition, many ectotherms behaviorally exploit thermal heterogeneity in the environment. Such behavioral adaptations are synergistic with various degrees of physiological regulation. Voluntary brief exposures to temperatures that would be lethal upon prolonged exposure can result in heat-hardening. Heat-hardening, distinct from acclimation to high temperature, is a short-term increase in thermal tolerance while tolerance acclimation is a longer lasting response within normal ranges of environmental temperatures; both are reversible nongenetic responses. The physiological and ecological significance of behaviorally mediated heat-hardening may be greater than previously realized and suggest new approaches for future study.
3883343|Vertebrates frequently rely on intramuscular glycolysis as the major source of ATP utilized during bouts of intense exercise. This is often followed by extended periods of marked systemic pH fluctuation. Such a pattern of activity physiology is unique among the Metazoa and probably dates back to the very earliest vertebrates. The origin of bone may have been necessitated by requirement for a skeletal matrix with chemical stability over the broad range of tissue pH associated with vertebrate exercise physiology.
3881690|Decalcification at the mantle-shell interface in Mercenaria mercenaria was studied through the changes in the chemical composition of the extrapallial fluid, and by the measurement of
3883032|A brief account of the development and current state of our knowledge of the caudal neurosecretory system (urophysis) of fishes and its neurohormones, the urotensins, is presented. The structure of the system and the biological actions and chemistry of its active factors are discussed, in an attempt to assess their possible physiological significance for the organisms which possess them. The semihistorical presentation is intended to follow the course of discovery in a readily circumscribed area of organismal biology.
3883024|The volume of salt waters of the world is more than 10,000 times the highly fragmented volume of inhabitable fresh waters, yet the latter has come to support a rich and euryokous fauna. In making the salt-brackish-fresh transition, the fresh-water (carbonate) fauna has developed clusters of new adaptations. The vast majority of marine species are restricted to a narrow and monotonous chemical environment, but most fresh-water species thrive in habitats exhibiting a wide (e.g., 10-fold) range of dissolved salts, featuring high carbonates, low sodium chloride, and low potassium. In comparison with their ancestral marine forms, the temperate fresh-water fauna is generally characterized by: (1) much more efficient osmoregulatory systems, (2) smaller body size, (3) lower reproductive potential, (4) loss of specialized larval stages, (5) a wide variety of anabiotic devices and strategies, (6) well developed low temperature tolerances, (7) aestivation stages in adults, (8) a remarkable facility for overland geographical migration and ecesis by disseminules, (9) facility and adaptations for withstanding prolonged habitat silting, (10) adaptations to swift unidirectional currents by many lotic species, and (11) a more general ability to live anaerobically. Certain characters of the marine biota have usually been lost during transition and ecesis in the fresh-water environment, such as bioluminescence, bright body coloration, and distinctive bright color patterns. Morphological embellishments in the marine biota are common, including cirri, palps, setation, protuberances, and respiratory devices, but such structures are uncommon among fresh-water species. It is suggested that respiratory stratagems have been developed to an excessive and "unnecessary" degree among many marine forms, as well as in a few fresh-water insects and most Eubranchiopoda.
3882665|Biogeography has had a long history, but only recently has it started to be more than a descriptive subject. Models have been developed which help to explain patterns of geographical distributions of animals and plants. Examples include dispersal, vicariance, and ecological determinism. The dispersal model proposes that present-day distributions were caused by long distance dispersal among disjunct localities. The vicariance model proposes that the distributions resulted from the fragmentation of formerly continuous distributions with accompanying speciation. Ecological determinism proposes that whatever the historical changes in distribution (dispersal or vicariance), present-day ecological factors are the major determinant of distributions. We too often see in the literature large bodies of data analyzed with respect to only one of these competing models. I organized the symposium to bring together what I thought were particularly interesting examples of each approach. It is obvious from the papers that there are multiple explanations for most species distributions, and that some effort should be made to integrate them.
3882135|Several mammalian hibernators have annual cycles of fat deposition and usage. However, at any time a particular level of fat is defended. The cycles can therefore be described as ones of set-points for body fat. A programmed change in set-points accounts for prehibernation fattening not proceeding at maximal possible rates. During the winter phase there is anorexia even when food is available; reasons are proposed why there must be a lowering of set-points if there is to be prolonged hibernation. Control mechanisms underlying some instances of weight loss and gain in birds are analysed in similar terms. In hibernators cyclic programmes are such that the animals do not usually operate close to physiological limits. In a quasi-predictable environment they derive advantages from a combined use of both homeostatic and rhythmic control of their fat levels.
3884402|Senescence is the progressive deterioration of organismal function leading to accelerating rates of mortality. Cumulative extrinsic and intrinsic stresses are thought to contribute to senescence. Molecular chaperones, such as heat shock proteins, are hypothesized to modulate senescence through their ability to mitigate protein damage. Recent discoveries made with the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans and the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster lend strong support to this theory. Longevity extending mutants of the nematode also increase intrinsic and inducible thermotolerance, and they overexpress heat shock proteins upon thermal shock. Intriguingly, these genes regulate dauer (diapause) formation, and are associated with an insulin-like dependent signal transduction pathway. Direct evidence for a casual role of hsp70 in aging is provided by analysis of transgenic fruit flies. When hsp70 is induced by mild heat shock, flies that overexpress the protein have greatly reduced mortality rates during subsequent weeks of aging at normal temperatures. Current work with fruit flies focuses on the relationship between insulin-like receptors, ovarian diapause, heat shock and aging.
4620129|Mate choice is a critically important determinant of reproductive success. Because of its significance in the evolutionary process, it has received a great deal of attention from animal behaviorists interested in ultimate causes of behavior. Much less effort has been directed at uncovering the physiological mechanisms of mate choice, including those operating during ontogeny that lead to adult mate preferences. As a result of natural and sexual selection, many aspects of mate choice are sexually dimorphic. How do adult males and females of the same species come to show different mating partner preferences? One possibility is that sex steroid hormones play important roles, acting either during early development to permanently establish sex differences or during adulthood to facilitate their expression, roles similar to the organizational and activational effects of sex steroids on sexually dimorphic copulatory and courtship behavior patterns. This review (1) summarizes what is known about hormones and mate choice, highlighting those results most relevant to understanding proximate causation from an evolutionary perspective; (2) describes recent work from the author's lab testing an organizational hormone hypothesis of mate choice, focusing on a particularly widespread and robust aspect of mate choice-preference for opposite sex partners-in a pair bonding species-the zebra finch; and (3) suggests some future directions for research that might integrate ultimate and proximate causation.
3881918| Hyaluronate turnover is correlated with morphogenetic events during chondrogenesis in the regenerating newt limb and in the chick embryo limb and axial preskeleton and during development of the chick embryo cornea. In vitro hyaluronate, in concentrations as low as 1 ng/ml, blocks the formation of cartilage-like aggregates in high density stationary cultures of stage 26 chick embryo somite cells. This inhibition is prevented by hormones known to promote skeletal development and by adenosine 3,5-cyclic monophosphate. An hypothesis is discussed in which (1) hyaluronate may interfere with cell interactions leading to aggregation, encapsulation by matrix and consequent immobilization and (2) hyaluronate turnover could provide a means of timing of morphogenetic events such as cell migrations, allowing sufficient accumulation of cells prior to overt differentiated tissue formation. 
3881178|Some integrated patterns of behavior have been studied in colonies of Veretillum cynomorium, whose various parts often act as if they were those of an individual consisting of the whole colony. The entire colony is involved in slow rhythmical movements, in which phases of contraction alternate with expansion. This behavior corresponds to a permanent reciprocity (or duality) between the zooid-bearing rachis and the peduncle; overall behavior is determined by the number of "functionally active units" which either contains at any given time. This number is influenced by the excitatory or restraining effects of external factors such as light intensity or the entry of water. In this way, when contraction proceeds, activity of the rachis predominates, whereas during swelling of the colony, activity of the peduncle prevails. Observations on intact colonies and on specimens without peduncles, experiments using light and electrical stimuli, and the study of peristalsis, all suggest that the mutually reciprocal nature of activity in the rachis and peduncle may be attributed to the differential influence of external factors on the functional state of centers of spontaneous activity or of conduction pathways in the colony. Zooids present on the rachis are responsible both for the reciprocal activity of the colony and for its morphological polarity.
3884567| As burrowing, nocturnal predators of small arthropods, sand scorpions have evolved exquisite sensitivity to vibrational information that comes to them through the substrate they live on, dry sand. Over distances of a few decimeters, sand conducts low velocity (50 m/sec) surface (Rayleigh) waves of sufficient amplitude and bandwidth (200<f<500 Hz) to be biologically detectable. Eight acceleration-sensitive receptors (slit sensilla) at the tips of the scorpion's circularly arranged legs detect surface waves generated by prey movements or "juddering" signals from other scorpions. From this input alone, direction of the disturbance source is calculated up to 20 cm distance. By ablating slit sensilla in various combinations on the eight legs, the contribution each makes in computing target location can be assessed. Other behavioral experiments show that differential timing of surface wave arrival at each sensor is most likely the cue that determines target location. Given the simplicity of this sensory system, a computational theory to account for wave source localization has been developed using a population of second-order neurons, each receiving excitatory input from one vibration receptor and inhibition from the triad of receptors opposite to it in the eight-element array. Input from a passing surface wave opens and closes a time widow, the width of which determines the firing probability of second-order neurons. Target direction is encoded as the relative excitation of these neurons, and stochastic optimization tunes the relative strengths of excitatory and inhibitory inputs for accuracy of response. The excellent agreement between predictions of the model and observed behavior of sand scorpions confirms a simple theory for computational mapping of surface vibration space. 
3881755|The cytology of 33 parthenogenetic coccids is reviewed and their parthenogenesis is classified into seven types: haploid and diploid arrhenotoky, facultative and obligate deuterotoky, facultative thelytoky, and obligate automictic and apomictic thelytoky. The origin of each type is briefly discussed. In three coccids with obligate automictic thelytoky, diploidy is restored by the fusion of haploid cleavage nuclei. Individuals of these coccids are thus expected to be completely homozygous for all loci. These coccids probably evolved from groups in which the males are either haploid or contain only one genetically active chromosome set. The evolution of thelytoky with complete homozygosity is attributed to the lesser significance of heterosis in male haploidy and related chromosome systems. Following a suggestion of Hughes-Schrader (1948), the high frequency of parthenogenesis in coccids is attributed to the fragility of the males.
3883363|The medial and lateral giant nerve fibers in the earthworm, Eisenia foetida, regenerate cell-specific connections and recover through-conduction capabilities in as little as 1-2 days after ventral nerve cord (VNC) transection. Similar cell-specific reconnections between giant fibers occur approximately 4-10 days after grafting together two posterior pieces of worms or transplanting lengths of VNC from donor to recipient worms from which a comparable length of VNC has been removed. In the latter case, touch-sensory and giant-motor neurons within the transplanted VNC also regenerate, leading to restoration of escape reflex function in segments receiving the transplant. Results from heterotopically transplanted VNC indicate that both central and peripheral regeneration is cell-specific, but specificity is sufficiently broad to include segmentally homologous target cells from body regions other than those of the transplant origin. E. foetida and related species may be useful for studying the extent to which differentiated nervous systems, composed of serially homologous neuronal networks, can be remodelled by experimental manipulations such as grafts and transplants.
3883560|The combination of developmental and evolutionary approaches to morphology constitutes a new field of research, here termed evolutionary embryology. At present, the field is characterized by a strong prevalence of theoretical concepts over empirical investigations. This paper analyzes the possible strategies for experimental approaches to provide a broader empirical foundation for the existing concepts. Five domains of development-recapitulation, timing, interaction, thresholds, and plasticity-are investigated with regard to their role in morphological evolution and their accessibility for experimentation. It is argued that the temporal, spatial, and functional dissociabilities of interactive developmental systems, as well as their quantitative and integrative properties, constitute the main targets of experimentation. Further it is emphasized that the comparative method represents the fundamental conceptual tool for evolutionary approaches to embryology.
3884376| The notochord can play an important mechanical role in shape changes during early morphogenesis of vertebrates. For example, osmotic inflation of notochords elongates and straightens the axis of frog early tail-bud embryos. In Xenopus laevis, the sheath of cross-helically arranged fibers around the notochord limits the shape changes it undergoes when inflating, causing the notochord to stiffen and straighten (Adams et al., 1990; Koehl et al., 1990). We used physical models of stage 24 X. laevis notochords to explore the mechanical consequences of different arrangements of the sheath fibers on the behavior of such curved hydraulic cylinders. All the models straightened upon inflation regardless of initial fiber angle ( = angle of the fibers to long axis of the cylinder). Notochord models with  > 54 lengthened and narrowed as they straightened; although they could push, the forces they exerted were limited by their tendency to buckle, which increased the greater the . In contrast, models with  < 54 shortened and widened as they straightened and showed pronounced increases in flexural stiffness. The mean  of X. laevis early tail-bud notochords is 54, a fiber angle that permits an increase in the end-to-end distance of the model (along the anterior-posterior axis of the embryo) as it straightens and pushes when pressurized, but that is less prone to Euler and local buckling than are models with higher 's. Nonetheless, a  of 54 in notochords may simply be the result of osmotic swelling. 
3881820|The colors of birds result from deposition of pigments-mainly melanins and carotenoids-in integumentary structures, chiefly the feathers. The plumages of birds indicate their age, sex, and mode of living, and play important roles in camouflage, mating, and establishment of territories. Since feathers are dead structures, change of color of feathers is effected through divestment (molt) and replacement. The color and pattern of a feather are determined by the interplay of genetic and hormonal influences prevailing in its base during regeneration. Most birds replace their feathers at least once annually. Some wear the same kind of basic plumage all the time but others alternate a basic and breeding plumage, either in one (the male) or both sexes. Still others may have more than two molts, adding supplemental plumage at certain times in the plumage cycle. The varieties of patterns of molt, the kinds of plumage, and the colors and patterns of feathers among birds apparently are the result of several kinds of selection pressures working through evolution.
3881896|Many fresh-water protozoa can be found in litters and soils, but the ubiquitous species are those which are able to cope with fluctuating moisture conditions. Terrestrial protozoa are more characteristic of bryophyte-soil habitats than aquatic ecosystems. Nutritionally, two groups have evolved in response to the plant community: naked, predominantly bacterial feeders, whose abundance is determined by the decomposability of the litter in which they live; and the slow growing, humus-associated testacea, which are more abundant in the litters of slow decomposability. Ubiquitous species comprise about 90% of the protozoa in soils. More continuous moisture conditions enhance the appearance of additional species. Hence species diversity indicates higher moisture content of a soil. Protozoa may contribute to the functioning of the soil ecosystem by inducing flocculation of bacterial populations and recycling of minerals through ingestion of bacteria and excretion of soluble products. The surface of vegetation appears to represent the most terrestrial habitat a protozoan can exploit, because in contrast to the litter-soil ecosystem, only one species, Colpoda cucullus, dominates the population.
3884095|The zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha (Pallas), was introduced into North America in 1986. Initial North American (N.A.) studies suggested that physiological responses varied between N.A. and European populations. However, literature review indicates agreement on most aspects of physiological adaptation including: respiratory responses; hypoxia/anoxia tolerance; salinity limits; emersion tolerance; freezing resistance; environmental pH limits; calcium limits; starvation responses; and bioenergetic partitioning. The main differences among N.A. and European mussels appear to be elevated upper thermal limits and temperatures for optimum growth among N.A. populations. N.A. zebra mussels probably originated from the northern shore of the Black Sea in the warmest portion of the mussel's European range. However, most European physiological data come from northern Europe where populations may be adapted to colder temperatures. Alternatively, N.A. research suggests that mussels may have a capacity for seasonal temperature acclimatization such that responses recorded in warmer N.A. waters may be different from those recorded in northern Europe even after short-term laboratory acclimation. Studies of genetic variation and physiological response among European and N.A. D. polymorpha populations are required to elucidate the basis for physiological differentiation. Recently evolved D. polymorpha has poor resistance adaptations compared to unionacean and sphaeriid bivalves with longer freshwater fossil histories. Poor resistance adaptations make it less suited for stable habitats, instead, its high fecundities, early maturity, and rapid growth are adaptations to unstable habitats where extensive resistance adaptations are of little value.
3881778|The ontogeny of strombid behavior was studied by observing the behavior of Strombus maculatus veligers collected from the plankton and reared past metamorphosis to adults, and by observing juvenile strombids collected in the field. Complete adult modal action patterns (MAP's) associated with locomotion, feeding, and righting of overturned shells are performed by S. maculatus juveniles immediately after metamorphosis. There are changes in the frequency of the use of certain MAP's which are associated with variations in shell shape and size. The unique strombid escape response to molluscivorous gastropods (Conus spp.) is not released until juvenile S. maculatus are three weeks past metamorphosis and two millimeters in shell length. At that stage, the complete response is released upon the first encounter with a predator. Experience with a predator does not seem to lower the age or size criteria. During ontogeny there is a trend toward an increasing complexity of behavior which is paralleled by an increasing complexity of neural structure and general morphology. There are major steps in the ontogeny of strombid behavior which probably coincide with neural and morphological stages.
3884312| Among diverse marine invertebrate taxa, the evolution of a non-planktotrophic larva is often associated with increased rates of cladogenesis, compared to related taxa that retain the ancestral planktotrophic larval form. Molecular phylogenetic analyses of non-planktotrophic (and, presumably species-rich) clades of marine invertebrates are rare. Here we analyze 1542 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA sequence comprising two gene regions, the cytochrome oxidase I gene and the putative control region and flanking sequences, for 23 molecular lineages in the obligately brood-protecting asteroid genus Leptasterias. Using maximum likelihood, minimum evolution, and maximum parsimony methods, five major clades were identified that corresponded to five taxa (species or species complexes) in the subgenus Hexasterias, section camtschatica (following the taxonomy of Walter K. Fisher). Two clades (L. aequalis complex and L. aleutica/L. camtschatica complex) were composed of numerous molecular lineages (7-8 lineages/clade), and several clades had multiple shallow nodes, suggestive of recent radiations. Two of the clades (L. aleutica/L. camtschatica complex and L. hexactis complex), with geographic ranges restricted to latitudes higher than 48N, were lacking deep phylogenetic nodes. This pattern is consistent with the hypothesis that high-latitude taxa have high rates of extinction due to repeated climatic crises. A log-likelihood ratio test performed on the camtschatica section, including a member (Leptasterias polaris) of the polaris section and using a representative (L. mlleri) of Leptasterias subgenus Leptasterias as an outgroup, demonstrated that the camtschatica section is monophyletic. 
3882342|This essay presents an updating of the author's theory that there are two major lines in the evolution of photoreceptors, one ciliary and the other rhabdomeric (microvillar). Arguments are presented for rejecting a new and alternative theory of Salvini-Plawen and Mayr (1977) that photoreceptors have arisen many times, independently of one another, and that there are no major lines in the evolution of light-sensitive organelles. Arguments are also advanced against the theory of Vanfleteren and Coomans (1976) and others that microvillar photoreceptors are induced by ciliary structures.
3883076|Computer simulation models were used to explore the effect of habitat geometry on intruder pressure for territories in different locations within a patch of uniformly high quality habitat, for territories in patches of different shapes and sizes, and for patches surrounded by different types of suboptimal habitats. In models in which the edges of the habitat patch are impermeable (hard-edged), intruders do not leave the central territorial habitat, H, and intruder pressure is lower for territories on the edge of H than for more centrally located territories. Average intruder pressure for any given loop of territories (
3882784|The hydrophilic, sulfated fraction of the organic matrix found in molluscan shells appears to be involved in crystal nucleation. It is located primarily at the sites of initial nucleation. The hydrophilic fraction favors in vitro formation of calcified deposits, when it is fixed in place on the hydrophobic fraction. Calcium is bound by the hydrophillic fraction with high affinity and selectivity. Enzymatic desulfation reduces the calcium binding. However, the binding stoichiometry of one calcium for every two ester sulfates is not altered. The calcium binding induces local anion binding, which induces secondary calcium binding. This coordinated ion binding is known as ionotropy. The resultant local high concentration of ions is thought to bring about nucleation.
3884446|Determination of paired fin or limb number, identity and position are key issues in vertebrate development and evolution. Phylogenies including fossil data show that paired appendages are unique to jawed vertebrates and their immediate ancestry; that such fins evolved first as a single pair in an anterior location; that appendicular endoskeletons are primitively AP asymmetric; and that pectoral and pelvic fins primitively differ. It is conjectured that Hox gene expression patterns along the lateral plate mesoderm establish boundaries that contribute to localisation of AP levels at which signals initiate outgrowth from the body wall. Such regionalisation may be regulated independently of that in the paraxial mesoderm and axial skeleton. When combined with current hypotheses of Hox gene phylogenetic and functional diversity, these data suggest a new model of fin/limb developmental evolution. This coordinates body wall outgrowth regions with primitive boundaries established in the gut, and the fundamental non-equivalence of pectoral and pelvic structures.
3883982|High correlations among measurements of the cranium in the fox squirrel suggested to Olson and Miller (1958) that the skull in this species is highly integrated: that is, it tends to vary as a unit, and without clear subdivision into discrete independently-varying subunits. The evolutionary conservatism of the sciurid cranium, and the morphological convergence among pygmy squirrels of several distinct lineages, suggest that in the squirrel family high integration is also a feature of variation among species. A review of preliminary results of two- and three-dimensional morphometrics of the cranium, bivariate allometry of the mandible, and the anatomy of the masticatory musculature supports this suggestion, and highlights the importance of further clarifying phylogenetic relationships. Examination of embryos suggests that pygmy squirrels can not be considered strictly paedomorphic.
3884058|Arctic ungulates have the capacity to voluntarily restrict growth to times of the year of predictable high quality seasonal herbage abundance. The constraints of the arctic environment mean that not only must the timing of this growth seasonality be accurate but growth rate must be maximised for a short period of time. It is known that daylength is a critical cue for the timing of seasonal rhythms of growth; a manipulated photoperiod of 16L:8D stimulates out of season growth in reindeer during winter and this growth is associated with an increase in the plasma levels of insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF 1). In contrast a manipulated photoperiod of 8L:16D delays the spring rise in growth. There is good evidence from a boreal cervid, the red deer, that the number of hours of day influences growth rate also and this is associated with IGF 1. Thus daylength may have a dual role in growth seasonality, timing and amplitude. Although the mechanisms underlying the timing of rhythms by daylength are partly understood a putative role for daylength in controlling the rate of an event is a new concept.
3884141|Ecological risk assessment grew from earlier efforts of federal agencies to protect human health from chemical releases. Over the past several years, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) adapted the human health paradigm for use in protecting ecological end-points, including ecosystems such as the Chesapeake Bay. The Bay restoration effort may be seen as an ecological risk assessment in the sense that the program participants followed the paradigm developed by U.S. EPA. This analysis of the program and risk assessment process provides an additional perspective on the success and efficacy of the Bay restoration efforts. Early efforts to determine the problems in the Bay system targeted hypoxia, habitat deterioration and natural resource degradation for corrective actions. Additional monitoring and data gathering refined and focused program efforts on hypoxia caused by nutrient enrichment. Thus far, the ecological risk paradigm has been effectively applied to the Bay clean-up in a general sense. Recent research demonstrates that detailed application of a narrow risk approach will likely fail to include important biological effects or processes.
3884337|Researchers often study nonhuman abilities by assuming their subjects form representations about perceived stimuli and then process such information; why then would consciousness be required, and, if required, at what level? Arguments about nonhuman consciousness range from claims of levels comparable to humans to refutation of any need to study such phenomena. We suggest that (a) species exhibit different levels attuned to their ecological niches, and (b) animals, within their maximum possible level, exhibit different extents of awareness appropriate to particular situations, much like humans (presumably conscious) who often act without conscious awareness of factors controlling their behavior. We propose that, to engage in complex information processing, animals likely exhibit perceptual consciousness sensu Natsoulas (1978), i.e., are aware of what is being processed. We discuss these issues and provide examples suggesting perceptual consciousness.
3883742|This paper provides an overview of the life and works of Conrad Hal Waddington (1905-1975). After an early life spent apart from his parents pursuing ammonites, natural history, geology and archaeology, Waddington took a degree in Geology at Cambridge (1926). Genetics and experimental embryology soon replaced palaeontology as he began his experimental studies on the chemical nature of the primary organizer discovered by Spemann and Mangold in 1924. It was during this period of collaboration with Joseph and Dorothy Needham that Waddington developed the concepts of evocation and individuation. The establishment of a Unit on Animal Breeding and Genetics in Edinburgh after the second World War provided Waddington with his professional home for the rest of his career as he sought to integrate genetics and development into an evolutionarily relevant discipline. Our conception of embryonic development as a highly integrated series of canalized pathways owes much to Waddington's development of the concepts of canalization, chreods, epigenetics and the epigenotype. The metaphorical epigenetic landscape became the way that most developmental biologists "saw" the organization of embryonic development. The concept of supragenomic, integrated, heritable, epigenetic organization of embryonic development is arguably Waddington's lasting legacy to development and evolution. The integration of his epigenetic legacy into a quantitative developmental genetics model of the developmental and evolutionary origin of phenotypes is now being undertaken. It has still to be proven whether genetic assimilation, which Waddington demonstrated to be a real phenomenon in laboratory experiments, has been a force in evolutionary adaptation.
3882904|Stomach analyses of living families and of a fossil containing prey were used to address possible dietary correlates of the history of snakes. Aniliids, morphologically primitive among living snakes, feed on relatively heavy, elongate vertebrates. Large aniliids eat larger prey than do small individuals but, as in advanced snakes, they also take small items. Living boids, structurally intermediate between aniliids and advanced snakes, feed on relatively heavy prey of a much greater variety of shapes than do aniliids. An Eocene fossil that might be a boid contains a relatively large crocodilian in its gut. These findings, previous studies, and morphological considerations suggest that very early snakes used constriction and powerful jaws to feed on elongate, heavy prey. This would have permitted a shift from feeding often on small items to feeding rarely on heavy items, without initially requiring major changes in jaw structure relative to a lizard-like ancestor. Subsequent morphological changes could then have allowed boids to utilize a broad range of prey types, including many of those currently eaten by advanced snakes. More recent dietary themes include the consumption of even heavier prey by highly venomous elapids and viperids, and frequent feeding on relatively small items by some other advanced snakes.
3882566|For over a century, the study of specific antipathogenic strategies in insects has been confounded by non-specific responses to integumental invasion. Experimental injury to diapausing Hyalophora cecropia silkmoth pupae elucidated some of the events inherent in this response-increased oxygen consumption and DNA and RNA synthesis leading to de novo synthesis of proteins, some of which are constituents of the adult protein cohort as well as some injury-specific ones. The mechanism which enforces diapause is apparently released by integumental injury as well as by normal developmental stimuli. Recent work has concentrated on purification of antipathogenic and injury-specific proteins, the possible involvement of lectins in the immune response, and localization of synthesis of these proteins in hemocytes and fat body cells. At least ten different hemolymph proteins which are synthesized by fat body cells in response to inoculation of lepidopteran species with bacteria currently are being isolated. The hemolymph of H. cecropia contains lectins which are synthesized by hemocytes. Analysis of in vitro incorporation of [
4620212|Several phases of animal evolution have undergone radical change in developmental mechanisms. I refer to these as major transitions in animal evolution. The six most important transitions in the lineage leading to humans are proposed to be: the origin of multicellularity, the origin of two-germ layers and radial symmetry, the origin of three-germ layers and bilateral symmetry, dorsoventral axis inversion, the origin of vertebrates, the origin of gnathostomes. Here I discuss the genetic changes that may have underlain these transitions. The last two transitions were accompanied by, and possibly facilitated by, large increases in gene number. This probably occurred by tetraploidy, with some of the duplicate genes being subsequently lost. The origin of three germ-layers, bilateral symmetry and a through gut also probably involved gene duplication; in this case, duplication of an ancestral ProtoHox gene cluster to yield two paralogous homeobox gene clusters, Hox and ParaHox, with roles in patterning different germ layers along the anteroposterior body axis. This event may provide a partial genetic explanation for the Cambrian explosion.
3883226|Intertidal suspension-feeding bivalves face reductions in the time available for feeding proportional to the duration of aerial exposure. Such individuals do not compensate by increasing their rates of feeding during immersion. Simulations of feeding behaviour, in terms of the energetic balance between the costs and the gains of changes in feeding rate, suggest that variation from the rates characteristic of the sublittoral condition would not enhance net energy gain for intertidal individuals. These findings are consistent with evidence of potential food limitation in the natural sublittoral habitat. Nevertheless, hydrodynamic factors may enhance the supply of food on the shore, so ameliorating the disadvantages of reduced feeding time. In addition, potential physiological compensations for reduced dietary quality include changes in gut residence time, the volume of gut occupied for digestion and (possibly) also in the provision of appropriate digestive enzymes. However, these compensations require days or weeks and are inappropriate on tidal time scales.
3882916|Selection depletes additive genetic variation underlying traits important in fitness. Intense mating competition and female choice may result in negligible heritability in males. Females often appear to choose mates, however, suggesting genetic variation in males which is important to females. Evidence is reviewed on allelic substitutions, karyotypic variation, and especially the heritable variation of continuous traits involved in sexual behavior and reproduction. Phenotypic variation in male mating speed and courtship intensity, female mating and oviposition behavior, egg size and number, body size, parthenogenesis, and the sex ratio generally have heritable variation. The maintenance of genetic variation, and the meaning of heritability estimates for natural populations is considered.
3884230|We have evaluated the relationship between regional species richness and the number of species occurring within local, quantitatively sampled assemblages of scleractinian corals. Our data have been extracted from the published literature describing richness patterns from over 100 locations around the world. In general, we find a positive relationship between local and regional richness. Local richness is not independent of regional richness as posited by conventional theory and there is no hard upper limit indicating saturation. Instead, local coral assemblages are regionally enriched. This result suggests that these assemblages are open to regional sources of species. The degree of regional enrichment is geographically variable. In the Indo-Pacific, assemblages in speciose regions appear to be less open and much more sensitive to local depth and habitat gradients than those in more depauperate regions. Other large-scale geographical and historical effects on local richness in the Indo-Pacific include the degree of isolation from high-diversity regions and distance from the equator. In contrast, local richness in the relatively homogeneous and depauperate western Atlantic is insensitive to the large-scale variables we examined. As in most ecological communities, membership in local assemblages of corals is not absolutely limited (by biotic interactions or local environmental factors) nor is it totally open to regional pools of species. Understanding the dynamics of coral communities will require integrating the local ecological perspective with large-scale phenomena (i.e., physical TECO processes [Myers, 1994] and evolutionary history [Hugueny et al. 1997]). Such an integration will necessarily encompass multiple spatial and temporal scales.
3881951| Recent studies on urotensisn I and II and experiments on urophysial function are described. Chemical and pharmacological studies showed that: (i) The isoelectric points of urotensins I and II are pI 5.50.05 and 5.90.05, respectively; (ii) two active peaks of urotensin I are obtained by gel chromatography of HCl-extracted urophyses on Bio-Gel P
3883129|The nineteenth century was a time of active exploration of the American West. This symposium details the individuals and institutions that initiated the natural history studies associated with the accumulation of the geographic information and relates the natural history studies to the growth and development of science and the scientific community.
3882497|A model for the origin of parthenogenesis in hermaphrodites is developed. If a dominant mutation causing parthenogenetic development of eggs without affecting meiotic production of sperm arises, the parthenogens will increase in frequency to fixation. Concomitantly, there is selection for reallocation of resources from male- to female-related functions in both parthenogenetic and sexual individuals. Occasional fertilization of unreduced eggs may produce polyploid clones. Both the loss of male-related structures and polyploidy are common in parthenogenetic earthworms. Parthenogenesis should be favored in patchy and temporally unstable habitats, in which r-selection may be expected, because it facilitates colonization and rapid population growth, and because selection by the biotic component of the environment presumably is reduced. Parthenogenetic earthworms commonly occur in decaying logs, leaf litter, and the upper, organic layers of the soil, whereas sexual species more often inhabit the deeper, more stable soil horizons. Long-term persistence of clones depends on their ability to survive and reproduce under a variety of environmental conditions. It is proposed that successful clones possess "general purpose" genotypes that allow persistence in spite of temporal changes and facilitate active dispersal through heterogeneous environments between patches of prime habitat. Two common clones of the parthenogenetic earthworm Octolasion tyrtaeum seem to possess general purpose genotypes, as they occur in a wide variety of soil and habitat types and are geographically widespread.
3881808|Different species of larval trematodes that utilize the same intermediate host characteristically exhibit distinctive patterns of response to environmental fluctuations. Not only are the responses distinctive for each species, but also they cannot be correlated with that of the host. The physiological responses of the molluscan host to physical changes in the environment, however, are modified significantly by the presence of a larval trematode infection. The thermal metabolic acclimation patterns of infected Nassarius obsoleta are quite distinct from those of non-infected N. obsoleta. The activity patterns during thermal acclimation of cytochrome c oxidase from digestive glands of snails infected with different species of larval trematodes indicate that each species of larval trematodes differentially influences the host tissue, so that the cytochrome oxidase system does not respond to temperature in the same way as does uninfected host tissue.
3883214|Traditionally, historians have stressed the influence of European laboratories on the development of American marine stations. While there is some justification for this interpretation, more attention must be directed at the original teaching imperative for marine studies. Several marine stations emerged in the 1870s with no direct influence from Europe and with a complete commitment to the education of secondary school teachers. Later in the century and early in the twentieth century this same pattern was repeated at several locations on both the east coast and the west coast. All of these institutions were designed to present a new pedagogical approach for biology in the United States. Originally as adjuncts to natural history museums and societies and then as important innovations to teach laboratory methods in American colleges and universities, marine biology stations developed research options only secondary to their primary educational orientation.
3882238| Larval behavior and metamorphosis in Parasmittina nitida morphotype B from the Gulf of Mexico has been studied. The larvae have two basic types of movement: (1) a clockwise-counterclockwise movement about the aboral-oral axis of the lobular larval form resulting in either slow horizontal or rapid vertical movement, and (2) a directed horizontal movement of the creeping larval form, whereby either the oral lobe is pressed against the substrate or the aboral-oral axis is tilted forward. In both forms, the vibratile plume of the pyriform organ complex extends the leading edge of the larva. Metamorphosis was observed with Nomarski differential interference microscopy in living specimens and with scanning electron microscopy in fixed specimens. Polypide development-in particular, the formation and diminution of the nutritive mass, the differentiation of the polypide rudiment, diaphragm, vestibular glands, operculum, major components of the musculature and alimentary canal, and the early stages of astogenetic growth-is described. The tata ancestrula of this species is characterized by a frontal wall calcified distally to the aperture, which is surrounded by nine erect spines. The polypide feeds actively within seven to eight days after the onset of larval attachment and metamorphosis under laboratory conditions of 22C. 
3884110|This paper deals with risk sensitivity in amount of food, and is concerned with modelling the risk-sensitive behaviour exhibited by an animal which is attempting to survive a period such as winter. I argue that, in maximising survival probability, risk-averse behaviour is much more important than risk-prone behaviour. I also argue that animals in the laboratory will continue to use rules which are adapted to food sources which change over time. A model of environmental change is investigated. This model predicts that a consequence of change is that less risk-prone behaviour than that predicted by standard models is to be expected in laboratory studies. The need to learn about a stochastic food source in a changing environment is predicted to further reduce the incidence of risk-prone behaviour. It is difficult to learn about highly variable food sources. This is shown to lead to risk-aversion even when the optimisation criterion is maximisation of mean long-term rate of food gain. Implications of the general modelling philosophy are discussed.
3884020|Biologically-based dose-response (BBDR) paradigms incorporate mechanistic toxicological data in the derivation of quantitative models to estimate risk. Developmental lead (Pb) exposure has been long associated with deficits in intellectual ability. To date, direct estimates of toxicant-induced functional alterations in brain that may underlie cognition have been lacking, obviating the utilization of quantitative modeling for toxicological endpoints of higher brain function. The utility of the long-term potentiation (LTP) model of synaptic plasticity in the context of Pb-induced cognitive deficits is explored in the present paper. In reviewing physiological and biochemical requirements of LTP that may overlap with cellular mechanisms of Pb toxicity, a neurobiological schema is constructed upon which we can begin to explore the possibility of applying BBDR models in neurotoxicology.
3883900|Regeneration of walking legs in the fiddler crab Uca pugilator is most efficient when it follows autotomy (the reflexive loss of a limb). Closure of the wound and would healing occur immediately following autotomy and visible regeneration begins within a few days. Regeneration of the walking leg occurs in two distinct stages: The first stage, called Basal Growth, involves mitosis and differentiation. The second stage involves primarily protein synthesis and water uptake and is called Proecdysial Growth. Proecdysial Growth is, in part, under direct hormonal stimulation.
3883511|The existence of gutless animals was known, and their putative nutritional processes investigated for several decades, before the sulfide-oxidizing symbiosis that sustains them was discovered. Research into the large, gutless Pogonophora of the marine, thermal vent communities, and the relatively large, gutless, bivalved mollusc Solemya reidi provided an adequate paradigm and stimulated exploration of the evolutionary impact of the symbiosis. These "unwhole" organisms provide an epistemological model for studying the necessity, as well as the limitations of the concept of organism. For non-parasitic gutless animals, and for others with reduced guts, a variety of reductionistic, adaptationistic and organicistic hypotheses were advanced, but despite a general familiarity with parallel symbioses there was a reluctance to transcend the organismic mind-set. Free-living sulfide-oxidizing bacteria inhabit a two-dimensional environment: the interface between aerobic and anaerobic environments. A host, such as Solemya, adds a third dimension, regulating the supply of necessary oxygen and sulfide at the molecular, functional morphological, and behavioural levels. Morphological correlations of the symbiosis in bivalves include expansion of gills to house bacteria, paedomorphic reduction of outer demibranchs and palps, and reduction or loss of siphons and guts. In S. reidi symbiont transmission appears to be vertical, i.e., an intimate transferral from one generation to the next. Initial failure to realise that gutless animals are sustained by intracellular bacteria echoes the original response to the endosymbiotic theory of the origins of eukaryotes, which had a larger historical context. Yet evolution by association has periodically produced major advances in the history of organisms. While simplistic reductionism has a false allure, organicism also has limitations that are illustrated by the above case history. Whether we identify ourselves as adaptationistic neo-Darwinists, or require that greater emphasis be placed on the evolution of integrated dynamic wholes, as do the structuralists, we must somehow accommodate the ultraorganismic evolution of new "wholes" by the association of previously independent forms.
3882182|In many spiralian embryos it has been possible to demonstrate that embryonic development is partially controlled by cytoplasmic factors located at or in the surface of the fertilized egg and cleaving embryo. In the embryo of the squid Loligo pealei, a pattern of developmental information can be demonstrated to exist at the surface, or the egg cortex, of the fertilized but uncleaved embryo. The informational pattern apparently is released or activated during the time of the cytoplasmic streaming which forms the blastodisc. Eventually this developmental informational pattern is imposed upon the blastoderm cells that come to cover organ-specific regions of the yolk syncytium which was derived from the egg cortex. Ultrastructural studies demonstrate many intercellular connections between the yolk syncytium and the blastoderm and between the cells of the blastoderm itself. During oogenesis there are regional differences in the follicular syncytium which suggests that the pattern of developmental information may arise in the ovary and be retained in a latent state until triggered by fertilization.
3882779|Shell formation in molluscs begins early in embryogenesis during some stage of archenteron formation. Ultrastructural information on early formation of external shells is available from only a few bivalves and gastropods. Secretion of the very first shell material by shell field epithelial cells is preceded by an invagination of the dorsal ectoderm in the region of the shell field. A century ago, this invagination was termed the "shell gland." As a secretory function for this invagination has not yet been demonstrated and as the term "shell gland" has taken on various meanings in the literature, the invagination will be referred to as the shell field invagination. The opening into the shell field invagination seems to be circular in gastropods and elongate in bivalves. Accordingly initial organic shell material seems to form a ring in gastropods and a saddle in bivalves. As in adult molluscs, shells of pre-metamorphic molluscs are composed of both organic and inorganic components. Ultrastructural data from bivalves and gastropods indicate that the initial organic shell material is secreted just outside the shell field invagination (across the pore). Initial inorganic shell materials have not been localized nor their pathway traced into or through any pre-metamorphic molluscs. New SEM and TEM data show that the invagination in the bivalve Spisula solidissima is composed of a wide outer region and very narrow inner region with the first shell material forming at the junction between the two. This is unlike ultrastructural data available for other species. Many sections give the false impressions that: 1) the shell field invagination is closed to the outside and, 2) that the first organic shell material lines the innermost region of the invagination. It is not clear whether the cells of the outer invagination in this species are shell field cells. It is suggested that they are not.
3882060|During the past 10 years considerable data have appeared indicating that the growth of hydroids is not, as was earlier believed, similar to the meristematic growth of plants, but rather that the sites of cell proliferation are removed in space from the sites of utilization, that cells migrate individually, actively as amoebocytes through the epidermis or passively as epitheliocytes carried along in the hydroplasm, to the sites of utilization, and that considerable migration across the mesoglea occurs. A model of hydroid morphogenesis and morphostasis based on this new information provides a comprehensive picture, albeit one filled in with numerous assumptions, of the manner in which colony form is produced as a consequence of cell proclivities.
3881415|We have compared the structure of the aesthetascs - thin-walled chemosensory pegs on the antennules - of Coenobita, a terrestrial hermit crab, and of various marine decapods, including the aquatic hermit crab, Pagurus hirsutiusculus. In all cases, the aesthetascs are innervated by the dendrites of many bipolar neurons whose cell bodies are grouped beneath the bases of the hairs. The dendrites have basal bodies and cilia that divide into slender branches, each distinguished by ovoid swellings along its length and containing one or more microtubules apparently continuous with the microtubules of the cilia. The arrangement of the dendrites within the aesthetascs is distinctly different in Coenobita from that in the marine animals, even in its relative, Pagurus. There are many points of structural convergence between the aesthetascs of Coenobita and the thin-walled olfactory pegs of the insect antenna. These modifications may represent adaptations for conservation of water in the terrestrial receptors.
3882265| Earthworms are capable of destroying body wall xenografts. Xenografts transplanted Eisenia foetideLumbricus terrestris at various temperatures showed that graft survival time is inversely proportional to temperature in both cases. Colder temperatures slow graft rejection, but higher temperatures, up to optimal limits, accelerate graft destruction. At 21 C, Eisenia grafts on Lumbricus hosts are rejected faster than at any other experimental temperature; the variability in individual times is lessened. Beginning at 23 C sub-optimal conditions are approached. Thus, graft survival times are more prolonged. Lumbricus grafts on Eisenia hosts are rejected most quickly at 23 C; at 27 C all Eisenia are dead. A review of the earthworm's general thermal dependence is presented and a rationalization for prolonged second-set graft survival (negative memory) at low temperatures is given. Temperature effects probably account for the lack of positive memory at 15 C from previous studies. 
3881330|This review represents information which is considered suitable for graduate and medical students as an introduction to the subject of filarial disease of man. The article depicts two maps which show the world-wide distribution of the six main genera which represent the etiologic agents of filarial infections, i.e., Wuchereria, Brugia, Loa, Acanthocheilonema, Mansonella and Onchocerca. An additional chart is shown which summarizes the chief epidemiologic and clinical differences, and portrays the main characteristics of adult worms and of the microfilariae. The text is divided into sub-divisions entitled: Life cycle, which describes the types of filariasis encountered; Procedures for examining blood; Clinical and epidemiologic aspects; History; Principal vectors; Antigen-antibody reactions and Control.
3881995|The social play behavior of six mammalian species (Rodentia, Pinnipedia, Artiodactyla, Carnivora) is described and compared. Locomotor and Rotational Movements, e.g., jumping, running, and headshaking, occurred in all species and predominated in the rodent play. These movements are similar in form to anti-predator and "protective" responses and result in an immediate but temporary cessation of sensory stimulation from conspecifics. Investigation of body odors was the most important stimulus eliciting Locomotor-Rotational Movements in the rodents. In the larger mammals, body odor sniffing was enhanced during play, but specialized signals from other sensory modalities elicited and maintained play interactions. The possible functions of a heightened exchange of olfactory information during juvenile social development are discussed.
3884500|Upper jaw protrusion is a prominent component of the feeding mechanism in most elasmobranchs and has received considerable attention over the years. In this paper, we review what is known of muscle activity during prey capture in elasmobranchs, particularly that of upper jaw protrusion, and evaluate the extent to which functional modifications have evolved through changes in anatomy or patterns of muscle activity. To date, motor activity during feeding has been documented in only four species of elasmobranchs, although they represent the three major elasmobranch groups: Galea (typical sharks); Squalea (dogfish sharks); and Batoidea (skates and rays). Our efforts show that while muscles involved in cranial elevation and lower jaw depression and elevation show a conserved pattern of motor activity and function across species, other muscles show a more variable history. Our observations of elasmobranch upper jaw protrusion mechanisms suggest a mosaic of character changes over the course of evolution that involve anatomical changes in all cases and modifications of muscle activation patterns in some cases. During the evolution of feeding mechanisms of elasmobranchs, there have been two structural changes incorporating a pre-existing motor pattern to yield an unmodified kinematic profile, the original preorbitalis and the descendent preorbitalis. One additional instance of structural modification is accompanied by an alteration in the motor pattern leading to a change in movement pattern, the levator palatoquadrati.
3882406|Most bird eggs have evolved a suite of remarkably consistent adaptations for appropriate exchanges of respiratory gases and water vapor during incubation in nests above ground. However, underground incubation is associated with selective forces different from those operating at the surface. New information from mound-building birds, living reptiles and extinct dinosaurs shows convergent adaptations to nest atmospheres that are high in CO
3882915|Behavioral polymorphisms occur among male and female water striders, Gerris remigis, when competing for food and mates. Individuals of both sexes vie for positions in the fastest flowing portions of streams. Here prey capture rates are highest, as are those of swimming and aggression. Only the largest females, and males with the largest first appendages, can regularly maintain positions in these areas. The remaining females are arranged along the flow gradient according to their size with the smallest holding positions in pools of slow moving water. For the remaining males neither overall size, nor the size of the first appendages, appears to determine which males swim near the edge of streams, or which males swim as satellites behind those occupying the fast flowing productive areas. Preliminary data show that mating success of edge and satellite males are about equal, but significantly less than that of the centrally positioned males with the largest first appendages. Thus although it appears that morphological phenotype influences male competitive behavior, when the absolute size of the critical trait is small males adopt behavior after assessing the actions of others. For these "subordinate" males, behavioral assessment appears to produce an "ideal free" spatial distribution.
3882945|Understanding of peptide hormone evolution rests primarily on structural information, either direct or inferred. We summarize studies of fishes and amphibians to provide initial information within the vertebrate lineage for selected peptides which exhibit varying structural heterogeneity. For these peptides, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, somatostatin, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and cholecystokinin related peptides manifest increasing diversification. Members of these peptide families are found distributed among a variety of tissues (e.g., brain, gut, skin, retina, sympathetic nervous system), yet the number of genes encoding for individual types of peptides is presently uncertain. We emphasize the need for additional structural information, for a more thorough and diverse taxonomic investigation within the vertebrate lineage, and for specification of those genetic elements which ultimately determine evolutionary opportunities for peptide evolution.
3882920|American toad (Bufo americanus) males use one of two different reproductive tactics. Some males are stationary and call. Others are silent and mobile. Based on field studies, I developed a computer program that simulates the behavior of females and males to determine the probability of mating success of males engaging the different tactics and the factors that effect male reproductive success. Field studies indicate that non-calling males can be successful. Non-calling males were more numerous and smaller than calling males. Population size changed greatly both between and within nights. Contact rates for non-calling males were greater than those for calling males. The results of the preliminary simulations indicate that male mating success is a function of the population size and the operational sex ratio. In small populations, contact rate has no effect on male success. The effect of contact rate on male success has not been tested in large populations. In large populations, mating success is also a function of the ratio of calling to non-calling males. Generally, in small populations (n < 20) calling males are more successful than non-calling males. In large populations (n > 40) the success of non-calling males is equal to or greater than the success of calling males.
3883767|In contrast to the few species of viviparous reptiles that develop elaborate chorioallantoic placentae and ovulate eggs with relatively low yolk content, most viviparous species ovulate large yolked eggs and have chorioallantoic placentae that are structurally conservative. However, the placentae of the isolated yolk mass, the omphaloplacenta and omphalallantoic placenta, are sites of structural elaboration in these species. Vitellogenesis provides the primary source of nutrients for development, yet supplemental nourishment is contributed by the uterus. The embryo is dependent on the placentae for some materials, for example, gas and water exchange, whereas other aspects of placental function are facultative, i.e., the provision of some inorganic and organic nutrients, and supplement yolk resources. Embryonic nutrition in these predominantly lecithotrophic species is characterized by features shared with oviparous ancestors combined with supplemental advantages to uterine gestation.
3884422|Recent studies have investigated the source and target neurons for the diffusible neuronal messenger molecule nitric oxide (NO) in the nervous system of the locust. Here we compare the neuroarchitecture of NO signaling between different sensory systems. The available neuroanatomical data implicate NO in sensory processing for modalities as diverse as mechanoreception, vision, olfaction, gustation and hearing. All respective first-order sensory neuropils are innervated by NOS-containing interneurons. The corresponding sensory receptor neurons lack NOS but seem to express soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), the main receptor molecule for NO in the nervous system. The axonal projections of sensory neurons must therefore be considered the primary target of NO in these sensory neuropils. An exception is the antennal olfactory system where sGC is apparently expressed in interneurons, in partial colocalization with NOS. We discuss these anatomical findings in relation to the spatiotemporal characteristics of NO signaling. Many sensory neuropils are organized into maps that reflect neuronal response properties (i.e., tuning or receptive fields). A local release of NO within such maps will therefore most strongly affect neurons with similar coding properties. If sensory receptor activity triggers NO synthesis locally in the map, this mechanism could link groups of similarly tuned receptors dynamically according to stimulus intensity. Furthermore, we explore the functional implications of differences between sensory systems in the anatomy of NOS-expressing interneurons, using the compound eye and the thoracic tactile system as examples.
3883236|As theory rules method, the methodological procedures applied to morphological explanation have to be derived from the law-like properties of the objects under investigation. The explanation of organismic constructions has to be based on the hydraulic principle which describes organisms as systems composed of fluid contained within flexible membranes. This insight establishes a supra-molecular causal principle which, in its generality for morphological explanation, parallels the biochemical principles of molecular biology on the molecular level. Every form and architectural arrangement has to be conceived as the result of the form-enforcing influence of mechanical elements that operate within an integrated mechanically coherent system. An adequate explanation of morphological configuration has to elaborate the organization of the constructional whole and explain its properties as the result of a gradual transformation process that is constrained by internal mechanical principles. The theories developed by such a procedure are open to criticism and can be tested and corroborated by reference to experiments conducted by nature.
3881901| Energetic considerations of the growth of three species of littoral benthic foraminifera, Allogromia laticollaris, Rosalina leei, and Spiroloculina hyalina, have been made on laboratory-grown populations. Under optimum laboratory conditions A. laticollaris has the greatest intrinsic rate of increase (r = 2.533 org/day); S. hyalina (r = 1.472 org/day), and R. leei (r = 0.272 org/day) being less fecund. The respiration rates of the three species were similar (0.5-4.5 l/mg body wt/hr) within the temperature range (15-35 C) tested. The species studied are selective feeders. Only 4-5 of 28 species of algae tested were consumed in significant quantities (
3881619|All vertebrates show some degree of periodicity in their reproductive physiology, and there is evidence that light and temperature are the external stimuli most commonly involved in the regulation of reproductive cycles. Furthermore, except in cyclostomes and elasmobranchs it is already evident that these cues are integrated by the hypothalamus which in turn controls the gonadotrophic activity of the pituitary gland. The existence of such mechanisms has not as yet been demonstrated in these two groups though more work is essential before it can be said that they do not exist. In lampreys the gonadotrophic function of the pituitary appears to be restricted to controlling rate of growth of the oocytes and steroidogenesis. In hagfishes the situation is less well understood though potentially more interesting, since both corpora lutea and corpora atretica are encountered in these animals. The main, if not the only, gonadotrophic region of the elasmobranch pituitary is its ventral lobe. Nothing is known of the mechanisms which control the cyclical activity of this lobe, though such activity must be postulated in at least some elasmobranchs. Vitellogenesis appears to be under pituitary control since removal of the ventral lobe prevents it and causes the granulosa to lose its vitellogenic function and become phagocytic. It also seems likely that steroidogenesis by the elasmobranch ovary is under pituitary control though this has not been demonstrated directly. Only further work will reveal whether parts of the pituitary other than the ventral lobe are also implicated in ovarian control in elasmobranchs.
3883648|Multiple stable states occur when more than one type of community can stably persist in a single environmental regime. Simple theoretical analyses predict multiple stable states for (1) single species dynamics via the Allee effect, (2) two-species competitive interactions characterized by unstable coexistence, (3) some predator-prey interactions, and (4) some systems combining predation and competition. Potential examples of transitions between stable states on reefs include the failure of Diadema antillarum and Acropora cervicornis to recover following catastrophic mortality, and the replacement of microalgal turf by unpalatable macroalgae after rapid increase in the amount of substratum available for colonization by algae. Subtidal marine ecosystems in general, and reefs in particular, have several attributes which favor the existence of multiple stable states. Studies of transitions between states often need to rely upon poorly controlled, unreplicated natural "experiments," as transitions typically require pulses of disturbance over very large spatial scales. The stability of a state must often be inferred from analyses of the dynamics of participants at that state, as generation times and the potential for further extrinsic disturbance preclude the use of persistence as an indicator of stability. The potential for multiple stable states strongly influences our interpretation of variability in space and time and our ability to predict reef responses to natural and man-made environmental change.
3884366| "Recruitment potential" in Antarctic krill in the Palmer Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) study region west of the Antarctic Peninsula varied significantly over the 7-yr time series between January 1993 and January 1999. Timing of ovarian maturation, the percent of the population reproducing, and individual reproductive output (batch volume, embryo diameter) were measured. Indices have been developed to quantify the timing and intensity of reproduction in Antarctic krill. One finding important to estimates of population fecundity for this long-lived species is that the percent of the population reproducing can vary widely, from 10 to 98%. Each season was characterized as having delayed, average or advanced ovarian development. In this study we relate these indices to direct and indirect indicators of spring or annual food availability. The timing of the spring sea ice retreat and the extent of sea ice in the spring (September through November) appear to significantly affect the intensity and timing of reproduction in the population. Intensity of reproduction was highest under "average" conditions, and ocyte development fastest with conditions of a late retreat and high spring sea ice extent. 
3881867|Character displacement is a phenomenon of the species border directed towards niche specification. It is post-speciational and prezygotic, and has a strong behavioral component. It has not been described in studies of fish by many ichthyologists. Examples are sought, not always successfully, among Coregonidae, Cyprinidae, Catostomidae, Gadidae, Gasterosteidae, Poeciliidae, Cichlidae, Cottidae, Periophthalminae, and Pomacentridae. Character displacement is not invariable in the sense of Brown and Wilson (1956). Examples may be relatively clear cut under conditions of "r" selection, or complicated, involving several species under "K" selection. It has some significance as a descriptive tool in systematics.
3883805|The gymnotiform electric fish, Eigenmannia, exhibits extraordinary sensitivity to small timing differences between sensory signals. The jamming avoidance response, gradual frequency shifts of the electric organ discharges, requires the detection of temporal disparities between sensory signals impinging upon different electroreceptors. This behavior occurs reliably even with temporal disparities being smaller than one microsecond. Since individual sensory receptors are not capable of encoding such minute timing with certainty, the high behavioral sensitivity must, therefore, emerge from signal processing within the central nervous system. Individual neurons, at the top of a well defined neuronal hierarchy have been found to be sensitive to temporal disparities in the range of 1 microsecond. The response properties of these neurons as well as behavioral results suggest that spatial convergence of sensory information plays a major role in the emergence of this temporal hyperacuity.
3882753|The apparent diversity of suspension feeding animals is, in one sense, more apparent than real. Virtually all suspension feeders capture particles from the water at low Reynolds numbers with cylindrical filtering elements, so, at the level of the filtering elements, flow patterns are identical and viscous forces dominate the situation. Six particle capture mechanisms are likely to be operating alone or in combination: (1) scan and trap (isolation of a parcel of fluid containing the particle), (2) sieving, (3) direct interception, (4) inertial impaction, (5) gravitational deposition, and (6) diffusive deposition. To insure that all variables relevant to the suspension feeding process are recorded, future work on suspension feeding should report the diameter and spacing of the filtering elements, flow speeds, diameter of particles available and captured, particle settling velocities, particle mobility (active or passive), and particle surface properties.
3882385|Neoteny in the Mexican axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, is caused by homozygosity for a single recessive gene. The dominant allele causing physical metamorphosis is found in the closely related species, Ambystoma tigrinum, with which it can hybridize. Despite the failure of axolotls to undergo physical metamorphosis, they do undergo a cryptic metamorphosis. A larval-to-adult hemoglobin form change, serum protein changes and other physiological events usually associated with amphibian metamorphosis occur during early larval life at ages comparable to the age at which Ambystoma tigrinum undergoes both the cryptic and external metamorphic events. Axolotl cryptic metamorphosis can be induced precociously by immersion of the larvae in low concentrations of thyroxine; physical metamorphosis can be induced with higher thyroxine concentrations. The site of action of the gene responsible for axolotl neoteny has not been identified. A change in the sensitivity of external metamorphic processes to thyroxine, or reduced hormonal stimulation by the pituitary or hypothalamus may be responsible. A comparison of these functions in Ambystoma tigrinum and the axolotl may identify the lesion.
3881861|Evidence is presented that acoustic behavior in field crickets is under firm genetic control. The calling song of adult males is highly stereotyped and species specific. Hybrids can be made by crossing two species of Teleogryllus with dissimilar calling songs. The calling songs of the hybrids are uniquely different from that of either parental species, and in addition the songs of the two reciprocal hybrids are different from each other. Genetic control of song production is polygenic and multichromosomal; sex-linkage of some song determinants is also indicated. Female phonoresponse to calling song was measured on a Y-maze. Species specificity of phonoresponse was confirmed and in addition, hybrid females prefer hybrid song to either parental song. The possibility that calling song production in the male and its reception in the female are genetically coupled is discussed.
3883735|A critical issue in the study of mate choice is the analysis of the stimuli that elicit and regulate sexual behavior. Studies with Japanese quail, several mammalian species, and a fish species (the blue gourami) indicate that the stimulus control of sexual behavior is determined in part by what animals learn as a result of sexual interactions in adulthood. Species specific stimuli provided by a sexual partner can become conditioned by sexual reinforcement and thereby come to elicit more vigorous social behavior. Discrete localized stimuli as well as spatial contextual cues of the environment in which social interactions occur can also become conditioned. Sexually conditioned localized stimuli may elicit approach and/or courtship conditioned responses and may increase responding to species specific eliciting stimuli provided by a sexual partner. Sexually conditioned contextual stimuli also may increase responding to species specific stimulus features of a sexual partner. These findings indicate that the features of a conspecific to which an animal responds sometimes may be determined by what that animal has learned as a result of sexual experience. The findings also suggest that a complete account of the stimulus control of sexual behavior requires consideration of not only stimulus aspects of conspecifics that elicit sexual responses but also discrete and contextual environmental stimuli that may become associated with sexual experience.
3881644|The respiration of five species of North Atlantic decapods was measured under conditions of pressure and temperature which allow calculation of the metabolism of these animals in the oceans. The species were: Systellaspis debilis, Acanthephyra purpurea, Oplophorus spinosus, Parapandalus richardi, and Sergestes crassus. Results indicate a tendency for metabolism to remain relatively constant with depth, the decrease due to lower temperature offset by an increase due to rising pressure. This contrasts with previous work with epipelagic euphausids which tended to have greatly reduced metabolism with increasing depth. Perhaps the metabolic rate of the decapods must remain high enough for them to remain effective predators throughout their depth range, by day as well as night.
3884113|The analysis of risk-sensitive foraging is beginning to explore the psychological and cognitive mechanisms involved in decision-making under uncertainty as well as the more traditional functional analysis. Over the past 40 years cognitive psychologists exploring human decision-making have made great use of apparent "paradoxes" in rational choice behavior in elucidating aspects of information-processing. In this paper I review several of these paradoxes as they might relate to animal decision-making and the interpretation of cognitive architecture. The St. Petersburg Paradox can be related directly to the original analysis of risk-sensitive foraging by focusing on the non-linear translation of resources into currencies of evolutionary value, e.g., rate of energy gain. The Allais Paradox focuses on the need to evaluate the organism's perception of probabilities and possible non-linearities in the assignment of likelihood. Various context-effects illustrate the potential difficulties associated with decision-making over options with multiple attributes. Where possible I illustrate the biological evaluation of the paradoxes discussed.
3882553|The developmental mechanisms by which the environment may alter the phenotype during development are reviewed. Developmental plasticity may be of two forms: developmental conversion or phenotypic modulation. In developmental conversion, organisms use specific environmental cues to activate alternative genetic programs controlling development. These alternative programs may either lead to alternative morphs, or may lead to the decision to activate a developmental arrest. In phenotypic modulation, nonspecific phenotypic variation results from environmental influences on rates or degrees of expression of the developmental program, but the genetic programs controlling development are not altered. Modulation, which is not necessarily adaptive, is probably the common form of environmentally induced phenotypic variation in higher organisms, and adaptiveness of phenotypic plasticity therefore cannot be assumed unless specific genetic mechanisms can be demonstrated. The genetic mechanisms by which developmental plasticity may evolve are reviewed, and the relationship between developmental plasticity and evolutionary plasticity are examined.
3883197|Teleosts, the bony fishes, inhabit both freshwater and seawater environments. Some euryhaline fish, such as Fundulus heteroclitus, alternate between the two milieux several times daily. Regardless of adaptation, the gills of these animals possess a highly specialized cell type called the chloride cell. This cell contains numerous mitochondria and exhibits a greatly amplified basolateral cell surface richly endowed with Na,K-ATPase. Recent studies on isolated opercular epithelia containing chloride cells have demonstrated active chloride secretion and passive transepithelial sodium movements, and have established the chloride secretory role of this cell type in seawater-adapted teleosts. Current models suggest that chloride transport occurs via a transcellular route. Seawater chloride cells exist in multicellular units and share simple, shallow tight junctions which are thought to be the route for passive sodium movement. Freshwater chloride cells, whose function remains to be elucidated, are generally described as existing in a unicellular configuration. However, recent observations in Fundulus heteroclitus adapted to salinities as low as 1% sea water reveal that chloride cells persist in multicellular complexes with apical crypts. Strikingly, tight junctions between chloride cells in this freshwater environment are deep.
3881850|Propagated electrical events in epithelial tissues have been recorded from a number of invertebrates and from vertebrate embryos. Those groups in which such events have been recorded are the Cnidaria, Ctenophora, Echinodermata, Urochordata, and Amphibia. In several cases these non-nervous action potentials mediate escape or protective responses. In other cases they cause ciliary reversal or arrest of ciliary beat. Propagation appears to occur via low resistance intercellular pathways involving direct current flow. The ontogeny of such epithelial impulses is described in an amphibian.
3883534|There is accumulating evidence for a phylogentic continuity in the expression and regulation of fundamental behaviors of essential survival value. The ability to detect and respond to aversive environmental stimuli is a basic feature of all animals that is expressed in the term "nociception." Nociceptive responses provide an index of the sensitivity of individuals to actual or potential aversive physical stimuli. Measurements of alterations in nociceptive responses (antinociception or analgesia, hyperanalgesia) are commonly used to monitor the behavioral and physiological status of animals following exposure to either noxious or potentially damaging stimuli. In this paper the neuromodulation of the nociceptive and analgesic behaviors of molluscs (the land snail, Cepaea nemoralis) and mammals (rodents) is considered. Behavioral and pharmacological evidence is presented to suggest that opioid neuropeptides are similarly involved in the modulation of the nociceptive responses of rodents and snails. The FMRFamide-related family of neuropeptides are also shown to be involved in the modulation of nociceptive behaviors, though with apparently different roles in molluscs and mammals. It is proposed that comparative investigations of the mediation of basic phylogenetically conserved functions, such as nociception, are a useful means to determine and analyse, general features of behavioral neuromodulation by neuropeptides.
3881805|Intertidal worms (oligochaetes, polychaetes, sipunculids) inhabiting beaches and tidal flats both on the open sea coast and in estuaries may be exposed to significant tidal as well as seasonal variations in salinity. However, there are very few measurements of the actual variations in salinity encountered by worms in nature. Behavior (irrigation of burrow, vertical movements in burrows, migration in gradients of salinity) may be important in determining to which of the available salinities in a tidal cycle the worms may be exposed. In response to rapid lowering of salinity, worms gain water and lose salts, these processes combining in diluting the internal fluids. Internal dilution occurs more slowly in euryhaline species than in stenohaline species. Worms fully adapted to salinities lower than 30% sea water may be hyperosmotic (demonstrated for six species of Nereidae). Mechanisms involved in hyperosmotic regulation include active transport of salts (demonstrated in Nereis diversicolor), reduction of the permeability of the body surface to salts and perhaps to water, and perhaps production of hypo-osmotic urine. Sipunculids can tolerate considerable loss of water from dehydration and concomitant increases in osmotic concentration of the body fluids. It is suggested that worms exposed to significant tidal variations in salinity may seldom be in osmotic equilibrium with their external medium.
3882659|Notions of functional and behavioral transformations among traits of similar organisms are ad hoc unless viewed within the context of a corroborated scheme of relationships of the taxa involved. For purposes of exposition a current best estimate of the interrelationships of the main groups of teleosts (as expressed by a branching diagram or cladogram) is used as a basis for evaluating the transformations of feeding and locomotor mechanisms. When the various states of these mechanisms are incorporated into the branching structure, the cladogram, when interpreted historically, specifies certain conceptual constraints such that, 1) specializations of the upper jaw first arose and proliferated before specializations of the paired fins, and 2) that fin spines arose only after changes in both feeding and locomotor mechanisms were well under way. These results are contrasted with familiar though unsupported adaptationist statements about the relative importance of locomotor and feeding mechanisms for the evolution of the spiny-finned teleosts (acanthopterygians)-a contrast between the interpretation of what happened as opposed to why it happened. The particular reasons why a given structure, function or behavior exists are unknowable and theories addressing such questions are untestable. Adaptationist arguments in general are framed in terms of forces external to the organism which impose a process of change that leads to good design. The concept of an external agency or process (such as selection) that can design structures or whole organisms to fit their environments, even when stated in rigorously biological language, are effectively the same, and almost as far removed from the empirical data, as the creationist argument for adaptation. To the extent that the empirical data of systematics are not allowed to constrain the evolutionary interpretation of functional anatomists, their explanation of historical change will be limited only by their own inventiveness and the gullibility of their audience.
3881804|The American oyster, Crassostrea virginica, has some metabolic traits typical of marine bivalve molluscs, and some that are apparently unique. O
3883818|Insects and their hostplants represent the major part of terrestrial diversity, yet we are just beginning to understand why there are so very many species. By far the most influential model of insect/plant diversification has been Ehrlich and Raven's (1964) hypothesis of insect/plant coevolution. While the coevolution model was based on macro-evolutionary patterns in plant defenses and hostplant affiliations, most of the subsequent work has been on its possible ecological and genetic mechanisms, with relatively little systematic scrutiny of the evolutionary patterns Ehrlich and Raven described. We explore the possible roles insect/plant interactions may play in the long-term evolution of insect and plant lineages, and review some of the evidence on whether or not insects and plants have exerted reciprocal influences on each other's diversification. Insects and plants have diversified over roughly the same time intervals, and many insect host-affiliations are evolutionarily conserved, thus reflecting long-term, phylogenetic history. Rather than accumulating herbivores at a rate proportional to their geographic area of distribution or biomass, some plant groups pose apparent chemical barriers to potential herbivore colonists, and seem accessible to relatively few insect lineages, possibly preadapted by use of chemically similar or related hostplants. Evolutionary innovations in plant defenses and in insect feeding habits seem to have spurred their respective adaptive radiations, thus ecological opportunity may influence long-term evolutionary success. The greater diversity of insects and plants in the tropics, compared to the temperate zone, probably reflects the greater age of tropical habitats as well as climatic barriers that limit successful invasion of the temperate zone to just those primitively tropical groups able to evolve strategies for both over-wintering and use of temperate resources. Though evidence is still sparse, successful invasion of the temperate zone may promote subsequent radiations of both insects and plants. We conclude that much of the available evidence from systematics is consistent with Ehrlich and Raven's suggestion that much of insect and plant diversification has been spurred by a series of ecological opportunities over evolutionary time.
3882725|The social signals among groups of females can either enhance or suppress ovarian cyclicity. The ovarian cycle is not unitary, but is instead the integrated product of several different components which are each affected by social signals of different modalities. This interaction between female behavior and ovarian cycle components has different manifestations in different species. Depending on its temporal context and the social and physical environment, the same behavior/hormone interaction can take different forms. In some contexts, these interactions can be adaptive for the individual. In others, they can generate a strong epiphenomenon or artifact that may not confer a direct adaptive advantage itself, but still be necessary for other aspects of the coordination between social behavior and reproduction.
3882222|Phenotypic changes over geological time must result from alterations in the morphogenetic mechanisms associated with organogenesis. Recent advances in our understanding of such mechanisms suggest that there are certain patterns of metabolic activity and organelle synthesis which are present in many different cell lineages at different times during embryonic development, and that this ubiquity of genomic potential is available for expression at any time. Microevolutionary sequences of morphological change probably result from modulations of quantitative aspects of organogenesis, e.g., rates of cell proliferation, or cell density. It is also possible that certain macroevolutionary steps ("neomorphs") may result from qualitative changes in the developmental programs, and such events underly "ultimate refinement" of morphological adaptation. The selection pressures involved in these different sequences of morphological change "see" embryonic processes in different ways. This thesis is illustrated with reference to the evolutionary history of the tetrapod limb.
3882470|C. O. Whitman (1842-1910) studied under Louis Agassiz, Anton Dohrn, and Rudolph Leuchart. Under the influence of E. S. Morse, Whitman served as the second professor of zoology at the University of Tokyo (1880-81). For three years he was assistant to Alexander Agassiz at the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Between 1883 and 1886 Whitman was editor of the Department of Microscopy for the American Naturalist. He became the first director of the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, serving until 1908, and built that institution into an internationally famous center for education and research. He also became first professor of Zoology at the University of Chicago where he remained for life. In 1887 he founded the Journal of Morphology, and later Biological Lectures, and Zoological Bulletin which became the Biological Bulletin. His own research was in the fields of embryology, heredity, and evolution. In 1890 he, with colleagues, founded the American Morphological Society which became the American Society of Zoologists over a period of 13 years (1901-13) by the union of regional groups. Whitman played a leading role in the founding and early history of the Society.
3882639|Sperm motility in fishes is, in general, initiated by simple dilution of the epididymal suspension. A few simple organic compounds and poorly characterized protein-containing "factors" associated with fish eggs seem to enhance sperm motility. True chemotaxis in fish sperm has not been demonstrated. Ultimately, sperm-egg interaction leads to a large, transient increase in the concentration of free calcium in the egg's cytoplasm. This calcium increase is responsible for lifting the egg's developmental block; some mechanisms by which the calcium flux may accomplish this are discussed. A pH change is apparently not involved in turning on synthetic activity in fish eggs. Electrophysiological events and the fusion of cortical vesicles with the plasma membrane, which are among the earliest changes in the egg resulting from fertilization, are apparently not necessary for development of fish eggs. Synthesis of RNA and protein required for normal cleavage, axiation and organogenesis occurs during and soon after the calcium transient. Completion of the egg's second maturation division occurs within minutes after fertilization. Ooplasmic segregation (by some totally unknown mechanism) and opposition of male and female pronuclei complete the transformation of the egg into a functional zygote.
3883007|Man has been engaged in the genetic manipulation of crop plants for millennia. At its most elemental level, plant genetic manipulation has three requirements: (1) a source of genetic variability that can be utilized for plant improvement; (2) methods for propagating desirable plant genotypes; and (3) strategies for the transfer and selection of useful genes or gene combinations. The modern science of genetics has provided many new approaches to each of these three aspects of plant improvement. Modern plant genetics has also led to a variety of environmental, political and economic problems. These problems include the loss of valuable plant genetic resources, the widespread adoption of monocultures that may be unstable in the face of pathogen epidemics, and the current political debates concerning the regulation and environmental implications of plant genetic engineering. It is impossible to judge these and related issues without a basic understanding of the ways in which genetics is applied in improving crop plants. The goal of this article is to provide an account of the applications of plant genetics in crop improvement.
3883250|There has been no work on the immunological response of birds to helminth infections since the late 1960s, an area of investigation that has been too long ignored. Similarly, studies of arthropod-mediated responses in birds are lacking except for a few scattered investigations. Recently, a serum antibody response has been seen against one arthropod, the northern fowl mite. The appearance of antibodies recognizing an 8-10 kilodalton mite antigen seems to correlate with a reduction in the mite population on infested chickens. Most of the studies on parasite immunity in avian species have centered on the economically important Eimeria species, protozoan parasites that infect the intestine of chickens and turkeys. These investigations encompass wide areas of interest including the effect of immunity on parasite invasion, development of T-cell proliferation assays and T-cell clones, inhibition of parasite penetration and development by hybridoma antibody treatment, production of genetically engineered Eimeria antigens used in bird immunization studies, and studies using inbred or congenic lines of birds to determine what effect the major histocompatibility complex has on parasite immunity. From these efforts it has been learned that not only is the immunity species-specific, but also depending on where in the intestine the parasite invades, penetration is either not affected or inhibited by as much as 50%. The T-cell proliferation assays suggest that this specificity may be due to a species-specific T-cell response. Immunization studies using a genetically engineered antigen have indicated that at least partial protection against one species of Eimeria is possible. Studies done with the inbred congenic lines of birds have shown that the genetic makeup of the bird is important in how it responds to either a natural infection or to immunization with a genetically engineered antigen. Clearly, these results show not only the complexity of the bird response to parasite infection, but also the amount of work still undone.
3882030|Exercise and thermal stress both markedly raise the oxygen demand of fish. The control of ventilation under these two conditions is apparently quite different and contrasts between species are noteworthy. Under both exercise and thermal stress, changes in respiratory pumping amplitude tend to be greater than changes in ventilatory frequency in most species. Respiratory pump uncoupling during thermal stress is frequently seen in trout but much less so in bullhead catfish or bluegills. In fish that actively ventilate the gills while swimming, the control for this probably depends on swimming muscle reflexes rather than blood humoral factors. This control mechanism may operate in a reverse fashion in fish that use ram-jet ventilation. During recovery from severe exercise and during thermal stress the control of gill ventilation is apparently humoral. Of the possible factors, blood oxygen and possibly also pH are considered to be the most important. Evidence is summarized that suggests the error detector is on the arterial side of the gas exchanger.
3882962|Growth hormone, prolactin and chorionic somatomammotropin (placental lactogen) are a family of hormones that are related by function, immunochemistry and structure. Because of the structural similarities between these hormones, it was proposed that the corresponding genes were derived from a common precursor gene by duplication and sequence divergence. Comparisons of the mRNA sequences and chromosomal genes for these hormones from several species provide additional support for the model of their common ancestry and indications of how the precursor gene was formed. The diversification of these three genes has involved changes in codon choices that affect the overall G-C content of the genes, alterations in the sizes of introns with conserved exon-intron boundaries and concerted evolutionary mechanisms with duplicated growth hormone and chorionic somatomammotropin genes in humans. The precursor gene appears to have evolved by the fourfold duplication of one exon element and the separate insertion of an exon encoding a different protein domain. Finally, there also appears to have been the separate insertion of sequences containing a promoter element and a potential glucocorticoid regulatory element.
3884470|This paper summarizes recent work on various aspects of hormonal control of regeneration in the crustacean, Uca pugilator. Hormonal control in this crab is effected by means of the crustactean steroid hormones, the ecdysteroids. New evidence is presented supporting a role for the retinoid hormones, all-trans retinoic acid and 9-cis retinoic acid, in the control of regeneration in these animals. The possible role of fibroblast growth factors in organization of the limb blastema is explored and the similarities between vertebrate and invertebrate control of regeneration are discussed.
3882864|Presumptive mesodermal cells in amphibian gastrulae migrate from the blastopore toward the animal pole by using the inner surface of the ectodermal layer as their substratum. During migration, the mesodermal cells form lamellipodia and filopodia predominantly in a direction toward the animal pole. There is a network of the extracellular fibrils on the inner surface of the ectodermal layer. The fibrils seem to serve as an adequate substratum for attachment of the filopodia and locomotion of the mesodermal cells. A significant alignment of the fibril network along the blastopore-animal pole axis suggests a hypothesis that it directs morphogenetic cell movements by contact guidance in combination with contact inhibition of movement. New culture conditions allow the gastrula mesodermal cells to move actively in vitro with a similar cell shape and at a similar rate as in vivo. Such culture conditions enabled an in vitro experiment to test the hypothesis of contact guidance. Explanted ectodermal layers deposit the fibril network on the surface of a cover slip. Dissociated gastrula mesodermal cells seeded on such a conditioned surface attach to the surface and move about actively. A computer analysis of the time-lapse films shows that the cell trails are significantly aligned along the blastopore-animal pole axis of the ectodermal layer that conditioned the surface. The deposited fibril network shows the alignment along the same axis. There is also a tendency of the mesodermal cells to move in a polarized fashion preferentially toward the animal pole. These results support the hypothesis of contact guidance of mesodermal cell migration in vivo by oriented extracellular fibrils.
3882266|Immunity in the decapod crustaceans is surveyed. Types of immune responses include encapsulation, phagocytosis with or without the aid of serum factors, bactericidins active with or without the aid of hemocyte factors, hemagglutinins, hemolysins, agglutinins, and precipitins. Immunity to gaffkemia in Panulirus interruptus is also discussed.
3883090|The theory of nuclear equivalence proposes that specialized somatic cells of metazoans possess a gene pool identical to that present in the zygote nucleus. We examine this theory on the basis of nuclear transplantation experiments in amphibian oocytes and eggs. This procedure has the potential to test the entire genome and to evaluate the problem of nuclear equivalence in the context of a functioning organism. Nuclear transplantations from several differentiated somatic cell types into oocytes and eggs have revealed that their nuclei still contain the genes required for the development of prefeeding tadpoles. In addition, erythrocyte nuclei have directed the formation of feeding tadpoles that advanced to stages of hind limb bud. Thus, the genome of several differentiated somatic cells displays genetic multipotentiality. Although evidence for the genetic totipotency of specialized somatic cells is lacking, the results of our recent experiments suggest that the genetic totipotency of at least some differentiated somatic cell types still remains a tenable hypothesis.
3881441|Despite the diversity of morphology and ecology in members of the Canidae, social behavior remains similar throughout the Family. Some specializations have occurred in group-living species, serving to maintain group cohesion and to reduce intraspecific aggression, and these changes in behaviors and postures have been ones of degree rather than kind. The type of specialization differs in each species and is probably related to its ecology. Thus, the bateared fox has developed contact behaviors such as social grooming while the wolf has evolved more specialized agonistic postures that are used in the maintenance of a social hierarchy.
3881538|The general features of accumulation of amino acids by marine invertebrates are outlined. The wide distribution of this ability is noted. Data from observations of this process for periods of several days are presented for the polychaete worm, Dorvillea articulata. Measurements of the constituents in the pool of free amino acids of this same organism are presented together with data concerning the rate of appearance of radioactivity in the medium after permitting animals to accumulate amino acids. These data permit tentative estimates of rates at which amino acids are lost to the medium. These apparent "leakage" rates are low when compared with rates of uptake. The thermodynamic work necessary to move material against the concentration differences involved is calculated. The fraction of metabolic energy needed is small. The possible biological significance of uptake of small organic compounds is discussed. It is concluded that uptake of amino acids occurs sufficiently generally and at such rates that it should be included in any analysis of the pathways whereby material is acquired from the environment by marine organisms.
3883954|Amphibians exhibit extreme plasticity in the duration of the larval period. Probably the most important environmental variable for a tadpole is water availability, and some amphibian species have been shown to be capable of accelerating metamorphosis in a desiccating larval habitat. Current data support the view that the response to pond drying is not simply a consequence of unavoidable environmental effects but rather an adaptive response to the risk of mortality in the drying pond. The acceleration of development by pond drying results in the precocious activation of the endocrine systems that control metamorphosis, the thyroid and the interrenal. Furthermore, a single neurohormonal stimulus, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) activates both of these endocrine systems. CRH is the primary vertebrate stress neurohormone; thus, tadpoles mount a classical endocrinological stress response to accelerate development and avoid mortality in the desiccating habitat. Comparison of recent data in mammals with amphibians suggests that the neurohormonal stress response is a phylogenetically ancient developmental trigger that allows the developing organism to assess habitat quality and respond accordingly.
4620134|Two species of dwarf hamsters are used to develop a model of the proximate and ultimate selective forces leading to the evolution of parental care strategies. One species, Phodopus campbelli, has been studied extensively as a socially monogamous, biparental species; the other, P. sungorus, rears its young without male assistance. The cold, arid habitat occupied by both species has selected for shape, insulation, and physiology that provide tolerance of extremely cold ambient temperatures and enhance survival when water availability is limited. At the same time, the small body size and highly seasonal environment have selected for rapid maturation and the most compressed reproductive cycle known in a mammal. Rapid reproduction increases water demands for milk production and further stresses water balance because maternal hyperthermia demands increased evaporative heat loss. Thus, in Phodopus habitat, rapid reproduction requires heat tolerance and water availability, which conflict with adaptations for survival. In the habitat of P. sungorus, predictable rains allow a breeding season and females rear litters alone. In P. campbelli, water availability is insufficient for solitary reproduction. Instead, male presence alleviates thermoregulatory, and thus water balance, stresses on the female. The result is improved pup survival and growth. Therefore, an 'ultimate' reason for biparental care in P. campbelli is its harsh environment, and a 'proximate' reason is a need to reduce maternal water demand. Results confirm that independent physiological constraints, in addition to constraints on energy or time investment, can be essential selective pressures in the evolution of mammalian social organization and behavior.
3882138|Amphibians utilize lipids, principally triglycerides, stored in abdominal fat bodies and carcass depots for production of gametes and for metabolic maintenance during dormancy. Stored lipids are maximal in early fall prior to winter dormancy and minimal after breeding in the spring and early summer in most amphibians. Extirpation experiments show that fat bodies are essential for gonadal maintenance. Patterns of lipid compartmentalization are discussed and quantified in a representative from the Salientia and Urodela.
3881329|This Refresher Course was designed for college, university, and high school teachers, and for graduate students. In addition to the papers printed below, it included a representative motion picture prepared under the direction of Dr. John F. Kessel, Filariasis in Tahiti, an informal evening panel discussion, and a Demonstration Session at which 38 demonstrations were presented which stressed sources of material, technics, experiments, etc. which could be used in teaching parasitology. Modern parasitology began about the middle of the 19th century. About 6,800 species of parasitic protozoa had been described by 1958, about 5,100 of trematodes by 1951, about 2,000 of cestodes by 1951, and about 10,000 of nematodes by 1955. Parasites cause a loss of about $1,000,000,000 per year to the livestock industry in the United States. Human parasites are especially important in the developing countries of the tropics and subtropics. Many parasites are transmissible between man and other animals; the diseases they cause are zoonoses. Parasitology is that branch of ecology in which the environment is the host, and recognition of this fact is essential to a proper understanding of host-parasite relations. A list of recent text and reference books in English is given.
3884246|The encapsulation of eggs within benthic egg capsules or gelatinous egg masses is a common phenomenon among many marine invertebrate groups, yet the functional significance of many aspects of these egg coverings remains unexplored. In this paper I review what is known about the effectiveness of neogastropod egg capsules in protecting embryos from physical stresses associated with the marine intertidal environment. Egg capsules spawned by intertidal neogastropod molluscs can provide embryos with significant protection from desiccation, osmotic stress, and ultraviolet (UV) radiation, relative to embryos devoid of such coverings. Despite this, capsules desiccate rapidly in air, are highly permeable to small solute molecules, and are not impervious to incident UV radiation. Egg capsules of intertidal gastropods are also substantially more permeable to water molecules than the well studied egg cases and egg shells of insects and terrestrial vertebrates and may be no more effective in protecting embryos from such physical stresses than the capsules of exclusively subtidal gastropods. Hence, capsular cases appear to be poorly adapted to protecting embryos from environmental stresses associated with periodic exposure to air. The degree to which the encapsulated embryos of intertidal neogastropods are protected from environmental stresses thus may be more reflective of adult spawning site selection and tolerances of encapsulated embryos to these stresses, than properties of the capsular case, per se. Clearly, however, there is much still to be learned about the protective nature of capsule walls and the tremendous diversity of egg coverings that exists within the Gastropoda.
3883973|The marine oligochaete worm Tubificoides benedii inhabits coastal tidal sediments in which sulfide can reach toxic concentrations. The role of external ironsulfide deposition in sulfide detoxification is discussed together with a review of morphological and ecophysiological adaptations of T. benedii to sulfide. The body wall of T. benedii turns black in the presence of sulfide. Histochemical studies and micro-X-ray analyses provide evidence for the reaction of iron in the mucus layer above the cuticle of the worm with environmental sulfide to produce ironsulfide. The deposited ironsulfides are either reoxidized or shed off through moulting, a process otherwise unknown in oligochaetes. However, calculations on the diffusion rate of sulfide into T. benedii show that the deposition of ironsulfides do not play an important role in sulfide detoxification. The first and last few segments of T. benedii are not blackened by sulfide and do not appear to precipitate sulfide. The diffusion rate of sulfide through these segments is so rapid that internal sulfide concentrations reach levels inhibitory to cytochrome c oxidase, the key enzyme of aerobic respiration, within minutes. When internal sulfide concentrations increase to toxic levels, reliance on an anaerobic metabolism represents a successful mechanism of sulfide tolerance in T. benedii. Metabolic adaptations to hypoxia and sulfide include the maintenance of aerobic pathways despite low oxygen or high sulfide concentrations and the ability to gain energy through anaerobic pathways when oxygen and/or sulfide concentrations become limiting.
3881677|Laboratory studies with axenic culture of the coccolithophorid, Hymenomonas MP 156, in chemically defined media have established that this primitive protist deposits its minerals in essentially the same manner as multicellular organisms. An appreciable number of inhibitors and natural compounds prevent deposition of minerals in laboratory experiments. Among these cations other than Ca
3882067|The uptake of isotopically labelled nucleotides and amino acids has been studied in five species of hydrozoans. In three species the label was introduced both through immersion in a medium containing the labeled compound and by injecting the labeled compound into the gastrovascular cavity. In the remaining two species the label was introduced by immersion only. The comparison of soaked and injected specimens clearly indicates that injection is the method of choice whenever the injection of compounds into the gastrovascular cavity is possible. The relative ease with which labeled compounds were absorbed can be correlated with the ultrastructure of the epidermal and gastrodermal cell surfaces and their associated extracellular coats. The use of these autoradiographic techniques is illustrated by the use of injected tritiated thymidine and tritiated uridine to follow the replacement cycle of the zymogenic secretory cell in Hydra, and the use of immersion to introduce tritiated thymidine into the planula larva of Pennaria.
3882084|RNA transcribed from repetitive DNA sequences during the early cleavages and RNA present in unfertilized eggs of the sand dollar Dendraster excentricus have been studied by means of molecular hybridization. Egg RNA, capable of competing in the hybridization reactions, is localized on particles in the cytoplasm. RNA populations synthesized during the first four cleavages are found to be very similar to egg RNA, are nuclear in origin, heterogeneous in size, and probably contain histone mRNA. Egg-type RNAs are present, and are synthesized in embryos throughout early development; the relative amounts of these RNAs increase to the late blastula stage and then decrease to a low level at the prism stage. Blastomeres were separated at the 16-cell stage to yield pure preparations of micromeres and a meso-plus macromere fraction. Competition-hybridization experiments showed that egg-type RNA populations present in embryos at the fourth cleavage were distributed almost equally in the isolated micromere and meso-plus macromere fractions. However, experiments with
3882496|This paper uses energy relations to compare asexual and sexual reproduction, and fission and egg production in freshwater triclads. Egg production is more efficient at converting food to "reproductive energy" but fission is more efficient at converting this to offspring. Fission is therefore favored in ecological circumstances where food is always limiting and egg production in ecological circumstances where food is not always limiting. In principle, sex is the least efficient method of all the reproductive strategies, yet parthenogenesis and self-fertilization are rare. We cannot be sure, however, to what extent the metabolic losses incurred by sperm production in hermaphrodites are made good by resorption of the unused sperm derived from the mate. Furthermore, possible short-term and long-term balancing advantages of the sexual strategy can be identified in triclads. We also consider how, in those triclads which take the fission option, the body biomass should be divided between the head and tail in order to maximize the fitness of the system. If mortality is independent of size, a midway fission plane should be favored. However, strong size-dependent mortality occurs during spates in the streams in which fissiparous triclads are found, "pushing" the optimum fission plane tailwards.
3881892|Mexican Rana pipiens now commonly sold in the United States differ morphologically and physiologically from their northern counterparts. They resemble Arizona pipiens in appearance and behavior, but their breeding cycle is distinctive. They are most reproductively active in July and August. During late spring and summer they can be ovulated readily and their pituitary gonadotropin levels are apparently high. Such is not the case during other times of the year. The role of Mexican frogs in teaching and research is discussed.
3883183|The role of competition in structuring animal communities is currently hotly debated. One of the crucial assumptions underlying the concept of resource partitioning as a function of competition is the jack-of-all-trades, master of none principle: differences in morphology and behavior results in the different abilities to use different resources and hence results in the potential to partition those resources. Examination of the manner by which habitat structure constrains resource use offers a mechanistic approach to study community structure. Anolis lizards provide a useful example to illustrate the approach since in the West Indies they show consistent assemblages of ecomorphs from island to island. The bases for a strong influence of habitat structure on the resource use pattern of anoles are reviewed as a preamble to a new analysis of the 2-species Anolis assemblages in the Lesser Antilles. The two species on the island of Grenada show a strong morphological segregation associated with different use patterns of similar microhabitats. The two species on St. Kitts in a richer habitat show strong microhabitat segregation but little morphological difference apart from size. A related pair of species on Antigua in a habitat similar to that on Grenada appear to be constrained in the degree of habitat segregation and, perhaps as a consequence, show morphological segregation similar to that documented for the species on Grenada. These comparisons provide further evidence of the strong influence of habitat structure on the morphology and habitat partitioning patterns of coexisting species. Field and experimental studies of coexisting bird assemblages suggest that details of habitat structure also have a strong influence on their morphology and resource use patterns. Studies focusing on the manner by which animals use different microhabitats provide a useful, mechanistic approach to study the influence of competition on community structure.
3883334|Over the last 20 years, considerable progress has been made in quantifying the movement of the body during locomotion by aquatic vertebrates, and in defining the role of axial musculature in producing these kinematic patterns. Relatively little is known, however, about how specific internal structural features of the axial system in fishes affect body kinematics, and how such structural and functional features have changed during evolution. The major theme of this paper is that historical, phylogenetic patterns in the axial musculoskeletal system need to be integrated with experimental and functional data in order to understand the design of the locomotor apparatus in vertebrates. To illustrate this proposition, the evolution of the tail in ray-finned fishes is presented as a case study in phylogenetic and functional analysis of the vertebrate axial musculoskeletal system. Traditionally, the evolution of the tail in ray-finned fishes has been viewed as a transformation from a primitively heterocercal (functionally asymmetrical) tail to a homocercal tail in which the axis of rotation during locomotion was vertical, generating a symmetrical thrust. Both phylogenetic and functional approaches are used to examine this hypothesis. Major osteological and myological features of the tail in ray-finned fishes are mapped onto a phylogeny of ray-finned fishes to discern historical sequences of morphological change in the axial musculoskeletal system. A key event in locomotor evolution was the origin of the hypochordal longitudinalis muscle, the only intrinsic caudal muscle with a line of action at an appreciable angle to the body axis. This muscle originated prior to the origin of a caudal skeleton bearing both hypaxial and epaxial fin ray supports. The hypochordal muscle is proposed to be a key component of the axial musculoskeletal system that allows most fishes to modulate caudal function and decouples external morphological symmetry from functional symmetry. Experimental data (strain gauge recordings from tail bones, and electromyographic recordings from intrinsic and extrinsic caudal muscles) corroborate this interpretation and suggest that functional symmetry in the tail of ray-finned fishes is not predictable from skeletal morphology alone, but depends on the activity of the hypochordal longitudinalis muscle and on locomotor mode. The homocercal teleost tail may thus function asymmetrically.
3884249|Respiratory constraints on the structure of single eggs and egg masses have affected the mode of amphibian reproduction in water and in air. Aquatic eggs generally require less oxygen, develop faster, and hatch earlier, but these characteristics are related to small ovum size. A comparison of two species of aquatic and terrestrial breeding frogs with similarly sized ova shows no differences in hatching stage, maximum rate of oxygen uptake, oxygen conductance of the egg capsule, or P o
3881651| The mobilization and utilization of glycogen and lipids as fuel for muscular activity has been reviewed with emphasis on regulatory mechanisms. Data are reviewed and presented which show that epinephrine-induced glycogenolysis is mediated through cyclic 3,5-AMP formed from neurohormonal activation of adenyl cyclase. The cyclic nucleotide, acting as a cofactor for protein kinase, facilitates the conversion of phosphorylase b kinase to the activated form, which in turn catalyzes the conversion of phosphorylase b to phosphorylase a, thus facilitating glycogenolysis. Data are described which indicate that when skeletal muscle is induced to contract by electrical stimulation, phosphorylase b to a conversion takes place without increased intracellular levels of cyclic 3,5-AMP and without conversion of phosphorylase kinase to the activated form. The suggestion is made that phosphorylase activation under these conditions is facilitated by ionized calcium. Evidence is reviewed which shows that phosphorylase kinase is greatly stimulated by extremely low concentrations (of the order of 10
3882438|While the fact of behavioral thermoregulation in fishes has been well documented, mechanisms remain obscure. A successfully thermoregulating fish moves through its habitat in such a way as to maximize time spent at temperatures favorable for the joint conduct of its life processes. The dynamics of its distribution must be related mechanistically to thermal structure of the habitat. Logic and research literature suggest that appropriate distributional mechanisms fall into two classes, predictive and reactive. Predictive thermoregulation comprises directed movements to a subset of habitat within which the fish "expects," on the basis of individual or evolutionary experience, to find acceptable temperatures. Reactive thermoregulation involves a sequence of undirected movements that are biased by recent thermal experience so that net movement is towards the thermal preferendum. Exploration of possible reactive mechanisms via computer simulation indicates that successful thermoregulation could be accomplished by a fish that tends to increase its rate of turning whenever recent experience implies worsening thermal conditions.
4620218|Molecular studies have revealed many new hypotheses of metazoan evolution in recent years. Previously, using morphological methods, it was difficult to relate "minor" animal groups representing microscopic metazoans to larger, more well known groups such as arthropods, molluscs, and annelids. Molecular studies suggest that acanthocephalans evolved from rotifers, that priapulids share common ancestry with all other molting animals (Ecdysozoa), and that flatworms, gnathostomulids and rotifers form a sister group to the remaining non-molting protostomes (Lophotrochozoa), together forming Spiralia. The lophophorate phyla (phoronids, brachiopods and bryozoans) appear as protostomes, allied with annelids and molluscs rather than with deuterostomes. These findings present a very different view of metazoan evolution, and clearly show that small and simple animals do not necessarily represent ancestral or primitive taxa.
3883335|In teleost fishes, the C-start is a rapid avoidance maneuver that steers the animal away from the strike trajectory of a predator. We review how the axial motor pattern underlying this movement is organized by the reticulospinal system. This system includes the prominent Mauthner cells and other identifiable neurons. Typical of reticulospinal cells, the Mauthner neuron has inputs from auditory, vestibular, and visual areas and has outputs to the trunk motoneurons by means of mono-and disynaptic contacts. Because reticulospinal organization and function is conserved among the vertebrates, the Mauthner network is advantageous as a model for understanding control of movement. We develop three major points. First, despite its seeming anatomical simplicity, the escape network is not a simple hierarchial system with one cell that directs the entire movement. We present evidence that the escape response is mediated by an array of neurons which include the Mauthner cells. Second, though the firing of this cell is adequate to result in a major component of the movement, the Mauthner cell is not indispensible for its execution. The network producing this movement is capable of regulating its output so that the animal produces the normal range of responses despite the absence of one of its major contributors. These findings can be accounted for by one of two models, though the most likely one involves lateral interactions, or corollary discharges, within the array. Third, our recent work also shows that the movement pattern is generated by a ballistic command which does not rely on movement-induced sensory feedback. These system properties allow the animal to produce a highly reliable and orchestrated motor command in only 15 msec from sensory stimulus to EMG.
3882088|There is only limited information on ophiuroid developmental patterns, larvae being known for only 4% of the 2000 living ophiuroids. Three modes of development are distinguished (planktotrophic, direct, abbreviated) on the basis of egg size and number, larval form and life span, and post-larval size. This generalization is applied to an analysis of the larval form(s) of deep-sea ophiuroids and the ancestral ophiuroid larva. Quantitative information on rate of development and reproductive period, which has been lacking for viviparous ophiuroids, is presented for Axiognathus (= Amphipholis) squamatus on the basis of original size-frequency data. Reproduction is seasonal in the population studied and development to metamorphosis takes no longer than for planktotrophic species though the brooding period ranges from 3 to 7 months. Additional data indicate post-larvae of planktotrophic species have fewer arm segments than newly-hatched viviparous young, supporting the hypothesis that large size of juveniles is characteristic and selectively advantageous for viviparous ophiuroids.
3882029|Hypoxia is discussed in the widest sense, i.e., as the conditions under which cells suffer a lack of oxygen. From a consideration of the transfer of oxygen from the water to the cellular sites as a series of resistances, it is suggested that hypoxia can result from an increase in resistance anywhere along the chain, and possible types of hypoxia in fish are defined from this point of view. More detailed discussion is given in relation to (1) interference with gas transfer at the gill surface; (2) reduction in the blood O
3882176|Considerable variety exists in ovarian structure and cellular interaction in spiralians. During their development the eggs of Diopatra cuprea, are associated with nurse cells; there are no follicle cells in this species. The nurse cells have prominent nuclei and connect to oocytes via cytoplasmic bridges through which ribosomes, mitochondria and other inclusions pass. More commonly, follicle cells surround a portion of, or entire, oocytes in many species of spiralians. Usually, as in Ilyanassa, they have a well developed compliment of organelles. The structure and distribution of organelles within follicle cells implies that they are functionally active, but precisely in what manner during oogenesis is poorly understood. Other cell types, such as Leydig and interstitial cells also seem to play a role in oogenesis. Within the oocyte, a host of components including yolk, lipid, mitochondria, ribosomes, membranous cisternae, cortical granules, etc. are accumulated. Autosynthetic yolk formation is prevalent among spiralians. Surface differentiation includes microvillar development. This may be uniform in some eggs or restricted to certain regions (e.g., the animal hemisphere) in other oocytes. Oocyte-follicle cell interactions change during oogenesis. The topographical association of the oocyte with other ovarian cells influences subsequent animal-vegetal polarity and other ooplasmic differences. Examples of ooplasmic localizations are discussed. Conventional EM has revealed no unusual cortical structure in many oocytes although occasionally microtubules and microfilaments are present.
3883115|Cardiac responsiveness to isoproterenol, phenylephrine and parathyroid hormone have been studied in isolated cobra snake atria. The positive chronotropic responses to these agents are increased under elevated metabolic conditions: high temperature and tri-iodothyronine treatment. The enhanced cardiac reactivity provides greater cardiac output in animals with increased metabolic demands. In view of the different receptors being stimulated by these agents, the enhanced cardiac responsiveness is a general one and, most likely, a result of increased metabolism.
3882174|Three basic types of spiral cleavage are described: spiral cleavage by quartets, by duets, and by monets. Following F. R. Lillie's concept of adaptation in cleavage, the relation of each of these cleavage modifications to the structure of the larva or juvenile, which develops therefrom, is considered. These comparisons lead to the conclusion that Lillie's concept of adaptation in cleavage can be extended beyond such details as cell contents, cell size, tempo of division, etc., to include even the oblique character of spiral cleavage and its general basic form.
3881585|The relation between driving forces and the flux of solutes that would be expected in a passive system is derived. This relation is a differential equation and different solutions are obtained which apply to different experimental conditions. Solutions are given for the cases of pure convective flow, diffusion, electrophoretic mobility, balance between diffusive and electrical forces, and transport in the presence of both concentration and voltage differences.
3883421| This paper summarizes the results of investigations of the ecology of reefs and banks in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico. Nearshore surface waters are turbid out to approximately the 10 m isobath. A turbid nepheloid layer up to 20 m in thickness exists beyond this depth. Seasonal temperature and salinity variability is high in nearshore waters. At the shelf edge, the temperature to 50 m depth remains above 19C. Topographic prominences are common in the region. Most are surface expressions of the diapirism of underlying salt domes derived from deeply buried Jurassic salt deposits. Biotic zonation on the banks is primarily depth related. Zones of major reef-building include the Diploria-Montastrea-Porites Zone (15-36 m), the Madracis Zone (28-46 m), the Stephanocoenia-Millepora Zone (36-52 m), and the Algal-Sponge Zone (45-98 m). A zone of minor reef-building on some banks is the Millepora Zone (18-52 m). An Antipatharian Transitional Zone exists from 56 to over 100 m on some banks. The Nepheloid Zone near the base of the banks is a zone of no reef-building. Not all zones are present on all banks. The community structure and depths of these zones depend on and are modified by the regional current regime, depth of the bank crests, substrate characteristics, winter temperature minima, river influences, and the relative depth and thickness of the nepheloid layer. Nearshore communities are warm temperate in nature, though tropical organisms are occasionally abundant. Progressing offshore, the benthos becomes increasingly tropical. The northerly location and isolated nature of the Flower Gardens have lead to reduced community diversity (e.g., only 18 of the 55 Western Atlantic hermatypic coral species exist), but not reduced abundances or growth rates of the species present. Assemblages on other banks exist below the tolerance limits of thriving tropical reefs due to their frequent immersion in turbid water, excessive crest depths, or lower minimum winter temperatures. 
3883827|A significant reduction in the diversity of life on earth is already assured as a result of the loss and degradation of terrestrial and aquatic habitats over past centuries. With continued human population growth, biodiversity will come under even more pressure in coming decades. Yet significant opportunities do exist to lessen the rate of extinction and thereby increase the amount of biodiversity that is passed on to future generations. Strategies for biodiversity conservation must recognize ethical, ecological, and economic values of biodiversity if they are to have the greatest possible impact. All of these values are important in determining the costs of biodiversity loss and the benefits of conservation. In recent years a coalescence of scientific information, heightened economic value, and grassroots activism has stimulated an unparalleled global response to the loss of biodiversity. Linked efforts to save, study, and use the earth's biodiversity sustainably and equitably stand the greatest chance of substantially reducing the rate of diversity's loss.
3882922|Anti-evolution, the rise of pseudo sciences, and the renewed interest in the occult, all masquerading as science, are symptomatic of the poor job that is done explicating science as a process and a way of knowing. Disciplinary teaching emphasizes fact over concept. Every science discipline should be taught with a process base pervasive from the first to the last day of the course. Science teaching needs be revamped to provide an integrated, nonredundant exposition of the discipline focussed on principles of which the theory of evolution is only one. Science must to be related both to technology and society. Teaching has to be directed to elicit the desired ends of education and not be regarded simply as a system to deliver fragments of knowledge. The participation of zoologists in delineating the discipline of science and countering pseudo science is essential. Scientists must become involved in science education and participate in updating teachers and insisting on their subject matter competence. University scientists must be concerned beyond the training of majors to provide meaningful education for nonscience majors as well. To ensure quality science education zoologists must become active in resisting incursions of scientific nonsense in science classrooms.
3882328|As infants, bats emit non-sonar calls that are species typical. Five different species of Hipposideros have contrasting neonatal calls. The calling rates increase and then wane with age in the same general pattern as seen in rodents. Infant bat calls show greater frequency sweep and higher repetition rates than those of rodents. In contrast to microchiropterans, infants of a megachiropteran, Eonycteris, emit calls with a lower repetition rate; the calls show no increase in frequency with age.
3884368| Measurements of 
3882025| Ultrastructural examination of crayfish superficial (tonic) and deep (phasic) abdominal extensor muscles reveals a distribution and quantitative difference in glycogen between these muscles. Both superficial and deep fibers have a dense accumulation of glycogen in the interfibrillar sarcoplasm. In addition, the superficial extensors, but not the deep extensors, contain glycogen in the I band region. The glycogen granules are of the  type and can be removed enzymatically. The superficial medial and lateral fibers contain more glycogen than the medial and lateral deep fibers. A possible functional role for this difference is suggested. 
3884338|Tests of self-awareness in nonhuman primates have to date been concerned almost entirely with the recognition of an animal's reflection in a mirror. By contrast, we know much less about non-human primates' perception of their place within a social network, or of their understanding of themselves as individuals with unique sets of social relationships. Here we review evidence that monkeys who fail the mirror test may nonetheless behave as if they recognize themselves as distinct individuals, each of whom occupies a unique place in society and has a specific set of relations with others. A free-ranging vervet monkey, baboon, or macaque recognizes other members of his group as individuals. He also recognizes matrilineal kin groups, linear dominance rank orders, and behaves as if he recognizes his own unique place within them. This sense of "social self" in monkeys, however, is markedly different from self-awareness in humans. Although monkeys may behave in ways that accurately place themselves within a social network, they are unaware of the knowledge that allows them to do so: they do not know what they know, cannot reflect on what they know, and cannot become the object of their own attention.
3881592|Insects are capable of producing strongly hyperosmotic urine but most species do not possess the anatomical equivalent of the mammalian kidney's countercurrent system. Concentration of the excreta occurs in the rectum where water is absorbed against increasing osmotic gradients without strict dependence on simultaneous absorption of solute. Properties of this process are reviewed. It is currently postulated that this apparent transport of water is driven by local transport and recycling of solute within the lateral intercellular spaces of the epithelium of the rectal pad. The most concentrated excreta so far reported are those of the mealworm, Tenebrio molitor. This species possesses a cryptonephridial complex in which the posterior end of the malpighian tubules is closely applied to the rectum and both are enclosed within a complex membranous sheath. Active transport of potassium chloride by the malpighian tubules into the complex creates a local high osmotic pressure within the complex which is responsible, in part if not completely, for removal of water from the rectal lumen. This system bears some resemblance to the countercurrent system of the mammalian kidney.
3884348| The traditional view, based primarily on X-ray crystallographic data, is that the amino acid residues at positions B12, B16, B23-B26, A1-A5, A19 and A21 in the insulin molecule comprise the receptor-binding domain. More recently, however, it has been proposed that the conformation adopted by insulin in the crystal structure is an inactive one. The results of alanine-scanning mutagenesis studies suggest that GlyB23, PheB24, IleA2, ValA3, and TyrA19 interact directly with the receptor with LeuB6, GlyB8, LeuB11, GluB13 and PheB25, although not part of the binding epitope, being important in maintaining the receptor-binding conformation. A comparison of the primary structures of insulins from a wide range of non-mammalian vertebrates, from hagfish to birds, provides support for this revised view by demonstrating that strong evolutionary pressure has acted to conserve those amino acids postulated to be important in the biologically active conformation. In addition to the cysteine residues, the amino acids at B6, B8, B11, B23, B24, A2, A3, and A19 are invariant in all species yet studied with only conservative substitutions (Glu  Asp) at B13 and (Phe  Tyr) at B25. In contrast, several insulins containing substitutions at positions B16, A5 and A21, sites of importance in maintaining the crystal structure conformation, have been identified. Although the amino acid sequences of insulin are not generally useful as molecular markers for inferring phylogenetic relationships between species, the presence of common structural features in insulins from closely related species may permit a valid inference. For example, the presence of an N-terminal pentapeptide extension to the B-chains of insulins isolated from both holarctic and southern hemisphere lampreys supports the monophyletic status of the Petromyzontiformes. 
3882420|An auxiliary heart is found in many decapod crustaceans at the anterior end of the dorsal median artery. A brief description of the anatomy is given here, followed by an exploration of the reflex and neurosecretory control. The relationship between the activity of the main heart and auxiliary heart and the integration of the auxiliary heart with other blood pressure regulating systems of the body are discussed.
3882819|The development of the radioimmunoassay (RIA) for ecdysteroids has permitted the sequential measurement of circulating ecdysteroids on individual organisms. In addition, used in conjunction with various chromatographic techniques, it has assisted in the identification of ecdysteroids secreted by molting glands. The sensitivity of the assay has also permitted the monitoring of the rate of secretion of ecdysteroids by molting glands exposed to various in vitro conditions. This latter approach will be of great utility in determining the nature and effect of molt regulators (inhibitors) present in other tissues.
3882870|Comparative neurology should be seen as not only anatomical but also physiological, chemical, developmental and behavioral neurobiology that exploits the vast diversity of nervous systems, revealing differences as well as commonalities. The anatomical approach has forged ahead rapidly in recent years but other approaches are lagging. Particularly scarce are studies that compare. The aims of comparative neurology are not unitary but several. Specific actions are urged for each of several classes of scientists. Two challenges are lifted up: the search for relevant behavioral correlates of known anatomical differences between taxa, and the search for brain correlates relevant to observed gross differences in behavior.
3884122| The development of the pineal, pituitary and thyroid glands of the extant lungfish, Neoceratodus forsteri, are being studied both morphologically and functionally. This paper presents data from hatching to 40-52 weeks for a standardised series of lungfish, bred at Macquarie University. At hatching, the pineal comprises a single organ attached to the roof of the diencephalon, with well-developed photoreceptor, supporting and ganglion cells. The photoreceptors gradually degenerate, giving way to secretory cells which contain electron dense granules. These latter are immunoreactive to melatonin antibodies and digestable with protease. The pituitary at hatching comprises a hollow ball of cells lying beneath the infundibular region of the hypothalamus. Ultrastructurally, four cell types can be distinguished by cytoplasmic granule size after the first four weeks of development posthatching. By 20 weeks, a further three cell types are recognisable. Immunogold labelling has identified corticotropes and melanotropes at four weeks and, at 20 weeks, prolactin cells, thyrotropes and somatotropes also can be identified. The thyroid is only just apparent at hatching, containing 2-3 follicles. The numbers of follicles increases gradually, and variably between animals, with age. Iodine uptake in methimazole-treated animals did not exceed that of controls at any of the three stages tested, indicating a lack of feedback control between thyroid hormones and pituitary thyrotropes at, or before, 40 weeks of age. Thyroid hormone receptors in the liver at 40 weeks are predominantly immunoreactive to human TR antibodies. These findings taken together suggest that, up to 40 weeks post hatching, lungfish development is equivalent to amphibian premetamorphic development. This would be consistent with lungfish neoteny, but cannot be taken as evidence for neoteny until confirmed at later stages of development. 
4620190|Pattern formation in the developing hindbrain and cranio-facial region has been studied in a range of vertebrate organisms. The developing hindbrain is transiently segmented into units termed rhombomeres which correspond with domains of gene expression, lineage restriction and neuronal organization and serve to coordinate the migration of cranial neural crest into the adjacent branchial arches. In this paper I review the cellular and molecular events underlying both hindbrain segmentation and the acquisition of segmental identity, consolidating recent results from different model systems. Data suggesting that the vertebrate Hox genes play an important role in specifying positional value to the rhombomeres and cranial neural crest are also examined. I compare expression patterns of the Hox genes between species and consider the mechanisms involved in controlling their appropriate spatial regulation. In addition I describe a recently characterized zebrafish hindbrain segmentation mutant, valentino; morphological, cellular and gene expression data for this mutant are helping to further our understanding of hindbrain patterning.
3884552|Patterns and mechanisms involved in the onset and development of cardiac function in a number of crustacean groups are critically reviewed. Irrespective of phylogeny, heart design and ecology, the onset of heart beat seems inextricably linked to the ontogeny of the thoracic segments where the heart is located. Initially the beat is erratic but soon becomes regular and the rate increases as development proceeds. However, still early in development the relationship between heart rate and body size shifts from a positive to a negative one. Nevertheless cardiac output continues to increase with increasing development, via increasing stroke volume. Some species in more 'primitive' groups develop and retain a myogenic heart beat. Others, with globular and tubular hearts, exhibit a shift from myogenicity to neurogenicity around the time the body size vs. heart rate relationship becomes negative. Very early cardiac function seems generally insensitive to external factors, such as temperature, oxygen and pollutants. Sensitivity to environmental factors increases with development, perhaps over the same timescale as the cardiac regulatory mechanisms appear.
3882066|Isolated medusa buds of Podocoryne carnea (Anthomedusa) can either develop autonomously to functional medusae or transform to stolons and polyps. Up to stage 8 the percentage of transformation can be raised to 100% by repeated traumatization of the isolated buds. From stage 9 onwards, even traumatized buds always regenerate medusae and never transform to polyps. At stage 8 the bud is differentiated, lacking only the swelling of the outer mesoglea to become a normal medusa. A correlation between the swelling of this mesoglea and the decrease of the percentage of transformation to zero can be observed between stages 8 and 9. The presence of a swollen mesoglea is not the only factor in stabilizing medusa structures, since, despite removal of the mesoglea by the dissociation method, aggregates of dissociated buds of stages 7 and 8 always formed medusa structures and never transformed to stolons or polyps. Regeneration of the manubrium in adult Hydromedusae shows a graded distribution, being highest in the center of the umbrella and decreasing rapidly towards the circular canal. The extent of manubrium regeneration is not influenced by the amount of wound material or the components of the gastrovascular system.
3882489|The various techniques in common use for conservation and restoration of depleted sea turtle populations are reviewed, namely: banning international commerce; operating artificial hatcheries, both in the natural beach environment and in styrofoam and other types of incubators; "head-starting" of hatchlings in captivity; protection of nesting females by means of beach patrols; and translocation of eggs or hatchlings to distant areas from which turtles have been extirpated or to which it is desired to introduce new colonies. The difficulties of monitoring the results of all of these techniques are discussed, and potential dangers or disadvantages of each approach are reviewed. It is concluded that, until unequivocal data become available, turtle conservationists should continue to pursue common sense or logically sound restoration programs, but should constantly re-evaluate their actions in the light of the latest available knowledge and modify or desist from current approaches as necessary.
3882099|Recent data on shark skeletal tissues have been reviewed. It is now reasonably certain that shark teeth and denticles are covered with a true ectodermal enamel, although the outer layer of these structures is structurally complex, consisting of both calcified ectodermal enamel and uncalcified areas of ectomesenchymal origin. The intradermal base of these structures most probably consists of acellular bone. The structural array of apatite crystallites in the teeth seems strongly correlated with the specific shape and function of individual teeth. The calcified cartilage of sharks differs significantly from that of other vertebrates, not only in its composition, but in the fact that the areas of calcification are composed of many vital and non-hypertrophic cells. Recent studies of the mineralization processes of other vertebrate tissues suggest a possible explanation for the classically described differential patterns of calcification of shark cartilages, but the specific details in elasmobranchs are as yet unknown, as indeed are many other aspects of their skeletal tissues whose future investigation would surely be useful in the elucidation of the general processes of vertebrate skeletal tissue mineralization.
3884520|Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases constitute a large family of proteins with many functions. They are represented by a multitude of paralogous isoforms in yeast, vertebrates, and other eukaryotes. A phylogenetically conserved function of MAP kinases is to carry osmotic signals from sensory to target elements of cells. Even though this function of MAP kinases is ubiquitous and characteristic of unicellular and multicellular eukaryotes alike the contingencies between individual MAP kinases, sensor elements, and target elements have been subject to vast modification during evolution. Extensive networking of MAP kinase cascades with other signaling pathways is reflected by the large number of diverse signals that can be carried by a single MAP kinase pathway and flexible activation kinetics. It is emerging that the most important function of MAP kinase networks may not be signal amplification but integration of information about the setpoint of environmental parameters (including osmolality) with other physiological processes to control cell function. Insight into how this cellular integration of information is achieved by MAP kinase networks will shed light on the principles of cell dynamics and adaptation.
3882666|The unique features of the MacArthur-Wilson model of equilibrium biogeography are the immigration and extinction curves. In the model, the immigration rate for each island is negatively correlated with species number, and island extinction rate is positively correlated with species number. Direct tests of the sign and statistical significance of immigration and extinction curves were done, with data on arthropods of tiny Spartina alterniflora islets, in north Florida. Rey (1981) defaunated six islets in the spring, then censused the recolonization weekly, for one year. Two control islets and a mainland plot were also censused. Distinct tendencies in favor of MacArthur-Wilson correlations were present for both immigration and extinction. But sufficient extraneous variation occurs in immigration and extinction rates to make correspondence to MacArthur-Wilson curves statistically non-significant, unless probabilities are combined among islands. Thus, mathematical deductions from the MacArthur-Wilson model, which treat the curves as deterministic lines with no variance, are less appropriate than approaches that incorporate stochastic variation. The study of community patterns, by models such as the MacArthur-Wilson model, are not a substitute for careful autecological studies. Mechanisms of colonization and co-existence are only dimly hinted at by gross community patterns.
3882535|I argue that a net benefit model of aggressive social organization is consonant with observed variation between territorial and dominance systems. For nectarivores net benefits are associated with obtaining nectar. Costs are time and energy associated with aggression and possible risks of injury. The fitness criterion probably varies across situations and may be long or short-term. An important problem for behaviorists is to understand the position in a time hierarchy at which particular social interactions are important.
3881839|Several micromethods for the assay of sex steroids in plasma were compared. These methods are useful tools available for the investigation of hormone action. Gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) with electron capture detection is the least sensitive of these methods and requires the most time to process samples. Data are presented that show the accuracy, precision, and reproducibility of GLC for the measurement of testosterone in rhesus monkey plasma. A comparison of the quantities of testosterone in plasma from the umbilical artery and gonads of fetal male and female rhesus monkeys shows a sex difference that implicates male hormones of fetal origin in the differentiation process. In the guinea pig after castration the levels of testosterone are rapidly depleted from the systemic circulation. This finding is contrasted to the slow decline of sexual behavior in this species. The competitive protein binding method for measuring progesterone in plasma is easy to perform but has a variable blank. Modifications in the technique to reduce variation are discussed as well as the quantities of progesterone in the systemic blood of the female rhesus monkey during the intermenstrual period. The radioimmunoassays provide the greatest sensitivity of the methods under consideration and have built-in specificity.
3881944|The avian endocrine pancreas is comprised of A-islets containing
3884540|The within-swim pattern of cycle periods in Tritonia swimming changed when the behavior was repeatedly elicited suggesting that an excitatory process reaches a ceiling or wanes over repeated trials. Exposure to subthreshold stimuli enhanced swimming in response to a subsequent super-threshold stimulus, perhaps using a similar excitatory process. In reduced preparations, subthreshold stimuli increased action potential activity in identified serotonergic neurons. Finally, stimulating serotonergic neurons enhanced a fictive swimming pattern, much like subthreshold stimuli enhanced the swimming behavior. Both within-swim and across-swim changes in the swimming behavior may be caused by increased activity in identified serotonergic neurons. Comparative study suggests that ancestral serotonergic systems facilitated network oscillations for the production of rhythmic behaviors such as feeding and locomotion. This concept of serotonin as oscillatizer is used to explain the role of serotonergic neurons in Tritonia. Implications for human mental health are discussed.
4620198|Mammalian skeletal muscles are all composed of similar structural elements. However, they gain a large degree of functional specialization by configuring those elements in different ways. The traditional anatomical descriptors of muscle-length, cross-sectional area and angle of pinnation-give little insight into several of the specializations of architecture that can have a major impact on muscular function. These features include the arrangement and lengths of aponeuroses and tendons, the presence of compartmentalization, fiber-type composition, moment-arm relationships at different joint angles and interindividual variation. Quantitative data for these features are often lacking in morphometric studies but they are often essential for the generation of mathematical models of musculoskeletal mechanics.
3882756|Four functional categories are defined to embrace the range of locomotor diversity of aquatic vertebrates; (1) body/caudal fin (BCF) periodic propulsion where locomotor movements repeat, as occurs in cruising and sprint swimming; (2) BCF transient propulsion where kinematics are brief and non-cylic, as occurs in fast-starts and powered turns; (3) median and paired fin (MPF) propulsion, with very diverse fin kinematics, used in slow swimming and precise maneuver; (4) occasional propulsion or "non-swimming." Specialization in any one of these categories compromises performance in one or more of the others, thereby reducing locomotor diversity and hence behavioral options. Food characteristics influencing the role of locomotion in search and capture are; (1) distribution in space and/or time and (2) evasive capabilities. BCF periodic swimmers take food that is widely dispersed in space/time; BCF transient swimmers consume locally abundant evasive items and MPF swimmers consume non-evasive food in structurally complex habitats. Locomotor specialists under-utilize smaller food items in exposed habitats. This resource is exploited by smaller fish, which are locomotor generalists because of predation pressures. For such locomotor generalists, locomotor adaptations for food capture are of diminished importance and other adaptations such as suction and protrusible jaws in fish are common.
4620189|The Spiralia, an assemblage of phyla united by their stereotypic pattern of early embryonic cell divisions (spiral cleavage), is an interesting group in which to investigate the evolution of development. This paper examines modifications of developmental mechanisms within the Spiralia with emphasis on the basally-branching forms. Although demonstrating a notable degree of evolutionary conservation, the equal quartet cleavage pattern, which appears to be the ancestral condition, nonetheless exhibits modifications within the various spiralian groups, such as unequal cleavage, changes in cell size and rate of division, formation of two rather than four quadrants (duet spiral cleavage), and in extreme cases the loss of any trace of the spiral pattern. While the cell lineages of spiralians are remarkably conserved, one can discern evolutionary changes, for example in the cells that give rise to mesoderm. Studies of blastomere specification in many spiralian groups and analyses of axis determination indicate that embryos with equal versus unequal cleavage typically use different determinative mechanisms to establish cell fates and the dorsoventral axis. These properties are esed early in species exhibiting unequal cleavage. While previous experiments suggested that equal cleavage was associated with late specification, there is now evidence of precocious specification of quadrant fates in some equal-cleaving species, such as the nemerteans and the polyclad turbellarians.
3883254|In mammals, intestinal immunity to gastrointestinal nematode parasites can result in a dramatic expulsion of resident adult worm populations from the intestine and exclusion of subsequent infections. Although immunity requires specific parasite-antigen induction, the expression of host resistance can be a product of both specific and nonspecific effector elements. T lymphocytes, through the action of cytokines, regulate the differentiation of certain classes of B lymphocytes and antibody producing plasma cells, as well as cells of myeloid origin that are involved in inflammation. Because inflammatory processes can function non-specifically against parasites in the intestine, they can be involved not only in host resistance to a homologous parasite infection, but also in cross-resistance to immunologically unrelated parasites. Thus, knowledge of the events necessary to prime the intestinal immune system of a naive host to a particular parasite could result in an understanding of how resistance might be induced to a variety of parasitic infections. This article will show that generically distinct gastrointestinal parasites, with very different life cycles, can induce similar mammalian host responses. Yet the resolution of experimental infection with a particular parasite species can be quite different among various host species. In addition, the effect of T cell regulation of mast cells, eosinophils and immunoglobulin E on intestinal immunity and host cross-resistance to parasitic infection will be discussed.
3881801| A critically heat-stressed population of Modiolus modiolus has been studied in a tidal pool. Over a period of 5.5 hours the temperature in the shallows rose from 19C to 32.5C. Some of the animals were killed outright; others succumbed over the next few days. Most of the animals, although distressed at the time of exposure, seemed to have recovered by the following week. The animals most adversely affected were those whose shells protruded above the surface of the pool; these individuals gaped and became desiccated. The reactions of the species are consistent with previous physiological experiments. High temperature plays a role in limiting the vertical distribution of Modiolus modiolus. 
3883394|Unlike internal exchange surfaces, the skin contacts an "infinite pool" of air or water with which exchange of gases, water, ions, and other solutes may occur. Even though the "infinite pool" may be well mixed, an unstirred diffusion boundary layer is always present about the skin and may constitute a significant resistance to exchange. The thickness of the diffusion boundary layer (as approximated by the fluid dynamic boundary layer) is related to the flow of the respiratory medium, viscosity and density of the medium, and the morphology of the exchange surface. Oxygen microelectrode studies suggest that, in most circumstances, the diffusion boundary layer in water is at least as thick as the blood-respiratory medium distance in amphibian skin. Accordingly, the movement of water about the skin (i.e., skin ventilation) should have pronounced effects on cutaneous exchange, especially at low "free stream" velocities. Mounting physiological evidence suggests that: (1) skin ventilation can augment cutaneous gas exchange; and (2) some vertebrates actively ventilate their skins, especially in aquatic hypoxia. The ubiquity and significance of diffusion boundary layers are central to a general understanding of cutaneous exchange and all surface-mediated exchange processes.
3881505|Agelena consociata Denis, which Chauvin discovered in Gabon, when put in a laboratory, weaves nests which are 2 m
3883689|Profound developmental changes occur in the morphology and physiology of the respiratory system of amphibians during the transition from strictly aquatic to dual aquatic-aerial breathing. This developmental transition usually involves modifications in ventilatory mechanisms and/or respiratory surfaces (e.g., degeneration of gills, ventilation of functional lungs). Both the first appearance of obligate air breathing and the subsequent dependence upon it by amphibian larvae are sensitive to a variety of environmental stressors during critical developmental periods. These stressors include oxygen availability, ambient temperature, the risk of predation and mode of feeding.
3884410|Body size, pectoralis composition, aspect ratio of the wing, and forward speed affect the use of intermittent flight in birds. During intermittent nonflapping phases, birds extend their wings and glide or flex their wings and bound. The pectoralis muscle is active during glides but not during bounds; activity in other primary flight muscles is variable. Mechanical power, altitude, and velocity vary among wingbeats in flapping phases; associated with this variation are changes in neuromuscular recruitment, wingbeat frequency, amplitude, and gait. Species of intermediate body mass (35-158 g) tend to flap-glide at slower speeds and flap-bound at faster speeds, regardless of the aspect ratio of their wings. Such behavior may reduce mechanical power output relative to continuous flapping. Smaller species (<20 g) with wings of low aspect ratio may flap-bound at all speeds, yet existing models do not predict an aerodynamic advantage for the flight style at slow speeds. The behavior of these species appears to be due to wing shape rather than pectoralis physiology. As body size increases among species, percent time spent flapping increases, and birds much larger than 300 g do not flap-bound. This pattern may be explained by adverse scaling of mass-specific power or lift per unit power output available from flight muscles. The size limit for the ability to bound intermittently may be offset somewhat by the scaling of pectoralis composition. The percentage of time spent flapping during intermittent flight also varies according to flight speed.
3882619|The end of the molting process in the tobacco hornworm includes the rapid digestion of the old cuticle, molting fluid resorption, ecdysis of the old cuticle, and expansion and hardening of the new cuticle. The coordination of these processes is accomplished by three hormones. Each ecdysis during the life of Manduca appears to be triggered by eclosion hormone. Depending on developmental stage, the hormone comes either from the brain-corpora cardiaca complex or from the chain of ventral ganglia. The neural programs triggered by eclosion hormone include a neuroendocrine event, the release of the tanning hormone, bursicon, thereby ensuring that tanning of the new cuticle must follow ecdysis. Ecdysis, itself, appears to be controlled by the ecdysteroid levels since ecdysteroid injections delay ecdysis at physiological concentrations and in a dose dependent fashion. This delay is due to inhibition of eclosion hormone secretion and to the retardation of the terminal phases of the molt including the digestion of the old cuticle and the onset of sensitivity to eclosion hormone. Thus, eclosion hormone secretion and the ecdysis it triggers are coordinated with the end of development because both are influenced by the same endocrine signal-the decline in the ecdysteroid titer.
3882484|Although the reproductive ecology of marine turtles has been the subject of numerous long-range studies, the reproductive physiology of these unique animals is little known. Recently, however, preliminary anatomical and endocrinological studies have provided a good basis on which to begin to attempt to explain several of their unusual biological systems. New findings related to the anatomy of Chelonia mydas and Lepidochelys olivacea are presented. The female, although having a very massive pair of simultaneously functioning ovaries, appears in most ways very similar to other chelonians. Corpora hemorrhagica, corpora lutea and corpora atretica from active ovaries are briefly described. Ovulation coincides with a luteinizing hormone and progesterone surge. Sperm are probably stored for the season after a single mating period which appears to occur prior to the first ovulation. Males may also cycle and mating as well as nesting are seen as more or less seasonal. The seasonality could be controlled in part by melatonin or other endocrines from the sea turtle's massive pineal complex. A hypothetical model for reproduction is presented in hopes of stimulating interest in physiological approaches to the study of marine turtle reproduction.
3884509|During feeding in anurans, the mouth opens while the tongue, which is attached to the mandible at the front of the mouth, rotates forward. Due to the relative simplicity of its anatomy and the complexity of its motion, tongue protraction in frogs presents an ideal system for exploring the neural control of multijoint movements. In this study, we used a forward dynamic, rigid body model with four segments and two muscles to investigate open loop control of tongue protraction in the Australian white-lipped tree frog, Litoria caerulea. Model parameters include the mass distribution, initial position and initial angular velocity of each segment and the anatomy and physiology of each muscle. Model variables include the level of muscle activation at each time step and impulsive torques to open and close the mouth. The model gives X,Y coordinates of each segment and joint angles at each time step as output. The model was tested using scaled, normalized EMG signals and impulsive joint torques to predict the paths of the lower jaw tip and tongue tip. Predicted paths were compared to experimentally observed paths using Pearson product-moment correlation coefficients. Simulations demonstrate that the genioglossus muscles likely play a minor role, if any, in determining the trajectory of the tongue in most anurans. Most of the force for tongue protraction comes from angular momentum transferred to the tongue by the opening jaws. In anurans, tongue protraction is dynamically stable and will occur as long as the musculoskeletal elements are in the correct initial position.
3883802|Intersegmental coordination of both vertebrates and invertebrates is poorly understood primarily because so little is known about the substrate of the neural underpinnings and how the elements interact to produce the complex timing relationships required by the organism. We describe here a systems approach combining experimental and theoretical treatment of the lamprey locomotor central pattern generator. The central pattern generator is viewed as a chain of coupled non-linear oscillators corresponding to segmental burst generators. We analyze various coupling schemes in terms of their ability to produce a stable traveling wave similar to that seen in the isolated spinal cord and the intact animal. The role of long coordinating neurons is particularly discussed.
3882118|With mild extraction and separation methods it was possible to locate and isolate, starting with 100 or 200 g of pineal tissue, different indoles, with mass spectra identical to those of synthetic melatonin, 5-HIAA and 5-MIAA. It was also possible to isolate fractions, which showed, in thin-layer chromatographic studies, spots with R
3882204|The neurohypophysial (NHP) hormones in mammals are arginine vasopressin (AVP) (lysine vasopressin (LVP) in Suiformes) and oxytocin. Since these hormones have been implicated in the regulation of water balance and oxytocic functions in the body, metabolic responses to their action have to be considered in relation to problems associated with adaptive radiation and physiological evolution of vertebrates. Studies on species from different classes of vertebrates have shown that water deprivation, salt-loading and thermal stress could lead to the release of neurosecretory material (NSM) from the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system (HNPS). Salt-loading has been shown to produce in rats significant decrease in both vasopressin and oxytocin in HNPS and also cause a fall in plasma free fatty acid (FFA) and a rise in plasma glucose. Injections of exogenous AVP and LVP decrease plasma FFA level in most of the mammals studied. AVP; LVP and oxytocin produce hyperglycemia in the mammals, birds and amphibians hitherto investigated. Arginine vasotocin (AVT) is shown to increase plasma FFA and glucose levels in the bird, fish and cyclostome. Possibly growth hormone (GH) is at least one of the extraneurohypophysial hormones through which the metabolic effects of AVT may be mediated. Thermal stress and dehydration in pigeons cause the release of NSM granules from the neurohypophysis and a rise in plasma levels of GH, cAMP and FFA with no significant change in glucose. Prostaglandin E
3881891|A computer based information control system known as Taxir, based on graph, set and information theories and utilizing a language resembling English with the syntax of boolean algebra for its retrieval portion, was adopted to control information in the Amphibian Facility. This includes routine data collections on demography, genetics and pathology as well as special collections on morphometrics, female reproduction and other specialized data. Data structuring, retrieval and analysis by this generalized information control system interacting with the Michigan Terminal System (MTS) and the Michigan Interactive Data Analysis System (MIDAS) on an IBM 360/67 computer is demonstrated by use of the demographic data bank. As further illustration, the disruptive patterning and toe clipping systems developed to identify individual R. pipiens are described and their use shown. Further demonstration of the interaction between Taxir and MIDAS serves to reveal the potential significance of analyses of disruptive patterning in the study of frog genetics. The description and demonstration of Taxir is sufficiently detailed for biologists unfamiliar with computer technology to make preliminary evaluation of its applicability to and ease of operation in their information control systems.
3881499|After the spider, Zygiella x-notata Cl. has been enticed to leave the retreat and catch a fly in a web turned upside-down, it takes a relatively long time to return to the retreat. The return-time is divided into periods of active searching and motionlessness. Several factors have been found to shorten significantly the searching and motionless time; among them are youth of the animals, small number of webs previously built, the position of the web before and between experiments, and repetition of trials at certain time intervals. The observed phenomenon and variations in time are explained in terms of current concepts of memory function and information processing.
3882567|Ascidian inflammatory responses are characterized by an influx of blood cells into areas containing foreign material or injured tissue. The sequestering and removal of foreign substances is a function of their chemical nature and size. Small particulate materials are removed by phagocytosis; substances too large to be phagocytosed are encapsulated. Blood cells involved in inflammatory reactions are small undifferentiated cells (hemoblasts, lymphocytes), hyaline and granular leucocytes and morula cells.
3884059|The Arctic is an extremely inhospitable region for most of the year, but during the summer months it bursts with life. A major proportion of avian species nesting in the Arctic are shorebirds (order Charadriiformes; suborder Charadrii). They migrate thousands of kilometers from their wintering grounds to take advantage of abundant food resources each summer and display a variety of migratory strategies. In an attempt to classify this variation, not only between spring and autumn migration, but within a migration, we present four categories. These relate to the distance a species generally flies between stopovers: short distance bout, intermediate distance bout, long distance bout, and combinations. We then explore further differences between spring and autumn migration. Spring migrants experience poor weather and decreased food availability as they fly north. Many cope with huge flocks, which serve as protection from predators, but may also reduce foraging efficiency and increase aggression. In contrast, autumn migrants generally encounter favorable weather and ample food. Flock sizes are usually smaller, thus foraging efficiency is higher and aggression lower than during spring migration. Physiologically, spring migrants are preparing for breeding and reproductive hormones are secreted. In the Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri), luteinizing hormone levels are higher for spring than autumn migrants. Late spring migrants have higher testosterone levels than either early spring migrants or autumn migrants. Corticosterone levels are also higher in spring vs. autumn migrants. Although spring and autumn migrants travel similar distances, their strategies differ behaviorally and physiologically.
3881350| Gecarcinus lateralis can take moisture from a damp substratum in amounts adequate for the needs of the entire intermolt cycle. It can also rehydrate in this way, even after severe dehydration. This crab is able to survive for many months when free water of a wide range of salinities (0-30;  = parts per thousand) is made available in a shallow dish. The crab dies within seven weeks when the salinity of this water is 35. During procedysis the pericardial sacs of eyestalkless crabs become most swollen when the salinity of the available water is 15 or 23, and survival during and after ecdysis is greatest with water of 15. A crab in proecdysis shows no increase in the rate at which water enters following dehydration. Yet large amounts of water are retained, particularly at the intermediate salinities. Maximal swelling of the pericardial sacs just prior to ecdysis is essentially equivalent in crabs with eyestalks, in eyestalkless crabs, and in eyestalkless crabs that have received an implant of central nervous tissue. Hence, we conclude that a hormone causing the retention of water exists, but not in the eyestalks, in the brain, or in the thoracic ganglionic mass. At ecdysis eyestalkless crabs show large increases in the dimensions of the carapace, while crabs with eyestalks and eyestalkless crabs that have received an implant of certain central nervous tissues show much less increase and may even show a decrease. Thus, we conclude that a hormone causing a release of water at ecdysis is produced in the central nervous system. The advantages to the crab of a dual hormonal control of its water balance are discussed. 
3883578| The sea urchin CyIIIa cytoskeletal actin gene is activated in late cleavage in blastomeres of the aboral ectoderm lineages, and throughout embryogenesis CyIIIa transcription is restricted to the aboral ectoderm. Temporal and spatial control is accomplished via a complex cis-regulatory domain extending approximately 2.3 kb upstream of the CyIIIa transcription initiation site. This regulatory domain includes some twenty sites of in vitro DNA: protein interaction. The functional significance in vivo of several of these elements has been established in transgenic embryos bearing CyIIIaCAT (chloramphenicol acetyl transferase) reporter gene constructs, together with molar excesses of one of various nonoverlapping competitor sequences containing one, or a few, specific site(s) of in vitro interaction. The excess sites competitively titrated the available regulatory proteins away from the corresponding sites associated with the CyIIIaCAT reporter genes. Competition with each of six nonoverlapping regions identified six different sites that function as positive regulators of CyIIIa transcription. Two additional regions identified nonhomologous sites that control spatial expression. 
3882107|The visual system of elasmobranchs is reviewed with primary emphasis on recent investigations. Starting with the ocular adnexa and the whole eye and working through the cornea, uvea, ciliary zone, lens, and retina, the structure of the eye peculiar to sharks is described. Visual function as revealed by electrophysiology, photochemistry, and behavioral studies is also reviewed. The discussion ends with a description of structure and function of the elasmobranch median eye. The overall impression is that far from having poor vision, these extremely successful marine predators apparently have been provided with a high degree of visual development. While advances in our understanding of the shark eye have been impressive, much work remains, and, for example, entire areas such as resolution and spatial vision are unstudied. Probably the greatest mystery is the relation between the apparently exquisitely adapted visual system and the natural behavior of sharks. Thus what is needed is a linking hypothesis between laboratory studies of vision and the natural behavior of sharks as observed in the field.
3882305|Sex steroid concentrating cells in brain can be demonstrated by the specialized technique of steroid autoradiography. With this technique we have demonstrated the presence and the pattern of sex steroid concentrating cells in a representative species from every major class of vertebrate. This paper discusses the details of the pattern of binding cells found in a teleost, the paradise fish, Macropodus opercularis; a reptile, the lizard, Anolis carolinensis; and a carnivore, the mink, Mustela vison. The majority of sex steroid concentrating cells are found in the medial preoptic area, the medial hypothalamus, limbic structures and specific areas of the mesencephalon deep to the tectum. The regions containing the largest numbers of labelled cells have been demonstrated in each species with other techniques to be involved in neuroendocrine regulation or control of sex behavior.
3882133|Normally, rats and mice eat chow-type rations. When fed such a ration, body fat usually ranges between 11 and 18%. If a semi-purified diet high in fat is fed instead of the chow-type ration, some strains of rats and mice respond by accumulating abnormal amounts of weight and fat. Their bodies now contain as much as 40% fat and fat depots are enlarged. Rats which respond to a high fat diet with excessive weight and fat gain consume more kilocalories in the same time interval and are more efficient in energy utilization than rats of the same strain which consume a grain diet. For these rats, if medium-chain triglycerides are substituted for the long-chain triglycerides in the high fat diet, there is a depression in food intake, accretion of body weight and fat as well as energy utilization. Blood makes up 3.5 to 5.1% of the fat organ weight. The lower value represents the quantity present in adipose tissue of obese rats while the higher value is for "normal-weight" rats. The triglyceride content of perirenal and epididymal fat depots is around 90%. On the other hand, the triglyceride content of inguinal fat tissue ranges from 56 to 80% and is affected by strain, age and diet. If diets are high in fat, the proportional distribution of fatty acids in the adipose tissue reflects the proportional distribution in dietary fat, except when medium-chain triglycerides are fed.
3881347|The state of contraction of crustacean chromatophores is known to be dependent on a variety of hormones secreted by various parts of the nervous system. For the fiddler crab the state of the chromatophores varies with the time of day and is little affected by changes in light intensity or background. An additional factor influencing chromatophores is a lunar-tidal rhythm. The effects of naturally-changing photoperiods and of a constant artificial photoperiod on the condition of the chromatophores of Uca pugnax are described. The lunar-tidal rhythm is seen to affect the chromatophores at hours transitional between the day and night phase for at least 2 1/2 months after the animals are removed from tidal conditions. The time of entrance into the night phase of the diurnal rhythm varies widely as a function of phase of the moon when the animals are exposed to long photoperiods. Short photoperiods restrict the range of this variation but appear to have little effect on the minimum duration of the day phase in any 15-day period. Consideration of both diurnal and tidal rhythms may permit selection of times of maximum differences in chromatophores which might also reflect maximum differences in neurosecretory activity.
3881819|Consideration of some biochemical mechanisms in synthesis of melanin from the biological viewpoint has yielded some insight into various aspects of the problem. A fundamental consideration is the procedure which must unequivocally demonstrate tyrosinase and determine its level of activity with sensitivity and precision. Only the radiometric assay utilizing
3882520|This brief review considers muscles as ensembles of motor units, the viewpoint usually taken by motor systems physiologists. The morphological, histochemical and mechanical properties of muscle units are discussed in relation to the intrinsic properties of the motoneurons that innervate them, and in connection with the organization of synaptic inputs that play a significant role in determining functional usage. These factors, from synaptic organization to muscle fiber physiology and biochemistry, are all precisely interrelated. The overall design of the soleus (SOL) and medial gastrocnemius (MG) motor unit populations in the cat hindlimb seems ideally suited to the functional roles played by these contrasting muscles. As more information accumulates about these populations, and about others with different functional roles, we should have increasingly clear ideas about the fundamental question of why different muscles look and act as they do in various animal species.
3883137|No individual has been identified more strongly with the development of Coloradan mammalogy than Edward Royal Warren. Warren's two books on Coloradan mammals represent landmark summaries of our evolving knowledge of the rich mammalian fauna of the state. This paper reviews briefly the history of mammalogical research in Colorado and attempts to place Warren in context in that history. The paper relies almost exclusively on a quantitative and qualitative analysis of Warren's published work, which comprises some 96 papers and books, mostly on the Coloradan fauna. He contributed a number of new records to the state's faunal list, but made little contribution to taxonomy. His nomenclature was uncritical and he made no significant contribution to biological theory. His natural history observations are largely anecdotal (although his papers on beavers in Colorado and Wyoming are of enduring importance). Despite its magnitude, Warren's published contribution has not stood the test of time particularly well. A body of unpublished documentation, however, survives in addition to the published papers. That raw documentation may prove eventually to be Warren's most enduring contribution to science and to Coloradan natural history. Warren provided us, like few naturalists have done, a carefully documented description of biotic normality, a description of a Coloradan environment less disturbed than it is today.
3884047|Anurans respond to different acoustic signals in a distinct manner. Moreover, acoustic behavior strongly depends on the inner state of the animal and the social context. Neuroanatomical studies as well as extra- and intracellular recordings were carried out to examine the problem of audio-motor interfacing. Acoustic signals are processed in a partly hierarchical and partly distributed manner in the anuran central nervous system. Features are represented in a topographical manner. Auditory maps in the midbrain torus semicircularis are read by a subset of neurons of the laminar and magnocellular subnuclei, which interconnect the auditory pathway and premotor centres. These, in turn, feed into neural networks controlling vocalization, locomotion, or autonomic functions. Our data on the cytoarchitectonic organization and connectivity of the interfacing neurons give rise to a population coding hypothesis which may explain the differential evaluation of acoustic signals. Additionally, immunohistochemical findings reveal strong neuromodulatory and hormonal input, especially onto interfacing neurons, suggesting intense influence on the physiological properties of these cells.
3881848|Coordination mechanisms in sponges involve not only epithelia but also the mesenchyme, which is the basic internal milieu for all primitive Metazoa. There are three main types of coordination pathways: (i) Fluid extracellular coordination pathways are used for the spreading of materials through the mesenchymal connective matrix. Examples are provided by the processes of wound healing, regeneration, gametogenesis, and gemmulation. (ii) Mobile cellular coordination pathways follow the transitory contacts and consecutive exchanges performed by amoeboid cells which wander in the mesenchymal matrix. Examples are provided by the processes of cell reaggregation and morphogenesis. (iii) Fixed tissue coordination pathways are achieved by permanent connections between cells belonging to the same unit structure, which can be an epithelium or which can be composed of mesenchymal cell networks and bundles. Examples are provided by contractile activities of oscular membranes, internal canals, or of the whole sponge. The first and the second pathways do not undergo significant modifications in the various species of sponges. The third pathway, and especially the mesenchymal contractile tissue, appears to be significantly well developed only in thick-walled sponges. The discussion compares the three coordination systems of sponges with integrative systems in higher Metazoa. The conclusion is that if the coordination mechanisms in Porifera do not quite resemble those found in higher animals, nevertheless they would have been suitable for a further advent of true hormonal, immune, muscle, and nervous systems such as we know in other Metazoa.
3882232|Morphological evidence indicates that within the snake family Boidae the subfamily Pythoninae is ancestral to the Boinae. The python-boa transition in evolution involves a peculiar rotation of the premaxillary bone. During rotation the ventral process of the premaxilla, the processus palatini, is largely obliterated but reconstituted in later Boinae. There exist indications that the pattern of the processus palatini is less controlled or stable in boine snakes than in pythonines. Pattern instability can be the result of several factors which include relaxed selection for precise form and a disruption in the developmental foundation of the feature which has not fully been reversed. These possible factors, though fundamentally different, need not exclude each other. It is surmised that the pattern instability in boines is related, at least in part, to the disruption of a morphogenetic paradigm affecting premaxillary shape.
3883585|Considerable progress has been made in the characterization of immunoglobulin genes from several lower vertebrate taxa. Isolation and identification of immunoglobulin genes in phylogenetically primitive species is based predominantly on heterologous crosshybridization. The unit, clustered organization of heavy chain segmental elements observed in the germline of the horned shark (Hinds and Litman, 1986) has also been found in another elasmobranch. Studies to determine whether the clustered organization is universal throughout the entire cartilaginous fish assemblage are ongoing. In contrast, the ray-finned (bony) fishes appear to possess a mammalian-type heavy chain gene organization. Additionally, immunoglobulin genes are being characterized in two relict fish species whose exact systematic relationships are unknown. Isolation of putative immunoglobulin genes from the phylogenetically-ancient hagfish is being attempted using a PCR-based approach. Other ongoing or future research efforts involve characterization of lower vertebrate light chain genes, heavy chain isotype evolution, and the divergence of the immunoglobulins and T-cell antigen receptors.
3881167|Evidence supporting the presence of nerve cells in the column and tentacles of Pachycerianthus is described. G. F. Gwilliam has shown that electrical stimuli can be transmitted to the ectodermal muscle by the intact epithelium and subepithelial network of the ectoderm of the column. In these preparations the ectodermal muscle, mesogloea, and endoderm were cut. In contrast, preparations in which the ectodermal muscle has been left intact and the epithelium and subepithelial network cut do not show such transmission. The author and Gwilliam have independently used different silver stain methods to demonstrate large cells, probably nerve cells, with cell bodies in the base of the epithelium and with fibers running into the subepithelial network. The author has found similar bipolar cells in the tentacles and column by using maceration techniques. These cells are compared with other cell types found in the tentacles.
3884464|Developmental Evolution (DE) contributes to various research programs in biology, such as the assessment of homology and the determination of the genetic architecture underlying species differences. The most distinctive contribution offered by DE to evolutionary biology, however, is the elucidation of the role of developmental mechanisms in the origin of evolutionary innovations. To date, explanations of evolutionary innovations have remained beyond the reach of classical evolutionary genetics, because such explanations require detailed information on the function of genes and the emergent developmental dynamics of their interactions with other genetic factors. We argue that this area has the potential to become the core of DE's disciplinary identity. The main challenge in developing a research program for DE along these lines, however, is to provide a methodological framework that accounts for the fact that developmental mechanisms continue to evolve after a character has originated. Developmental mechanisms elucidated in a derived species may therefore not provide insights into the evolutionary origin of the character in question. To meet this challenge, we propose a set of questions that may guide us in our search for valid inferences on the role of developmental mechanisms in the explanation of evolutionary innovations.
3883093|Experiments on developing and regenerating vertebrate limbs have led to the idea that pattern formation and growth control are causally linked. The mechanism by which position-specific growth occurs is termed intercalation, and evidence is presented that implicates intercalation in the initiation, maintenance and cessation of growth during limb formation. We conclude that among the variety of cell types present in limbs, only fibroblasts have been shown to possess the positional information necessary for intercalation. Hence we propose that the limb pattern is generated by intercalation between fibroblasts to give rise to a connective tissue scaffold, which in turn dictates the positioning and morphogenesis of all of the differentiated cell types of the limb. Finally, we review evidence that regenerative failure among higher vertebrates is linked to defects in the intrinsic cellular mechanisms of growth control (intercalation) and conclude that progress towards the goal of stimulating regenerative limb outgrowth in non-regenerating vertebrates will be contingent upon a better understanding of these intrinsic mechanisms.
3883224|Intertidal organisms usually exhibit one of two behaviors when they are air exposed. They either isolate themselves from the aerial environment or they interact with the aerial environment. Among the animals using the first behavior, body fluid acid-base balance is partially maintained by dissolution of the calcium carbonate shell in the bivalve molluscs to buffer the metabolic acids produced anaerobically. Calcium ions compensate for the acidosis by increasing the strong ion difference. The release of carbonate from the shell causes an increase in molecular CO
3884128|The ontogeny of the hypothalamic-pituitary growth hormone (GH)-insulin-like growth factor- (IGF-) I axis particularly in birds is considered. Moreover, the ontogeny of IGF-II and IGF-binding proteins (IGF-BPs) are also discussed. Models for the axis in fetal and postnatal mammals, embryonic and posthatching birds, together with nutritionally-deprived mammals and birds are suggested as are the evolutionary changes in the axis.
3882331|Wistar rat pups are generally more "vocal" than Lister pups; the ultrasonic calls that they produce are usually louder and emitted at a greater rate than those of Lister pups of the same age and studied under similar conditions of isolation or handling. These differences in ultrasonic behavior are apparently not related to differences in the development of homiothermy which follows a similar course in both strains. The calls of infants of the two strains do not show any marked differences in duration or frequency pattern that are consistent over age or treatment condition, but the Wistar pups appear to show greater changes with age than the Lister pups in certain parameters of the calls, while the latter strain show greater changes with treatment condition. Similar strain differences in the rate and intensity of calling were seen during aggressive encounters between adult males, but these cannot be related to differences in aggressive behavior. The strains differ in the duration of both the long "22 kHz" calls (Lister greater than Wistar) and the shorter "50 kHz" calls (Wistar greater than Lister), as well as in the minimum frequency of these shorter calls (lower in Wistar than in Lister rats).
3884216|A general constraint for sexually produced offspring of multicellular organisms is that they must begin as a single cell (lest they be chimeric) and that the embryos that produce multicellular structures perform many functions less capably than more developed individuals. Beyond this limitation, predictive models have examined optimized tradeoffs between number of offspring and size of offspring. Broadly applicable predictions have been sought, and two general expectations have resulted. (1) Optimal parental investment per offspring should not be affected by total investment per clutch when offspring size is much smaller than clutch size. (2) Selection should usually favor an optimal size of offspring rather than varied sizes within a clutch. However, constraints intrinsic to mechanisms of parental protection or provisioning may change these predicted outcomes of selection on life history traits. (1) Provisioning and packaging of protected embryos may introduce dependence of offspring size on adult size or clutch size. (a) Clutches of embryos are a large mass of metabolizing tissue without a circulatory system but with requirements for gas exchange; when dissolved gases are transported by interstitial flow between embryos, requirements for supply of oxygen may require larger offspring in thicker and hence more massive clutches. (b) Offspring size can become dependent on adult size through capsule size or size of the birth canal, and offspring size is thereby linked to clutch mass when clutch mass increases with adult size. (2) Random placement of protected embryos may increase variation around an optimum size or quality of offspring. Possible examples are (a) determination and packaging of nurse eggs that will be consumed by embryos and (b) hormonal interactions among offspring in a uterus. Constraints that violate general expectations and arise from varied and specific mechanisms of parental protection or provisioning may be common.
3882159| During the DNA replications involved in polyploidization or polytenization in Drosophila cells, not all DNA sequences are replicated to the same extent. Cytological studies have demonstrated that certain chromosome regions, such as the -heterochromatin, are in some cells under-replicated and in other cells not replicated at all. Similarly, such DNA fractions as the highly repeated satellite DNAs are also under- or non-replicated in polyploid and polytene cells. The genes for rRNA in polytene cells replicate one to three rounds less than the euchromatic DNA and are capable of differential synthesis to compensate for deficiencies. The differential replication of DNA sequences indicates that there is regulation of DNA replication at a level intermediate between the replicon and the entire genome. Chromosomes of terminally differentiated polyploid or polytene cells have several domains of DNA sequences, which in replication are controlled as units. This paper, which reviews the literature on differential replication of DNA in Drosophila, discusses possible controls over this process. 
3884320|Many xenobiotic compounds introduced into the environment by human activity have been shown to adversely affect wildlife. Reproductive disorders in wildlife include altered fertility, reduced viability of offspring, impaired hormone secretion or activity and modified reproductive anatomy. It has been hypothesized that many of these alterations in reproductive function are due to the endocrine disruptive effects of various environmental contaminants. The endocrine system exhibits an organizational effect on the developing embryo. Thus, a disruption of the normal hormonal signals can permanently modify the organization and future function of the reproductive system. We have examined the reproductive and developmental endocrinology of several populations of American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) living in contaminated and reference lakes and used this species as a sentinel species in field studies. We have observed that neonatal and juvenile alligators living in pesticide-contaminated lakes have altered plasma hormone concentrations, reproductive tract anatomy and hepatic functioning. Experimental studies exposing developing embryos to various persistent and nonpersistent pesticides, have produced alterations in gonadal steroidogenesis, secondary sex characteristics and gonadal anatomy. These experimental studies have begun to provide the causal relationships between embryonic pesticide exposure and reproductive abnormalities that have been lacking in pure field studies of wild populations. An understanding of the developmental consequences of endocrine disruption in wildlife can lead to new indicators of exposure and a better understanding of the most sensitive life stages and the consequences of exposure during these periods.
3882578|On the basis of male territorial song, a system of discrete dialects is described in a population of White-crowned Sparrows in central, coastal California. Four of these dialects are genetically differentiated from one another. Inbreeding coefficients calculated from electrophoretic alleles indicate that individuals in a dialect are inbred due to isolation of the dialect not because of inbreeding with close relatives. Males react more aggressively to male song from an adjacent dialect than to song from another member of their own dialect but react only weakly to song from a distant dialect. This indicates that male-male interactions may have a role in maintaining dialect populations. Females of the Mountain White-crowned Sparrow have been tested in dialect experiments in the laboratory and found to respond with precopulatory sexual posturing almost exclusively to song from the home dialect in comparison to song from an alien dialect. This indicates that female choice of mate may also play a role in maintaining dialect populations.
3881539|The classic concept of "filtering rate" often used to describe feeding by zooplankton may be outmoded. The Ivlev (1945) type of fitted curve may describe more precisely the relation between a zooplanktonic organism and its food supply. Once food is captured it is assimilated with a high degree of efficiency. There does not appear to be any relationship between the quantity of food eaten and the digestive efficiency. Examination is made of the relationship between respiratory rate and size in zooplankton. The exponential constant varies considerably from one organism to another, but may not be affected by physical parameters such as temperature. A multiple regression equation relating respiration to weight and temperature simultaneously gives a moderately good estimate of respiration for a variety of marine copepods. The relationship between uptake of oxygen and excretion of nitrogen (O:N ratio) is a useful indicator of metabolic substrate used in respiration and is related to the chemical composition of the animals. The "specific dynamic effect" (SDA) of food should be considered in studies of zooplanktonic metabolism. The literature on growth efficiency for zooplankton is reviewed and the applicability of recent growth models for fish (Paloheimo and Dickie, 1965, 1966) to zooplanktonic problems is considered.
3881352| Laboratory-hatched larvae of this estuarine crab were reared at 25C in seawater of 25 salinity for 18 days covering zoeal Stages I to IV and a megalops. Three-day periods between zoeal stages represent intermolt stages of circadean metecdysis, diecdysis, and proecdysis. Larvae were exposed to either a series of seawater salinities from 5-40 in 5 increments or of 10-40 in 10 increments for one hour during each day of their development. The osmoconcentrations of 20-80 nanoliter hemolymph samples from each of four larvae were measured separately by determinations of freezing point depression. Eyestalkless larvae in metecdysis of zoeal Stage II were exposed to the same osmoconcentrations as unoperated controls to test for osmoregulation by eyestalk nerve tissue. Larvae tend to be isosmotic with seawater of 30-40 salinity (S) and to hyperregulate in more dilute media except for larvae in their first diecdysis which remain isosmotic. Larvae in the last few hours of proecdysis hyperregulate against 40 S as well, presumably to insure inflow of water to establish a greater body volume during hardening of the exoskeleton. They are consequently isosmotic in the very early metecdysis. The presence of eyestalks at the first metecdysis (Stage II) keeps zoeas hyperosmotic to 5-30 S, but prevents them from hyperregulation against 40 S. Eyestalkless zoeas become isosmotic with 5-30 S and hyperregulate against 40 S like late proecdysal larvae. Lack of eyestalks makes diecdysal animals hyperregulate against a medium with which normal animals are isosmotic. The eyestalk influence affects second metecdysal (Stage III) larvae in a way similar to those in first metecdysis except that it apparently also prevents a curious tendency to hyporegulate in 5-30 S. Similarly, in this stage, the eyestalks prevent hyperosmosity in 40 S seawater as they do during the first day of zoeal Stage II. Eyestalk nerve tissue reduces the degree to which diecdysal larvae of this stage remain hyperosmotic to media of 10 S and 20 S and apparently causes larvae to be hypoosmotic at 40 S. Preliminary data indicate that removal of eyestalks has little effect on proecdysal larval osmoregulation or on regulation of Stage IV zoeas. In other experiments ablation of eyestalks caused Stage II larvae to lose the ability to osmoregulate against 10-30 S seawater within two hours after the operation. The same zoeas did not hyperregulate against 40 seawater until four hours after removal of eyestalks. 
3881996|Bears evolved from a canid stock at quite a recent date (early Miocene). Despite this recent origin, bears show substantial morphological, physiological, and ecological differences when compared to modern day canids. However, the display behaviors of Canidae and Ursidae have remained remarkably similar. In this paper, the motor patterns of black bear social play are described in detail. Numerous similarities between canid and ursid social play are pointed out. Agonistic displays common to both families are also pointed out. These behavioral similarities support the principle that social behavior, particularly display behavior, will frequently be conservative in its evolution as compared to the evolution of morphology, anatomy, or ecological adaptations. Beach (1945) stressed the importance of identifying and testing the general characteristics of play. A large number of characteristics have been suggested as being diagnostic of play, but these characteristics have received very little testing. Five characteristics of social play were tested in this study, and two were found to be only partially valid for black bear social play. Extensive testing of the general characteristics of play on as wide a range of species as possible is definitely recommended for future research.
3881869|Two species of subterranean skinks (Typhlosaurus) are sympatric in part of the southern Kalahari Desert. The geographic range of the smaller species (T. gariepensis) is entirely included within that of the larger one (T. lineatus). Snout-vent lengths, head dimensions, proportional head lengths, and prey size of T. lineatus are larger in sympatry than in allopatry. Morphological and dietary evidence support the hypothesis that behavioral and morphological character displacement has occurred in female and immature T. lineatus, which reduces dietary overlap with T. gariepensis. Dietary data for male T. lineatus may be conflicting.
3882717|The aggressive, sexual, and scent marking behaviors of male gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus) are sensitive to gonadal androgens, but androgens are not equally important in the control of each behavior. In this species, territorial residency, prior aggressive experience, and unidentified factors that contribute to large individual differences in aggressiveness, influence the aggressive behavior of males at least as much as androgens do. To the extent that androgens affect aggression between male gerbils, they act partially by altering aggressiveness and partially by altering production of aggression-eliciting cues. The nature of these cues is unknown. Understanding the role of androgens in aggression in this species is further complicated by the observation that castration can either increase or decrease aggression depending on the age at which the surgery is performed. In contrast, androgens play a primary role in the control of sexual behavior and scent marking. Both behaviors consistently decline following castration despite prior experience of the males. Both behaviors are also controlled by the medial preoptic area-anterior hypothalamus, an area of the brain often implicated in the control of male sociosexual behaviors. It appears, though, that the sites, and possibly the mechanisms, of hormone action underlying scent marking and sexual behavior differ. Studying both behaviors in the same species, and whenever possible in the same individuals, is proving to be a useful technique for identifying such differences between behaviors as their sensitivity to steroids and to brain lesions.
3882798|Thomas Hunt Morgan taught at Bryn Mawr College from 1891 until 1904. During his years there he concentrated his research interests on embryology; he included regeneration as an integral part of development. This article maintains that Morgan did not abandon his interest in embryology when he became a geneticist at Columbia, but it deals mainly with his teaching and research while at Bryn Mawr. He worked on the development of a great diversity of organisms, plant and animal, he used widely differing experimental methods to investigate them, and he concerned himself with many different general and special problems. He strove to investigate problems that were directly soluble by experimental intervention, and was highly critical, in the best possible way, of the experiments and interpretations made by his contemporaries, who regarded him as a leader. He exerted his influence on developmental biology not only through his research, but also through a number of fine textbooks, and by his teaching. During his Bryn Mawr years he encouraged his students, undergraduate and graduate, to carry out independent research. He sometimes published with them as co-author, but dozens of articles by his students were published without carrying Morgan's name as co-author.
3881181|Present knowledge of the properties of the myoneural systems of the Platyhelminthes and Echinodermata is reviewed. There is, as yet, no compelling evidence for the presence of a non-polarized nerve network in the members of either phylum. Attention is drawn to similarities between the spontaneous activity patterns shown by preparations representative of these two phyla and of sea anemones. The possibility is considered that in all these cases the controlling physiological machinery may be the same.
3881356| Two types of neurosecretory cells ( and ) are present in the brain in Hirudo and Theromyzon. The  cells contain secretions which stain with paraldehydefuchsin and contain considerable amounts of cystine. They have an annual cycle of activity, showing greater amounts of secretion in cell bodies and axons in spring and summer. The  cells contain secretions which are acidophilic and poor in cystine. They are consistently present in Theromyzon; their presence (particularly that of the 
3882050|Three types of mature epidermal neurons and several of their differentiating stages are presented in this ultrastructural study. Each of the three types, neurosensory, neurosecretory, and ganglionic cells, is derived from interstitial cells. (i) Mature neurosensory cells contain elongated nuclei, a well-developed cilium in each cell, and membrane-bounded neurosecretory droplets (700-1300 A in diameter). There may be two or more neurites in which are numerous microtubules, glycogen particles, ribosomes and many neurosecretory droplets. (ii) Mature neurosecretory cells closely resemble neurosensory cells, except that no cilium is present. The perikarya contain small, dense nuclei, neurosecretory droplets (850-1300 A in diameter), mitochondria, glycogen particles, and microtubules. Active Golgi complexes are present in both cell types. The neurites are similar to those described for neurosensory cells. (iii) Mature ganglionic cells are bipolar or multipolar. The small, dense nuclei are surrounded by a small amount of cytoplasm. The neurites contain mostly microtubules; a few mitochondria, ribosomes, and glycogen particles are also present, but there are no secretory droplets. To date, only neurosensory and neurosecretory cells have been observed in the gastrodermis. They are structurally indistinguishable from their epidermal counterparts. A significant finding is that three types of synapses-neuromuscular, neuronematocyte, and interneuronal-are identified in both the epidermal and gastrodermal neurons.
3882397|The avian eggshell is considered as a mediating boundary that operates along with the nest microenvironment and the behaviour of the brooding parent(s) to isolate the embryo from the external environment. Particular importance is attached to shell modifications that could assure that the pores are not flooded or blocked with debris. It is proposed that the mechanical properties of the shell that ensure the integrity of the diffusion pathways throughout incubation are of equal importance to those that protect the embryo from emchanical damage. Five broad categories of pore types in avian eggshells have been defined: 1) simple pore systems-a tube open at both ends traverses the true shell; 2) occluded pore systems-the outer surface of the shell is coated with featureless material of unknown origin and chemical composition; fissures in this material presumably permit gaseous diffusion; 3) plugged pore systems-the outer orifice of the pore orifice contains a plug of organic or crystalline inorganic material; 4) capped pore systems-the outer surface of the true shell and pore orifices are covered with a stratum of spheres formed from organic material, vaterite or non-crystalline materials rich in calcium and phosporus; 5) reticulate pores-the outer portion of the palisade layer is modified so that a plexus of tubules comprises much of the shell. Although five pore systems have been defined so far, all probably share a common origin in that cones formed in the distal part of the isthmus provide not only the opportunity for pore formation but also foundation for the palisade layer.
3881734|Integumentary secretory cells and glands in vertebrate animals are systematically surveyed and basic attributes of their adaptive evolution are outlined. Morphogenetic lines of secretory epidermal cells are fundamental and present a primary dichotomy between mucous and proteinaceous stem lines. Adaptive evolution of integumentary glandular cells can not be separated from the cytogenesis and evolution of other synthetically active epidermal cells, including those which secrete without having a glandular morphology. Glandular microevolutionary patterns are correlated with evolving interactions between environment and organism, and are interpretable only on the basis of studies integrating the approaches and techniques of different zoological specialties.
3881683| In a survey of shell-boring polychaetes of New England, representatives of five families were found: Spionidae, Cirratulidae, Capitellidae, Terebellidae, and Sabellidae. The five spionid species were studied extensively. These include Polydora commensalis Andrews, found only in shells occupied by hermit crabs, P. concharum Verrill, P. socialis (Schmarda), P. websteri Hartman, and Boccardia hamata (Webster), found in various types of shell. Breeding periods were defined and the larval development described for each species. Polydora concharum deposits egg capsules in winter months, while the other polydorids spawn in spring or summer. Morphology of planktonic larvae is distinct in each species, although P. websteri larvae may be confused with non-boring species such as P. ligni Webster. Polydora socialis adults are found in both shells and sediment and have a unique grinding apparatus, a gizzard, between the esophagus and intestine. The cirratulid, Dodecaceria sp., follows an asexual mode of reproduction. The systematics of Dodecaceria is complex owing to multiple modes of reproduction. No sexually mature individuals were observed during the course of this study. Asexual buds were found in the Fall. A sabellid, Pseudopotamilla reniformis (Mller), is commonly found in the shells of Placopecten magellanicus (Gmelin) in Maine waters. Its reproduction is unknown. 
3882425|Some differences exist between myocardial tissue of the auriculo-ventricular valve and the ventricle of Dolabella, which have been revealed by means of electron microscopic and electrophysiological investigations. The muscle cells in the ventricle are more neatly arranged than those in the auriculo-ventricular valve, in which the alignments of the muscle cells run in many directions, indicating an interwoven structure. Myocardial cells of the ventricle have more condensed myofibrils and more apparent sarcomeres than those of the auriculo-ventricular valve. When both the sites are dissected out together, it is noticeable that the auriculo-ventricular valve almost always fires an action potential before an action potential appears in the ventricle. Thus the pacemaker of the auriculo-ventricular valve dominates that of the ventricle. Acetylcholine usually causes depolarization in the ventricle and hyperpolarization in the auriculo-ventricular valve and has similar actions on the auriculo-ventricular valve as do inhibitory junctional potentials. Membrane conductance of the myocardium in both sites is increased by acetylcholine. This possibly results from increase of sodium and potassium permeability in both sites. Thus, the difference in effects of acetylcholine between the two sites, depolarization in the ventricle and hyperpolarization in the auriculo-ventricular valve, might result from the difference in the initial membrane potential and in the ratio of increased conductance for sodium and potassium between the sites. Results show that there is some functional differentiation between the sites. It indicates that even though the heart has a diffuse myogenic nature, a conduction system has been developed in Dolabella auricularia.
3884159|The ontogeny of muscles, motor neurons, and the central circuitry involved in producing patterned motor outputs is often thought of as a series of relatively independent and stereotyped events. Although mature neuromuscular systems are indeed often highly stereotyped, there is mounting evidence that the developmental mechanisms that give rise to such stereotypy may often be interactive. The medicinal leech, Hirudo medicinalis, has stereotyped neurons and muscles, yet at least some of the neuromuscular components seem to depend upon a particular sequence of cell-cell interactions to differentiate, express identifiable phenotypes, or select synaptic partners. Three examples are summarized to illustrate these possibilities. First, a pattern-forming cell (the C-cell) develops at an early stage and projects parallel processes that are used as a scaffold upon which myocytes assemble. In the absence of the C-cell, oblique muscle fascicles never become organized. Second, at least one way to match neuronal phenotype to that appropriate for a segment-specific target is for homologous neurons to receive a signal from that target locally to partially respecify further differentiation of that neuron. Third, how do identified motor neurons select appropriate target muscles and how do interneuronal circuits become matched to particular muscles when an interposed motor neuron disallows direct interactions? A well-defined pattern-generating system driving the muscular heart tubes in this leech is beginning to provide insights into these issues.
3884064|There is considerable evidence that the increases in circulating corticosterone levels following acute stress, such as sudden storms, can trigger facultative behavioral patterns designed to maximize survival. During the breeding season, adrenocortical responses to aseasonal storms may trigger facultative behavioral patterns resulting in temporary disruption of nesting. A renesting cycle often follows when conditions become favorable again. However, in arctic ecosystems the brief breeding season limits the capacity of most avian populations to renest, and yet spring weather may be extreme. This led to the hypothesis that arctic birds may down-regulate their sensitivity to acute stress (such as severe storms) so that breeding can begin and be completed before the first storms of autumn (only 6-8 weeks later). To test this we have used the "stress-series protocol" that takes advantage of the fact that capture, handling and restraint constitutes a more-or-less equal stress among all vertebrate species, and that corticosterone concentrations in small blood samples collected during the first hour post-capture indicate sensitivity of the hypothalamo-adenohypophysial-adrenal axis to acute stresses in general. Comparisons of the increases in plasma levels of corticosterone following capture in several taxa of arctic birds indicated that suppression of the adrenocortical response to acute stress was not ubiquitous. Although some species did show low amplitude responses of the circulating corticosterone increase during the stress series protocol, others did not, and some (especially males) showed an increase in sensitivity to acute stress. Additional hypotheses were suggested as follows: 1) species with greater body mass have larger relative energy reserves and would be more able to resist acute stresses than smaller species; 2) short-lived birds with an expectancy of one or two breeding seasons should be more resistant to acute stress than long-lived birds that may have many attempts at successful breeding; 3) resistance of the adrenocortical response to stress is a function of the degree of parental care provided by the individual (also takes into account sex differences in parental investment). Correlations of the maximum corticosterone level and the ratio of maximum to minimum corticosterone levels generated during the stress series protocol with body mass and longevity were not significant. However, maximum corticosterone level was significantly lower in birds providing most parental care and almost significant for the ratio of maximum to minimum corticosterone levels. These comparative data from free-living arctic birds suggest an ecological basis for modulation of the adrenocortical responses to stress. In at least one species, up-regulation of the response appears to involve a change in sensitivity to glucocorticosteroid feedback. Further investigations will explore neuroendocrine mechanisms further in the light of these ecological bases.
3883996|Physiological and biomechanical inquiries into the principles of vertebrate locomotion require comparison among animals of different size, habitat and phyletic association. In designing comparative studies of locomotion, a major challenge is to isolate the effects of experimentally imposed variation from the confounding effects of variation in animal activity level associated with differences in scale and life history. For swimming vertebrates, traditional measures of speed used for comparison, including sprint speed and critical swimming speed, should in theory each elicit similar efforts from different animals but have practical shortcomings that can limit their usefulness. This paper presents an alternative approach, adapted from the work of mammalian physiologists, which controls for differences in relative activity level among swimming animals of different size and habitat through comparison at gait transition speeds. The method is illustrated with examples from study of the teleost fish family Embiotocidae, whose members exhibit a distinct transition from exclusively pectoral fin oscillation to combined pectoral and caudal fin propulsion with increasing swimming speed. The pectoral-caudal gait transition speed, or any percentage thereof, is shown to be 'biomechanically equivalent' for swimmers of different size. When this performance limit is expressed in terms of body lengths traveled per unit time, a common normalization of swimming speed, it varies markedly across size and habitat within the family. This finding has the important implication that length-specific speeds may not induce comparable degrees of exercise from different fishes, and thus kinematic and physiological comparisons at such speeds can yield misleading results. The comparative approach described for pectoral fin swimmers, and the limitations of length-specific speed, should be generally applicable to studies of other swimming vertebrates.
3883157|Johns Hopkins University pioneered a new model for graduate education in biology. Prior to its opening in 1876, opportunities for graduate education in biology were extremely limited in the United States. Under the careful leadership of W. K. Brooks and H. Newell Martin, Johns Hopkins not only provided for the education of many of the first generation of American-trained biologists, but it also developed a new and workable model for advanced training in the biological sciences. This model, formed around laboratory training and original research, was adopted by many American universities by the end of the nineteenth century.
3883615|Plant material is the major source of nutrition for many species of crabs in both marine and terrestrial habitats. Physical and chemical characteristics of plants can lead to difficulties in harvesting and ingestion, to low digestability, unpalatability and toxicity, and to deficiencies in specific nutrients, especially nitrogen, vitamins and fatty acids. We describe the range of herbivory in crabs, as well as the anatomical, physiological and behavioral adaptations that enhance nutrient acquisition from plant material. We assess the impact of herbivory by crabs on plant communities, and highlight topics for further research.
3881614|The role of luteinizing hormone (LH) in regulation of secretion of ovarian steroids during the preovulatory phase of the rat estrous cycle has been discussed. Evidence indicating an involvement of these steroids in control of the uterine growth, vaginal cornification, mating behavior and LH secretion which occur during this phase has been reviewed. A positive feedback control system has been proposed, in which both ovarian and adrenal steroids participate to initiate the preovulatory "LH-surge" which culminates in ovulation and luteinization.
3884228|Questions about how today's corals and coral reefs will fare in a future that holds not only increasing direct anthropogenic impacts, but also global change, cannot be satisfactorily answered if we do not understand the relations of corals and reef systems to today's environmental conditions. This paper discusses four aspects of modern reef biology: coral reproduction, coral population biology, the coral-zooxanthella symbiosis, and reef community ecology. Conclusions of this survey of current knowledge are that complexities of cnidarian reproductive biology, and our rudimentary knowledge of reproductive patterns in reef cnidarians, make forecasting based on current knowledge uncertain at best; new discoveries about the coral algal symbiotic system suggest a possible mode of adjustment to environmental change that warrants a strong research effort; coral communities of the future may well be unlike what we are familiar with today; and these new assemblages will be shaped by the interaction of novel environmental conditions and the characteristics of individual reef species.
3882045| Research on anemone development has been largely descriptive. In this paper I review the work on anemone development and in doing so, attempt to point to areas where additional investigation may prove fruitful. There is only a little information available on gametogenesis and fertilization. Eggs and sperm may be released by the adults with fertilization occurring in the external environment. In other cases females retain the eggs within the gastrovascular cavity or septa until after fertilization. There is some behavior reported to be associated with spawning. Anemone eggs range from 80 to 1,100  in diameter. They may have a smooth or a spiny oolemma. The smaller eggs undergo holoblastic cleavage, form a hollow blastula, and gastrulate by invagination. Larger eggs show delayed cytokinesis, superficial cleavage, form a solid blastula, and undergo gastrulation by a confusing variety of methods. Most gastrulae are ciliated and able to swim. Smaller zygotes become hollow planulae which may be planktotrophic or parasitic. Larger zygotes become lecithotrophic larvae which may be free living or brooded in a variety of ways. A general lack of information exists for many families and some conflicting descriptions await further investigation. 
3881121|The transition from the rhipidistian crossopterygian fishes to the amphibians involved many changes in morphology, physiology and behavior. The selection pressures promoting terrestrial adaptations and concurrently preserving the aquatic ones must have been responsible for extensive experimentation during the transitional interval. A multiple origin of the amphibian level is therefore regarded as probable, and this view is supported by the diversity of the earliest known amphibian groups.
3882259|Visual and acoustic mechanisms of communication are compared. Their properties are found to be similar except that acoustic systems function more efficiently when light levels are low. The ability of geckos to receive and produce visual and acoustic messages is discussed. Geckos are found to have excellent vision and good hearing. They also possess the visual attributes and sound producing mechanisms necessary for complex displays. The display behavior of geckos is reviewed. Display types are categorized according to the display mechanism used. Visual displays are found to utilize color, pattern, posture, and movement. These displays are used in predator threat as well as in intraspecific social contexts such as aggression and courtship. Combined visual-acoustic displays involve color, pattern, postures, movement, and sound. Combined displays are used in predator threat and in intraspecific aggressive encounters. Acoustic displays have little or no visual component and involve sounds that may be single chirps or temporally patterned multiple chirps. The single chirps are associated with distress while the multiple chirp calls are heard in intraspecific social contexts. The displays of diurnal and nocturnal geckos are compared and it is found that differences are correlated with differences in their diel activity cycles. In conclusion, it is pointed out that many areas remain to be studied before gecko display behavior is well understood.
4620215|Molecular "clocks" are now widely accepted as pointing to a protracted, but cryptic, history of pre-Ediacaran metazoan evolution. The inhabitants of this interval (ca. 1300-600 Myr ago) are usually envisaged as equivalent to either planktotrophic larvae or the meiofauna. Reassessment of the evidence, however, suggests that this pre-Ediacaran history was neither deep nor was represented by analogues of microscopic living metazoans. The origination of this Kingdom may have been no earlier than ca. 650 Myr, and the earliest forms emerged from the Metazoa-Fungi-Mycetozoa stem-group. Accordingly the time-frame and search image need to be reset with this hypothesis in mind.
3882419|The synchronized bursts of impulses produced by the nine neurons of the isolated Homarus cardiac ganglion are usually initiated by Cell 7. Activity in all other cells commences with very short latency thereafter. Impulses in most cells originate in trigger zones located 1-2 mm from the cell body, but the first several impulses in Cells 8 and 9 frequently originate in distal trigger zones some distance from the somata. Large cells fire at a high initial frequency, dropping rapidly to a low frequency plateau. Small cells exhibit a more tonic behavior and fire at intermediate rates. More anterior small cells tend to fire faster than more posterior ones. The major synaptic interactions are the impulse-mediated excitatory ones from small cells to large cells, and possibly to more anterior small cells. There are weak interactions from large cells back onto small cells, and very specific interactions from Cells 1 and 2 onto
3883202|Environmental stressors have been shown to alter immunocompetence in mammals. Similar effects have been reported in fish. The purpose of this paper is to review the literature concerning the white blood cells and immunity in Fundulus heteroclitus. Evidence for immunosuppression following prolonged captivity, handling, hypophysectomy, radiation, changes in temperature and salinity, and exposure to chemicals including environmental pollutants is discussed. New evidence for immunosuppression following exposure to benzo-a-pyrene, pentachlorophenol, and hexachlorobenzene is presented. Possible mechanisms of immune alteration and the consequences to F. heteroclitus are discussed.
3883667|The current paradigm for recruitment invokes passive transport of the larva in the water column followed by larval choice of habitat after deposition of the larva on or near the bottom. Larval choice is typically considered to be based on positive cues. I argue herein that the evidence for emphasizing rejection of substrata by negative cues is at least as compelling as that for acceptance by positive cues. Data from the literature on costs of rejection of settlement sites, types of emigration by larvae and/or juveniles, and criteria by which infaunal larvae and/or juveniles reject habitats are used to support this thesis.
3883952| Focus on tadpole diet and foraging behavior offers potential for integrating ecological and endocrinological approaches to understanding anuran metamorphosis. Natural larval diets vary widely in relative amounts of protein, carbohydrate and lipid, factors known to influence thyroid hormone function, which in turn is essential for metamorphosis to occur. Previous work has shown that tadpoles fed high protein diets grow and develop quickly. This pattern is consistent with findings from other classes of vertebrates that some aspects of thyroid function, e.g., activity of 5D monodeiodinase, an enzyme that converts thyroxine ( T
3884335|The possibility of conscious experiences of emotions in non-human animals has been much less explored than that of conscious experiences associated with carrying out complex cognitive tasks. However, no great cognitive powers are needed to feel hunger or pain and it may be that the capacity to feel emotions is widespread in the animal kingdom. Since plants can show surprisingly sophisticated "choice" and "decision-making" mechanisms and yet we would not wish to imply that they are conscious, attribution of emotions to animals has to be done with care. Whether or not an animal possesses anticipatory mechanisms associated with positive and negative reinforcement learning may be a guide as to whether it has evolved emotions.
3881712|Among animals which regenerate, it is usually observed that younger forms show greater powers than older ones. It became possible to investigate this correlation in lizards after the development of a culturing technique for the eggs of ovoviviparous reptiles (Panigel, 1956). Moffat and Bellairs (1964) amputated the tails of lizard embryos at various stages and examined them at hatching. Only the embryos amputated at near-hatching stages showed any regeneration. However, subsequent experiments on the younger stages have shown that most of the embryos become constricted and even amputated by the healing amniotic and allantoic membranes. This younger group was therefore re-examined for regenerative ability under conditions where the formation of constrictions could be controlled. The results showed that small asymmetrical outgrowths sometimes arise from a fraction of the stump area. These unusual regenerates were never seen to grow longer than one millimeter, or to differentiate cartilage or muscle. The results suggest that normal regeneration is a process which cannot be elicited until a certain degree of maturity of the tail tissues has been attained, and that it is not necessarily better in young individuals or in tissues which are less well differentiated.
3881775|Orb-webs are highly developed and can be understood as the best technical solution of the problem how to place capture-threads in the most efficient and economical way. They are built by cribellate and ecribellate spiders. Phylogenetical relations between some families of Cribellatae and Ecribellatae cannot be ignored, but for some important reasons it is difficult to imagine that on the level of orb-weaving cribellate spiders became ecribellate by reducing the cribellum. Thus, these specialized webs must have developed on both sides independently and are the result of a convergent evolution. Steps leading from primitive use of threads for capturing insects to the typical and later modified orb-webs of Cribellatae and Ecribellatae can be discerned.
3883577|The C
3881479|Male Betta splendens were conditioned to emit an operant response sequence reinforced by presentation of a model of another male Betta in aggressive display (Thompson, 1963). The color of the model with respect to the color of the subject co-varied with the rate of operant response (Thompson and Sturm, 1965). In another experiment, unconditioned aggressive display behavior elicited by the mirror image of a male Betta was brought under the control of a previously ineffective stimulus by classical conditioning. Relative rates of acquisition of four components of the display were compared. A discriminative conditioning procedure, using two different colors of light as the CS, revealed that the response was elicited specifically by the CS (Thompson and Sturm, 1966).
3882223|Some aspects of the differentiation, growth, and morphogenesis of the tissues within the skeleton are discussed and related to the evolution of the vertebrate skeleton. The tissues considered are bone, cartilage, dentine, and enamel. The histology of the skeletal tissues of the Ordovician agnatha is reviewed with the conclusion that the skeletal tissues of the first vertebrates were as diverse and as specialized as are those of present-day vertebrates. Phylogenies of skeletal tissues cannot be established. The trend during evolution appears to have been toward reduction in amount of skeletal tissue and in the number of types of tissues present. The factors which determine when and where a skeletal element develops ontogenetically are reviewed and used to discuss the origin and evolution of jaws, the evolution of membrane bones and the origin of such structures as sesamoid bones. Special importance is attached to epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. The factors which determine what particular skeletal tissue will form at a particular site within the body are reviewed with especial reference to modulation, germ layer derivation, and the role of epigenetic factors. The factors which determine size and shape of the skeleton, both ontogenetically and phylogenetically, are reviewed and the directive role of adjacent tissues emphasized.
3883231|Explanations in morphology can be classified into functional and evolutionary explanations which do not coincide with the limits of functional morphology and of evolutionary biology as usually recognized. Functional explanations are nomologicaldeductive in form and deal with many aspects of morphology such as how structures operate, correlations between form and function, and the adaptiveness of features. Evolutionary explanations cover the historical origin of features and use historical-narrative analysis as the basic method. The results of these two types of explanations are quite complementary. It is clear that functional explanations can never be complete no matter how detailed they are, and that evolutionary explanations are absolutely dependent on prior functional explanations. Functional explanations, however, can be made independently of evolutionary explanations. A case study is presented dealing with the relationships between several categories of properties in the form-function complex, namely the possibility of predicting or explaining one property of a feature given a second property under a strict functional explanation. It was shown that it is possible to predict properties of function given the form of a feature, even if the feature is a complex one. However, it is not possible to predict uniquely the properties of form of a feature given its function in a functional explanation. Nevertheless, both types of explanations are most valuable in theoretical and empirical anatomical studies, and should be used to their fullest. Predictions of possible morphological form from known properties of function is one of the most powerful research strategies in morphology in discovering new anatomical features as well as providing an essential foundation for any evolutionary explanation in morphology.
3882840|Ongoing research efforts in mammalian mastication have defined several broad areas of mutual interest to workers in the discipline. They are (1) interrelationships between masticatory movements, (2) actions of the masticatory muscles, (3) comparisons between masticatory structures and functions, (4) developmental aspects, (5) comparisons between limbs and jaws, and (6) neurophysiologic considerations. The roles (potential and actual) of masticatory central pattern generators, cerebral "mastication areas," different neural mechanisms between mammalian taxa, neurophysiologic/morphologic interactions, and biochemical factors within the total milieu of mammalian mastication are discussed.
3883182|Because all species are consumers and all, eventually, are consumed by other species, consumer-resource interaction is one of the most fundamental processes of ecology. Simple models that include the direct mechanisms of consumer-resource interactions may thus be the fundamental building-block for models of community structure. These models are easily extended to include such complexity as the effects of physical limiting factors, spatial heterogeneity in resource supply, fluctuating resource supply, and multiple trophic levels. Each such modification places constraints on the traits of species that can persist. Consumer-resource models make predictions about many aspects of community structure, including species richness, species composition, species dominance, population dynamics, morphological or physiological traits of species, and patterns of phenotypic variation within species. Thus, each model affords numerous opportunities to test and modify or reject it. A review of a variety of communities suggests that much of the structure of each community can be explained by a relatively simple consumer-resource model, but that different elements of complexity may be important in different communities.
3883691|Studies on extant bimodally breathing vertebrates offer us a chance to gain insight into the changes in respiratory control during the evolutionary transition from water to air breathing. In primitive Actinopterygian air-breathing fishes (Lepisosteus and Amia), gill ventilation is driven by an endogenously active central rhythm generator that is powerfully modulated by afferent input from internally and externally oriented branchial chemoreceptors, as it is in water-breathing Actinopterygians. The effects of internal or external chemoreceptor stimulation on water and air breathing vary substantially in these aquatic air breathers, suggesting that their roles are evolutionarily malleable. Air breathing in these bimodal breathers usually occurs as single breaths taken at irregular intervals and is an on-demand phenomenon activated primarily by afferent input from the branchial chemoreceptors. There is no evidence for central
3883251|The hematozoan parasites comprise a medically important group of organisms which have received increasing attention in recent years. Malaria, particularly, has garnered significant research effort in regards to the development of sporozoite-specific vaccines. However, initial enthusiasm for an effective vaccine has been dampened as a result of field studies showing the presence of surface epitope-specific antibodies in drugcured and subsequently reinfected patients. Of importance, increasing evidence exists that cell-mediated immune mechanisms may play a central role in protection and pathogenesis in malaria. New evidence to unravel the mechanisms and significance of immunosuppression in leishmaniasis and Chagas' disease continues to implicate a complex circuit involving suppressor macrophages, lymphokine deficiencies, and atypical behavior of T helper cell populations. The African trypanosomes provide the cellular and molecular biologists challenges in understanding the basis and regulation of variant-specific glycoproteins (VSG) and their significance in immunity and pathogenesis. An important recent determination is that there appears to be little or no correlation between expression of a specific VSG and pathogenesis. The present status of research on the hematozoan parasites reestablishes the remarkable evolutionary accomplishments of these organisms to survive in the hostile immune environment of their vertebrate hosts.
3881342|In gastropods that have been studied, there is some indication of the presence of neurons with specialized staining properties that are possibly neurosecretory. However, there are no stains specific for neurosecretion, and certain cellular inclusions can simulate secretory products. The presence of elementary neurosecretory granules does not as such determine neurosecretory status since such granules may represent neurotransmitters. Evidence of cyclical secretory activity of so-called neurosecretory neurons is most frequently related to reproductive phenomena, but there are also instances of control of water balance and hibernation. The existence of neurohemal organs within nerves and commissures has been described in several species. So-called neuroglandular complexes have been reported in association with the nervous system. Vesicles incorporated in the central nervous system may be sensory rather than glandular. Some caution is needed in estimating secretory activity of these complexes. Possible non-neural endocrine glands adjacent to the central ganglia have been described. In pulmonates granule-laden fibers are associated with the mediodorsal bodies; however, the nature of the neurosecretomotor or neurosecretory-neuropil control is still unclear, both morphologically and physiologically.
3881689|The pholad, Penitella conradi, is found along the California coast in the calcareous shell of the abalone, Haliotis rufescens. These pholads penetrate the abalone shell, and when they break through the inside of the shell they cease boring, secrete a callum, and then become sexually mature. The normal adult is a stenomorphic form, defined by Bartsch as an animal whose sexual maturity is induced by over-crowding or insufficient substratum in which to bore. In the case of P. conradi, sexual maturity is always induced by the spatial limits of the substratum, that is, the relatively thin abalone shell. The role of mechanical abrasion by the valves of P. conradi is minor. Experiments indicate that the teeth of P. conradi are worn at a greater rate than the polished shell of the abalone. The boring process in P. conradi proceeds mainly by chemical dissolution of the calcareous substrate. The pathway of the solvents is unknown. It may be through the organic matrix, or the solvent may react directly with the crystals. Mechanical abrasion helps to remove loosened crystals and/or organic matrix which are then carried to the exterior by the ciliary currents flowing in through the pedal gape and out through the exhalent siphon.
3882230|Increased potential versatility in form and function of the feeding apparatus of cichlid fishes has led to a prodigious proliferation in the number of possible functional solutions to an increasing variety of biological problems. Optimal utilization of every conceivable trophic resource in lacustrine environments by just one fish family, the Cichlidae, has been achieved by eruptive evolutionary radiation within the characteristically cichlid body plan producing mechanisms which partition the diverse food resources with extraordinary efficiency therefore minimizing resource sharing. There is a direct relationship between the effectiveness of trophic resource exploitation and the functional integration of the cichlid body plan in which a minimum number of adaptive compromises are necessary to evolve optimal anatomical solutions by rapidly realizable changes. Anatomical data presented here reveal that cichlids possess a specific kind of mosaic in which the basic percoid jaw apparatus permits unparalleled optimal adaptations by simple morphogenetic changes while unique and dramatically diverse patterns of muscular coordination involving degrees of synchrony and extensive modulating capabilities of antagonistic muscle groups have been discovered electromyographically. At the same time the highly integrated pharyngeal jaw apparatus is sufficiently specialized providing complete freedom for the jaws to evolve into refined collecting devices. The exceptional evolutionary success of lacustrine cichlids demonstrates how rare and very specific kinds of biologically versatile morphological mosaics represent the best preadaptations for the ancestors of major new taxa. Given identical ecological conditions and temporal factors, a group of organisms possessing such rare mosaics, in which optimal biological versatility is realizable by simple evolutionary mechanisms, will dominate newly formed environments to the detriment of taxa not so endowed.
3882400| The loss of mass in eggs during incubation was examined and evidence is presented to show that this is essentially due to loss of water. The mean fraction of water lost by diffusion throughout incubation is 0.150  0.025 S.D. per gram of egg and 0.162  0.026 S.D. per gram of egg content for 81 species. The water fraction of fresh eggs and of hatching eggs was examined in 32 species divided according to maturity at hatching, and found to be very similar, within each category (83% in altricial; 83% in semi-altricial; 78% in semi-precocial; 72% in precocial eggs). The 11% difference between the altricial and precocial categories is statistically significant. During incubation, dry matter is metabolized, increasing the water fraction which is further increased by metabolic water production. Hence, water loss during incubation is mandatory if the relative water content of an egg at the end of incubation is to remain essentially the same as at the beginning. Equations are developed which allow one to estimate the difference between diffusive water loss and the total water loss in altricial and precocial eggs, caused by additional water loss during pipping and hatching. 
3884332|Lloyd Morgan's advisory "Canon" on ascribing mental phenomena had an historically unusual and deep impact. It became a dictum defining true psychological science, praised for providing the foundation of a mature, hard science. Seen as a corrective to naive methodology and excessive speculation, it appeared to demand removal of mental qualities in the name of parsimony and rigor. Thus it is also disparaged for illegitimately limiting inquiry. Viewing Morgan's method and reasoning as the reactions of a Darwinian to the problems of psychology provides insight for a science of animal mind. The Canon should be seen as methodological advice for a science caught in the tensions between materialism and subjective mental experience, having to place human mind within phylogenetic continuity. Faced with irresolvable difficulties, behavioral science has oscillated between reduction and unifying integration, typical of debates over broad conceptual issues in evolutionary biology. The reasoning behind Morgan's Canon provides a strategy for balancing these twin pulls of scientific practice.
3882707|Higher level systematic study can be divided into two parts, namely; (a) the formulation of classificatory and of phylogenetic hypotheses about groups and their testing against taxonomic properties of characters; and (b) the formulation of hypotheses about taxonomic properties of characters and their testing against empirical observations of these features. The second step-character analysis-is most important because it constitutes the actual objective testing within systematic study and provides the basis for one's conviction in the validity of a particular classification and/or phylogeny. Yet insufficient attention has been given to the methods used in the character analysis phase of systematics. Classifications and phylogenies are historical narrative explanations of the past evolutionary history of organisms. As such they must be based on and tested against the underlying theory of organic evolution. Classifications are not used to test the validity of mechanisms of evolutionary change; rather the reverse is true. For the construction of a classification or of a phylogeny, it matters absolutely how the organisms evolved-the classification and phylogeny depend completely on the accepted mechanisms of evolutionary change, not just on the hypothesis that organic evolution had occurred. Thus, the methods used in the character analysis phase of systematic study must be based on accepted mechanisms of evolutionary change. If the evolutionary change is adaptive, then functional and adaptive analyses form an integral part of the character analysis. Several commonly used methods of character analysis, most importantly that of outgroup comparison, are invalid because they are based on simple circularity, etc. The valid methods available for testing taxonomic properties, e.g., homology, apomorphy, etc., of characters are poor tests in that they have low resolving power, i.e., poor ability to distinguish between correct and incorrect answers to individual tests. Additional methods must be used to establish a degree of confidence in particular answers of valid tests of low resolving power. A set of valid methods are outlined for testing character hypotheses about homology, apomorphy-plesiomorphy and synapomorphy, and for establishing the degree of confidence in the results of individual tests. Functional-adaptive analyses are a necessary and essential part of the valid methods used to test and/or establish the degree of confidence in individual results for all hypotheses about taxonomic properties of characters.
3881629|A free vehicle is a timed and weighted device released from a ship in a free fall to the ocean bottom. Instruments carried on the free vehicle have been built to take biological samples, sediment samples, water samples, and photographs, and to measure currents, tides, and temperature. The instrument then returns to the surface where it is recovered by the ship. A free vehicle system for biological sampling in the deep sea is described in detail. It consists of a mast assembly, flotation, hookline and traps, and a magnesium release attached to weights. Different types of magnesium links used include a rod, a wire on pliers, and a series of diamond-shaped beads that drop through a hole after dissolving. A deck plan for launching the free vehicle and its retrieval at sea are described.
3881609|This paper surveys in broad perspective some of the steps in the development of theories of mammalian sex differentiation from antiquity to the present. The questions of why and how males and females differentiate and why there are intersexes have been answered by conjectures, speculations, and theories. In antiquity, when the existence of mammalian egg and sperm was unknown, sex determination was conjectured to depend upon such factors as which testis contributed the semen or which side of the uterus received it. These fanciful notions persisted until the middle of the 18th century. Discovery of mammalian sperm in the same century and the ovum in the 19th century led to observations of fertilization. With advances in genetics and the identification of sex chromosomes, the 20th century was prepared to construct theories for normal sex differentiation and intersexuality based on experimental observation. The bovine freemartin-a natural experiment-prompted the hormonal theory; research on frogs led to a cortico-medullary inductor theory; cellular chimerism in freemartin and co-twin was the basis for a cellular theory. Of these, the hormonal theory, in particular, provided some verifiable speculations. However, there is no completely acceptable theory and new lines of research are badly needed.
3884362|Secondary metabolites are widespread among lower phyla and understanding their functional role(s) in the producing organism has been under study in recent decades. Considerable progress has been made in understanding chemical ecological interactions among terrestrial organisms, and similar research in the marine realm has been initiated in recent years. Polar regions are more difficult to access and thus progress has been slower. Nevertheless, the extreme and often unique marine environments surrounding Antarctica as well as the many unusual trophic interactions in antarctic marine communities might well be expected to select for novel secondary metabolites and/or novel functional roles for secondary metabolites. Indeed, recent studies have documented novel, chemically-mediated interactions between molluscs and amphipods, between algae, urchins and anemones, and between sponges and their predators. The Porifera are the dominant phylum on the McMurdo Sound benthos, and representatives of this phylum have been shown to elaborate sea star feeding deterrents, inhibitors of fouling or infectious organisms, and metabolites which mediate predation via molt inhibition. As a result of studies on Antarctic sponges, new insights into functional roles of pigments and the ability of sponges to sequester metabolites have been gained, and a new mechanism of chemical defense has been described. Herein we describe recent results of our studies of trophic interactions between sponges and their predators that are mediated by specific sponge secondary metabolites. Moreover, we highlight unusual chemically-mediated interactions in antarctic marine invertebrates other than sponges.
3883897|In order to increase in size, arthropods must first molt (shed) their confining exoskeleton. This molting process is under the immediate control of the steroid molting hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE). Both the initial rise in circulating hormone concentration and a coordinated decline are necessary for successful molting. Synthesis and/or release of ecdysone, the precursor to 20-HE, is regulated by the neuropeptide molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH). We have determined the primary amino acid sequence of MIH in the lobster, Homarus americanus. This peptide has a high degree of identity with the lobster hyperglycemic hormone. Another endocrine factor that appears to be involved in molting is the juvenile hormone-like terpenoid methyl farnesoate (MF). We have characterized hemolymph MF binding proteins during the molt cycle. In addition, recent data indicate that MF may stimulate the secretion of 20-HE in vivo and in vitro.
3881718|The pineal is structurally very diverse among the avian species that have been examined. In some birds, especially owls, the pineal is virtually absent. Sympathetic innervation is provided by projections from the superior cervical ganglia. Several cell types are present in the pineal body, among which are large cells, associated with lamellar bodies, that are commonly considered to be abortive or vestigial photoreceptors. Diurnal cycles of serotonin and melatonin content of the pineal are responsive to photoperiod, and there is a small amount of evidence that the avian pineal may serve as a pacemaker for diurnal rhythms of activity. Pinealectomy indicates a role for this body in controlling gonadal function, but the evidence is not consistent. Indole amines may be the mediators of this presumed endocrine role, but the supporting evidence is not very convincing.
3882859|Normal gastrular ingression in the chick blastoderm occurs in two steps. The first consists in de-epithelialization of the cells in the middle of the young primitive streak. The cells that will ingress converge as a sheet towards the primitive streak; this convergence builds up the elongating primitive streak. These cells come from a large posterior area of the area pellucida. In this area they show many blebs at their ventral side. These blebs are not visible in the more lateral regions of the upper layer at this stage. During the second step of ingression, de-epithelialization goes on in the middle of the primitive streak, but convergence within the upper layer has come to an end, while migration of the ingressed middle layer cells starts, away from the primitive streak. To observe the first stages of ingression, we studied secondary primitive streaks, induced by grafting a nodus posterior into the entophyllic crescent of a host blastoderm. We fixed blastoderms in which, though a secondary primitive streak was not yet visible, spreading of the graft had taken place so as to make evocation of a streak most probable. From this study we conclude that the initiation of de-epithelialization in experimental and probably in normal chick gastrulation is not preceded by an overall lysis of the basal lamina at the future site of ingression. Ingression starts and goes on as a de-epithelialization of individual cells.
3881654|An increasing number of the invertebrates studied have been found to rely on an anaerobic energy metabolism during at least one stage in their development. Some of the bivalve mollusks, and particularly a relatively large number of parasitic nematodes, cestodes, trematodes and acanthocephala may be classified in this category. Regardless of the aerobic or anaerobic requirements of the parasitic helminths, two features appear to be common to all members of this group which have been examined. First, they are all capable of taking up oxygen. Second, none can oxidize substrates completely to CO
3881497|A laser beam of 6.5-1 joule is directed for 1 msec at dorsal surfaces of adult female Araneus diadematus Cl. spiders. The lesion is located by means of histological methods, and relationship of its position to behavioral consequences-as measured by changes in the web-pattern-are studied. Twelve animals with lesions in the area of the supra-esophageal ganglion show different degrees of extensive web-pattern disturbances consisting of smaller and rounder webs with less detail and irregular spacing of threads. Limitations of the method and the role of the supra-esophageal ganglion in Araneus as an overall integrating center of sensory motor coordination in web-building are discussed.
3882550|In order to assess current scientific understanding of life-history evolution, the alternative fundamental theories are formulated in a refutable form and compared with the available empirical evidence. The hypothesis that life-history does not evolve is rejected on the grounds that life-history can be readily modified by artifical selection. The hypothesis that life-history evolves according to mechanisms other than natural selection acting on genetic variation is shown to have no sound experimental basis. The hypothesis that life-history evolution depends primarily on group selection is undermined by the absence of the predicted group adaptations. The hypothesis that life-history is a unitary character which evolves in the same fashion as fitness is rejected because of the disparity between life-history genetics and basic theory concerning the evolution of fitness. The hypothesis that life-history is composed of a set of autonomous characters which are subject to mutation accumulation at later ages is refuted by the lack of any detectable increase in genetic variability with age and the evidence for the interdependence of life-history characters. It is concluded that the hypothesis of antagonistic interactions between life-history characters, generalized to take genetic variability into account, is the most satisfactory theory of life-history evolution available.
3881910|The role of microfilaments in causing cell constrictions is discussed from a comparative point of view. Morphologically similar microfilaments occur in the contractile ring of dividing cells and in the apices of neural plate cells during neurulation. New evidence is presented regarding the distribution and orientation of apical microfilaments in neural plates of chicks and salamander embryos. These findings complement what is known about neurulation in frogs and cell cleavage in a variety of cells. In all cases, cell constriction occurs precisely and exclusively at those planes in which circular arrays of microfilaments are found. A sliding mechanism of microfilament contractility is discussed, as are possible mechanisms involved in filament alignment. Attention is given to the cell surface as a substratum for microfilament assembly. New evidence is presented regarding the early morphological determination of the neural plate in Xenopus, even before microfilaments are clearly evident or invagination begins.
3881783|The blowfly, Phormia regina, provides a model system for the study of neural control systems underlying the regulation of insect feeding behavior. This animal regulates its daily food intake. The external chemoreceptors which drive feeding are well characterized and two sets of internal receptors which supply negative feedback to feeding behavior have recently been described. Both sets of internal receptors are stretch receptors activated by gut movements, hence there is no direct monitor for caloric value in the system. The properties of interneurons which integrate internal and external sensory input and command proboscis extension motoneurons must be inferred from behavioral data, however the wealth of behavioral data available suggests several interesting classes of interneuronal circuits, including some with a limited amount of plasticity. The neural machinery controlling feeding can be viewed as one component of the mechanism for metabolic homeostasis.
3882281| Thymus cells from the BALB/c and AKR mouse strains can be distinguished by the  and TL surface antigens. When a BALB/c-nunu (athymic) mouse is grafted with a neonatal AKR thymus, the great majority of the cells of the grafted thymus retain AKR characteristics for about 12 days. Between day 12 and day 26 both host- and donor-type cells can be found, but after day 26 there are only host-type cells. The differentiation of host-type T cell precursors requires the presence of thymus epithelium and perhaps actual thymus structure. 
3882055|Form regulation and bud induction were studied in a non-budding strain of Chlorohydra viridissima. Regeneration at a cut surface in a column piece with an existing hydranth was observed and found to be dependent on the column length. Another aspect of form regulation, formation and control of supernumerary tentacles, was investigated by grafting. Supernumerary tentacle formation in long polyps can be suppressed by implants of hypostomal or subhypostomal tissue. Non-budding hydra can be induced to bud by implanting small pieces of normal tissue into their columns. The cellular basis of this proccss was investigated by means of grafting, radioautography, and histological methods. No differences in the proportions or appearances of the cell types were observed between non-budding and normal animals. However, induced buds have higher proportions of interstitial cells and their derivatives (nerves and nematoblasts) than do normal buds. Many of these interstitial cells and derivatives originate from cells in the grafted implant. Normal tissue from which interstitial cells have been previously removed will not induce buds in non-budding hydra. The non-budding syndrome is probably related to a deficiency in interstitial cell differentiation. If nerve cells are involved in bud initiation and form regulation, these results suggest interstitial cells of non-budding hydra are unable to transform into sufficiently active and/or numerous nerve cells to control those processes.
3882755|Our understanding of the aerodynamics of flapping animal flight is largely based on the quasi-steady assumption: the instantaneous aerodynamic forces on a flapping wing are assumed to be identical with those which the wing would experience in steady motion at the same instantaneous speed and angle of attack. Research up to a decade ago showed that the assumption was sufficient to explain the flight of the vast majority of animals, but did not rule out the possibility that alternative aerodynamic mechanisms were employed instead. Results are presented here for four hovering animals for which the quasi-steady explanation fails. These animals apparently use lift mechanisms that rely on vortices shed during the rotational motion of the wing at either end of the wingbeat. The postulated rotational lift mechanisms should also apply to other hovering animals, even though the quasi-steady assumption could explain their flight. Measurements of the wing forces produced by locusts cast doubt on the validity of the quasi-steady assumption for fast forward flight as well.
3884112|Variance in amount of rewards has been the focus of many studies and models of risk sensitivity. However, the timing of rewards has received much less attention. Animals tend to prefer immediate rewards, even when this preference reduces the long term rate of gain. This implies future rewards are devalued, a phenomenon known as time discounting. The value of a reward can be represented by a function that is decreasing and concave-up with increasing delays until receipt of reward. When a forager is given the choice between an immediate small reward and a delayed larger reward, preference reverses from the smaller to the larger as the delays to both rewards increase. There are several descriptive time discounting models. The exponential and the hyperbolic models both result in the concave-up value function and hence risk sensitivity with respect to timing. However, in the traditional models, only the hyperbolic model predicts preference reversal. We present a model of discounting as a continuous time Markov process. In this model, the discounting rate is determined by the perceived likelihood that the forager will be interrupted from the foraging process. In this continuous interruption rate model, we find both the concave-up value function and preference reversal. In an expanded model that accounts for the variable inter-trial intervals often used in tests of preference, we find that the two portions of the inter-trial interval are weighted differently. Finally, we generate a generalized fitness model to examine the influence of the fitness consequences of a given interruption on foraging choices and find that the type of trade-off involved determines the fitness outcome.
3884302|Germ Cell Nuclear Factor (GCNF) is an orphan member of the nuclear receptor gene superfamily. Much has been understood about the functioning of GCNF which represents a candidate receptor for a novel hormonal signalling pathway. GCNF is not closely related to other members of the nuclear receptor superfamily and forms its own branch within the superfamily tree. It has a unique expression pattern that spans both embryonic and adult stages of development. In the adult, it is expressed in the germ cells: oocytes and spermatogenic cells as well as specific neuronal cells within the brain. In the embryo, GCNF expression is turned on after gastrulation in all germ layers the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm. An antero-posterior gradient of GCNF is established in the neuroectoderm of the embryo, suggesting a role in regulation of neuronal and germ cell development. Regulation of physiological processes by a nuclear receptor is achieved through regulation of gene expression. GCNF is the only nuclear receptor to specifically bind to DR0 hormone response elements to regulate gene expression. In the absence of a ligand, GCNF represses gene expression. GCNF is capable of regulating the expression of the protamine genes in a response element-dependent manner. At present the ligand for GCNF is unknown, but it is hypothesized that GCNF is a receptor for a novel hormonal signalling pathway that effects its biological response by regulating the expression of a subset of genes containing DR0 response elements.
3883597|A recent model by Hamilton and Zuk (1982) suggests that exaggerated secondary sexual traits facilitate mate choice for genetic resistance to parasites. The model predicts that individuals discriminate against parasitized mates by scrutinizing traits indicative of parasite load. In the case of birds and their feather-feeding lice, for example, individuals might avoid parasitized mates by detecting reduced plumage brightness, reduced courtship display, or increased grooming. I conducted a series of mate choice trials in which female Rock Doves (Columba livia) were allowed to choose between "clean" males without lice and "lousy" males with experimentally increased loads. Clean males displayed significantly more often than lousy males and females demonstrated a significant preference for clean males. Lousy males were subject to plumage damage; however, none of the damage was externally visible, and the time spent grooming by clean and lousy males did not differ significantly. Female louse loads, which were also manipulated, were not significantly related to female mating preferences. These results are consistent with the Hamilton-Zuk model. They are also consistent with a model of sexual selection for the avoidance of parasite transmission, which is discussed. The general relevance of lice and other ectoparasites to models of parasite-mediated sexual selection is reviewed.
3882897|Selection can be measured in natural populations by the changes it causes in the means, variances and covariances of phenotypic characters. Furthermore the force of selection can be measured in conventional statistical terms that also play a key role in theoretical equations for evolutionary change. The problem of measuring selection on morphological traits is simplified by breaking the task into two parts: measurement of the effects of morphological variation on performance and measurement of the effects of performance on fitness. The first part can be pursued in the laboratory but the second part is best accomplished in the field. The approach is illustrated with a hypothetical analysis of selection acting on the complex trophic morphology of snakes.
3881903|Several problems concerning the ecology of free-living ciliate Protozoa from the continent of Africa require and are worthy of in-depth study. But work already carried out, primarily by the author alone, indicates several general conclusions of interest. The infusorian fauna of inter-tropical Africa, surprisingly enough, is poor and little diversified, apparently due to unfavorable ecological (mostly chemical-physical) conditions. Endemic species, however, are quite frequently found: of 130 species studied, 23% were new. Finally, although the density of ciliates is often low, in some cases populations of certain species have presented a biomass which must play a role of definite significance in the food-chain cycle in the habitats in which they occur.
3883092|The form and pattern of multicellular organisms are developmental phenotypes. They are long term processes rather than static structures. They involve myriad events at multiple locations. The efficient encoding of such phenotypes is analyzed here in two stages. First, the complex developmental behavior is broken down so it can be accounted for by cell or tissue rules. The most effective rules have the instantaneous character found in time-based differential equations. When integrated over time and space, the rules produce the behavior. Second, the cytological and nuclear basis of the rules is sought. One thus studies a complex phenotype in terms of its successive antecedent causes, refining understanding as one gets closer to the genome. The approach is applied here to phyllotactic (leaf placement) patterns. Leaves may be alternating in a plane, whorled, or in a helical arrangement. In all three cases a new leaf forms as an arc-like bulge at a site apical to a small number of neighboring leaves. The leaf-forming sites are irregularities in the pattern of cellulose reinforcement in the surface of the apical dome. Two organ-level rules combine to produce new leaf sites. First, each established leaf develops a single reinforcement field, with gently curved reinforcement lines, on the region of the dome just above the leaf. Second, where parts of two or three such fields abut on the dome they combine to make the irregularity for the next leaf. Hence a given reinforcement pattern on the dome produces a leaf; the action of the leaves in turn reestablishes the reinforcement pattern. The cellular basis of generating a reinforcement field appears to be a cytoskeletal response to excessive stretch, brought on by rapid growth of adjacent leaf bases. The large scale patterns are thus traceable to cytoskeletal phenomena and from there to genes involving microtubular behavior.
3881857|This report is a description of feeding in the pulmonate snail, Helisoma trivolvis and provides a detailed account of: (i) the behavior, (ii) the muscular system, (iii) the muscle activity patterns, (iv) the neuromuscular relationships, (v) the motoneurons to specific muscles, and finally, (vi) an introduction to the premotor system. Feeding is the result of the integration of sensory information onto components of a central program which is derived from connections within the buccal ganglia. This report emphasizes the analysis of the centrally programmed components of the feeding output by characterizing interactions among three classes of neurons (approximately 50 cells) in the buccal ganglia: protractor motoneurons, retractor motoneurons, and the neurons of an electrically coupled neural network which produces both the timing and driving of motoneuron activity.
3882601|The removal of a portion of a Drosophila imaginal disc stimulates pattern regulation whereby the missing portion is regenerated or extra copies of the surviving portion (duplications and triplications) are produced. The results of recent experiments in which temperature-sensitive cell-lethal mutations were used to induce pattern regulation are considered here in an attempt to answer a major question: What is the nature of the pattern-forming system in the newly formed tissues? One current hypothesis is that the observed pattern regulation phenotypes are the result of interactions between portions of a single pattern. The evidence from studies in which Drosophila genetic investigative techniques were applied to developing leg duplications indicate that initiation and growth of the duplicate are similar or identical to normal development in terms of cell number, growth rate and pattern of cell lineage (compartments). This suggests that portions of the genetic mechanism underlying normal development may be reactivated and used to control abnormal development. Leg triplications consist of one complete set of leg structures and two partial sets arranged in a mirror symmetrical cuticular process. These processes either become more or less complete distally (they diverge or converge, respectively) by the addition or deletion of structures at the lines of symmetry. Whether a particular process diverges or converges is related to its circumferential location. These leg duplication and triplication phenotypes can be explained as the result of cell death in situ followed by interaction between the surviving portions of the original leg pattern following the rules of the polar coordinate model of positional information.
3883372|A case is advanced for an experimental approach to natural history in which methods adapted from more reductionist biological disciplines are used to supplement traditional approaches in moving beyond mere description and cataloging to analysis of the diverse and complex means by which organisms deal with their environments. This amalgamation of experimental and observational approaches makes desirable the maintenance of firm linkages between organismally oriented and reductionist disciplines, a circumstance with implications concerning the appropriate future structure of academic biology.
3882917|Females of the scorpionfly Hylobittacus apicalis choose mates on the basis of material benefits (nuptial arthropod prey size) and probably on the basis of genetic benefits males deliver at mating. Females feed on the male's prey throughout copulation. They prefer males with large prey as mates and often refuse males who present small prey. That females may value male genetic quality is suggested by differences in ability of males to obtain large prey, which if inherited would influence offspring fitness, and by females often terminating mating with males with small prey before they transfer any sperm or a complete ejaculate. Females hunt only when males with prey are not available because hunting exposes individuals to predators. Female Hylobittacus apicalis exhibit alternative mate choice tactics, which are condition-dependent in expression and probably comprise a conditional strategy. Body size, recent feeding history, and male availability determine how discriminating an individual female actually is, and these conditions may determine the value of material and genetic benefits in mate choice decisions. The results suggest that female choice controls male behavior. When females become choosy, males are forced to obtain rare large prey despite the increased risks to males associated with this behavior. The implications of the findings on H. apicalis are discussed in relation to condition-dependent female choice patterns in other species and the evolutionary maintenance of female choice.
4620120|Methods issues are critical for the integration of proximate and ultimate explanations of animal behavior. Understanding that evolution of behavior may begin with changes in sensory and perceptual systems is a first step. For example, advances in neurobiology can trigger questions about social behavior. Variation in the size of particular brain areas, such as the hippocampus, can be related to variation in socio-spatial systems. Second, procedures, developed in recent years, provide new avenues to understand behavior. Hormone assay techniques, such as RIA and ELISA, can be performed on some hormones from urine and feces collected in the wild. Metabolic measurement, such as the use of doubly-labeled water, make it possible to measure energy costs under field conditions. Advances in DNA technologies provide new perspectives, particularly with regard to measuring reproductive success. Third, current theories in behavior can be tested with regard to physiological mechanisms; all that is needed is some ingenuity to design and execute appropriate studies. These include kin recognition, sex ratio variation, and foraging behavior. Fourth, cross-fertilization between laboratory and field approaches produces new insights regarding behavior. Organizational effects of hormones have now been explored in field populations of mice and in domestic swine. Testing aspects of foraging behavior in the laboratory is another example. Fifth, simulation models have been used to produce new questions about both proximate and ultimate aspects of behavior. Exploring behavioral phenomena may involve semi-natural settings. The suitability of semi-natural enclosures for the study of house mouse behavior has been tested with regard to density and home range size.
3884164|During metamorphosis in the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, the larval thoracic legs are replaced by a new set of adult legs that include new sensory neurons and muscles, and participate in new patterns of locomotor activity. Larval leg motoneurons persist to innervate the new adult leg muscles, but undergo striking changes in dendritic morphology that are regulated by the insect steroid, 20-hydroxyecdysone. In the periphery, the motor terminals regress as larval muscles degenerate, and expand as new adult muscles form from myoblasts. Evidence obtained both in vivo and in vitro suggests that the proliferation of myoblasts during metamorphosis is dependent upon innervation.
3881411|In their response to environmental stimuli, terrestrial isopods show various trends that are correlated with their ecology and physiology. With the transition from sea to the littoral zone (Ligia), orientation to light changes from positive to negative. Yet, since these isopods are positively hygrokinetic even at very high humidities, their hygroreaction is of greater significance than their photoreaction. In isopods from mesic habitats (Oniscus, Porcellio, Armadillidium) photoreaction becomes of less significance than in littoral species, until in some species it reverts to positive (Armadillidium). Sometimes the positive photoreaction occurs only at high temperatures (Porcellio), a pattern of behavior correlated with thermoregulation by evaporative cooling. Similarly, in mesic species the response to humidity becomes less significant than in littoral species, resuming importance mainly when the isopods become dehydrated (Armadillidium). Finally, in isopods from xeric habitats in semi-arid and desert regions (Armadillo, Venezillo), photoreaction is strongly negative except in Hemilepistus at lower temperatures. All of these isopods are positively hygrokinetic only at low humidites and are strongly negatively thermoactive, indicating a drop in activity at high temperatures. The photonegative response in these isopods is stronger than the hygroreaction.
4620222|In recent years the monophyly of the Annelida and Polychaeta has been questioned, with various authors proposing that groups such as the Arthropoda, Echiura and Pogonophora render the Annelida and/ or Polychaeta paraphyletic. The Clitellata have also been proposed to be a member of the Polychaeta, potentially making this latter taxon synonymous with the Annelida. The relationships within the traditionally formulated Polychaeta have never been investigated using cladistic methodology. Recent classifications of polychaetes show a large number of "orders" with no real attempts to relate the groups in a phylogenetic sense. In this paper a number of recent studies on annelid systematics and classification are reviewed. Special emphasis is placed on the cladistic parsimony analyses of Rouse and Fauchald (1995, 1997) where a comprehensive assessment of the relationships among the various polychaete and annelid groups was attempted. A contrasting result by Westheide (1997) using a different methodology, is also outlined and discussed.
3884336|In a marked departure from past inhibitions about scientific consideration of conscious mental states in animals, the other papers in this symposium review a variety of evidence about what the content of animal consciousness is likely to be. Although fully convincing evidence is not yet available, there are promising opportunities to reduce our current ignorance of what life is like, subjectively, for various animals. For example, recent neurophysiological experiments provide objective evidence about what monkeys are, and are not, conscious of. Versatility of behavior when animals cope with novel and unpredictable challenges strongly suggests simple conscious thinking about alternative actions. Finally, animal communication provides direct and objective, though incomplete and imperfect, evidence about some of their conscious thoughts and feelings.
3882049|Hydra were disaggregated into single cells and maintained in a complex medium for a few days. The cells are capable of macromolecular synthesis, of processing RNA, and of carrying out the formation of a nematocyst capsule. Single cells can be centrifuged into aggregates which will develop into normal hydra. Changes in morphology and cell composition are described. Interstitial cells after a 1-day delay resume their normal mitotic and differentiation activity in the aggregates. The method provides new means for studying problems of cell differentiation in hydra.
3881407|Terrestrial immigrants from the sea have to cope with two important nutritional problems: a shift in pathways of absorption, and the altered availability of nutrients. The more terrestrial species of littoral crustaceans switch to food as the main source of water and salts. No serious difficulties accompany the oral uptake of mobile ions, but the vegetarians amongst the immigrants are required to assume a new attitude with regard to the assimilation of heavier metals. Some important heavy elements, notably Cu and Zn, are soluble in sea water but form rather intractable organic complexes in plant tissues. Herbivorous amphipods and isopods on land are incapable of extracting copper directly from their primary food sources. To compensate for this shortcoming, help is enlisted from microorganisms, which render the copper present in ill-digested fecal material available to the crustaceans. Moreover, in terrestrial and intertidal herbivorous crustaceans - as compared with their marine relatives - the storage capacity of the hepatopancreas, as well as the efficiency of Cu-assimilation, is augmented; compartmentalization of Cu-storage is more rigorously carried through; the movements of Cu and Zn within the body are more strictly regulated, copper, for example, being exchanged between different compartments in the course of endogenously or exogenously induced phases of the animal's life cycle.
3882778|In land gastropods, calcium is precipitated in the shell, in connective calcium cells which are largely distributed through the whole connective tissue, in epithelial calcium cells of the digestive gland, and in the calcium gland cells of the skin and the mantle collar. Calcium is taken up from the external medium by food and by absorption through the sole skin. To adapt to terrestrial life, these animals have to eliminate appreciable amounts of calcium for their protection and their reproduction. During the egg laying period, a calcium flux occurs through the epithelium of the reproductive tract in order to supply the egg shell and the egg fluids. This egg calcium is taken up by the embryo. The maintenance of a positive calcium balance between its uptake and the loss is due to an important reservoir of easily mobilizable calcium in the form of calcium carbonate. This reservoir consists of the connective calcium cells which are constantly able to accumulate or release calcium as long as calcium is locally available or required. The epithelial calcium cells of the digestive gland are loaded with calcium phosphate; they are not a major calcium storage compartment, but have an essential function in detoxification. All of the calcium movement occurring across cell membranes and through epithelia concerns only calcium ions. All calcium movement can be regarded either as on-off systems or as reversible systems, both of which are certainly controlled by complex processes.
4620130|The developmental processes through which songbirds acquire their species-typical songs have been well-studied from a proximate perspective, but less attention has been given to the ultimate question of why birds learn to sing. We present a new hypothesis for the adaptive significance of song learning in song-birds, suggesting that this specialized form of vocal development provides an indicator mechanism by which females can accurately assess the quality of potential mates. This hypothesis expands on the established idea that song can provide an indicator of male quality, but it explicitly links the variation in song expression that females use to choose mates to the developmental processes through which song is acquired. How well a male sings-reflected in repertoire size or in other learned features of a male's singing behavior-provides an honest indicator of quality because the timing of song learning and, more importantly, the timing of the development of brain structures mediating learning corresponds to a period in development during which young songbirds are most likely to undergo nutritional stress. This correspondence means that song learning can provide a sensitive indicator of early developmental history in general, which in turn reflects various aspects of the phenotypic and genotypic quality of a potential mate.
3882737|Evolution proceeds by natural selection of heritable variations of individual organisms based on direct influences of environment. However, indirect effects probably vastly outweight direct ones in ecosystems. Therefore, why is evolution based on direct effects only? The ecological niche represents the point of direct contact between organisms and their environments. To encompass indirect influences, niches are extended to new structures, environs, which are units of organism-environment coevolution. The motive force for coevolution is closure of outputs back upon inputs of the organism members of ecosystems. Closure is achieved by biogeochemical cycling and feedback interactions, direct and indirect, between organisms. To the extent that closure does not occur, there is no imperative for organism-environment coevolution. Coevolution at the system level based on indirect effects is compatible with normal evolution at the individual organism level based on direct effects. The organism is the unit of the latter, but environs are the unit of coevolution.
3883195|A major question in the analysis of teleost epiboly is the fate of the yolk cytoplasmic layer. It diminishes during epiboly and eventually disappears at the completion of epiboly. This paper is concerned with the fate of the surface of the yolk cytoplasmic layer during epiboly. When gastrulae during epiboly are bathed in lucifer yellow (CH) and then observed with fluorescent microscopy or bathed in ferritin and then fixed and observed with TEM, a thin circumferential ring of endocytic vesicles is observed, confined to the external yolk syncytial layer just peripheral to the advancing margin of the blastoderm. Even though the entire egg is immersed in the marker, endocytosis is confined to this limited region. More precisely, this endocytosis occurs only within the region of the external yolk syncytial layer, where the surface is most folded. The endocytic vesicles thus formed move downward and settle on the surface of the membrane separating the yolk from the cytoplasm in the yolk syncytial layer. They do not join the surface of the internal yolk syncytial layer; hence they do not contribute to its expansion. Prior to the onset of epiboly there is no such endocytosis at the surface of the egg. Since this endocytosis occurs only during epiboly and only at the surface of the external yolk syncytial layer just peripheral to the advancing margin of the blastoderm, and in the absence of large molecules in the medium, we conclude that it is programmed. We, therefore, present this as a case of programmed internalization of cell surface serving as the morphogenetic mechanism responsible for the disappearance of the surface of the yolk cytoplasmic layer during gastrulation of the teleost Fundulus heteroclitus.
3882200|The renal effects of neurohypophysial hormones in fishes and amphibians are discussed. Injections of arginine vasotocin (AVT) elicit diuresis in fishes, but antidiuresis in amphibians. However, the physiological significance of these hormonal responses remains to be demonstrated. Studies with bioassays and radio-immunoassays on circulating levels of AVT indicate that hypovolemia may be a very potent stimulus for the release of the hormone. Hyperosmotic stimuli may not be as important. In anurans, mesotocin has a glomerular diuretic effect. This neurohypophysial hormone appears to dilate, while AVT constricts, the afferent glomerular circulation in bullfrogs, Rana catesbeiana.
3883687| Oxygen is nearly 30 times more available in air compared with water, whereas the carbon dioxide capacity of water is 28.5-fold greater than for oxygen, presenting bimodal breathing species with two very different respiratory milieus. The respiratory pigment plays a variable role in animals switching between the two media. In vertebrates the transition to air breathing involves two main strategies: a decrease in oxygen affinity and changes in other haematological parameters such as haematocrit. When appropriately analyzed, data reveal a decrease in blood oxygen affinity during transition to air. This may arise via differences in the intrinsic affinity as occurs in some amphibians, or be due to increases in the organic phosphate: haemoglobin ratio when acclimating to air breathing. Adopting air breathing often promotes increased haematocrit. It is difficult to discern trends in haemocyanin functioning. Many but not all bimodal and air breathing species of crab contain haemocyanin with high affinity for oxygen. As with haemoglobin there is some tendency for blood haemocyanin concentration to increase with air breathing but bimodal species are quite variable in this regard. Different strategies for breathing air are employed by various bimodal crustaceans, some of which involve modulation of haemocyanin oxygen affinity. The exact mechanisms are often species dependent and in all bimodal breathing organisms the role of the pigment is best appreciated when the demands of the local environment and the behaviour of the species are considered. 
3881537|The constant need to replenish dwindling energy resources compels the animal's day-to-day attack upon its food supply. Of the energy taken in through its food the animal loses a large percentage as non-productive energy while only a small fraction goes into the production of high-energy chemical compounds, some of which are retained as growth and the remainder discarded back to the environment. The non-productive energy is lost as wastes eliminated from the body, as respiration of symbionts and host, and as frictional heat. Energy flow through the individual organism is represented in a flow diagram which may serve as a model for relating future investigations. Several methods for evaluating the intake of food in natural populations are given, and factors which influence food-intake and feeding are discussed. Energy flow through natural communities presents complex analytical problems because of the diversity and nutritional flexibility of the consumer species, factors important in maintaining community stability. For all the complexity, however, there appears to be a common pattern discernible in the trophic organization of different communities. A new model for representing energy flow through communities is presented and illustrated with the common pattern of community trophic organization.
3882644|Certain aspects of development that are indicative of changing functional and ecological capabilities are reviewed for six different organ systems in the northern anchovy, Engraulis mordax, and other teleosts. The six organ systems are the integument, the lateral line system, the eye, the digestive tract, the gas bladder, and the trunk musculature. The integument develops gradually but also has transient specialized cells during the larval period. The lateral line system is functional at hatching and then elaborates by recruitment proportional to growth during the larval period. The eyes are capable of photopic binocular vision when feeding starts, and later gradually develop a scotopic system. The digestive tract develops a capacity for protein digestion and filtering during the mid and late larval period. The gas bladder gradually develops an expansion capability by muscle differentiation after initial inflation. The trunk musculature differentiates and recruits two fiber types that gradually supercede the embryonic musculature during the larval period. Thus much of the development of organs in the anchovy after hatching or after feeding starts can be characterized as initial differentiation and then continued recruitment of specialized cell arrays. Behavior patterns appear to develop in conjunction with such recruitments. This may apply to fishes generally, but pattern and tempo of development must differ among species. Brief comparison of the anchovy and the Pacific mackerel, which has a more rapid and direct development, suggests that some of the differences in the two types of larvae relate to the marked difference in feeding modes of the adult stages.
3884151|Gastrointestinal peptides that perform the dual functions of regulating gastric acid secretion and secretion by the endocrine pancreas are reviewed. The regulation of release of gastrin and gastrin releasing peptide and their roles in stimulating acid secretion are first considered. Inhibitory regulation of acid secretion is then outlined, with particular emphasis on candidate enterogastrones, such as gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), and the enterogastric reflex. Finally, the contribution of GIP, and other incretins, and the neural component of the enteroinsular axis to the regulation of insulin secretion by the endocrine pancreas is discussed. Although the major emphasis is on studies performed in mammals, the more limited information on these pathways in non-mammalian vertebrates is also considered.
3881168| The nervous system in the hydranth of Cordylophora was stained by a modified Peters' silver method. Nerve elements are found only in the ectoderm, where they form a dense plexus, oriented mainly longitudinally. The majority of the nerve cells, whether lying deep in the ectoderm or near the surface, carry a short hair, presumably sensory. These findings are compared to earlier reports on this and other hydroids. There is no clear division into nerve cells and sensory cells, as is claimed in the case of Hydra. The relative abundance of neurons having 1, 2, 3, and 4 fibers is 8, 70, 17, and 5% respectively. The length of most fibers is 100-200 . 
3882386|The cardiac lethal mutation was discovered in a strain of axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum) imported from Mexico. Embryos homozygous recessive for the c gene develop in a normal fashion until the heartbeat stage of development. At this time, heart action is observed in unaffected siblings, but in cardiac lethal embryos heart action is not apparent. Affected animals hatch and swim, but do not feed. Within a few days, ascites develops and the animals die within a short time afterward. The c gene is inherited as a simple recessive. The direct effect of gene c is unknown. Data has been presented which suggests that gene c alters the anterior endoderm which may be a specific heart inductor in this species. Alternatively, the failure of heart action may result from an ionic imbalance in the immediate heart environment. This paper reviews the relevant experiments and presents new data supporting each of these suggestions for the mechanism of action of the cardiac lethal gene.
3882206|Recent advances in urophysial research are reported and current research in this laboratory on the urophysial peptides (urotensin I, urotensin II) of Catostomus commersoni is summarized. Urotensin I has been purified by gel filtration, electrofocussing, ultrafiltration and ion exchange chromatography. Three similar utotensin I peptides were found. The main peptide was shown to be a straight chain peptide with about 36 amino acid residues. Pressor-diuretic effects in fish have been observed. The peptide produces a long-lasting lowering of mammalian blood pressure by peripheral vasodilatation. Urotensin II has been isolated and purified. It appears to contain 23 amino acids including two disulphide bridges. It is a potent pressor-diuretic-smooth muscle contracting agent in the fish, without any known pharmacological actions in mammals. Urotensin III: the existence of this activity as a separate chemical entity has not been established, but urophysectomy was shown to lower blood Na
3881547| The systemic heart of fishes consists of four chambers in series, the sinus venosus, atrium, ventricle, and conus or bulbus. Valves between the chambers and contraction of all chambers except the bulbus maintain a unidirectional blood flow through the heart. The heart is composed of typical vertebrate cardiac muscle, although there may be minor differences in the distribution of spontaneously active cells, the rate and nature of spread of excitatory waves, and the characteristics of resting and action potentials between different fish and other vertebrates. Cholinergic fibers innervate the heart, except in hagfish which have aneural hearts. Fish hearts lack sympathetic innervation. The level of vagal tone varies considerably, and is affected by many factors. In some fish the heart is essentially aneural (without vagal tone) during exercise and may resemble an isolated mammalian ventricle with increased venous return causing increased cardiac output. There are many mechanisms that could increase venous return in exercising fish. -adrenergic receptors have been located on the hearts of some fish, and changing levels of catecholamines may play a role in regulating cardiac activity. Changes in cardiac output in fish are normally associated with large changes in stroke volume and small changes in heart rate. 
3882369|Intraspecific modulatory multiplicity in the feeding mechanism of cichlids, as elucidated by electromyography, has profound implications on small-scale trophic events, the sum of which is the very core of such large-scale population and evolutionary phenomena as efficiency of trophic exploitation, niche width and overlap, competition and adaptation. The greatest paradox emerging from the study on intra- and interspecific differences in feeding repertoires of cichlid fishes is that the most specialized taxa are not only remarkable specialists in a narrow sense, but also jacks-of-all-trades. If specialists are simultaneously jacks-of-all-trades, how could they have evolved according to the widely accepted hypothesis that broadening the range of usable resources prevents species from specializing on individual types? The organism can be considered to be composed of structural elements and functional components that exert mutual influences. As a result, a network of interacting constraints is set up. The nature of the network determines the direction and range of evolutionary changes, the possibilities of optimizing adaptations and built-in variability of the trait. A change in the network can put a static trait into a different context to become dynamic. These changes in variability due to changes in the structure of the network cannot be explained in terms of simple adaptation to the external environment. Fitness is considered to depend on the nature of a network of interacting constraints. The possibilities of optimization, the sensitivity of the phenotypic traits to environmental differences, and the correlated evolutionary responses of different traits are all related to this network of interacting constraints between the elements and components of the organism. Thus the experimental and comparative studies of these networks of interacting constraints should become an increasingly more important focus for morphologists as they attempt to refine their understanding of adaptation.
3882776|Cells of biomineralizing systems have the capacity to create within fluid microenvironments the conditions in which ions attain concentrations sufficient for mineral deposition in association with proteins. These microenvironments can also provide specific conditions for the deposition of many kinds of minerals. Four areas of research are discussed: (1) the effects of neurosecretory substances on ion movement and mineral deposition of tissues in vitro; (2) mineralization by single cells and the formation of species-specific calcified structures; (3) the permeability and kinetics of ion movement across membranes of vacuoles; and (4) analyses of the skeletal proteins of various taxonomic groups in the study of evolutionary continuity and the role of proteins in processes of mineralization. For each of the four areas, experimental approaches, which have been employed or which appear feasible, are suggested. Antigen-antibody reactions to indicate protein similarities in different taxa and the use of monoclonal antibodies as probes to interfere with mineralization processes may prove useful new methods in biomineralization research.
3883938|Hematocrit is likely to be optimized because of its influences on oxygen transport. However, optimal hematocrit must also change because shear rates and blood vessel radii within circulations change temporally. Blood vessel endothelia regulate shear stress on their walls by changing their radius. Wall shear stress is dependent on shear rate and viscosity. Because there is regulation of vessel radius by the endothelium it is hypothesized that hematocrit may be regulated near optimal by changes in plasma volume. The implication of such regulation is that changes in vascular volume (blood volume) would occur with alterations in red blood cell mass. Data are presented which indicate that regulation of optimal hematocrit normally occurs through changes in plasma volume. The regulation of optimal hematocrit has significant implications for processes that depend on oxygen transport (e.g., exercise) because of the effect of blood volume on cardiac output.
3882681|Our knowledge of ascidian genetics is reviewed. The paper is primarily concerned with the author's past and current work on the colonial species Botryllus schlosseri. Five Mendelian loci account for most of its impressive polychromatism. Breeding experiments have substantiated the hypothesis of a single multiallelic locus for each of three enzymes (MDH, SOD, PGI) suggested by electrophoretic patterns. The nuclei of three linkage groups have been revealed. Self-fertilization entails a severe inbreeding depression. A specific self, nonself recognition, expressed by fusion or repulsion of contacting colonies, occurs in this species also. At variance with Botryllus primigenus, fusible colonies of B. schlosseri are completely interfertile. This has allowed a more direct genetic analysis of the phenomenon, confirming the alleged control by a single multiallelic locus. In order to fuse, the confronted colonies must share at least one allele. Young buds grafted in the tunic after removal of all the zooids develop a new colony at the host's expense only if donor and host are fusible. This means that fusibility and histocompatibility are strictly correlated. Chimerical colonies, obtained either in this way or following the resorption of one of two fused colonies, are now being investigated for their recognition specificity and electrophoretic pattern. Preliminary data indicate that both can be durably altered, suggesting that the allogeneic cell populations are persistent and renewing.
3881637| Pyruvate kinase (PK) maximum catalytic rate is dramatically decelerated by increasing hydrostatic pressure. In four different species inhabiting different portions of the water column, muscle pyruvate kinase displays (1) a reduction in the volume change of activation,  V*, at higher temperatures, (2) a pH independence of  V*, and (3) a general increase in the activation energy at increased pressures. Although shared by the four different pyruvate kinases examined, none of these characteristics is critically involved in the regulation of PK catalysis. In contrast, pressure effects on another set of characteristics, all vitally important to control of PK catalytic function, depend upon the species origin of the enzyme. In the case of the rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri, high pressure dramatically reduces pyruvate kinase affinities for the two substrates (PEP and ADP), the cationic cofactor
3881700|The behavior of the octopus when feeding upon shelled molluscs is described in four steps: selection of prey, boring a hole in the shell, secreting into the borehole, and pulling out the body of the mollusc and eating it. Selection of some gastropod prey is determined by a firm, deep, either partial or complete obstruction in the aperture of the shell. Selection of other prey, gastropods, pelecypods, and amphineurans, may be based upon resistance by the mollusc to the application of force by the octopus. Drilling of the hole is done by the radula. Since the octopus will drill and secrete into empty shells with obstructions in the apertures, metabolites from a live mollusc are unnecessary. This technique can be used to collect the secretion. The frequency of occurrence and the effect of the secretion are discussed. The hypothesis that the octopus first tries by force to pull out the body and, failing to do so, drills a hole in the shell is experimentally supported. The conditions under which the octopus drills or pulls out the body of the mollusc are incompletely understood. The octopus may drill two or more shells in succession without feeding upon the previously drilled and weakened snail. No two steps in the behavioral sequence are necessarily linked to each other. The drilling-feeding patterns are complex and plastic.
3883703|Freshwater and marine snails serve as intermediate hosts for numerous species of larval trematodes. Any particular population of snails may be infected by several species. It is commonly observed that mixed-species infections are less frequent than expected by change in collections of host snails from natural populations. While several mechanisms might generate such negative associations, laboratory studies of freshwater snail-trematode associations have demonstrated the presence of strong antagonistic interactions between intramolluscan larval stages (rediae and sporocysts) of species that infect the same host individual. Both predatory and non-predatory antagonism has been observed, the former taking the form of predation by large, dominant redial forms on the sporocysts and rediae of subordinate species. These interactions are largely hierarchical, although in some systems priority effects have been observed, and in one case a sporocyst species replaced a redial species by strong non-predatory antagonism. Several instances of positive association between larval trematode species have also been observed. In such cases, interference with host defense mechanisms by the first parasite appears to enhance superinfection by the second. My own study of the larval trematode guild that infects the salt marsh snail, Cerithidea californica, has revealed patterns of association and interaction that are very similar to those demonstrated by laboratory studies of freshwater systems. Ultimately, the frequency of interactions among larval trematodes depends on the availability, relative to the numbers of susceptible snails, of infective eggs and miracidial larvae transmitted from definitive hosts.
3882768|Crab gill carbonic anhydrase is shown to facilitate the excretion of carbon dioxide across isolated perfused gills. A technique for perfusing crab gills and assessing the metabolic viability of perfused gills is also described in detail. The technique is used to follow the disappearance of
3883875|In the present study the timing of metamorphosis in an anural ascidian, Molgula pacifica, was compared to metamorphosis in a urodele species Boltenia villosa. Metamorphosis in M. pacifica was triggered at a fixed time in development (32-36 hours after fertilization), just prior to hatching. In contrast, metamorphosis was triggered in B. villosa after the hatched larvae responded to substrate cues. The timing of metamorphosis in B. villosa was often delayed for up to four days, whereas delays in M. pacifica were not observed. An antibody, termed Epi-3, was found to cross-react exclusively with epidermal cells in both species. The binding of FITC-labelled Epi-3 was very low prior to metamorphosis and then it increased dramatically after metamorphosis was triggered. The cytoplasm of ampulla tip cells and the tunic immediately surrounding each ampulla showed the highest levels of Epi-3 fluorescence. The histological and ultrastructural features of the ampulla cells suggest that Epi-3 antibody recognizes granules localized in the apical cytoplasm. How the evolution of an internal "clock" mechanism responsible for initiating metamorphosis may be beneficial to anural species is discussed. One possibility is that the anural type of timing mechanism reduces mortality rates during this critical phase of its life cycle.
3883739|Monogamous species are typically sexually isomorphic, pair well before spawning is imminent, take much time to pair, are discerning about pairing, and appear to weigh multiple sources of information about species, sex, and quality of mate. The monogamous and polychromatic Midas cichlid (Cichlasoma citrinellum) distinguished between its own and a highly similar heterospecific behind a one-way mirror only when visual and chemical cues matched. Likewise, recognition of sex was hindered when interaction was precluded, even in the presence of chemical cues. Female choice of mate was most strongly influenced by the "normal," primitive, color and to a lesser degree by color of parents and siblings, making it difficult to account for positive color-assortative mating in the field. Females also selected the largest and the most aggressive males; size predicted a good defender of territory, and aggressiveness foretold effective protection of the young. Males, however, were not choosy. Pair formation features much aggression between the large male and smaller female, and gold-colored morphs (G) dominate normal (N) ones. That made it difficult for an N female to pair with a G male; using an N female the same size as the G male, however, resulted in the usual proportion of successful pairings. I propose three testable models of pair compatibility: complementarity, parity, and maximum male aggressiveness.
3882729|Fundamentally different mechanisms regulate female sexual behavior in the ovoviviparous guppy and the oviparous goldfish. In the female guppy, ovarian estrogen evidently synchronizes cycles of sexual receptivity with endogenous cycles of ovarian maturation and also increases female attractivity at the time of maximum receptivity by stimulating the release of a sexual pheromone. In the goldfish, it appears that prostaglandin, released from the ovary or oviduct in conjunction with ovulation and the presence of ovulated eggs, acts on the brain to stimulate spawning behavior. In contrast to the situation in the guppy, steroid treatments alone (in the absence of ovulated eggs) fail to stimulate spawning behavior in the goldfish. It is proposed that endocrine mechanisms regulating female sexual behavior in the teleosts and in other vertebrates are less related to phylogeny than to the mode of reproduction employed. In the goldfish and several other externally fertilizing teleosts, where sexual behavior involves oviposition, female sexual behavior apparently is synchronized with ovulation by mechanisms which respond to elevated plasma prostaglandin as an indicator of the presence of ovulated eggs. In internally fertilizing species (guppy, reptiles, birds, mammals), where sexual behavior and fertilization are temporally dissociated, female sexual behavior is synchronized with ovulation by mechanisms which anticipate either an imminent spontaneous ovulation, or the potential for reflex ovulation, by responding to increases in plasma estrogen associated with follicular development.
3881860|Neurophysiological genetics is the study of the mechanisms by which genes control nervous function and behavior. The transduction of genetic information into neural information is studied at the level of the neuron through genetic and physiological techniques. The neurons responsible for the leg-shaking action specific to a single-gene mutant of Drosophila melanogaster,
3881744|Lymphoid tissue and lymphopoiesis in the urodeles and anurans was reviewed. Current information suggests the spleen as the principal site of lymphopoiesis in urodeles. Anurans present a more complex situation and the principally spleenic reaction of Rana pipiens to "red-leg" organisms was contrasted with the kidney intertubular lymphoid reaction of Bufo marinus to bovine serum albumin. Intracisternal accumulations of slightly electron dense material, probably immunoglobulins, were more frequently found in Bufo marinus plasma cells than cells with undistended cisternae suggesting some specialization of these cells in cold-blooded vertebrates. The superficial nature of our current knowledge of lymphoid tissue function and immunity in this groups was emphasized.
3882918|Difficulties with applying Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) methodology and terminology to alternative mating behaviors (in which some males in local populations adopt strikingly different, often non-competitive, behavioral patterns) are reviewed. Definitions for "tactic" (behavioral phenotype) and "strategy" (evolved set of rules for expressing tactics) are given. Inconsistent and incorrect applications of "mixed," "pure," and "conditional" ESSs are discussed. Cases of condition-dependent alternative mating tactics are reviewed. Because most alternative behaviors are condition dependent, neither their population-wide nor individual fitness contributions are expected to equal the fitness contributions of "primary" tactics. Individuals should, however, switch tactics at "equal fitness points." A particular conditional tactic will persist when its maintenance cost (genetic or physiological) is less than its fitness contribution. In only exceptional cases are the fitness contributions of tactics expected to be equal: 1) genetic polymorphisms, 2) stochastic "mixed" ESSs, 3) frequency-dependent choice and, 4) arbitrary assessment. Although alternative tactics may occur in cases of genetic polymorphism or genetic equipotence, most mating tactics probably occur when continuous heritable variation in underlying conditional strategy exists. Selection for genetically influenced "roles" (genetic background) may also uncover apparent heritability.
3883858|Protostomes and deuterostomes can be characterized by two completely separate sets of characters. Protostome characters are downstream-collecting ciliary bands with compound cilia on multiciliate cells and central nervous system with apical brain and ventral paired or fused cords; spiral cleavage is only found in the protostome group Spiralia. Deuterostome characters are upstream-collecting ciliary systems with separate cilia on monociliate cells, dorsal central nervous system and loss of the larval apical organ in the adults, and archimery with prosome, mesosome and metasome. Only the ectoproct bryozoans lack all the just-mentioned characters; they are referred to the protostomes on basis of their metamorphosis which resembles that of entoprocts. The two bilateral groups have probably evolved independently from a radial, gastraea-like ancestor.
3883302|Recent findings in endocrine research have greatly increased our understanding of the relationship between hormones and homeostasis. The present paper reviews selected major advances in such areas as neuropeptides, peptide biosynthesis in endocrine and neuronal cells, peptide receptors and intracellular pathways in target cells, "new" peptide hormones, and evolutionary considerations of peptide hormones. Further understanding of hormone interactions and of relationships between nervous, endocrine, and immune systems has added to the growing complexity of the mechanisms of fine tuning and regulating our internal environment. Moreover, discovery of the same or similar peptides throughout the course of evolution, i.e., from unicellular organisms through vertebrates, has led to a new unifying theory of intercellular communication. Endocrine aspects of homeostasis is an expanding and exciting field of biology.
3883474|Three primary approaches have been used to study the genetics of migration: the analyses of population differences, of single locus effects, and of polygenic influences. Studies of populations reared under similar conditions in "common garden" experiments frequently reveal gene effects contributing to differences in migratory tendency. Single locus effects are known, but are not common, a result to be expected given that migration is complex. Quantitative genetic studies reveal that heritabilities for migration related traits are often high (approximately 0.5 or more) suggesting significant amounts of genetic variation on which natural selection can act. Analyses of genetic correlations demonstrate that migratory behavior is part of a syndrome that includes aspects of both physiology and life history traits. The latter are characteristically those which contribute to colonizing ability. Migratory behavior thus does not evolve in isolation. New migration patterns are still evolving, as would be predicted from observed environmental changes and the genetic variation present in migratory species.
3884369| Unlike temperate fishes, Antarctic fishes of the notothenioid suborder, whose body temperatures (-2 to +1C) conform to the Southern Ocean, must express their genomes in an extremely cold thermal regime. To determine whether these fishes have evolved compensatory adjustments that maintain efficient gene transcription at low temperatures, we have initiated studies of the cis-acting regulatory elements that control globin gene expression in the Antarctic rockcod Notothenia coriiceps and in its close relative, the temperate New Zealand black cod N. angustata (habitat temperature = +6 to +15C). The genes encoding the major 1 and  globins of these fishes are tightly linked in head-to-head (5 to 5) orientation. The intergenic regions separating the globin genes in the two fishes, 4.3 kb in N. coriiceps and 3.2 kb in N. angustata, are highly similar in sequence, the major difference being the absence of a 1.1-kb, repeat-containing segment in the latter. To assess the promoter and enhancer activities of the intergenic regions, each was cloned into the luciferase-reporter vector pGL3-Basic, and the constructs were transfected into MEL cells. Upon DMSO induction of MEL cell differentiation, each of the /-intergenic regions functioned in both orientations as erythroid-responsive transcriptional regulators. However, expression of luciferase mediated by the N. coriiceps intergene was 6-fold greater in the  orientation than that for the N. angustata intergene and 2-fold greater for the . The greater transcription-stimulating activity of the N. coriiceps intergene can be attributed to two enhancers composed of combinations of CAC/Sp1 and GATA motifs and located in direct repeat elements. N. angustata, which lacked repetitive structure in its intergene, contained a single copy of the enhancer. We propose that cold adaptation of globin gene expression in N. coriiceps evolved in part through duplication and refinement of critical cis-acting regulatory elements as the Southern Ocean cooled during the past 25 million years. 
3881975|Territorial behavior is a conspicuous determinant of social organization in many reef fishes. Field observations have indicated that an accurate description of a given organization must consider not only conspecific encounters but also those involving members of the other species which make up the behavioral community. Data, relevant to the above consideration, were gathered on the reef for the three-spot damselfish, Eupomacentrus planifrons, at intervals throughout the year. Experiments determined (i) the greatest distance from its residence ("maximum distance of attack") that a territorial male would initiate attacks on given individuals of various species, and (ii) number of nips that such a male directed at "intruders" when the latter were placed adjacent to its residence. The "maximum distance of attack" was found to be characteristic for each "intruding" species: conspecifics-farthest from, congenerics-slightly closer to, and the remaining species-closest to the residence. Territorial males appeared to ignore any given fish until it had reached its respective boundary. Over a broad range, size within a given species appeared unimportant. The number of attacks directed at "intruders" adjacent to the residence was, however, less clearly species-specific. Both parameters varied seasonally in a parallel fashion, this seasonality reflecting closely the annual reproductive cycle of E. planifrons. General observations on populations of E. planifrons and other damselfishes were carried out by SCUBA and the use of underwater television. Results demonstrated that territorial males of E. planifrons not only recognize different species of reef fishes, but also that they possess serial territories whose areas of defense vary depending on the particular species of intruder present at the time. Random observations on other species of reef fishes indicate that this important feature of interspecific aggression is not unique to the single species tested here.
4620224|The Ediacaran fossils of the latest Precambrian have at one time or another been grouped with almost every extant kingdom, and also lumped into separate kingdom-level taxa. This has often been based on the facile use of a few characters, or on some sort of "overall similarity." This has not been a very fruitful approach; if anything, it has held back understanding of the Ediacaran organisms and of their significance for later history. While many of the simpler forms remain problematic, careful study of the more complex forms gives good reasons to place at least some of them with the Animalia. A complementary approach is to use sources of information such as the distribution of fossils across space, time, and paleoenvironments. The results may feed back into systematic work, allowing us to construct and test more robust hypotheses of these organisms' evolutionary relationships.
3883187|Mechanistic approaches to community ecology are those which employ individual-ecological concepts-those of behavioral ecology, physiological ecology, and ecomorphology-as theoretical bases for understanding community patterns. Such approaches, which began explicitly about a decade ago, are just now coming into prominence. They stand in contrast to more traditional approaches, such as MacArthur and Levins (1967), which interpret community ecology almost strictly in terms of "megaparameters." Mechanistic approaches can be divided into those which use population dynamics as a major component of the theory and those which do not; examples of the two are about equally common. The first approach sacrifices a highly detailed representation of individual-ecological processes; the second sacrifices an explicit representation of the abundance and persistence of populations. Three subdisciplines of ecology-individual, population and community ecology-form a "perfect" hierarchy in Beckner's (1974) sense. Two other subdisciplines-ecosystem ecology and evolutionary ecology-lie somewhat laterally to this hierarchy. The modelling of community phenomena using sets of population-dynamical equations is argued as an attempt at explanation via the reduction of community to population ecology. Much of the debate involving Florida State ecologists is over whether or not such a relationship is additive (or conjunctive), a very strong form of reduction. I argue that reduction of community to individual ecology is plausible via a reduction of population ecology to individual ecology. Approaches that derive the population-dynamical equations used in population and community ecology from individual-ecological considerations, and which provide a decomposition of megaparameters into behavioral and physiological parameters, are cited as illustrating how the reduction might be done. I argue that "sufficient parameters" generally will not enhance theoretical understanding in community ecology. A major advantage of the mechanistic approach is that variation in population and community patterns can be understood as variation in individual-ecological conditions. In addition to enriching the theory, this allows the best functional form to be chosen for modeling higher-level phenomena, where "best" is defined as biologically most appropriate rather than mathematically most convenient. Disadvantages of the mechanistic approach are that it may portend an overly complex, massive and special theory, and that it naturally tends to avoid many-species phenomena such as indirect effects. The paper ends with a scenario for a mechanistic-ecological utopia.
3881940|It seems increasingly clear that insulin is a hormone that does not occur exclusively in vertebrates. Several independent reports now exist giving evidence of insulin production in the digestive tissues of both deuterostomian and protostomian invertebrates. Cells with some light-microscopical and ultrastructural characteristics of vertebrate B-cells have also been observed. Recently, evidence has been obtained that insulin can act as a hypoglycemic hormone, promoting glycogen synthesis, also in a protostomian invertebrate, the gastropod mollusc, Strophocheilus oblongus. The endocrine pancreas of the cyclostomes occupies a key position in the comparative endocrinology of the islet parenchyma and in the evolution of insulin production. It may represent an evolutionary link between the presumably gut-connected dispersed insulin-producing cells of deuterostomian invertebrates and the pancreatic islets of gnathostomian vertebrates. This hypothesis was supported by the fact that cells with light-microscopical and ultrastructural similarities to the islet B-cells were observed in the bile duct mucosa of the hagfish, Myxine glutinosa. However, immunofluorescent studies with antisera against human insulin and C-peptide did not show any immunoreactive material outside the B-cells of the endocrine pancreas. Particular attention was paid to elucidate the biological significance of the large cystic cavities that are so typical for the cyclostomian islet parenchyma. The working hypothesis that they may contain stored insulin, proinsulin (or even "proto-proinsulin") was not supported by immunofluorescence, autoradiographic, or ultrastructural investigations, nor by proinsulin assays. It is possible that hagfish islet B-cells contain zinc, despite the fact that the amino acid residue in
3883119| The development of embryonic retinoblasts into phenotypically mature Mller glial cells has been shown to be dependent on close juxtapositional relationships between heterotypic cells of the retina. In this report, I review experiments in which we have attempted to examine the role of actual cell contact in the regulation of biochemical differentiation of retinal glial cells. Probes which bind to cell surface components including antibodies to the retina cell membrane and plant lectins were tested for their ability to interfere with normal histogenesis and glial maturation in a reaggregation-based in vitro development assay. Data are discussed which show that antibodies to the cell surface and the succinylated derivative of the plant lectin concanavalin A can markedly impair both histogenesis and glial maturation potential if introduced into cultures of reaggregating dissociated embryonic retina cells. Preliminary analyses of membrane components which react with the lectin have been performed. The results suggest that certain specific membrane glycopeptides are expressed by dissociated retina cells in an age-dependent manner. Also, the results show that decline in the ability of the embryonic cells to elaborate these surface components correlates with the capacity of the cells to reform developmentally regulatory neuronal-glial communication "linkages." 
3882602|Developing insect legs have positional information specified down the length and around the leg circumference. After grafting or amputation of larval cockroach or cricket legs healing confronts epidermal cells with different positional values. This stimulates growth, the intercalary regeneration of intervening tissue, the regeneration of all more distal tissue from a complete leg circumference and often the formation of an incomplete distal regenerate from a symmetrical part-circumference. These processes will lead to regeneration of missing structures, duplication of structures, or the formation of branched supernumerary legs, depending on the situation. During regeneration, cells cannot cross lineage restrictions which divide the leg into anterior and posterior compartments.
3882171|The actions of prolactin in hydromineral metabolism in all vertebrate classes are reviewed, and the impact of the studies on nonmammalian vertebrates in providing impetus for comparable research in mammals is emphasized. The teleost bladder is a model system for analyzing the interaction of prolactin and cortisol in transport processes; a parallelism is suggested between this model and the prolactin/cortisol regulation of ion and water movements during milk secretion. The immediate osmoregulatory effects claimed for prolactin in vitro are questioned; however, under organ-culture conditions the action of the hormone is readily demonstrable. Progress in the isolation of teleost prolactin and the role of osmotic factors in regulating prolactin secretion are briefly described.
3884063|We studied territorial aggression in relation to circulating testosterone levels in free-living birds of four species in northern Alaska. The Lapland longspur, Calcarius lapponicus, is an abundant breeding passerine on the arctic tundra. Unlike many passerines at lower latitudes, male Lapland longspurs do not defend a "multiple-purpose territory" that serves to provide nest sites, food and shelter. Rather, after arrival on the breeding grounds, they perform aerial display flights over a loosely defined "nest area" for a very brief period of two days or so, showing tolerance of other males. This song display may be involved in courtship. During this phase, male longspurs show a brief and pronounced peak in circulating testosterone levels, and are not aggressive toward simulated territorial intrusions (STIs). Males then "guard" their sexually receptive mates for about ten days, during which they are highly aggressive toward STIs, but do not sing as much. During the next phase, incubation, the males become very tolerant of conspecific males. Their circulating testosterone levels decline to baseline levels, and they generally do not sing or display aggression in response to STIs. Three other passerines, the white-crowned sparrow, Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii, American tree sparrow, Spizella arborea, and savannah sparrow, Passerculus sandwichensis, show patterns of territorial aggression typical of species studied at lower latitudes. Well-defined territories are defended for several weeks, during which there is a prolonged peak in plasma concentrations of testosterone. These three species continue to sing and display aggression even late in the season, unlike the longspurs. The peak of testosterone in the longspurs occurs simultaneously with the peak in song display, while in mid-latitude species it occurs with the peak in reproductive aggression. These data suggest that the interrelationship of testosterone and aggression in Lapland longspurs may be different from that of passerines with multiple-purpose territories, and may be related to the constraints of breeding in the open arctic tundra.
3882576|When a population may be characterized by interference competition for resources, variation in fighting ability among individuals, and repeated confrontations between individuals, together with difficulty of individual recognition, badges of status should invade as recognition marks that render good fighters memorable. Reliability of such badges can be maintained by negative frequency-dependent selection when individuals of different appearance (and status) either play mutually beneficial roles or employ alternate competitive tactics. In territorial social systems intraspecific mimicry of recognition badges should evolve because, in contrast to group-living situations, the cost to a cheat of being discovered is low when individuals are dispersed. The general result of such mimicry is that good and poor fighters become similar in appearance. From the theoretical treatment of status recognition badges I derive a number of predictions that pertain both to inter-and intraspecific differences in conspicuous coloration and to the evolution of local song dialects in birds.
3882356|Point mutations in the amino acid sequence of normal human hemoglobin have provided a powerful means of probing structure-function relationships in this respiratory protein. Through studies of specific hemoglobin variants, it has been possible to gain a better understanding of how electrostatic interactions exercise control over the functional properties of hemoglobin. Human hemoglobin variants of particular interest in this respect are those with alterations of amino or carboxyl terminal residues and alterations at or near the binding site for the physiologically important cofactor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In deoxy hemoglobin it has been established that salt bridges formed by the terminal residues constrain the tetramer in a low affinity conformation. From the information presently available, it appears that the charge cluster of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site is an important part of the innerspring mechanism that tends to destabilize the deoxy conformation. When anions bind to these residues, the repulsive interactions between the positively charged residues of this region are decreased. This provides a direct means by which anionic interactions with hemoglobin can shift the conformational equilibrium toward the low affinity state. Accordingly, anion and pH effects are decreased in a number of hemoglobin variants whose substitutions reduce the positive charge density in the region of the binding site for polyphosphates. The presence of the charge cluster provides for a fine tuning of hemoglobin's functional properties that is responsive to the concentration of metabolic effectors in vivo. The degree to which this is possible varies in the vertebrate hemoglobins which have been examined. In human hemoglobin, eight positively charged residues contribute to the charge cluster and anionic modulation of oxygen affinity is effective. Susceptibility to anionic modulation is decreased in hemoglobins where the charge cluster is less developed and is completely absent in some vertebrate hemoglobins. Anionic modulation, which occurs via an effect on the equilibrium between conformational states of high and low oxygen affinity, is possible even in systems which do not show cooperative interactions in oxygen binding. This is well established by studies on isolated chains of human hemoglobin and by studies on enzymatically modified tetramers of Amphiuma hemoglobin.
3883196|The evolutionary significance of protein polymorphisms has been long debated. Exponents of the balanced theory advocate that selection operates to maintain polymorphisms, while those of the neoclassical school argue that most genetic variation is selectively neutral. In a series of laboratory and field experiments conducted over the last 5 years, we have found that the developmental rates of Fundulus heteroclitus embryos were highly correlated with genetic variation at 3 enzymatic loci: lactate dehydrogenase-B, malate dehydrogenase-A, and glucose phosphate isomerase-B, Pairwise comparisons of these loci generally indicated an averaging of developmental rates; however, a synergysm was found between the MDH-A and GPI-B loci. Our field studies indicated that selective forces may contribute to the maintenance of these polymorphisms via hatching time selection. Since feral eggs incubate aerially during the neap tides, either very rapid or very slow developmental rates may lead to deleterious stranding above the water line. In addition, very slow developmental rates may lead to increased predation pressure.
3883502|The prediction of the 1960s that crocodilians would soon be extinct has happily proven to be unduly pessimistic. The survival and recovery of substantial stocks provides us with the unexpected opportunity to learn about their adaptations, important not only because of their place as relicts of a major reptilian radiation, but also as giant animals, reptiles substantially larger than all but marine turtles.
3881669|Polychaete shell-borings are widespread but not often common in Paleozoic strata of most continents, occurring in pelecypod, gastropod, cephalopod, coral, stromatoporoid, crinoid, brachiopod, ectoproct, and calcareous algal skeletons of Ordovician to Permian age. Four genera are known: Vermiforichnus (Spionidae), Ordovician to Permian; Caulostrepsis (Spionidae), Devonian to Oligocene; Myzostomites (Myzostomidae), Ordovician to Jurassic; and possibly Conchotrema, Devonian to Permian. The Silurian Gitonia sipho is a worm-boring, not a calcareous worm tube, referable to Vermiforichnus. An exceedingly well preserved Devonian fossilized polychaete, Vermiforafacta rollinsi, with complex setigerous parapodia, dorsal cirri, peristomial cirri, prostomium, and tentacle-like palps, occurs entombed in an agglutinated tube-lined worm-boring (Vermiforichnus). It may have been a shell-borer considering its many similarities to the spionid, Polydora, which apparently ecologically replaced it. Like Polydora, Vermiforafacta probably filtered food and sediment from sea water and constructed agglutinated tubes which lined its borings. In bivalves, borings parallel valves and are usually perpendicular to commissures; in massive skeletons, they radiate outward and laterally. Distorted later growth and "blisters" indicate that the host was often alive. Commensal to pathogenic parasitism existed and worms benefited from their hosts's feeding currents and protective shells. One polychaete nestler is reported. Life positions of hosts are sometimes indicated.
3883263|The capacity of Watson-Crick base-pair complementarity to direct informational transactions basic to gene expression has long been appreciated. Among RNA molecules, it mediates mRNA-tRNA codon-anticodon pairing and the 16S rRNA-mRNA Shine-Dalgarno interaction. More recently, we have come to realize that the role of RNA may transcend that of intermolecular recognition, per se, to include catalysis. Following the tour-de-force studies of the self-splicing Tetrahymena rRNA precursor, the stage is now set for the primary role of RNA to be revealed in nuclear pre-RNA splicing, which is catalyzed by a large ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex in the cell nucleus, called the spliceosome. The removal of introns from nuclear pre-messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) shares fundamental properties with certain RNA self-splicing reactions. It therefore seems likely that the major catalytic strategies in nuclear pre-mRNA splicing are carried out by the small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs), which are major constituents of the spliceosome.
3881971|The social systems and related behavior of cichlid and surgeon fishes are compared in terms of (i) physical spacing, (ii) theoretical spacing (communication), (iii) castes, (iv) group composition, (v) open versus closed groups, and (vi) reproductive behavior. Cichlids only recently invaded Central America. Despite the occurrence of about 100 species there, most are in one genus, Cichlasoma. Yet, they express a spectrum of feeding behavior, ranging from grazing herbivore through omnivore to predator, each of varying degrees of specialization. In contrast, their social behavior is remarkably conservative. There is a tendency for the generally found division of labor, with the female doing more of the direct caretaking of the eggs or fry and the male more of the defense, to lead toward polygyny. This is counterbalanced by the need for both parents to defend the fry. Communication is most accessible through a study of color patterns. While seemingly diverse, there is a common plan that entails the use of some or all of the same vertical bars and their central spots, and the appearance of yellow orange, red, or black ventrally. The coral-reef community is one of the oldest in existence. Surgeon fishes are pantropical, especially in the Pacific Ocean, and have developed distinct generic groupings within a compact family of about 75 species. Most are herbivorous, with some more specialized than others. The species fall into guilds, within which there is broad overlap in diets. The social systems differ radically, both when breeding and when not, and can be understood as consequences of their strategies of obtaining food. Wickler's classification of reproductive types within the Cichlidae is shown to be no advance over the previous dichotomy of substrate and mouthbreeding species. Poster coloration in surgeon fishes is apparently as important, or more, in extraspecific than intraspecific aggression, and poster-colored surgeon fishes show pronounced rapid color changes when fighting intraspecifically.
3882065|Endogenous circannual rhythms in growth, development, and longevity of the marine coelenterate Campanularia flexuosa have persisted for over 3 years in the absence of periodic signals from the environment. The periods for the cycles at three constant ambient temperatures, 10, 17 and 24 C, approximated 1 year, but were always more than 365 days. Although uncertainty exists, temperature was implicated as a Zeitgeber. The endogenous circannual rhythms were marked by seasons of luxuriant colony growth that alternated with more sparse growth. During luxuriant growth, development of individual hydranths was initiated regularly in new positions and as replacements at regression sites on uprights. Nearly all hydranth development was normal and adult life spans were long. The profuse growth was interrupted by seasons of sparse growth each summer and punctuated by recurrent, short periods of sharply curtailed growth in mid-winter. During curtailed growth, the rate of hydranth initiation at all sites was depressed, and abnormal development aborted many individuals. Most strikingly, hydranth life spans fell to about half those observed during seasons of luxuriant growth. With the spontaneous return to the luxuriant growth habit, hydranth life spans rose, nearly doubling. The delineation of these endogenous rhythms in C. flexuosa longevity challenges the generally accepted concept of specific age, an age at death which is characteristic of the species.
3881994|The development of social interaction was studied in infant coyotes, beagles, and wolves. In this paper, social play behavior is discussed. Social play may be characterized in a number of ways: (i) actions from various contexts are incorporated into labile (unpredictable) temporal sequences; (ii) the "play bout" is typically preceded by a metacommunicative signal which indicates "what follows is play"; these signals are also observed during the bout; (iii) certain actions may be repeated and performed in an exaggerated manner; (iv) the activity appears "pleasurable" to the players. By comparing these three species, some insight into the dynamics of social play may be gained. Coyotes were the least successful in soliciting play. When they did play, 90% of all bouts had been previously solicited. Coyotes also tended to use the most successful signals most frequently. This trend was not observed in the beagles or the wolves. By taking into account the fact that infant coyotes are significantly more aggressive than either infant wolves or beagles, the differential ontogeny of social play can be explained. Some of the functions of social play in canids are discussed, and it is concluded that social play is a valid class of social behavior and lends itself nicely to quantitative study.
3884160|The neuromuscular system of the pteropod mollusc Clione limacina is arranged as a "two-geared" system that includes two classes of swim motoneurons (small motoneurons and general excitors) which innervate two muscle fiber types (slow-twitch fatigue-resistant and fast-twitch fatigable). Rapid changes in swimming speed involve recruitment of general excitor motoneurons and fast-twitch muscle cells, which are not active during slow swimming. This recruitment occurs centrally, but in addition, subtle changes in speed can occur via purely peripheral mechanisms. These include the effects of activity in serotonergic neurons of the pedal ganglion which serve to enhance the electrical activity and contractility of slow-twitch muscle, and an endogenous property of muscle cells: non-synaptic facilitation. The latter mechanism allows increases in contractility with repetitive activity, but also maintains regularity of muscle contractility despite irregularities in the firing activity of motoneurons. The peripheral serotonergic modulation of muscle activity is independent of central serotonergic modulation of swimming, which is believed to produce the dramatic speed changes from slow to fast swimming.
3881456| The periodic structure of the cross-bridge lattice of glycerinated Lethocerus flight muscle has been studied in sections by electron microscopy, assisted by optical diffraction, and in unfixed fiber bundles by X-ray diffraction. Diffraction patterns exhibit first through ninth orders of 1166 , virtually all of which were found to arise from the lattice of cross-bridges. Diffraction and inspection show that "horizontal" cross-bridges of relaxation become slanted in rigor, and may push actins toward the M line in producing the increase in tension seen with the induction of rigor. Myosin filaments contain unexpected structural features. Cross-bridge origins form opposed pairs repeating every 146  and rotating 67.5 degrees with each repeat, thus defining twin, left-handed, helical tracks which require 1 1/2 turns (or 8  146 ) to establish a meridional repeat of 1166 . Each origin is dual and gives rise to two bridges; thus, the unit grouping of paired origins involves four bridges. One half-turn of the myosin helix requires 388 , matching the actin helix exactly in pitch. (Actin is, however, right-handed.) The resulting match seems awkward azimuthally (sixteenfold myosin distributes bridges to a sixfold envelope of actin filaments), but minimizes axial mismatching between subunits of the myosin and actin and lends credence to the theory that all bridges may swing synchronously during typical, low-amplitude, oscillatory contractions. 
3884003|Despite considerable recent progress in understanding the function of the axial muscles and skeleton in fishes, generalizing from these results has been hindered by the great phylogenetic diversity of taxa, the lack of quantitative morphometric data on axial musculoskeletal structure, and limited analysis of the full range of locomotor behaviors exhibited within any one taxon. This paper reviews novel results from our studies of two taxa within a single monophyletic clade, the sunfish family Centrarchidae. Integrated analyses of lateral displacement, lateral bending, and axial muscle activity reveal widespread effects of swimming speed both within a particular mode of swimming and among different behavioral modes. The longitudinal position along the body of the fish also commonly affects kinematics, muscle activity and the timing of electromyograms (EMGs) relative to kinematics. EMGs and kinematic events propagate from head to tail for both steady and kick and glide swimming. In contrast, during the escape response, the onset of EMGs forms a standing wave pattern, whereas kinematic events are propagated. Several novel features of the axial motor pattern are summarized for the kick and glide mode of unsteady swimming. For example, the onset of white fiber EMGs lags significantly behind that of the red fibers at the same longitudinal position, and red fibers are inactivated at higher unsteady swimming speeds. Muscle activity propagates posteriorly via the sequential activation of myomeres, but there are statistically significant differences in the timing of EMGs from the contractile tissue opposite a single vertebra. During relatively slow kick and glide swimming, the extreme dorsal and ventral portions of myomeres are not active. Estimates of the longitudinal extent of the fish with simultaneous muscle activity indicate that EMGs from an individual myomere usually have temporal overlap with more than 20 neighboring myomeres on the same side of the fish. Consequently, the functional units for axial locomotion of fishes do not correspond simply to the anatomical units of individual myomeres. Rather the in vivo motor pattern is a primary determinant of the functional units involved in swimming.
3881449|This paper centers on selected-and particularly, little recognized-problems in mammalian olfaction: (1) With certain exceptions the spacing of the external nares in most mammals does not favor orientation in an odor gradient by simultaneous comparisons of odor intensities (tropotaxis). (2) The mammalian nose is rich in both dynamic and static devices for conditioning and controlling the flow of inspired air. (3) A well-developed vomeronasal organ is widely distributed but its function is obscure. (4) Nerve impulse traffic telemetered from the olfactory bulb of freely moving rats shows a varying pattern of discrete bursts of units with each inspiration and more sustained discharges. (5) Olfaction in species showing adaptations for life in water, air, and underground is reviewed. (6) Because of its rich olfactory-trigeminal innervation the snout of pigs, moles, etc., may be considered as a "chemotactile" organ.
3883220|Continuous and discontinuous intertidal waters both experience fluctuations in salinity frequently accompanied by changes in temperature, levels of dissolved gases and pH. A multidimensional approach to environmental fitness may therefore be more representative of natural conditions in the intertidal zone. Various combinations of environmental factors are discussed including salinity/temperature, and
3882961|The mammalian hypothalamic releasing factors regulating thyroid, gonadal and adrenal function as well as growth hormone secretion have been isolated, characterized and their nucleotide sequences determined. In general, their hypophysiotropic effects are replicated in lower vertebrates though thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) does not appear to stimulate thyroid function in amphibia and fish. The releasing factors, or peptides structurally related to these substances, are found throughout the CNS of all vertebrates where they likely function as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators. High concentrations of TRH and other neural peptides including sauvagine, which is related to corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and has CRF-like activity, are found in amphibian skin, a neural crest derived tissue. mRNA extracted from the skin of Xenopus laevis was cloned and led to the identity of the DNA sequence of pre-pro TRH. Molecular variants of somatostatin have been recognized from studies on the pancreatic islets of the angler fish and catfish. Within mammalian species there is heterogeneity of growth hormone releasing factor (GRF), the 44 (and 40) amino acid peptides isolated from a human(h) pancreatic tumor. In the teleost brain-pituitary, 2 distinct hGRF-like neuronal systems are present. Additionally, various molecular forms of hGRF exist in the fish brain showing structural changes from the human variety.
3884154|Calcium is one of the key elements required for maintenance and survival of life in animals with both endo- and exoskeletons. Because there is a wide variation in dietary calcium (dependent upon the local habitat) and dietary practices, and because there is a changing physiological need throughout life (e.g., for mammals, during growth, puberty, pregnancy, lactation, and menopause), it is essential that the process of intestinal calcium absorption be adaptable and responsive to both the dietary and physiological circumstances. This article reviews the evidence that transcaltachia, or the rapid stimulation of intestinal Ca
3881390|The messenger RNA hypothesis serves as a concrete model of gene function which may be of real use to the developmental biologist. The hypothesis posits that the product of a gene is an RNA molecule with a base sequence complementary to the sequence of nucleotide bases in the DNA. The operations and restrictions which define a messenger are discussed. Animal and embryonic cells, while conforming in general to the predictions, display certain variations from the original hypothesis, such as difficulties in obtaining directed synthesis of protein in vitro, greater stability of the messenger RNA, association of active ribosomes with lipoprotein membranes, and a possible heterogeneity of ribosomes. Some recent studies on messenger RNA in sea urchins and frog embryos are discussed, with special reference to the nature and importance of the RNA synthesized during cleavage, the significance of new ribosome synthesis, and the potential importance of control mechanisms at the translational level for regulation of new protein synthesis. The latter point is illustrated further by a discussion of the initiation of synthesis of hemoglobin in the chick embryo. The application of drugs and antimetabolites which derange and inhibit RNA synthesis (actinomycin, 8-azaguanine, 5-fluorouracil, and 5-bromodeoxyuridine) shows that 8 hours prior to its onset, the synthesis of hemoglobin is independent of the synthesis of RNA of high molecular weight. The initiation of hemoglobin synthesis is probably regulated at the translational level. Preliminary experiments using the heme precursor, delta-amino-levulinic acid, show that heme may be limiting for the onset of hemoglobin synthesis.
3881954|Hydromineral balance in teleosts is reviewed in an effort to define common elements, as well as inter- and intra-species variation in its endocrine control. Processes at the gill, gut, kidney, and urinary bladder are compared. The difficulty in deriving functional generalities is discussed; the stimulation of both sodium influx and efflux by cortisol, the ingestion of equal amounts of water by some fishes in either fresh or sea water, and the equal glomerular filtration rates in both hypotonic and hypertonic environments for other fish confound such efforts at generalization. An attempt is made to explain these inconsistencies through an examination of variation in hormonal balances and effector organ responses. Evidence for Na
3882723|In many species, social interactions rapidly modulate circulating hormone levels in the male. Sexual interaction or mere exposure to a conspecific female results in rapid, transient elevation of both plasma luteinizing hormone and testosterone concentrations in a variety of species. In contrast, aggressive interactions result in decreased plasma gonadotropin and testosterone levels and increased levels of adrenal corticoids. In general, these changes are more profound and of longer duration than those accompanying sexual interactions, particularly among subordinate males. These fluctuations in circulating hormone levels appear to be related to an individual's behavioral responsivity. For example, plasma concentrations of luteinizing hormone during a social encounter are positively correlated with the degree of sexual arousal shown by a male during the interaction. Similar correlations have been found between plasma androgen or corticoid levels and patterns of behavior shown by males during both sexual and aggressive interactions. The causal relationship between such rapid hormone fluctuations and behavior remains unclear. Are fluctuating hormone levels causing differences in behavior or are different patterns of behavior causing differences in plasma hormone levels between males? Or is the correlation between these two variables caused by their relationship to another unidentified factor? There are some data favoring the first possibility. Increasing the magnitude of socially induced hormone fluctuations during an aggressive encounter or preventing such fluctuations entirely significantly alters an animal's behavior. These data suggest that the endocrine system may play a more important role in an individual's minute-to-minute response to critical social stimuli than was previously realized.
3882664|The actinopterygian fishes are an exemplary clade for the study of structural and functional evolutionary patterns. With over half of all vertebrate species, ray-finned fishes have diversified into a wide variety of habitats, and considerable progress has been made over the last fifteen years in understanding the genealogical relationships of actinopterygians. This symposium has contributed to our understanding of phylogenetic patterns in actinopterygians and to knowledge of the major structural and functional patterns in locomotor, auditory, trophic, and neural systems. A number of key areas for future research have been identified. (1) The relationships of "palaeonisciform" fishes, (2) the study of trends in feeding and locomotor systems within a phylogenetic context, (3) the identification of primitive patterns of pharyngeal jaw movement and steady and unsteady locomotor patterns in actinopterygians, (4) the homologies, identification, and functional significance of neural pathways in the telencephalon, and (5) the comparative study of form-function relations in the auditory system. The study of teleost fish biology has proceeded at the expense of data on primitive actinopterygians (e.g., Polypterus, Polyodon, Acipenser, Lepisosteus, Amia) which are especially important in the analysis of structural and functional patterns in ray-finned fishes.
3881830|Although the dominant burnsi gene is widely distributed in Minnesota populations of the leopard frog (Rana pipiens) at uniformly low frequencies, estimates of the effective size of the breeding populations suggest that a wider range of gene frequencies might be expected due to random genetic drift. Observations of the spring, summer, and fall migrations, however, indicate a level of migratory activity sufficient to prevent local divergence in gene frequencies. Temperature appears to play a major role in the springtime migratory and breeding behavior of Rana pipiens in Minnesota.
3882201|The neurohypophysial peptides are vasopressor or depressor in action depending on the species. Isotocin, mesotocin and oxytocin constrict the branchial vessels in fish and induce a reflex vasodilation in the systemic vasculature. The vasodilation has persisted in some higher vertebrates and is particularly prominent in the snakes and birds where vasotocin and arginine vasopressing also are vasodepressor but are much less potent than mesotocin and oxytocin. In other vertebrates including fish, vasotocin and vasopressin are pressor and exert their effects mainly on the peripheral resistance. The newt, toads and soft-shell turtle gave pressor responses to all neurohypophysial peptides, with vasotocin showing the highest potency. The frogs, big-headed turtle and lizards were intermediate with vasotocin being pressor, mesotocin being pressor and oxytocin exhibiting a dual effect.
3883280|This review examines the way in which the activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis in teleost fishes is modified by pituitary, steroid and amine hormones. These factors may act at the level of the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland (thyrotrops), the thyroid gland, or the peripheral tissues, and affect thyroid hormone synthesis, release, metabolism, or degradation. With few exceptions, the studies are limited to only a few species, the results are often fragmentary and contradictory, are based on experiments in which pharmacological, rather than physiological, hormone ranges have been used, and there is too little information to establish a consistent pattern of response to endocrines other than those which are components of the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis itself. Most studies evaluating the effects of pituitary hormones on thyroid economy in fish have, of necessity, relied on mammalian preparations. Some of these (e.g., prolactin and the gonadotropins) elicit very different responses from those of the equivalent semipurified or purified piscine hormone, although mammalian and piscine TSH and GH respectively appear to elicit similar responses in the teleostean thyroid system. The elevation of plasma T
3882714|Behavioral signals play an important role in the communication of members of a social group. This symposium explores those aspects of social signals that emphasize phylogenetic adaptations and endocrine coordination of communicatory behaviors. Species diversity in signalling modalities may be viewed as adaptations for effective communication in different habitats. Reproduction provides a rich context for social signalling, perhaps related to requirements for complex and intimate cooperation between partners. Hormones that regulate reproductive physiology also act to modulate the production and reception of social signals. The approaches of symposium contributors have benefited from the combination of field studies with the powerful analytic techniques of the laboratory. In addition, an appreciation of sources of information important for an animal in its natural habitat has focused the attention of physiological studies onto behaviorally meaningful problems.
3883345|The functional diversity of vertebrate skeletal muscle largely depends upon its structure. An important aspect of this is its hierarchical design. At the cellular level, muscle fibers form three categories whose functional properties grade into each other: slow-oxidative fibers with high endurance to fatigue, fast-oxidative/glycolytic fibers also endurant but with greater metabolic diversity, and fast-glycolytic fibers with limited endurance but quick response. This partitioning of functional properties found among single muscle fibers is conserved at a second level of the structural hierarchy, since the group of myofibers innervated by a single motor neuron (together called a motor unit) is composed of the same fiber type. Different motor units may be recruited in an orderly pattern depending upon the functional demands of a particular behavior. Finally, groups of motor units innervated by axons travelling together in the primary nerve branches may form discrete neuromuscular compartments at a third level of structural hierarchy. Different motor units may be found in regional arrays in these compartments so that slow or fast units tend to be clumped together and may be recruited together as larger functional units. This hierarchical organization of skeletal muscle may be a fundamental vertebrate plan that allows the diversity of functions so evident in vertebrate behavior.
3881469|Intracellular injections of the calcium-binding agent, EGTA, into single cannulated fibers of Balanus and Maia were able to suppress, almost completely, the contractions induced by various contractile agents. The amount of EGTA required in Maia fibers for the suppression of the contractile response produced by caffeine and high-K saline, as has already been reported, was similar to the mean fiber calcium level. In Balanus fibers, however, although the amount of EGTA needed for the suppression of the caffeine-saline response was similar to the estimated level of fiber calcium, the amount required in the raised-K-saline experiments was considerably greater. It has been suggested that membrane depolarization under these conditions allows calcium to enter the fiber from the external saline, the amount entering being related, at least in part, to a large effective sarcolemmal surface area and the presence of binding agent internally. The results of intracellular and plate-electrode stimulation of Belanus fibers also suggested that the fiber under certain conditions could utilize external calcium ions, while the results of plate-electrode stimulation of Maia fibers could be explained most easily in terms of mobilization of mainly intracellular calcium for the process of contraction. Efflux of
3883396|Gas exchange across amphibian skin is regulated by the cutaneous microcirculation. Parameters involved in regulating gas exchange are capillary density, radius and blood flow. Changes in capillary density and radius should affect gas exchange by altering the cutaneous diffusing capacity
3884311|Tube-foot morphology has been included among a variety of taxonomic criteria for the Asteroidea over the past twenty-five years. Other than a few families belonging to the order Paxillosida, which are thought to have pointed, nonsuckered tube feet that are used for digging and burial in soft sediments, the presumption has been that asteroids have flat-tipped, suckered tube feet. This has become an accepted model despite the fact that the comparative morphology of asteroid tube feet has not been considered. In the present study we examine tube-foot morphology of 45 species of Asteroidea representing 19 families. Our analysis confirms that members of the Luidiidae and Astropectinidae (order Paxillosida) lack suckers on the tips of their pointed tube feet. We demonstrate that there is considerable variation in tube-foot morphology among members of the Asteroidea including an entirely new type of flat-tipped, non-suckered tube foot in species belonging to the order Valvatida. The external morphology of tube feet in species belonging to the order Velatida could not be distinguished from "typical" flattipped, suckered tube feet; nonetheless, histological sections revealed a distinctive internal morphology. Finally, we report the first observations of the tube-foot morphology of representatives of deep-sea asteroids belonging to the orders Notomyotida and Brisingida, a group that also lacks the typical flat-tipped, suckered tube-foot morphology. The results of our study demonstrate that the current tube-foot morphology model needs to be reconsidered, as there is considerably greater variation than was previously believed to be the case. Moreover, we conclude that while tube-foot morphologies show consistent similarities within orders, tube-foot morphology is less appropriate as a taxonomic character below this level.
3881542|Some selected examples of food-getting mechanisms in animal parasites are reviewed. The range of adaptations includes: (1) mechanical devices for biting or sucking plus internal or external digestive capacity, (2) internal digestive capacities only, or (3) no mechanical feeding mechanisms and no digestive capacities. In the latter case, feeding mechanisms are restricted to absorptive capacity. Available data on absorption are briefly reviewed. Questions concerning the food of parasites in hosts are posed, and the following examples are analyzed to demonstrate the difficulties in answering these questions: Fasciola, hookworms, Trichuris, and some nematode parasites of vertebrates.
3881853|The stomatogastric ganglion of the lobster Panulirus interruptus contains about 30 neurons and controls the striated musculature of the stomach. The ganglion produces two complex rhythms, the pyloric cycle and the gastric mill cycle, when completely deafferented. This paper describes the neural circuitry underlying this activity in terms of interactions among motor neurons. The pyloric motor neurons are coordinated by electrotonic and inhibitory synaptic interactions which are driven by a group of three neurons having endogenous bursting capability. The gastric mill cycle does not appear to have any such driving source, and instead relies on the overall properties of the network to generate its burst patterns. Preliminary computer modeling indicates that alternate bursting between antagonists can occur without cyclically bursting driver cells. Computer reconstruction of Procion-filled stomatogastric neurons are used both to corroborate the results of the physiological studies and to quantify the geometry for purposes of modeling the intraneuronal flow of synaptic currents.
3882226|The genera of primitive and synapsid reptiles which form the usual morphotypic series leading to cynodonts are not members of a phyletic series. Ecological analyses show three developing evolutionary lines during the Permo-Carboniferous-one lowland, living on deltas and in swamps; a second somewhat more upland; and a third distinctly upland. The members of these three lines are the source of the morphotypic genera, but most of them come from deposits formed in lowlands where they came by successive invasions from more upland habitats. Evidence of the upland lines comes from these lowland sites, from invading animals, and from those introduced by mechanical transport from their upland habitats. The brain cases and masticatory structures of the members of the morphotypic series-Hylonomus, Haptodus, Varanosaurus, Ophiacodon, Dimetrodon, Eotitanosuchus, Scymnognathus, Lycosuchus, Thrinaxodon-are examined in light of the ecological interpretations. Deformed coordinates applied to the lateral aspects of the skulls of the genera show clearly that the morphotypes do not provide a coherent evolutionary series. The "trends" of evolutionary change from Hylonomus to Thrinaxodon can best be seen if these two and Haptodus are used as an evolutionary series, the stages that are missing interpolated, and the roles of the other genera evaluated on the basis of this more or less idealized, conceptual series.
3882581|Field crickets depend on acoustic organs to detect the presence of potential predators as well as conspecific crickets. Predators are recognized largely on the basis of spectral frequencies that are contained in their acoustic signals. Puffs of air and very low frequencies activate a cricket's cercal receptors and ultrasonic frequencies activate their tympanal organs. Both of these acoustic stimuli release "escape behavior," in the form of evasive movements. An identified neuron sensitive to ultrasound is described. Crickets recognize singing conspecifics by both frequency and temporal properties of cricket songs; however species recognition requires specific temporal information in calling songs. While previous studies have emphasized the role of songs on female behavior, males also recognize conspecific songs; sexual differences in recognition behavior occur.
3882231|Multiple lines of tetrapods show reduced limbs or their loss. Such patterns are in diverse lines associated with multiple other characteristics. Only bodily elongation represents a common denominator. Analysis suggests that elongation for traverse of crevices in a sheltering environment and for the utilization of undulatory locomotion may have provided the initial selective advantage to the system. Limb reduction would then have been secondary. This hypothesis leads to several interesting implications about the process of diversification in tetrapods.
3883594|The Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis is based on several assumptions: 1) The parasites adversely affect host fitness, and susceptibility to parasites is heritable. 2) Expression of secondary sexual characteristics is, at least to some extent, dependent on host condition and vigor, and therefore on host ability to control parasites. 3) Females evolve appropriate discriminatory preference for secondary sexual characteristics that best reveal susceptibility to parasites. This paper presents the results of experiments designed to test these assumptions, using the Ring-necked Pheasant, Phasianus colchicus. The results show that resistance to disease can be heritable. Preliminary analysis of the mate choice tests does not reveal that these resistant offspring have better developed secondary sexual characters, or that females prefer them. However, there is a correlation between display rate; coccidian parasite load, and female choice in male pheasants.
3883967|The primary ecosystem-structuring organisms at many hydrothermal vents and cold seeps are phylogenetically related and quite similar physiologically and anatomically. Vestimentiferan tube worms and Vesicomyid clams in particular all rely on chemoautotrophic sulfur-oxidizing symbionts and have blood which binds sulfide with high affinity and capacity. However, there are significant differences between cold seep and hydrothermal vent environments, including large differences in flow rate of the emitted fluid and the chemistry of that fluid. Here we review extant data on the hydrothermal vent species, present new data on the physiologically relevant chemical microhabitat of cold seep vestimentiferans and vesicomyids, and compare the physiological ecology of the seep species to their hydrothermal vent relatives.
3884189|This study compares the relationships among early development and life history characters between two monophyletic groups, salamanders and teleost fishes. Plethodontid salamanders have large eggs and slow development. Large egg size in plethodontid salamanders has been shown to influence several aspects of early development, including: (1) time of holoblastic cleavage, (2) thickness of the blastocoel roof, (3) gastrulation (morphogenetic processes and timing), (4) early developmental rate, (5) formation of an embryonic disk, and (6) percentage of egg volume contributing to embryonic structures. Egg size is just one of several factors that influence the rate of development. While the slow development of plethodontids may have evolutionary implications for timing of oviposition, the lack of a clear correlation between these variables indicates that other life history characters need to be studied. Comparisons of the timing of oviposition in 28 plethodontid species reveal that oviposition in the fall or winter is the derived condition. On the basis of six early developmental and six life history characters examined, there do not appear to be strong relationships between these two character sets. Evolutionary increases in egg size that delay when the egg cleaves holoblastically in some amphibian lineages (such as plethodontids) have been considered to be analogous to the changes that led to the evolution of meroblastic cleavage in such lineages as amniotes. However, teleosts provide an interesting contrast to this standard scenario: The evolution of meroblastic cleavage is not correlated with an increase in egg size, but rather, with a decrease in egg size. Changes in early development of teleosts that led to the evolution of meroblastic cleavage may have significant relationships with life history traits because of osmotic influences and could qualify as a key innovation.
3881666|The microstructure of the shell of bivalve molluscs was examined by lightand electron-microscopy. The purpose of this paper is to classify and describe this structure, and to discuss the affinity and evolutionary development among different kinds of shells. Shell structure consists of two elements, namely, the morphological type which is divisible into 11 different kinds, and "growth line". The distribution of each morphological type in pelecypods is summarized. Various combinations of morphological types are divided into four major groups. The origin of these types and groups is discussed.
3881466|Giant muscle fibers of the barnacle give graded, relatively slow contractions. A plateau level, termed the unit response, occurs with stimuli of 3 msec, but pulses longer than 10-15 msec give much greater tension or shortening. Repetitive stimulation with pulses of 3 msec leads to a tetanus. The magnitude of active state was determined, and found to be also graded in nature and slow to develop, though early in onset. The full development of active state requires 80-120 msec. A high level of effective series-elasticity was associated with the sarcomeres themselves.
3883596|Since the publication of Hamilton and Zuk's model of sexual selection there have been many studies on the effects of parasite infection on host mate choice and sexual behavior. In this paper I discuss the effects of nematode parasites on sexual behavior in the guppy and the parallel effects on non-sexual behavior. This more general approach allows a test of the hypothesis that sexual displays are particularly selected to reveal parasite infection in the host.
3882022|Crayfish motor neurons seem to repair damage to peripheral axons by selective fusion of outgrowing proximal stumps with severed distal processes that can survive morphologically and physiologically intact for over 200 days. Survival of isolated motor and CNS giant axons is associated with much hypertrophy of their glial sheath. The severed stumps of peripheral sensory neurons often degenerate within 21 days and their glial sheath does not hypertrophy. Denervation and immobilization produce relatively little change in the morphology and physiology of the opener muscle, whereas tenotomy produces much atrophy within 30-60 days. Crayfish motor and CNS giant neurons show no capability for regenerating ablated cell bodies, whereas peripheral sensory somata regenerate after limb autotomy. An entire opener muscle can be replaced after limb autotomy but the organism shows little or no ability to redifferentiate an entire muscle in the absence of body part regeneration. However, a few opener muscle fibers can be regenerated if the bulk of the muscle mass remains intact. The significance of all these findings are interpreted with respect to the developmental capabilities and environmental adaptations of the crayfish together with the evolution of regenerative abilities in anthropods and vertebrates.
3881408|The total diffusible content of ammonia in Oniscus asellus was measured as 1.20 mg % body fluid. Daily excretions of ammonia exceeded the total diffusible content in measurements on specimens taken directly from nature. The content of uric acid in a group of 35 specimens was 11.3 mg % body weight and 93% of this material was in the body wall. Urea was not measurable under conditions that would have allowed detection of at least 0.26 mg % body fluid. Only arginase of the enzymes in the ornithine-urea cycle was measurable. Labeled urea was not detectable in aqueous extracts under conditions where approximately 50,300 CPM of labeled carbon was incorporated into metabolites. Labeled arginine was not detectable under conditions where 9,100 CPM of
3883469|This paper examines the influence of atmospheric structure and motion (principally winds aloft) on the flight behavior and altitudinal distribution of migrating song-birds. Bird migration data that I gathered using surveillance radars operated by the United States National Weather Service and the Federal Aviation Administration and a vertically directed fixed-beam marine radar mounted on a mobile laboratory are analyzed in relation to winds aloft. Migrating birds appear to fly at altitudes where winds will minimize the cost of transport and assist movements in seasonally appropriate directions. When migratory flights occur at altitudes that are higher than usual, a significant correlation exists between the altitude of densest migration and the altitude of most favorable wind. Lower altitudes may be favored over slightly more favorable winds at much higher altitudes. Radar data on the flight behavior of migrating birds in the vicinity of frontal systems is also examined. The flight strategies of migrants (fly over the front, change the direction of flight, or land and terminate the flight) differ depending on season and the "thickness" of the front. Recent migration studies that are related to atmospheric structure and motion are summarized and related to atmospheric processes operating simultaneously at vastly different spatial and temporal scales.
3883968|A number of bivalve mollusc species in the families Vesicomyidae, Lucinidae and Solemyidae from sulfide-rich sediments harbor sulfide-oxidizing bacteria as intracellular symbionts in gills. Cytoplasmic hemoglobin, relatively uncommon in symbiont-free gills, is a nearly constant feature in these symbiont-harboring bivalve gills and may function in the delivery of oxygen and sulfide to ensure symbiont autotrophy and host cell respiration. However, biochemical characteristics of isolated hemoglobins from these species differ vastly. For example, within clams of the same genus, gill hemoglobin concentrations vary from micromolar to millimolar. Ligand reaction rate constants of multiple gill hemoglobins from a single species differ by three orders of magnitude. Gill hemoglobins from congeners form different derivatives in the presence of sulfide. Some hemoglobins react avidly with hydrogen sulfide while others appear refractory. This assortment of characteristics suggests that the role of hemoglobin in each symbiotic association cannot be generalized.
3883877|Metazoan embryos in various phyla and classes often utilize quite different processes to specify cell fates during embryogenesis. These differences have been interpreted either as constraints, necessary for fabricating distinct adult body plans, or as adaptations for particular life history strategies. This paper analyzes the evolution of echinoderm cell lineage within a phylogenetic context as a means of testing these hypotheses. Several features of echinoderm cell lineage are probably over 550 million years old, and have persisted despite extensive transformations in adult morphology. Other features are much more variable evolutionarily, and have changed on many separate occasions. Importantly, even some of the most ancient and conservative features of echinoderm cell lineage can still evolve. These transformations are correlated with a particular life history transformation, the switch from feeding to nonfeeding larvae. The results suggest that adaptation has played a significant role in the evolution of cell lineage in echinoderms: some ancient features have been maintained for functional reasons rather than because of constraints, and some derived features have evolved in response to particular environmental challenges.
3882734| The niche variation hypothesis is an adaptive explanation for variation within populations and for the differences in variation between populations in morphological, physiological or behavioral traits. It has received only partial support from empirical tests and has been criticized on theoretical grounds. Recent quantitative genetic models have made an advance by exploring the effects of mutation, migration, mating pattern and selection on phenotypic variance. These models are reviewed and their most important features are integrated in a new model. In this model population variation is in a state of balance between the opposing forces of mutation and immigration, which tend to elevate variation, and selection and possibly genetic drift tending to decrease it. Populations exhibiting different levels of variation are interpereted as having different equilibrium points, and it is the task of empirical studies to determine the relative magnitudes of the opposing factors. An example is given from studies of Darwin's finches. Geospiza fortis varies more than G. scandens on Isla Daphne Major, Galpagos, in several morphological traits including beak and body size. This is explained, assuming equal mutation rates in the two species, as the result of more frequent genetic input to the G. fortis population, through occasional hybridization with immigrant G. fuliginosa, and relaxed stabilizing selection. Stabilizing selection is less intense on G. fortis than on G. scandens because the G. fortis population has a broader niche; there is both a within-phenotype and between-phenotype component to the broad niche of G. fortis. The success of theory in explaining population variation is discussed, and it is concluded that empirical studies lag far behind theory. 
3882894|An optimization model is employed to determine the outcome of within-group conflict in cooperative societies. The model assumes that selection acts simultaneously on the stronger, dominant members of the group to secure more benefits for themselves at the expense of subordinates, and on subordinates to leave the group in response to this usurpation if they can do better elsewhere. When it is in the interest of the dominant to maintain the group, the dominant will be limited in its opportunity to bias the benefits in its favor by the options available to subordinates outside the group. The resulting differences in fitness or net pay-off among group members due to usurpation by dominants define the degree of skew. Ecological factors affect both the net benefit of grouping and the options for leaving, and thus establish the limits of skewing. The assumptions and rules governing this interaction are first outlined using a game theory approach. A continuous model for predicting the exact degree of skew is then developed. This analysis shows that the degree of skew increases when the benefit of group breeding relative to solitary breeding increases, and when the degree of relatedness among group members increases. Finally, the trade-offs between breeding with relatives versus nonrelatives are analyzed from a dominant relative's point of view. The results of two empirical studies on a social bird and a social wasp are compared to the predictions of these models. The exceptionally good fit to the models is interpreted as evidence in favor of the "social manipulation" approach to "helping" and "altruism" in cooperatively breeding species.
3881179|Despite the fact that certain prominent structures such as the eight comb-rows at first suggest an octomerous radial symmetry in ctenophores, close examination of their anatomy reveals rather the existence of two main planes, the sagittal and the transverse. Further, in certain forms in which one plane or the other has become predominant, an apparent bi-lateral symmetry emerges. Relationships between anatomical and physiological symmetry were looked for by studying the behavior of Beroe ovata and Beroe forskalii, both with regard to coordinated ciliary movements between the comb-rows, and to the postures assumed during locomotion, balance, and rest in intact animals, and in animals from which the aboral organ had been removed. Swimming behavior is found to exhibit an octomerous functional symmetry. Bendings and vertical balance, however, show a tetramerous organization. In the last case the unique properties of the statocyst, with a structure characteristic of a regulator of cybernetic patterns, the machines of which are the comb-rows, permit the most efficient integration of all the phenomena involved in maintaining the vertical position. Finally the resting horizontal position reflects a physiological bilateral symmetry basic to the sagittal plane.
3881948|The nucleus preopticus has been shown to receive afferent input from certain cranial nerves and the spinal cord. In addition, the nucleus preopticus and its tracts can synthesize and transport hormones about as rapidly as a mammal can. The nucleus preopticus is functionally involved in the spawning reflex behavior. The hypothalamic control of each of the adenohypophysial hormones is discussed. There is conflicting and incomplete evidence for the control of melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH), prolactin, and somatotropin. Secretion of prolactin and MSH may each be controlled by an inhibitory factor. Corticotropin secretion has been shown to be controlled by corticotropin releasing factor (CRF). There is a negative fedback effect by cortisol on the pituitary to suppress corticotropin secretion. Gonadotropin secretion is controlled by gonadotropin releasing factor (GRF). A part of the nucleus lateralis tuberis is involved in the control of gonadotropin secretion. A great deal of indirect evidence indicates that a thyrotropin inhibitory factor (TIF) controls thyrotropin secretion. There is a negative feedback effect by thyroxine on the pituitary to suppress thyrotropin secretion and a positive feedback effect on the hypothalamus to stimulate TIF secretion. The above findings are restricted to only one or two species in each instance. It is not known how general the above mechanisms of control are found throughout the teleosts.
3882629|In the Drosophila Kc-H cell line ecdysteroids cause rapid increases in the synthesis of two groups of polypeptides which we call ecdysteroid-inducible polypeptides. We have shown that these changes occur at least in part at the level of mRNA titers and we have isolated cDNA clones corresponding to the mRNAs for these polypeptides. The increases in these mRNAs may well be among the primary hormone effects.
3884156|The anterior (ileum) and posterior (rectum) segments of locust hindgut constitute the reabsorptive part of the locust excretory system. They are functionally analogous to the proximal convoluted tubule and more distal parts, respectively, of the mammalian kidney tubule. Transport mechanisms are well understood in the rectum, and an epithelial model has been proposed. Electrogenic active absorption of Cl
3882502|Recent genetic studies of asexually reproducing fishes in the genus Poeciliopsis (Poeciliidae) revealed abundant variation in the form of multiple sympatric clones. Recurrent hybridizations between sexual species provides the principal source of clonal variation. The hybrids are spontaneously endowed with a clonal reproductive mechanism that perpetuates a high level of heterozygosity. Migration within and between river systems, and mutations, also contribute to clonal diversity in these fish. Coexistence among different clones and with the sexual ancestors depends in part upon specializations characteristic of individual clones. Clonal reproduction is an efficient mechanism for freezing a portion of the niche-width variation contained in the gene pool of the more broadly adapted, sexual ancestors. Multiclonal populations achieve significantly higher densities relative to the sexual forms than do monoclonal populations. This relationship is a function of the clonal variability upon which natural selection can act and upon the capacity of a multiclonal population to better exploit a heterogeneous environment through niche diversification. In all-female organisms such as Poeciliopsis, which are dependent upon sexual species for insemination, competitive abilities probably are at a premium in the densely populated pools and arroyos of the Sonoran Desert. Competitive abilities are probably less important for truly parthenogenetic clones which rely on colonization abilities to escape from their sexual ancestors and from other clones.
3881413|Fiddler crabs inhabiting the intertidal zone must adapt their activity to both the day-night cycle and the cycle of the tides. The tidal cycle imposes on the animals a rhythmic alternation between terrestrial and marine periods of existence. At the same time the crabs are influenced by the day-night cycle, since they exhibit specific diurnal and nocturnal habits. Moreover, the interaction of daily and tidal rhythms may give rise to semi-monthly variations in activity. It is now well established that persistent daily and tidal rhythms in physiological processes underlie rhythmic variations in the behavior of crabs in the field. The present paper reviews more recent studies, which have compared the persistent rhythms in crabs from different tidal and non-tidal regions. Rhythmic patterns recorded in the laboratory are found to be closely correlated with tidal conditions in the native habitat of the crabs. It has also been shown that the persistent pattern can be modified by transplanting crabs to the intertidal zone of another coast where they are exposed to tidal cycles which differ in form from those in the original habitat.
3882516| During amphibian gastrulation, migrating subsurface germ layers may flow past one another like immiscible viscous liquids in response to tissue surface tension forces. We describe here two physical tests for liquid-tissue morphogenesis in cultured aggregates of subsurface ectoderm (E), mesoderm (M) and endoderm (N) excised from mid-yolk-plug Rana pipiens gastrulae. (i) Liquids are coherent substances in which subunits can slip past one another to relax internal shear stresses. We find, in cross-sections of cell aggregates fixed during compression, that cells within flattened aggregates are intially deformed, but do, as predicted, gradually reassume their original, undistorted shapes. (ii) Surface tensions ('s) govern ordinary liquid-droplet spreading; e.g., if equal-sized droplets A and B fuse in medium O, B spreads around A when
3882950|Immunological and chromatographic studies demonstrate that the gonadotropin (GtH) releasing hormone (GnRH) in the brain of chondrichthyes, teleosts, reptiles and birds is different from luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) of mammals. LH-RH is present in brain extracts from amphibia. The alterations in the structure of LH-RH found in various of the non-mammalian vertebrates are at positions 7 and 8; the structure of chum salmon GnRH is
3883083|Each paper in an American Society of Zoologists' symposium on territoriality generated new ideas for future research. However, since similar themes repeatedly arose, an overview of the symposium revealed the areas in which future research is most needed. Theory far outstrips data on territoriality at this point, and efforts should concentrate on field tests of ideas. Some of the general areas that need study are: the effect of foraging goals and constraints on territorial decisions, the effect of the internal energy or breeding state of the animal in making territorial decisions, the effects of subtle factors such as habitat geometry and the role of neighbors on the cost of defense, the effect of various forms of environmental variability on territorial decisions, the active or passive influence of plants on territoriality, and the effect of scale and mobility in the expression and evolution of territoriality. The study of territoriality is entering a particularly challenging stage of development, because study systems must be carefully chosen and model assumptions thoroughly examined before rigorous experimental tests of hypotheses can be performed. Yet the state of the art is such now that only rigorous tests will advance our knowledge further.
3883617|Initial work examining crab foraging from optimality premises explored fundamental foraging scope (the capacity of animals to graze), often within an abstract experimental context. An emergent theme involves explicit consideration of biological constraints (e.g., predation risk) and environmental factors (e.g., substrate type) which, by modulating grazing capacity, determine the realized foraging pattern seen in nature. We briefly review two studies that illustrate the contemporary focus on realized foraging pattern. One defines field grow-out techniques for bivalves (raised in mariculture and resource enhancement programs) that minimize losses from predators such as the portunid crab, Ovalipes ocellatus. By focusing on marginal regions of predator: prey interaction (in this case, foraging on low densities of clams planted in heterogenous substrates), the study yielded novel insight into limits on portunid crab foraging on infaunal clams. The second study analyses the foraging performance of a deposit feeding ocypodid crab, Scopimera inflata, over different temporal and spatial scales. We demonstrate that whereas S. inflata performs suboptimally at micro-scales (seconds to minutes; mm to cm), the crabs nearly optimize performance over macro-scales (days to years; cm to m). Continued research on the fundamental foraging scope of crabs is warranted, but should be explicitly referenced to natural historical context and, in particular, to the forager's ontogenetic stage. We also perceive a need for collaborative research incorporating behavioral, physiological, and biochemical facets in an integrated experimental setting. This would ensure that context does not bias information, as can occur in studies that emphasise a particular research perspective, methodological approach, or scale at which foraging is analysed.
4620124|An individual's existing phenotype is defined by behavioral and structural characters in the context of an ecological environment which is inclusive of both biotic and abiotic factors. Multiple explanations, designated here as mechanisms, life history, fitness, and evolutionary history, can account for the existence of phenotypic characters and their relationships to each other. These explanations can be described pictorially using a Venn-like diagram with three overlapping circles; each circle represents the potential range of variation for each character or the environment. The center of the diagram, a point of overlap in all three circles, is the existing phenotype. Mechanistic explanations establish linkages either between characters or between characters and the environment; they are represented spatially by the overlap between two circles identified here as behavioral-ecological, behavioral-structural, and ecological-structural mechanisms. Life history explanations incorporate the temporal dimension of an individual's age so that sequences of Venn diagrams would symbolize an individual's entire life history. Fitness explanations identify the relationship of a character, mechanism, life history stage or entire life history strategy to reproductive success and survival. Lastly, explanations based on evolutionary history account for the current phenotype in terms of interactions between characters and ecological environments along the temporal dimension of geological time. Together, multiple explanations contribute to a pluralistic understanding of an existing phenotype, as used in this essay to explain vocalization behaviors exhibited by alternative male reproductive morphs in a teleost fish, the plainfin midshipman, Porichthys notatus.
3882247|The calcareous shell of the Brachiopoda is interspersed with organic material, chiefly protein and polysaccharide. The amino acid compositions of these proteins reflect their genetically coded biosynthesis and are phylogenetically and taxonomically informative. The taxonomic scheme based on protein data agrees with the scheme based on morphological and anatomical criteria. These findings indicate Crania occupies an anomolous position. Brachiopoda exhibit two main types of calcification, carbonate and phosphate. The hydroxyproline found in phosphatic inarticulate shell protein suggests an analogy with bone collagen, but the glycine content is too low to allow triple-helix formation. The number and nature of polypeptide chains making up the shell proteins have been determined by amino and carboxy end-group analysis as well as disc electrophoresis with SDS. In the native state the shell proteins are molecular aggregates and are dissolved by 8 M urea, suggesting that the inter-chain links are largely H-bonds. Articulate shell protein probably serves as a resilient cushioning between calcite fibers to protect against mechanical shock. This would be permitted by the amorphous flexible character of the polypeptide chain. The shell proteins of the Inarticulata are different, their chitin-protein laminated shell is more sheet-like and its structure requires less cushioning. Study of fossil protein can shed further light on shell protein ancestry and hence on brachiopod phylogeny.
3881916|It is currently fashionable to attribute changes in organ shape during development to the actions of microtubules and microfilaments on individual cells of the organ in question. In the case of the eye lens it has been proposed that cellular elongation under the influence of microtubules and/or apical contraction by microfilaments are responsible for the remodeling of the originally low cuboidal ectoderm into the tall and wedge-shaped presumptive lens cells. Invagination of the lens is thought to follow automatically. These ideas cannot account for certain observations on lens morphogenesis, such as the relatively fixed diameter of the organ rudiment during early development, which is incompatible with the supposed contraction of the rudiment. We found that the area of contact between presumptive lens and optic cup does become fixed after a few hours of "induction." There is a remarkable correlation in time between this fixation, and the process of lens cell elongation and increase in lens cell density. We calculated that the latter two can, in fact, be accounted for by population pressure caused by continued cell division within the defined area of the lens rudiment. A mathematical model along these lines was developed, which explains lens invagination on the basis of cell number and size, extent of the area of contact between ectoderm and optic cup, and cell population doubling times. We hypothesize that the prevention of lateral cell spreading within the lens territory, after the contact area becomes fixed, is a function of the build-up in extracellular materials in this area during the "induction period." Both lens rudiment and presumptive retina contribute to this extracellular matrix.
3883896|The prothoracicotropic hormone and the cerebral peptidergic neurons that produce it have traditionally been thought to have the singular function of acting as a primary effector of insect postembryonic development. Recent investigations of this neuroendocrine axis in the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, are leading to a new view that these peptidergic neurons and their peptide phenotypes may be multifunctional. They may act in different ways depending upon the animal's developmental stage and site of phenotype release. The possibility for this functional diversity of the prothoracicotropic hormone is possibly even greater due to multiple neuronal sites of peptide expression within the central nervous system. Similarly, the L-NSC III may have more functions due to the expression of multiple peptide phenotypes. The data, thus far, have not enabled us to identify additional physiological roles for the peptide, but they have provided insight into the experimental approaches that might be effective in resolving these functions.
3883278|The climactic stages of amphibian metamorphosis constitute a period characterized by radical morphological changes that are driven primarily by the thyroidal hormones. Radioimmunoassays show that levels of thyroid hormones (TH) rise to a peak during metamorphic climax. Accompanying peaks are reported for ACTH, adrenal corticoids (AC), insulin (I) and prolactin (PRL). AC enhance the metamorphic action of TH by increasing their binding to nuclei of target cells. TH, in turn, act to raise levels of AC by stimulating the differentiation of the median eminence thus facilitating the flow of a CRF from the hypothalamus to the adenohypophysis, by synergizing with ACTH and by stimulation of the interrenals through some other route. During the metamorphic period, at least as far as climax, PRL antagonizes TH, perhaps at the thyroidal level and certainly at the level of target cells. PRL may antagonize by inhibiting induction of hydrolytic enzymes by TH, by alteration of hydromineral responses or by altering levels of binding of TH to receptors. The antagonistic action of PRL is mimicked by cAMP. A surge of PRL that is released into the plasma during metamorphic climax seemingly produces no antagonistic effect on thyroidal actions.
3881988|Until very recently anthropology has given little attention to the study of human play, a circumstance which reflects the Western view that play is unseemly behavior. Modern anthropologists now view play as universal and strikingly conspicuous human behavior that must be studied to reach the goal of understanding man and his culture. Physical anthropologists have concerned themselves with the play of nonhuman primates, giving attention to its bearing upon human behavior and the question of the evolutionary significance of play behavior. Cultural and social anthropologists look at play as culturally molded behavior and examine similarities and differences in its forms throughout the world. Although much variation exists in specific forms of play, all human societies are seen to be fundamentally alike in their play behavior. Greatest attention is now being given to the functional and dysfunctional significance of play in human life and the relationship of play to other elements of culture. Major subjects of current study are play and social control, play and social-psychological problems, play and communication-cognition, and play as related to a variety of other subjects including religion, law, economics, motivation toward achievement, politics, aggression, role-learning, and creativity.
3884014|The interdisciplinary field of marine invertebrate chemical ecology is relatively young, and particularly so in polar marine environments. In this review we present evidence that the incidence of chemical defense in antarctic benthic marine invertebrate phyla is widespread. Mechanisms of chemical defense have been detected in antarctic representatives of the Porifera, Cnidaria, Brachiopoda, Tunicata, Nemertea, Mollusca and Echinodermata. This argues against earlier biogeographic theories that predicted a low incidence of chemical defense in polar waters where levels of fish predation are low. Selection for chemical defense in benthic sessile and sluggish marine invertebrates is likely a response to an environmentally stable community shown to be structured primarily by biotic factors such as predation and competition. Holoplankton and the eggs, embryos and larvae of both benthic and planktonic antarctic macroinvertebrates may also employ chemical defense to offset mortality during characteristically slow development and long life span where susceptibility to predation is seemingly high. While most research to date has focused on the role of secondary metabolites in mediating predation, it is likely that bioactive compounds in antarctic marine invertebrates also serve roles as antifoulants and allelochemics. The diversity of bioactive metabolites detected to date in antarctic marine invertebrates sets the stage both for continuing and for broadening efforts to evaluate their functional and ecological significance.
3881396|The fossil record of land isopods is of little help in tracing the evolution of their terrestrial adaptations; however, we can usefully correlate the traits of various extant species with their various environments. Loss of cuticular water varies greatly between species, generally in relation to habitat, although the mechanism restricting loss is unclear. Both endocuticular and epicuticular barriers have been reported, the latter in Venizillo arizonicus. Pseudotracheae are advantageous for respiration in dry air, but again the mechanism is not clear. Excess nitrogen is excreted mainly as ammonia gas. Wide osmotic variation in the hemolymph resulting from dehydration is tolerated. Lethal temperatures vary in general according to habitat, and are affected by size, humidity, permeability of the cuticle, and previous temperature history. Evaporative cooling is sometimes of survival value for short periods. Metabolic rate is affected by season, and both long photoperiod and high temperatures are necessary for gonadal development and breeding. Responses to light, temperature, and humidity are more labile than previously thought. A peripheral hygro-receptor has tentatively been identified. The mechanism of bunching is largely thigmotactic, but olfaction may play a part, as it does in shelter-seeking. More information is now available about the micro-climates of habitats. In Porcellio scaber, nightly activity on trees in some situations permits elimination of excess water by transpiration. In Armadillidium vulgare nightly activity is greater in moister air, and drowning is a density-dependent mechanism for population control during heavy rains. Isopods are successful as land animals. Further study of population and distribution limits by combined ecological and physiological methods would be fruitful.
3881761|One-locus, two-allele models are presented which describe the genetic consequences of naturally occurring and experimentally induced parthenogesis in triploid and diploid amphibians. The models may in general be used to investigate genetic change resulting from apomictic (ameiotic) and automictic (meiotic) parthenogenetic reproduction. These models quantify the influence of mutation, segregation, and selection upon genetic variability in parthenogenetic populations. They also allow an estimate of the relative importance of stochastic forces in altering this variability. They thus provide a basis for understanding evolution in these populations. Some of the conclusions derived from this study contradict previous predictions regarding genetic variability in parthenogenetic populations. First, if mutation is the sole source of genetic change (i.e., strict apomixis), parthenogenetic populations should not become completely heterozygous. Second, small amounts of segregation occurring in apomictic populations have enormous effects upon the genetic variability of these populations, i.e., they should lose much of their heterozygosity. In addition to these conclusions, the results of this study suggest that studies of protein variability in parthenogenetic species should contribute toward answering the question: How much of the genetic variability observed in nature is evolutionarily relevant?
3881632| At low temperature (2C), in the absence of FDP and Mg
3883632|Brood weight and number of eggs per brood are primarily determined by female body size in brachyuran crabs. Brood weight exhibits an isometric relationship spanning more than four orders of magnitude in body weight among 33 non-pinnotherid species, with brood size being constrained to about 10% of female body weight by the space available for yolk accumulation within the cephalothorax. In contrast, two pinnotherids (Pinnotheres ostreum, Fabia subquadrata) have relative brood sizes which are 66% and 97%, respectively, of body weight. The allometric constraint is circumvented in these extraordinarily large brood sizes by two pinnotherid features which allow more space for yolk accumulation. Unlike other brachyurans, their ovaries extend out of the cephalothorax into the abdomen, and calcification of their exoskeleton is greatly reduced, potentially allowing distension of the body. As in crabs, pinnotherid egg size is highly variable among species, which tends to increase the variance among species in fecundity per brood, making pinnotherid fecundities not extraordinary. The number of broods produced per year in these two species is limited by short reproductive seasons, which tends to bring their annual reproductive output in line with other brachyurans. The trade-offs among reproductive variables in pinnotherids is adaptive for the small body size and parasitic niche of these species.
3881802| This is a review of the behavioral, biochemical-physiological, and morphological adaptations of Modiolus demissus (Dillwyn) to the high intertidal habitat. The ribbed mussel, Modiolus, has fully exploited the behavioral adaptations within the limits imposed by the bivalve body plan. Air-gaping is undoubtedly a significant behavioral adaptation which permits aerial respiration and penetration of the high intertidal zone. Modiolus fully utilizes physiological-biochemical adaptations also. The mussel is both eurythermal and euryhaline: the thermal range is at least 56C and the salinity range is at least 70%, both impressive ranges for an organism which conforms to these environmental parameters. The two primary adaptations made by Modiolus are an extensive tolerance to dehydration and a very high enzyme thermostability. These two adaptations are responsible for Modiolus' tolerance toward desiccation, variation in salinity, thermal stress, and possibly anaerobic conditions. There is no obvious morphological adaptation. Thus, the physiological adaptations, coupled with air-gaping, are responsible for the vertical penetration of Modiolus into the intertidal zone and its horizontal migration over an extensive geographic range. 
3883823|Coral reefs are threatened by numerous anthropogenic impacts, some of which have already had major effects worldwide. These unique tropical environments harbor a high diversity of corals, reef invertebrates, fish and other animals and plants. In most taxa, the species diversity of reef-associated organisms is poorly understood because many of the species have yet to be collected and described. High coral mortality has been associated with natural events such as hurricanes, predator outbreaks and periods of high temperature, but has also resulted from excess nutrients in sewage and from specific pollutants. Reef corals and associated organisms are also threatened by the possibility of global warming which will result in rising sea levels and periods of increased temperature stress, and which may also bring increased storm frequency and intensity. Although the recent extensive episodes of coral bleaching in the Caribbean and eastern Pacific cannot be causally related to global warming at this time, the close link between bleaching and temperature suggests that global warming will result in severe changes in coral assemblages. Major reef destruction has followed outbreaks of the predatory seastar Acanthaster planci in the Pacific. Although this is considered part of a natural disturbance cycle, there are indications that altered land use patterns and reduction of predators on this seastar by human activities may have increased the severity of outbreaks. Recreational and commercial use of reefs has also increased, and has caused extensive damage, especially near areas of high population density. One of the most obvious and widespread losses to reef biota is the reduction in fish populations from intense overfishing in most reef areas of the world. Coasts without adequately managed reefs have suffered intense overfishing for both local and export purposes, to the point where the positive effects of fish on those reefs have been compromised. The combination of these destructive factors has altered reefs in all localities, and many that were once considered protected by distance and low population density are now being exploited as well. On the positive side, improved understanding of ecological processes on reefs combined with concerted conservation efforts have managed to protect some extensive areas of reef for the future.
3883009|Culture is made possible by the existence of mechanisms of learning and communication. Because of it, we can profit from the experience and ideas of others. It is convenient to include in it tools, technologies, and all culturally transmitted behaviors. At least from an evolutionary point of view, they share common mechanisms. It is also becoming increasingly clear that animals share with us potential for cultural adaptation, which is however much more highly developed in humans, as shown for instance, by the extension of human brain areas that are involved in control of hand and phonation organs. To understand how culture evolves one can make resort to models that map reasonably well after the necessary substitutions, into those that have been useful in biology. A major difference that one finds is in mechanisms of transmission, which are much more varied in culture than in biology. Parent-child (vertical) transmission is present in both. An "infectious" (horizontal) mechanism is characteristic of cultural transmission, but is practically absent in the genetic case. Other mechanisms of transmission are reviewed, along with their evolutionary consequences. The variety of these mechanisms can make culture extremely fast and flexible, and there are the great advantages of cultural adaptation vs. genetic adaptation by natural selection, or vs. physiological adaptations (which are relatively fast but highly specific: for instance, tanning under exposure to UV). But culture can also be extremely conservative. Also, some cultural transmission mechanisms allow heterogeneity between individuals to persist, others tend to make populations extremely homogeneous. The study of culture from an evolutionary point of view is young, but very promising.
3882087|Sea urchins can be raised from egg to egg in the laboratory. With proper food, the larvae can be grown to maturity in about 3 weeks. When mature larvae are exposed to the proper chemical cues metamorphosis occurs. Over the next 5 days the small urchins develop internal organs and then begin to feed. Sexual maturity can be reached in as little as 4.5 months. By then the urchin is about a centimeter in diameter. Several different approaches to the study of developmental genetics are covered. These include: (i) hybrids between the sand dollars Dendraster and Encope, in which both crosses produce offspring that have predominantly paternal characteristics; (ii) a preliminary description of two mutants, one which produces abnormally shaped blastula that may lead to a significant number of exogastrulae, and another that produces a large number of four-part symmetrical urchins; (iii) urchins produced by parthenogenetic activation and from reaggregated larval cells.
3883134|In the 1850s the United States Army conducted extensive surveys to ascertain the best route for a railroad from the Mississippi River to the Pacific Coast. The final reports consist of 13 quarto volumes with hundreds of full page lithographs and numerous maps. The itineraries of the field parties, together with the illustrations, gave Americans their first comprehensive descriptions of the West. Spencer Fullerton Baird, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, arranged for naturalists to accompany the field parties. A wealth of biological material was obtained and the greater portion of the reports is devoted to descriptions of the plants and animals (mainly vertebrates) found in this vast region.
3882858|Three lines of evidence are presented to support the concept that polyingression represents a major morphogenetic movement in the genesis of the primary hypoblast, definitive endoderm and the mesoderm layers in chick gastrulation. Colchicine treated embryos produce a primary hypoblast layer thereby indicating that cell proliferation in the posterior marginal zone and elsewhere in the early embryo does not make a necessary contribution to hypoblast formation. Scanning electron microscopy provides morphologic complementary evidence that polyingression from the epiblast is a principal source of cells for the hypoblast. Finally, the morphology of cells with acetylcholinesterase activity suggests that this enzyme is related to release of cells from the epiblast so that ingression can occur.
3884545| The nudibranch Melibe leonina swims by rhythmically flexing its body from side to side at a frequency of 1 cycle every 2-5 sec. Melibe swim spontaneously, when they are dislodged from the substrate, or when they come in contact with predatory seastars, such as Pycnopodia helianthoides. Intracellular recordings obtained from semi-intact swimming Melibe reveal a population of 15 swim motoneurons (SMNs) in each pedal ganglion. In general, SMNs in one pedal ganglion fire out-of-phase with SMNs in the opposite pedal ganglion, resulting in rhythmic side-to-side bending movements. In isolated brains, recordings from SMNs yield similar results, indicating the existence of a swim central pattern generator (CPG). There is no evidence for synaptic interactions between SMNs and either inhibiting or exciting SMNs has no impact on the swim pattern. The SMNs are driven by a CPG consisting of 4 interneurons; 2 in the cerebropleural ganglia and 1 in each pedal ganglion. Appropriate bursting activity in the swim interneurons is necessary for swimming to occur. Either hyperpolarization or depolarization of any of the 4 CPG interneurons disrupts the normal swim pattern. Swimming behavior, and the fictive swim motor program expressed by the isolated brain, are inhibited by light and nitric oxide donors. NADPH-diaphorase staining and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) immunocytochemistry of Melibe brains suggests the source of nitric oxide might be a pair of bilaterally symmetrical cells located in the cerebropleural ganglia. 
3881953|A number of factors which may complicate studies dealing with the calcium metabolism of teleosts are pointed out. Thus, low environmental levels of calcium markedly affect both gill RNA and sodium metabolism in dilute sea water, and the absence of monovalent cations affects calcium metabolism in dilute environments. Hypophysectomy is not always followed by the disappearance of cortisol from the plasma, and prolactin-which is required for the survival of either hypophysectomized or intact animals in a divalent ion-free environment-stimulates cortisol production. It is also pointed out that Fundulus kansae can be maintained in divalent ion-free environments for long periods, and that calcium is mobilized from internal reservoirs such as acellular bone and scales. Failure to survive in such environments is due to the regulatory effect of environmental calcium on sodium metabolism rather than on calcium metabolism per se. Finally, it is pointed out that while one parameter of calcium metabolism-such as plasma calcium levels in male fish-may remain constant throughout the year, other parameters such as calcium uptake may vary considerably. Seasonal differencees in responses to mammalian calcitonin have also been noted.
3883409|Male bird song may attract and stimulate females and may repel males, but the evidence that song is essential for accomplishing these "main functions" is not abundant. Correlations between male song traits (such as repertoire size or singing rate) and components of fitness reveal that important information, perhaps about overall male quality, is available for listeners. To determine whether birds use that information, however, will require researchers to manipulate song traits independently of male quality. Having then determined more rigorously the "current utility" of song, we will more clearly be able to infer how selection has shaped particular song traits. We envision progress in understanding the function(s) of bird song if investigators 1) thoroughly describe natural events, 2) use lucidly stated, multiple working hypotheses, 3) realize the potential differences in song function among divergent taxonomic units, 4) transcend correlational studies by doing ingenious manipulative experiments, and 5) reason carefully when developing scenarios of evolutionary origin.
3884562|The subterranean environment is not favorable for the use of vision or the audition of airborne sounds as means of long-distance sensory perception. However, seismic vibrations have been shown to propagate at least an order of magnitude better than airborne sound between the burrow systems of the mole-rat Georychus capensis. The use of the seismic channel for communication underground is well documented for other species of bathyergids, as well as the spalacine mole-rat Nannospalax. It has recently been suggested that the golden mole Eremitalpa granti namibensis may also be sensitive to ground vibrations, in this case used in foraging in its desert habitat. In this paper, the use of seismic signals among these and other fossorial mammals is reviewed from theoretical, behavioral and anatomical standpoints. The question of whether auditory or somatosensory means are used to detect vibratory signals is examined. Attempts to explain the distribution of seismic sensitivity and communication mechanisms among fossorial mammals are considered. The potential influences of different soil type and digging methods are discussed, and it is proposed that digging mechanisms involving the head might preadapt a fossorial mammal towards the development of seismic sensitivity.
3884297| The regulation of the ecdysteroid-induced cascade of transcription factors by 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) and juvenile hormone (JH) in the epidermis of the lepidopteran Manduca sexta is summarized. Both the levels and isoforms of the ecdysone receptor (EcR) and Ultraspiracle (USP) change during the molt. The 20E induction of MHR3, an orphan receptor that appears relatively late in the cascade, is dependent on the predominant intermolt isoforms, EcR-B1 and USP-1, and on the orphan receptor E75A which appears early in the cascade. The USP-2 isoform induced by 20E pairs with EcR-B1 but this heterodimer cannot up-regulate MHR3. Thus, the specific transcription factors induced by 20E are dependent on the particular isoforms present in the heterodimeric EcR/USP complex. Juvenile hormone modulates responses of the transcription factor cascade to 20E. For E75A, the presence of JH increased both its sensitivity to 20E and the accumulation of its mRNA, indicating that high E75A may be important for maintenance of the larval state. By contrast, JH prevented the 20E induction of the Broad Complex group of transcription factors which appear as the larval epidermis becomes pupally committed and are necessary for metamorphosis in Drosophila. During the decline of ecdysteroid, the orphan receptors, GRF and FTZ-F1, appear and may regulate transcription of dopa decarboxylase, a key enzyme in sclerotization of the new cuticle. Thus, the ecdysteroid-induced regulatory cascade is set in motion and regulated by the changing concentration and types of ecdysteroids and receptor isoforms. The presence of JH further modulates this cascade by acting selectively on the responses of specific factors and thus prevents the 20E-induced gene switching necessary for metamorphosis. 
3882463|The conventional approach to systematic parasitology uses any kind of information, with a posteriori weighting of characters demonstrated to be concordant with many others. Two types of ovejectors and dorsal rays divide the strongyloid nematodes into groups that correlate with their host groups, resulting in the first phylogenetic classification of the superfamily Strongyloidea.
3883820|Symbiotic associations expand both the diversity of potential ecological niches and metabolic capabilities of the host-symbiont combinations. Symbioses can also be considered to have evolutionary potential in that the partnership can result in a "new organism." Associations between chemoautotrophic bacteria and marine invertebrates, discovered only 10 years ago, are now found widely in nature, in habitats ranging from deep-sea hydrothermal vents to coastal sediments. Here I review chemoautotroph-invertebrate associations and discuss the benefits inferred for both partners with regard to the diversity of these symbioses in nature.
3883494| The metabolic rate of the alligator is a direct function of the volume of blood flowing through the capillaries/unit time/unit weight, which in turn, is determined by the heart rate and the stroke volume. For an animal with such a low metabolic rate, the heart rate is relatively rapid, in part because the heart is relatively small. Metabolic rate of the smallest alligator exceeds that of the largest by about 25 to 1. Lowering the temperature decreases blood flow without decreasing the oxygen and substrate extracted from each liter. Metabolic rate (oxygen consumption) is expressed by the equation M.R. = F(A - V), where F is the blood flow and A - V is the oxygen A - V difference. For the catabolism of compounds in which oxygen is not directly involved, the expression is V = KF[S], where V is the velocity of the reaction, F is the blood flow, and [S] is the concentration of the substrate. K is a constant, differing for each catabolite, but having about the same value for any one catabolite in vertebrates, cold- or warm-blooded. Enzyme kinetics in a live vertebrate has little in common with that determined in the usual experiments in vitro. A 70 kg alligator at 28C has a blood flow of 0.2 liters/min, a stroke volume of 6.3 ml, a circulation time of 27 min, and it produces about 72 kcal/day, or about 4% of that of a man of equal size. 
3884456|Richard Goldschmidt's research on homeotic mutants from 1940 until his death in 1958 represents one of the first serious efforts to integrate genetics, development, and evolution. Using two different models, Goldschmidt tried to show how different views of genetic structure and gene action could provide a mechanism for rapid speciation. Developmental systems were emphasized in one model and a hierarchy of genetic structures in the other. While Goldschmidt tried to find a balance between development and genetics, critics, such as Sewall Wright, urged him and eventually helped him incorporate population dynamics into his models as well. As such, the history of Goldschmidt's research on homeotic mutants highlights the continuing challenge of producing a balanced and integrated developmental evolutionary genetics.
3881549|Intravascular pressures, distributions of blood oxygen, dye-dilution curves, cineradiography, and electromagnetic flowmeters in major vessels suggest a highly directional flow of systemic and pulmonary venous blood through reptilian hearts. The lacertilian right aortic arch contains blood from the pulmonary, and the left from the pulmonary or sometimes both pulmonary and systemic veins. Traces made of the pressure and blood flow show that the lacertilian and chelonian cava venosum and pulmonale are functionally distinct. Atrioventricular valves probably prevent regurgitation during ventricular systole and form an obstruction between the cava arteriosum and venosum during ventricular filling. The muscular ridge approaches the ventral ventricular wall at systole forming a functional ventricular septum. Low pulmonary vascular resistance favors pulmonary ejection before systemic. In Pseudemys the balance between pulmonary and systemic resistance causes a left-to-right shunt during respiration and a right-to-left shunt during diving; the latter probably reduces the expenditure of cardiac energy during hypoxia. Pressure traces and cineradiography indicate separation of systemic and pulmonary venous returns in alligators. The left ventricle perfuses both aortic arches and the right the pulmonary arch. Right ventricular pressure may exceed pulmonary pressure during ejection suggesting an impedance in the pulmonary outflow tract. Pulmonary resistance in crocodilians may increase during diving, instituting a right-to-left shunt.
3882327|Ultrasonic vocalizations are very conspicuous during rat mating activity. Two types of calls are produced by both sexes. The first, brief complex calls with the main frequency centered about 50 kHz, occur primarily in conjunction with solicitation and mounting activity. The second type of call is the long, 22 kHz whistle which is emitted mainly by the male during the postejaculatory refractory period, but also by both male and female at other times during the copulatory sequence. The occurrence of ultrasonic vocalizations is correlated with sexual motivation of rats. Males emit more 50 kHz calls before successful mating tests than before tests in which they fail to ejaculate. Furthermore, more vocalizations are emitted by the pair prior to intromissions than prior to mounts without intromission. Just before ejaculation there is a large increase in the rate of calling and, at times, transition by the male to calling at 22 kHz. This latter event may represent physiological dearousal by the male. Following ejaculation, the male characteristically emits 22 kHz vocalizations and exhibits a sleep-like EEG pattern. The function of the postejaculatory vocalization may be to enforce separation between the mating pair, while at the same time maintaining contact between the partners. Fifty kHz calls, on the other hand, prime and facilitate sexual responsiveness of the female. Tape recorded vocalizations of mating rats facilitate solicitation behavior of estrous females in the presence of castrated males, and such females also show a preference for these sounds in a "Y" maze. Deafening of females does not affect their normal pacing of copulatory contacts, but it drastically reduces their solicitation behavior. The studies summarized in this paper lead us to conclude that ultrasonic vocalizations play a major role in the integration of reproductive activity in the Norway rat, Rattus norvegicus.
3882141|A compromise between speed and efficiency of energy conversions gives the maximum power of useful energy conversion at intermediate efficiencies. Organisms are selected to maximize the power of energy conversions to a useful form. However, most species have very little capacity to vary the efficiency of their energy conversions in response to variation in the intensity of the environmental power supply. Plants can respond slowly to horizontal variation in the availability of energy by growth. The trade-off between power and efficiency which is dependent on the compromise between speed and efficiency of energy conversions does seem to apply to the relative efficiencies of successive species in a sere of secondary terrestrial plant succession. The application of the power trade-off to species in a sere predicts the common general properties of growth and reproduction in succession. The power trade-off may also help to explain reproductive patterns in animals that differ in the concentration of their food supply. The thermodynamic basis of causation provided by the power trade-off could be a valuable tool for connecting evolutionary ecology with community and ecosystem studies.
3883950|A diversity of issues related to metamorphosis are discussed in this paper, ranging from biomechanical constraints on behavior in premetamorphic anurans, to environmental factors that regulate metamorphosis. I begin by reviewing key behavioral features of tadpoles that have implications to their form and locomotion. Tadpoles lack all visceral behaviors, such as emesis, coughing, and egg-laying, that require major elevations of pressure in the pleuroperitoneal cavity. I suggest that the inability to forcefully elevate pleuroperitoneal pressure is a consequence of the tadpoles' short and inflexible spine. Although postmetamorphic frogs have a similarly short vertebral column, they can compress viscera by movement at sacroiliac joints, which are absent in tadpoles. I argue that the short torso of tadpoles is a necessary consequence of the need to innervate the frog's limbs early in development so that they can be fully functional by the end of metamorphosis. The short torso is a good mechanical design for the saltatory frog, but afflicts the tadpoles with a distinctly globous shape that intuitively appears inefficient for aquatic locomotion. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models, however, reveal that tadpoles are, in fact, efficient undulatory swimmers compared to subcarangiform fishes and that their swimming kinematics work in concert with their shape to help generate thrust. Furthermore the CFD models show that the crease in the dorsal profile of tadpoles, where the body abruptly meets the tail, produces a "dead water" zone immediately behind the body of the tadpole. As a result, tadpoles can grow hindlimbs in this region without those limbs seriously impeding flow. Thus the shape of tadpoles nicely matches their need to transform into limbed tetrapods. In the latter half of this paper I review ideas on how environmental factors could influence metamorphosis in anurans. One speculation is that tadpoles may secrete a metamorphic inhibitor in their oral mucus, which they then ingest with their food, with the result that metamorphosis is delayed when food is abundant. An epidermal growth factor-like peptide has been suggested as a possible metamorphic inhibitor along the pathway just proposed. Strengths and weaknesses of this hypothesized agent and pathway are reviewed. An experiment to test the hypothesis that orally ingested EGF inhibits metamorphosis yielded inconclusive results. Orally secreted EGF-like peptide may not inhibit metamorphosis of the tadpole gut, but other yet-to-be-identified factors in tadpole oral mucus could still play a role in regulating metamorphosis of the alimentary tract in anurans. The essay ends with some broad speculations on the role that peptides in frogs' skin may play in the metamorphic process as well as several unanswered questions about how other organisms and the physical environment influence tadpole metamorphosis.
3881751|The class Rotifera includes species which reproduce solely by apomictic female parthenogenesis and species which alternate this "asexual" reproduction with ordinary sexual reproduction. The transition between asexual and sexual reproduction is controlled by the environment. Laboratory studies with the genus Asplanchna have shown that it is possible to identify specific molecules as inducers, which act on embryos in utero to modify their development and determine whether they will mature as sexually or asexually reproducing females. Moreover, an evolutionary rationale can be provided for the response to these particular environmental controlling agents, which are such that sexual reproduction will occur only when it will result in successful fertilization. Rotifers are opportunistic or colonising organisms, which implies selection for rapid reproduction. We suggest that this may account, at least in part, for the origin of both apomicitc parthenogenesis and certain features of the pattern of macromolecular syntheses during development. To account for the success of those rotifers which have lost sexual reproduction entirely, we note that accumulation of mutations during periods of exponential apomictic parthenogenetic reproduction, together with "mitotic" crossing-over, could theoretically produce sufficient genotypic diversity to provide evolutionary flexibility. This would eliminate a major advantage of sexual reproduction.
3881852|The abdominal ganglion of Aplysia provides a useful model for studying the functional organization of motor systems. Here we review studies of the neural network controlling circulation, emphasizing the organizational features it may share with other motor systems controlled by the abdominal ganglion. We identified seven motor neurons to the heart and vascular system. Motor neurons having similar motor effects (e.g. the two heart inhibitors, or the three vasoconstrictors), together with cells of unknown motor function located near them, make up distinct homogeneous cell groups. The members of each group appear to be nearly identical with respect to biophysical and neurochemical properties, size and effectiveness of synaptic inputs, and firing patterns. There are no interconnections between the members of the groups, but five interneurons innervate the homogeneous groups in various combinations, exciting some groups and inhibiting others. Two of the interneurons, Interneuron I (cell
3882573|This paper examines mechanisms of individual identification in the kin recognition process. In type 1 kin recognition, the individual (e.g., a parent) learns the identifying cues (the "signature") of particular kin (e.g., offspring) at some stage when there are reliable contextual cues as to kinship (e.g., the parent finds the young in its nest). These kin are subsequently recognized via their signatures in situations in which contextual evidence of kinship is lacking. The primary selection pressure in this case is for a mechanism that can generate a large number of distinctive signatures, and thus permit recognition in large groups. I develop a model that predicts the necessary information capacity of a signature system, and I test this prediction for the signature call of the bank swallow (Riparia riparia). The measured information capacity of 17 bits corresponds well to the prediction and, moreover, is substantially greater than that of the homologous call of the similar but non-colonial roughwinged swallow (Stelgidopteryx ruficollis). In type 2 kin recognition, reliable contextual evidence as to kinship is absent at all times, and kin must be recognized via a signature-matching process. For example, the individual might compare its own signature to that of the unknown individual, inferring kinship if their signatures are sufficiently similar. I describe a multi-locus genetic signature mechanism that would permit discrimination of kin from non-kin, and suggest how this model might be tested.
3883223|The responses of intertidal decapods to emersion are closely related to the particular conditions of emersion, yet all members of this group of animals face the problems of water shortage and internal hypoxia during air exposure. Several species exhibit modification of normal ventilatory activity and this response seems to enable these crabs to take up seawater from the substrate. Other crabs have specific morphological adaptations permitting recirculation of water from the exhalent apertures back into the gill chamber. The hemocyanin of some species has a higher affinity for oxygen, and this difference may be more prevalent in tropical animals. The higher oxygen affinity undoubtedly compensates in part for the lower internal oxygen tensions during air exposure. Structural specialization of the branchial apparatus may prevent the gill lamellae from adhering together, a process which reduces the surface available for gas exchange. There is a wide range of responses to emersion and yet relatively few specific adaptations. Some species are able to merely tolerate air exposure, while others are able to more fully exploit the habitat.
3882292|Experimental evidences for neuroendocrine control of osmoreregulation in decapod crustaceans are mounting. The eyestalk system, brain and thoracic ganglionic centers, and the pericardial organ appear to be involved in this control. Evidences based on experimentation with eyestalk removal and the injection of extracts of neuroendocrine centers are presented. Neuroendocrine extracts affect the movements of salts and water in the gills, stomach, intestine and antennal glands. The pericardial organ material may affect osmoregulation by increasing rate of circulation and influencing salt movement. Three factors have been partially separated from CNS tissues. A factor of the freshwater crayfish, and other freshwater decapods, increases the influx of salt. Two factors from an estuarine crab influence the movement of water, an acetone-soluble factor increasing its influx and a water-soluble factor decreasing influx and increasing efflux. The factors may be involved in the adaptation of the animals to their osmotic environments. None of the factors have yet been identified in circulation nor in effector tissues. Future research must place special emphasis on the identification of the CNS factors in circulation as well as in secretory cells and effector tissues to establish their true hormonal nature.
3884233|Understanding how reefs vary over the present ranges of environmental conditions is key to understanding how coral reefs will adapt to a changing environment. Global environmental data of temperature, salinity, light, carbonate saturation state, and nutrients were recently compiled for nearly 1,000 reef locations. These data were statistically analyzed to (1) re-define environmental limits over which reefs exist today, (2) identify "marginal" reefs; i.e., those that exist near or beyond "normal" environmental limits of reef distribution, and (3) broadly classify reefs based on these major environmental variables. Temperature and salinity limits to coral reefs, as determined by this analysis, are very near those determined by previous researchers; but precise nutrient levels that could be considered limiting to coral reefs were not obvious at the scale of this analysis. However, in contrast to many previous studies that invoke low temperature as the reeflimiting factor at higher latitudes, this study indicates that reduced aragonite saturation and light penetration, both of which covary with temperature, may also be limiting. Identification of "marginal" reef environments, and a new classification of reefs based on suites of environmental conditions, provide an improved global perspective toward predicting how reefs will respond to changing environmental conditions.
3881821|Recent advances in the biology of mammalian pigmentation are reviewed. Particular attention is given to emerging information on the integration of pigmentary events occurring at different levels of biological organization within mammalian skin and hair. The structural and functional significance of keratinocytes and melanocytes as components of mammalian epidermal melanin units is viewed from this perspective. New evidence on the nature of genetic, developmental, endocrine, and radiation influences on performance of melanocytes and the establishment of pigmentary patterns is summarized.
3883561|The body plan of turtles is unique among tetrapods in the presence of the shell. The structure of the carapace involves a unique relationship between the axial and the appendicular skeletons. A common developmental mechanism, an epithelial-mesenchymal interaction, has been identified in the early stages of carapace development by means of basic histological and immunofluorescence techniques. By analogy to other structures initiated by epithelial-mesenchymal interactions, it is hypothesized that carapace development is dependent on this interaction in the body wall. Surgical perturbations were designed to test the causal connection between the epithelial-mesenchymal interaction in the body wall and the unusual placement of the ribs in turtles. By comparison to data available on body wall formation in avian embryos, these experiments also shed light on the segregation of somitic and lateral plate cell populations and the embryonic origin of the scapula in turtles. This study specifically addresses the ontogeny of a unique tetrapod body plan. The ontogenetic information can be used to make inferences about the phylogeny of this body plan and how it could have evolved from the more typical primitive tetrapod. On a more general level this study explores the potential role of common developmental mechanisms in the generation of evolutionary novelties, and the developmental incongruities between homologous skeletal elements in different groups of tetrapods.
4620193|Understanding the evolutionary origin of novel metazoan body plans continues to be one of the most sought after answers in biology. Perhaps the most profound change that may have occurred in the Metazoa is the appearance of bilaterally symmetrical forms from a presumably radially symmetrical ancestor. The symmetry properties of bilaterally symmetrical larval and adult metazoans are generally set up during the cleavage period while most "radially" symmetrical cnidarians do not display a stereotyped cleavage program. Ctenophores display biradial symmetry and may represent one intermediate form in the transition to bilateral symmetry. The early development of cnidarians and ctenophores is compared with respect to the timing and mechanisms of axial determination. The origin of the dorsal-ventral axis, and indeed the relationships of the major longitudinal axes, in cnidarians, ctenophores, and bilaterian animals are far from certain. The realization that many of the molecular mechanisms of axial determination are conserved throughout the Bilateria allows one to formulate a set of predictions as to their possible role in the origins of bilaterian ancestors.
3882537|This paper considers the effects of different levels of resource predictability on niche widths, competition and diversity in a community of three hummingbird species. Three pairs of hypotheses are tested: whether decreasing predictability (a) increases or decreases niche width, (b) increases or decreases competition and (c) increases or decreases diversity. The results show that complementary increases and decreases in niche width occur with decreasing predictability, while competition and diversity decrease, at least with extreme unpredictability. A model, which assumes the species to have similar resource preferences, and its predictions are examined. The dominant species, Lampornis clemenciae, excludes a subordinate species, Archiiochus alexandri, from preferred resources. This defense becomes unprofitable with decreasing predictability and Archilochus invades the resources once vigorously defended by Lampornis. When the spectrum of resources is altered in the direction of decreasing suitability for both species, Lampornis becomes even more specialized and sensitive to the effects of unpredictability. A third species, Eugenes fulgens, steals resources undefended by Lampornis. These characteristics seem to be common to a number of communities in very different taxonomic groups, and characteristic of communities in which species share a common preferred resource. The question of how a community organized with distinct resource preferences responds to decreasing predictability remains open.
3882890|The Bari of the Maracaibo basin obtain most of the meat in their diet by spearfishing, usually in stretches of river which they dam off before fishing them. As the number of men in a fishing party increases, the time to build a dam decreases in approximately the same way that the catch per man decreases. The decrease in catch per manhour, as more men are added to a fishing party, is thus quite shallow. The interrelationship of these variables permits a prediction of the optimal number of men in a fishing party, based on the principle that below a certain number of participants, the addition of more men to the fishing party gains each individual more in time than it costs him in returns per man-hour. Data so far available indicate that the optimal number of men in a fishing party is about the same as the average number of adult men residing in a Bari longhouse.
3884124|Developmental constraints are limitations on phenotypic variability resulting from developmental mechanisms that produce biases in phenotypic variants and hence evolution. These constraints ultimately limit the available phenotypes on which selection can act. Because hormones play important roles in many developmental processes, there is a great potential for hormonal mechanisms to produce (or act as) developmental constraints. In the current study, I present two examples to show how hormones may produce developmental constraints on evolution in the Anura. One example (a universal constraint in the Anura), examines evidence that thyroid hormones are required for sex differentiation and reproduction in frogs. The thyroid hormone requirement for these processes may prevent the evolution of neoteny in anurans. The second example (a local constraint) examines the mechanisms underlying sexual dichromatism in the genus Hyperolius (Hyperoliidae) and shows how the evolution of sexual dichromatism is limited by the hormonal mechanisms regulating pigmentation.
3882293|Physiological effects of neurosecretory factors from crustaceans are examined for their hormonal specificity. Hyperglycemic hormone (HGH) from the eyestalk is a polypeptide, molecular weight about 7,000; it may activate phosphorylase and inhibit glycogen synthetase. Four pigmentary effectors (distal retinal pigment, melanophores, erythrophores and leucophores) respond to a peptide hormone (DRPH) having a molecular weight of 2,000. An earlier suggestion (Kleinholz, 1970) that light-adaptation of the distal retinal pigment and dispersion of pigment granules in chromatophores may be regulated by the same hormonal molecule is confirmed by test with synthetic hormone. Concentrators of erythrophore (ECH) and leucophore (LCH) pigments are peptides with respective molecular weights of 1,000 and about 1,500 daltons. Three factors which affect succinate oxidation by mitochondria appear in the three chromatographic zones eluted from G-25 Sephadex which contain DRPH, LCH and ECH, and therefore presumably are of about the same molecular size as the pigment hormones. The second and third of these factors have been shown to be distinctly different from the hormones with which they are initially eluted. Factors influencing hydromineral regulation, molt- and gonad-inhibition, cardiac activity, respiratory rates and lipid metabolism are reviewed.
3883159|Edmund Beecher Wilson was born in Geneva, Illinois in 1856. He attended Antioch College, the University of Chicago, Yale, and Johns Hopkins (Ph.D. 1881). Most of his professional life was spent in the Zoology Department of Columbia University together with his close friend, Thomas Hunt Morgan. They were dominant figures in developing the Chromosome Theory of Heredity. Wilson began his professional life as a conventional 19th century biologist studying problems of systematics, morphology, and phylogeny. Soon he became a key figure in the newer experimental disciplines of embryology, cytology, and heredity. He is remembered today largely for his superb synthesis of these three fields in The Cell in Development and Heredity. He died in 1939.
3882485|Information on the pituitary gonadotropins in Chelonia mydas represents some of the most complete data available for any reptile and thus provides an important basis for evaluating evolutionary processes in tetrapod endocrine physiology. The two gonadotropins isolated from Chelonia pituitary glands show clear chemical and immunological homologies to mammalian follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). However, receptor studies and biological tests indicate that the functions of these hormones may be different in turtles and mammals. In particular, Chelonia LH shows an unusual ability to interact with FSH receptor sites and to stimulate physiological functions normally attributed to FSH. Results with Chelonia LH demonstrate that errors may arise from using mammalian hormones to investigate reproduction in turtles. Measurements of endogenous gonadotropin levels in the plasma of breeding and nesting Chelonia provide a different perspective of the potential roles of the FSH and LH from that obtained in physiological tests. In particular, FSH and LH secretion are markedly dissociated during the nesting cycle; FSH has only a transient peak during oviposition, whereas LH, along with progesterone, displays a pronounced "ovulatory" surge in the day following nesting. Preliminary studies with synthetic gonadotropic releasing factors in Chelonia suggest that these may be useful in inducing reproductive changes.
3884197| Propagule size is perhaps the most widely recognized and studied maternal effect in ecology, yet its evolution is not well-understood. The large body of extant optimality theory treats parental investment solely as an ecological problem, largely from the perspective of progeny. This approach has had limited success explaining the ubiquitous variation in propagule size within and among natural populations at most temporal and spatial scales. This problem aside, an unassailable gap in propagule size theory is that it pays little heed to the fact that offspring size is a joint phenotype of two individuals- the offspring and its mother. Hence, the ecology of mothers is decidedly as important in shaping the evolution of propagule size phenotypes. There are two reasons to suspect that this gap may account for the lack of success of optimality theory to explain variation in nature. The first is that optimality models of propagule size make no allowance for, nor can they explain, widespread, multivariate correlations between maternal characters and clutch parameters, namely the positive phenotypic covariances of maternal age, size, fecundity, and per-propagule investment found in many organisms. If per-propagule investment is optimized by selection based on the expectation of offspring fitness, then why should that phenotype be a function of maternal age or size when the ecological circumstances of progeny are not changing as a function of maternal age or size? The second gap in current theory is that, like all optimization theory, it is patently non-genetic in that it is assumed that the phenotypes optimized are evolutionarily accessible. Recent maternal effects theory indicates that traits subject to maternal influence behave in unanticipated ways. Specifically, there may be time lags in response to selection, and hence, selection away from the optimum phenotype. This paper explores a suite of issues pertaining to the evolution of propagule size from the broader perspective of propagule size as a maternal effect (PSME) with a goal of widening the lens through which propagule size is viewed by evolutionary ecologists. Two themes are developed. First, I suggest that, to understand egg size variance and its implications for both maternal and offspring fitness, it is necessary to consider explicitly the ecological context in which a mother is producing eggs, not just that into which offspring will enter. I argue that some of the variables that have only been incorporated in pairwise fashion (or not at all) into studies of propagule size might account for the lack of agreement about how this important life history feature evolves. Further, I suggest that failure to consider other sources of selection on maternal phenotypes, driven by a narrow adaptationist view that has historically been taken of PSMEs, has obfuscated many interesting questions surrounding their coevolution with maternal characters. Thus, the second theme is that it is necessary to consider other explanations for why propagule size varies apart from those pertaining to offspring fitness per s. Based on a detailed review of the empirical literature, I conclude that the concept of an optimal propagule size is not only an insufficient construct to explain the evolution of propagule size, but that continued reliance on an optimization approach is likely to stifle development of more realistic and predictive theory for the evolution of this key life history trait. Novel theory should incorporate realities from physiology, development and genetics and should accommodate the dynamic nature of the selective environments in which propagule size evolves, all of which have been shown by empiricists to play a role in determining propagule size phenotypes. A key feature of this theory should be the explicit treatment of propagule size as a maternal effect. 
3884544| Muscle fibers in the swim appendages of the mollusk Aplysia brasiliana are innervated by cholinergic motoneurons. Serotonin (5-HT) causes an increase in amplitude of junctional potentials and muscle contractions at this neuromuscular synapse. We studied motoneurons with intracellular current-clamp recording and single-electrode voltage-clamp analysis to determine the effects of 5-HT on somatic currents in these presynaptic neurons. Serotonin was found to have no effect on action potential duration in motoneurons bathed in normal seawater, and no effect of 5-HT could be detected on K
3882270|In the leopard frog (Rana pipiens), thymic lymphocytes do not originate from blood-borne stem cells that migrate into the thymus anlage; rather they arise in situ from elements in the thymic rudiment itself. After thymic differentiation, the lymphocytes (or their descendants) leave the thymus and extensively seed the peripheral lymphoid organs. Indeed, virtually all the lymphocytes in the spleen, kidney, and bone marrow are ontogenically derived from thymic cells. In postmetamorphic life, the thymus represents an organ in which lymphopoiesis is genuinely self-sustaining. Throughout the juvenile life of the frog, there is no indication of an inward afferent stream of cells entering the intact thymus.
3884131|Studies to date indicate that thyroid hormones are present in the eggs of chickens and quail and that those hormones are primarily in the yolk. Quail hens deposit thyroid hormones into eggs in proportion to their own thyroid status, but appear to show some regulation of this process. Indirect studies suggest that thyroid hormones are transferred into oocytes bound to lipoproteins and transthyretin, both of which are taken up by receptor-mediated processes. Thyroid hormones bound to yolk lipoproteins may enter embryos with yolk that is taken up by non-specific endocytosis or they may be transported into the embryo by specific carriers. To date most of these ideas about thyroid hormone transport into egg yolk and from egg yolk into embryos have not been investigated directly. In quail, very high T
3884557|Larvae from diverse marine-invertebrate phyla are able to respond rapidly to environmental cues to settlement and to undergo very rapid metamorphic morphogenesis because they share the developmental trait of metamorphic competence. The competent state, characteristic of larvae as diverse as those of cnidarian planulae, molluscan veligers, and barnacle cyprids, is one in which nearly all requisite juvenile characters are present in the larva prior to settlement. Thus metamorphosis, in response to more or less specific environmental cues (inducers), is mainly restricted to loss of larva-specific structures and physiological processes. Competent larvae of two "model marine invertebrates" studied in the authors' laboratory, the serpulid polychaete Hydroides elegans and the nudibranch Phestilla sibogae, complete metamorphosis in about 12 and 20 hr, respectively. Furthermore, little or no de novo gene action appears to be required during the metamorphic induction process in these species. Contrasting greatly with the slow, hormonally regulated metamorphic transitions of vertebrates and insects, competence and consequent rapid metamorphosis in marine invertebrate larvae are conjectured to have arisen in diverse phylogenetic clades because they allow larvae to continue to swim and feed in the planktonic realm while simultaneously permitting extremely fast morphological transition from larval locomotory and feeding modes to a different set of such modes that are adaptive to life on the sea bottom.
3881929|The past literature describing the possible sites of the sound-producing mechanisms in delphinid cetaceans is reviewed. The morphology of the nasal sac system of delphinids which has been implicated in the production of sounds, by most investigations, is discussed with special emphasis placed on the physical characteristics of these sounds. New data on the histological structure of the epithelia throughout the nasal region of a delphinid are presented with some suggestions as to its function. The presence and structure of glandular tissues are described along with a discussion of their potential role in the production of sound. It is concluded that the theories implicating the nasal sac systems of odontocete cetaceans in the production of sound are additionally supported by certain anatomical specializations adjacent to the tissues of this system.
3882560|In this reply to Kempthorne's critique of current population genetics theory (this symposium), I describe the differences in viewpoint and in choice of evidence which lead me to a more favorable conclusion. Kempthorne's attacks on the general selection model and on Fisher's Fundamental Theorem of Natural Selection have considerable justification; in both cases, however, qualification is preferable to demolition. Furthermore, recent advances in selection theory really meet Kempthorne's well-founded objections. Finally, the most substantial point in Kempthorne's critique is not that current population genetics theory is inoperable, but that it is practically impossible to apply to life-history problems. Computers, properly programmed, may provide a valuable way around this impasse. In addition, the necessity and the difficulty of manipulating one variable at a time have been with science for a long and exasperating time.
3882402|The avian embryo exchanges the oxygen and carbon dioxide with the ambient air by diffusion. The respiratory organ is the chorioallantois, endowed with a rich circulation. Between ambient air and choriallantoic capillary blood are interposed the porous shell, fibrous shell membranes, and the chorioendothelium which compose the diffusion barrier. The air cell is formed between the two shell membranes in the blunt end of the egg. The diffusion barrier is divided into an outer barrier (shell plus outer membrane) and an inner barrier (inner membrane plus chorioendothelium and capillary blood). The resistance to gas diffusion (the reciprocal of the diffusive conductance) in the outer barrier is almost fixed throughout incubation, while that in the inner barrier decreases as the embryo develops. Because of the fixed outer barrier conductance, the embryo is obliged to take up oxygen under hypoxic conditions against increasing metabolism with development and encounters a relative respiratory acidosis. In connection with the diffusive hypoventilation caused by the fixed outer barrier conductance, the respiratory factors of the allantoic circulation change progressively with development to moderate the restraint of gas exchange through the shell. Blood oxygen capacity and hemoglobin increase with development in association with an increase in erythrocyte count and hematocrit value. In addition, a progressive leftward shift of the oxygen dissociation curve occurs. The increases in the allantoic blood flow and chorioallantoic capillary volume contribute to the increasing conductance of the inner barrier. Furthermore, regulation of acid-base balance is inferred in the developing embryo.
3883525|RFamide peptides have been localized to a number of neurons of the CNS of the leech, Hirudo medicinalis, using immunocytochemical techniques. The majority of this immunoreactivity appears to be due to the peptide FMRFamide. Most of the identified RFamide immunoreactive cells are cholinergic motor neurons, though some are interneurons. Superfused FMRFamide is active on the targets of these identified neurons; in a few well studied cases, it has been possible to show that FMRFamide mimics a specific physiological action of an identified neuron on its target. In the leech as in other phyla where they occur, RFamide peptides are widely distributed in neurons, and are neuromodulators with diverse physiological effects.
3884433|The claw muscles of large-clawed decapod crustaceans undergo a programmed atrophy in preparation for molting, or ecdysis. This is mediated by five cytosolic proteinases organized into two proteolytic pathways: calcium-dependent and ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent. The calcium-dependent system consists of four calcium-dependent cysteine proteinases (CDPs I, IIa, IIb, and III; native masses 310, 125, 195, and 59 kDa, respectively) that completely degrade myofibrillar proteins and are activated in atrophic muscles. Immunological analysis shows that the active-site sequence in CDP IIa (60-kDa subunit mass) is similar to that in mammalian CDPs (calpains), and that CDP IIb is homologous to a calpain-like gene isolated from Drosophila cDNA libraries. Increased intracellullar Ca
3884204|The long life spans of birds relative to those of mammals are intriguing to biogerontologists, particularly in light of birds' high body temperatures, high blood glucose levels, and high metabolic rates-all of which should theoretically increase their biochemical liability for rapid aging. The comparative longevity of birds and other flying homeotherms is consistent with evolutionary senescence theory, which posits that species with low mortality rates from predation or accident will be released from selection for rapid maturity and early reproduction, and will exhibit retarded aging. Comparative analyses of avian life history parameters to date, although not as extensive as those for mammals, broadly support an association between low mortality rates, slow reproduction, and long lifespan. The diversity of bird life histories suggests the importance of developing a diversity of avian models for studies of aging mechanisms, both proximate and ultimate, and for using wild as well as domestic representatives. Birds studied in the laboratory thus far show many of the same manifestations of aging as mammals, including humans, and many ornithologists are beginning to document actuarial evidence consistent with aging in their study populations. We encourage greater communication and collaboration among comparative gerontologists and ornithologists, in the hope that the study of aging in birds will lead to an integrated understanding of physiological aging processes well grounded in an evolutionary paradigm.
3881785|An experiment was carried out to investigate the role of temperature in the previously reported reinforcing effect of an increase in sea water level in Aplysia. In the present experiment, it was found that the reinforcing effect of water level change on rod-pressing behavior in Aplysia depends on a decrease in temperature associated with water level change. In order to study modification of rod-pressing behavior produced by contingent increase in water level and decrease in temperature, the rate and latency of rod-press responses in experimental animals were compared with those of yoked control animals exposed to non-contingent water level and temperature change. Higher response rates and shorter response latencies were obtained from experimental over yoked control animals, but only the shorter latencies of experimental animals were attributed to a behavioral change resulting from contingent water level and temperature reinforcement..
3881736|The development of hair, teeth, and feathers is reviewed in the context of experimental manipulation of dermal-epidermal interactions. The inductive role of the dermis is described, and the consequences of altering the ages and sources of the interacting tissue components is demonstrated. The importance of examining the developmental capabilities of these tissues after disruption of the dermal-epidermal interface as well as in intact explants is discussed. In addition, the role of the basement membrane in establishing and stabilizing integumental derivatives and the role of collagen synthesis and deposition is examined.
3883000|This essay is part of the third presentation of an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists. The purpose is to offer suggestions for improving the first-year biology courses in the universities. The method consists of emphasizing the conceptual framework of the biological sciences, showing how scientific information is obtained and evaluated, pointing out the strengths and limitations of scientific procedures, and above all showing the relevance of science for human hopes and well being. This is done annually with a major symposium, an essay distributed at the symposium, a film program, and, finally, the published proceedings, which are widely distributed to scientist-teachers throughout the world. Each year a major topic is considered. In 1983 it was Evolutionary Biology and in 1984 it was Human Ecology. This year it is Genetics.
3883984|The fact that phenotypic evolution can be studied on a character by character basis suggests that the body is composed of locally integrated units. These units can be considered as modular parts of the body which integrate functionally related characters into units of evolutionary transformation. These units may either emerge spontaneously by self-organization, or may be the product of natural selection. A selection scenario that could explain the origin of modular units needs to explain the differential suppression of pleiotropic effects between different modules and the augmentation of pleiotropic effects among the elements within the module. Four scenarios are discussed: selection for adaptation rate, constructional selection, stabilizing selection and a combination of directional and stabilizing selection. It is concluded that a combination of directional and stabilizing selection is a prevalent mode of selection and a likely explanation for the evolution of modularity.
3883105|Consistent with the great variation in their circulatory morphology, there are distinct variations in the cardiovascular physiology of extant reptiles. The chelonian and squamate reptiles have a complexly structured heart that includes three partially separated ventricular cava. In most species (under most conditions), the ventricle acts as a single pressure pump perfusing both the pulmonary and systemic circuits. However, the varanid lizards provide a striking exception. Subtle evolutionary changes in cardiac morphology allow the ventricle of the varanid lizard to divide functionally during systole into a low pressure, pulmonary pump and a high pressure, systemic pump. The crocodilians represent yet another anatomical and physiological pattern. The ventricle is completely divided into left and right chambers as in homeotherms, but the systemic and pulmonary circuits may still communicate through the left aorta that arises from the right ventricle. A fundamental feature of all reptilian circulations is the ability to regulate the distribution of cardiac output between systemic and pulmonary circuits via central vascular blood shunts. Regardless of species, mechanisms for regulating intracardiac shunting involve changes in the balance between peripheral resistance of the pulmonary and systemic circulations, and adjustments in cardiac performance per se. Several hypotheses are presented that suggest selective advantages for central vascular shunting in intermittent breathing reptiles with variable body temperature and metabolic rate.
3881652| Studies on the relation of temperature to tolerance, preference, metabolic rate, performance, circulation, and growth of sockeye salmon all point to a physiological optimum in the region of 15C. Natural occurrence is limited in time and space at temperatures above 18C despite being able to tolerate 24C. Forms of physiological inadequacy can be demonstrated which account for such restrictions in distribution. Predictive power for locating and accounting for concentrations of young fish in thermally stratified lakes appeared to provide "proof" for the controlling influence of the physiological optimum temperature. Early literature on the ecology of sockeye supported this view. Recent studies using midwater trawls and sonar detection reveal a diurnal behavior pattern which points to a more subtle interaction of biotic and abiotic factors governing vertical distribution in which the controlling force appears to be bioenergetic efficiency. It is concluded that a mechanism of behavioral thermoregulation has evolved which favorably balances daily metabolic expenditures in order to conserve energy when food is limited. 
3883955| Anuran metamorphosis is controlled by the complex interaction of several hormones. Although thyroid hormone is the major stimulatory hormone in metamorphosis and likely regulates all of the metamorphic genes directly, other hormones are involved in regulating thyroid hormone secretion and activity. Corticoids (in particular corticosterone) and the sex steroids (especially 17 estradiol) all potentially regulate thyroid hormone activity both by affecting hypothalamic and pituitary control of thyroid hormone secretion and by interacting with thyroid hormones peripherally. Although there is likely a role for endogenous corticoids in anuran metamorphosis, the role for endogenous estrogens remains to be shown. The role of these "modulators" must be fully understood, if our understanding of hormonal control of metamorphosis is to be complete. 
3881448|The literature and status of knowledge concerning olfaction in birds is reviewed, and the general anatomical plan of the avian olfactory chamber is discussed. Birds that show olfactory ability through the possession and utilization of well-developed olfactory equipment, or are suspect of olfactory perception because of behavioral patterns or olfactory equipment are discussed. These are: (1) the kiwi (Apteryx) of New Zealand, (2) procellariiform birds, such as albatrosses, shearwaters, and petrels, (3) the cathartine vultures, particularly the turkey vulture (Cathartes aura), (4) the oilbird (Steatornis caripensis) of the island of Trinidad, and northern South America, and (5) the honey guides of the family Indicatoridae. Some new data suggesting a well-developed sense of smell in the honey guides (Indicatoridae) are also presented.
3882442|An understanding of interactions between the thermal physiology and ecology of ectotherms remains elusive, partly because information on the relative performance of whole-animal physiological systems at ecologically relevant body temperatures is limited. After discussing physiological systems that have direct links to ecology (e.g., growth, locomotor ability), we review analytical methods of describing and comparing certain aspects of performance (including optimal temperature range, thermal performance breadth), apply these techniques in an example on the thermal sensitivity of locomotion in frogs, and evaluate potential applications.
3882626|Remarkable development in ecdysone research has been achieved during this decade in terms of organic chemistry, biochemistry and physiology, although the problems concerning the action and behavior of ecdysteroids in target cells still remain to be solved. To elucidate the dynamics of secretion, action and inactivation of ecdysone, the metabolic pathways for ecdysteroids have been examined in several insect species and are summarized here. There may be at least three major inactivation processes for ecdysone, namely, (i) catabolic degradation, (ii) conjugate formation and (iii) epimerization to 3-epi-ecdysteroids through 3-dehydro compounds. Two means of regulation of the ecdysone titer to ensure normal development of insects are seen in Sarcophaga: (1) Enhanced epimerization of 20-hydroxyecdysone at the prepupal stage resulting in a decreasing titer of biologically active ecdysteroids. (2) Reactivation of a conjugate at the onset of adult development (a stage with an increasing titer of biologically active ecdysteroids).
3883919|Two parallel themes emerge in the history of the investigation of the ascidian tunicate [Urochordata] embryo: the realization that the larval stage is probably a surviving example of the earliest chordate body plan from which vertebrates arose, and secondly the unusual degree of autonomous specification of cell fate involved in the development of ascidian larval parts. Such developmental autonomy in larval structures results in patterns of development referred to as "mosaic." This paper follows the progress of these two themes from their beginnings in the second half of the nineteenth century to their status at the present time. Romer's concept of vertebrates as a "dual animal" (somatic and visceral) stands out as a landmark perception in support of the theory of vertebrate origin by paedomorphosis through a merger of the pelagic larval and benthic adult stages of a tunicate-like animal. The present contribution attempts to unite the two themes by postulating that autonomous specification further enhanced the modular nature of the developing tunicate embryo and permitted natural selection to act differentially on the largely independent organ systems of larvae and paedomorphs, in what amounts to a mosaic selection pattern. This, in turn, favored the very rapid emergence and radiation of the chordates during the Cambrian explosion.
3884138|Chesapeake Bay is a bacterially dominated ecosystem driven, at least under summer conditions, by high levels of labile dissolved organics. Bacterioplankton are exceptionally abundant (
3882337|Electron microscopy has been used in research on species of protozoa for some time, but only since about 1970, date of commencement of the so-called Age of Ultrastructure in ciliate systematics, has a conscientious effort been made to apply some of the data so obtained to problems in the taxonomy and evolution of forms included within the phylum Ciliophora. In general, traits revealed by EM studies have obliged ciliatologists to recognize a greater diversity among their organisms than heretofore appreciated. In turn, this has caused a noticeable expansion in the number of suprafamilial taxa recognized today. The increase in data potentially suitable for comparative taxonomic work has been welcomed; and many of the characters now available are new (i.e., not generally or fully visible with light microscopy). Major categories include extrusomes, somatic organelles (components of the kinetid), and oral-area structures. Half a dozen examples of the direct effect of EM studies on current high-level ciliate classification systems are presented. Figures are included in illustration of ultrastructural and other characters used by (or potentially available to) the taxonomically-inclined ciliatologist.
3884296|Vitellogenesis in insects involves the coordinated activity of the fat body, which produces large amounts of yolk protein precursors (YP), and oocytes, which specifically accumulate these proteins. The expression of YP genes is achieved through strict sex-, tissue-, and hormone-specific control in the female fat body. In mosquitoes, expression of YP genes is controlled by 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E). To elucidate the role of 20E in mosquito vitellogenesis, we cloned cDNAs encoding the Aedes aegypti ecdysteroid receptor (AaEcR) and two isoforms of its heterodimeric partner, the Ultraspiracle homologue (AaUSP). The two AaUSP isoforms differ in their A/B domains and have distinct expression patterns. The ecdysone regulation of YP genes likely involves products of early genes. We cloned the gene of the mosquito homologue to the Drosophila early gene E75 (AaE75) belonging to the nuclear receptor superfamily. Kinetics of AaE75 expression correlate with the expression of YP genes, suggesting that AaE75 may have a regulatory role in YP gene expression. A second nuclear receptor superfamily member, the NGFI-B homologue AaHR38 is implicated in repression of the ecdysone-signaling pathway in the fat body of the previtellogenic female mosquito at the state-of-arrest. Finally, three isoforms of the hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 (HNF-4) homologue AaHNF-4 are differentially expressed in the mosquito fat body during vitellogenesis, suggesting their involvement in regulating vitellogenic events in this tissue.
3882603|The distinctive features of the theory of positional information for pattern formation are described, as applied to early vertebrate development. The results that follow two experimental challenges to the pattern control mechanism in the amphibian gastrula and neurula are presented, together with a discussion of the problems they present for most models that have been proposed for the generation of positional signal gradients. An alternative model which is related to the positional information idea, but which departs significantly from it in explaining the proportioning of patterns, is given in outline. Finally, differences between the behaviour of the antero-posterior patterning system of the chick limb-bud and that of the gastrular axial pattern are described and the concept is introduced that features of the limb pattern, namely its repetitive elements, may require the introduction of a growth control system to regulate tissue size in the rudiment in relation to the forming pattern.
3881810|A model relating environmental variability and population variability is proposed and discussed. The model strongly emphasizes the importance of the different consequences of erratic and regular environmental variability, which are discussed from both the theoretical and empirical viewpoints. Data on population variability for six species in three communities (temperate intertidal, subtropical intertidal, and oligotrophic lake benthic) are presented and discussed in the context of the model. In general, environmental variability and population variability are strongly correlated. The impact of erratic environmental variability is apparent in one community.
3884480|A recent total evidence analysis of the position of cetaceans (whales, dolphins and porpoises and extinct relatives) among mammals indicated that the phylogeny of these taxa remains poorly resolved. Molecular data show that 1) the order Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates) is paraphyletic unless whales are included within it and 2) that the traditional relationships of clades within Artiodactyla are not supported. This controversy also affects the position of a wholly extinct clade, Mesonychia, which has been argued to be the group of terrestrial mammals most closely related to whales. Here I update a previous total evidence analysis by adding several hundred new informative molecular characters from the literature. Even with the addition of these characters the phylogeny remains unresolved. All most parsimonious trees, however, indicate a paraphyletic Artiodactyla with conflict existing over the exact sister taxon of Cetacea. Congruence between different equally parsimonious cladograms and the stratigraphic record as measured using the modified Manhattan Stratigraphic Measure shows that all of the competing topologies, including those with a paraphyletic Artiodactyla, are significantly congruent with the stratigraphic record. In fossil taxa cladistic optimization can be used as an alternative to "argument from design" (Lauder, 1996) to reconstruct behavior and soft tissues that do not fossilize or osteological characters that have not preserved. In certain scenarios of cetacean phylogeny, optimization indicates that taxa such as the archaic whales Ambulocetus and Pakicetus, and possibly mesonychians, are more correctly reconstructed without hair.
3883430|Compared to air-breathers, animals that respire aquatically have limited access to O
3883388|This paper describes a case study of adaptation, constraint, and evolutionary innovation in pierid butterflies. I develop a framework for discussing these issues that focuses on the questions: What is the form of the adaptive landscape relating fitness to phenotypic characters? How do such landscapes differ for evolutionarily related groups? I examine the evolution of wing pigment patterns and thermoregulatory behavior for butterflies in two subfamilies in the family Pieridae, with three principal results. First, I show that thermoregulation can be an important component of fitness in pierids, and that wing color and thermoregulatory behavior are important phenotypic characters determining thermoregulatory performance and the adaptive landscape. Second, I show how limits on possible variation in wing color and behavior constrain evolution within one subfamily of pierids, and how these constraints are set by the physical and biochemical mechanisms of adaptation. Third, I show how evolutionary innovation may have resulted from the addition of a new, behavioral dimension to the landscape, and how this addition has altered the functional interrelations among various elements of the wing color pattern. I suggest that comparative analyses of the form and determinants of the adaptive landscape may be useful in identifying evolutionary innovations, and complement theoretical analyses of evolutionary dynamics on such fitness surfaces.
3883693|A comparative analysis of actinopterygian and sarcopterygian aerial buccal pumps indicates that the primitive pattern of air transfer differs fundamentally between these two clades. Actinopterygian fishes ventilate their lungs with a four-stroke buccal pump: the buccal cavity expands and fills with expired air, compresses to expel expired air, expands again to take in fresh air, and then compresses again to pump fresh air into the lungs. Lungfishes, caudates, and anurans expand and compress the buccal cavity only once per expiratory-inspiratory cycle, and thus use a two-stroke pump. Both of these bidirectional, aerial buccal pumps evolved from unidirectional, aquatic buccal pumps. The two-stroke aerial pump and the primitive aquatic pump used for gill irrigation share slow movements and may both be triggered by the same central rhythm generator. These similarities suggest that the two-stroke buccal pump evolved from the gill irrigation pump. Similarly, the four-stroke pump shares rapid movement and afferent triggering with aquatic suction feeding and coughing, suggesting that the four-stroke pump may have evolved from a combination of two suction feeding or coughing movements. Thus the differences between the actinopterygian and sarcopterygian aerial buccal pumps may be due to their independent evolution from different aquatic buccal pumps, rather than due to divergence from a single aerial buccal pump.
3882754|Large mammals save much of the energy they would otherwise need for running by means of elastic structures in their legs. Kinetic and potential energy, lost at one stage of a stride, is stored temporarily as elastic strain energy and returned later in an elastic recoil. At high speeds, men and kangaroos seem to save in this way more than half the metabolic energy they would otherwise need for locomotion. It is shown by means of a generalized model that muscles and tendons could both be important as elastic energy stores. Analysis of films and force records of kangaroos hopping shows that strain energy stored while the feet are on the ground must be stored mainly distal to the knee. The principal muscles there have short fibres, and most of the storage must be in tendons. Investigation of camels shows that tendons in the feet, distal to the ankle and wrist, are especially important. The scope for elastic storage while the feet are off the ground is also considered. Though the evidence presented in this paper comes mainly from a few species, the conclusions presumably apply to large mammals in general.
3882190| An analysis of the changing patterns of protein synthesis during early development of Lymnaea palustris has been undertaken. An examination of the ingestion of capsule fluid protein suggests that after gastrulation 30 to 65% of the total embryo protein is undigested food protein. Starch gel electrophoresis reveals a sudden increase in the number of hydrolases from four to twenty-six immediately following the trochophore stage with the latter being present also in adult organs. Studies reported here and elsewhere demonstrate rhythmic changes in uridine incorporation during early cleavage which peaks at the trochophore stage. Continuous treatment of embryos with 50 to 100 g of actinomycin-D (AMD) starting at the 2-cell stage slowed development through the trochophore stage but did not prevent normal larval organ development. This AMD application reduced
3882085|Some recent evidence is discussed which suggests that the control of microtubule assembly during the formation of the mitotic apparatus in sea urchins involves three factors. These include: nucleation sites such as the kinetochores, a mechanism for regulating intracellular calcium, and a heat stable substance which prevents spontaneous, non-nucleated microtubule polymerization.
3882026|The physiological, morphological, and biochemical characteristics of several species of mammals resident at high altitude are compared with those of their sea level counterparts. The differences noted in these characteristics are in a direction that facilitates the acclimatization of those living at high altitude. The differences among species point to the fact that the mechanism of adaptation to altitude (i.e., hypoxia) is still not understood. This review emphasizes that the adaptive process is complex and made up of several components, that these components are interrelated, and that neither the physiological nor morphological adaptations can fully account for the tolerance to hypoxia. Although only superficially studied as yet, the biochemical adaptations appear most important.
3882070|The hydroid Phialidium gregarium can be successfully cultured to sexual maturity at any time of the year and maintained for years in a closed system marine aquarium. Artificial sea water was used in place of natural sea water and was renewed by one-quarter of its volume each 4 weeks. Freshly hatched Artemia nauplii were used as the sole food source. Methods for obtaining colonies of a single genotype from planulae are described. Subculturing pieces from parental stock is accomplished by a new method. A new technique for removing hydroid colonies from their substrate for histological study is described.
4620173|Dragonflies begin adult life as comparatively weak fliers, then mature to become one of nature's ultimate flying machines. This ontogenetic transition provides an opportunity to investigate the relationship between life history, phenotypic plasticity, and changing ecological demands on organismal performance. Here we present an overview of a wide-ranging study of dragonfly muscle maturation that reveals i) ecological changes in the need for efficient versus high-performance flight, ii) organism-level changes in performance, thermal physiology, locomotor mechanics, and energy efficiency, iii) tissue-level changes in muscle ultrastructure and sensitivity to activation by calcium, and iv) molecular-level changes in the isoform composition of a calcium regulatory protein in flight muscle (troponin-T). We discuss how these phenomena may be causally related, and thereby begin to show linkages across many levels of biological organization. In particular, we suggest that alternative splicing of troponin-T mRNA is an important component of the "gearing" of muscle contractile function for developmental changes in wingbeat frequency and ecological demands on flight performance. Age-variable gearing of muscle function allows energetically economical flight during early adult growth, whereas power output is maximized at maturity when aerial competition determines success during territoriality and mating.
3884076|The prophenoloxidase activating system constitutes a system for recognition of foreignness in several invertebrates. The system has been especially well studied in crustaceans and it will now be possible to begin structural comparisons between components of the prophenoloxidase activating system and components of other cascade systems which function in host defense such as the vertebrate complement and blood coagulation.
3881813|Each chromatophore organ consists of a pigment cell and of several radial muscle fibers that represent separate cells. The pigment granules are contained within an elastic sacculus within the pigment cell. The sacculus is attached around the equator of the chromatophore to the cell membrane by zonal haptosomes. In turn, the cell membrane is attached to the radial muscle fibers by a dense basal lamina. The cell membrane of the retracted chromatophore is highly folded. Contraction of the radial muscle fibers is initiated by (a) excitatory junction potentials, (b) miniature potentials, or (c) spike potentials. The latter arise spontaneously in the muscle fibers when these have undergone some internal (metabolic?) change. The contraction of the muscle fibers causes expansion of the pigment-containing sacculus. Relaxation of the muscle fibers permits the sacculus to assume its original lenticular or near-spherical shape; the energy for this is stored within the expanded elastic components of the sacculus. In normal skin the chromatophore organs are entirely under the control of the central nervous system, the muscle fibers being activated only by local, excitatory postsynaptic potentials initiated by motor nerve impulses. That postsynaptic potentials are non-propagating insures that individual motor fibers can be activated individually, thus permitting a delicate control of skin color by recruitment as well as by frequency. Tonic contractions and pulsations, involving spontaneous release of transmitter from nerve terminals and spike generation within the muscle fibers, respectively, are the result of altered, abnormal conditions within the skin.
3882649|Xiphophorus maculatus (platyfish) exhibits spots which consist of neoplastically transformed pigment cells (T-cells). The spots actually represent extreme benign melanomas. Transformation to T-cells is mediated by a "tumor gene" (Tu). Platyfish which develop from X-irradiated embryos reveal an increase of Tu-expression resulting in an overproduction of T-cells to benign melanomas which can be compared to that observed in certain hybrids between the platyfish and Xiphophorus helleri (swordtail). Both the X irradiation-induced and the crossing conditioned increase of Tu-expression represent a heritable alteration which might be related to a conversion from dispersed to condensed chromatin in the interphase nuclei.
3881687|Cyclin shifts of calcium in the exoskeleton and soft tissues, as they are related to the intermolt cycle in crayfish, are reviewed. Regulatory factors, derived from the eyestalk, influence levels of exoskeletal calcium; eyestalk extracts prepared from animals in premolt decrease shell calcium, while reciprocally extracts from animals in intermolt increase it when these hormonal sources are injected into animals in the premolt stage
3881688|This account of the boring mechanisms of those bivalve groups which bore mainly by mechanical means attempts to show partly by reference to published accounts of boring and partly from our own recent observations of certain characteristics of the boring process in the Pholadidae and Petricolidae, that in contrast to the movements of burrowing forms from which originally all the boring movements derive, the process of boring makes few demands on the hydrodynamic system of the bivalve. The characteristics of the boring process are closely related to the movements in modern forms having epifaunal or infaunal habits, supporting the suggestions of Yonge (1963) concerning the origin of this habit in the Bivalvia. In all groups in which boring is mechanical, the shell forms the boring tool. However, in those groups in which boring has its origin in the epifaunal habit, the major force applied to the shell in abrading the burrow is provided by contractions of the pedal or byssal retractor muscles. In the Adesmacea alone, where boring has been derived from a deep burrowing habit, the adductor muscles provide the major force in abrasion, and the basic digging cycle has become specialized by the addition of the rocking action of the valves which succeeds retraction. In the former group the ligament is retained and provides the strong outward force with which the shell is held against the wall of the burrow. In the latter group, the ligament is reduced, allowing the valves to rock, but here the reciprocal action of the adductors allows the valves to diverge anteriorly as the large posterior retractor muscle contracts. In the more specialized species, water pressure plays a minor role, the maximum pressures recorded being associated with actions subordinate to those involved primarily in abrasion, such as rotation in the burrow or expulsion of debris from the burrow as pseudofeces. The least specialized borers, such as Petricola, resemble burrowing forms in the importance of the hydrodynamic role of the body fluids. In all groups there is a tendency for hypertrophy to take place in the muscles which produce the main boring effect, and for their action to be applied with maximum mechanical against advantage against a fulcrum provided in most cases by the foot.
4620166|Drosophila melanogaster is a good model for studies in molecular physiology. The Malpighian (renal) tubule can be studied with classical transport physiological and electrophysiological techniques, and displays those transport specialisations that are conserved among tubules of those insects studied to date. In addition, the endocrinology of fluid secretion and the pharmacology of the second messenger control systems are both closely similar to those of other insects. At a more general level, the use of an electrogenic, proton-motive plasma membrane V-ATPase to energise secondary active transport is now know to be general to most insect, and several vertebrate, epithelia. In addition to its similarity to epithelia in a number of economically and biomedically significant organisms, D. melanogaster possesses unique advantages as an experimental model, by virtue of the sophisticated genetic tools that are available. This article summarises recent progress in two areas in which D. melanogaster has provided new insights into epithelial function: the control of epithelial fluid secretion by the nitric oxide synthase/nitric oxide/cyclic GMP signalling pathways; and the genetic analysis of the structural organisation of this tiny model, and its reconciliation with physiological properties.
3881502|Insects striking the web of Argiope argentata evoke a complex sequence of behaviors. These involve prey-location, prey-immobilization, prey-transport, and prey-manipulation before feeding. The behavioral elements which form a sequence are not always the same nor do they always occur in the same order. This paper describes some commonly occurring sequences and reports on progress in the experimental analysis of the external stimuli which affect the form of such sequences. Particular emphasis is given to the stimuli which affect the first response to contact with the prey. The initial response to butterflies and moths is a long bite, whereas all other insects, except the very smallest, are wrapped in silk. This special response to Lepidoptera is probably adaptive since it applies very rapid restraint to insects which can escape rapidly from spiders' webs. The long bite given to Lepidoptera is based on a discrimination which is not affected by vibration, weight, size, or shape. Experiments suggest that discrimination is based on surface texture. The functional significance of other elements of the behavioral sequences is discussed.
3884018| Sublethal exposure to lead elicits changes in behavior, particularly learning. Previously, we had shown that bullfrog tadpoles exposed to 1 mg Pb/liter for 7 days exhibit learning deficits in a discriminate avoidance learning assay. The precise mechanisms involved in these lead-induced learning deficits are not understood, but CNS monoamine neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in the learning process. In the present study, we exposed bullfrog tadpoles to 1.7  0.2 mg Pb/liter for 7 days and then compared concentrations of neurotransmitters from whole brain samples with those of controls. Serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) was significantly decreased in the lead exposed group while the serotonin metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, (5-HIAA) was similar to controls. No changes were observed in the catecholamines epinephrine and norepinephrine following lead exposure. The ratio of 5-HIAA/5-HT was significantly increased in lead exposed animals as a result of the decrease in 5-HT, suggesting a decrease in 5-HT biosynthesis rather than an increase in 5-HT metabolism. These findings are the first to suggest that lead exposure in bullfrog tadpoles affects the monoamine neurotransmitters that are implicated in the learning process. The results of the present study, in conjunction with previous evidence of learning deficits following lead exposure, offer the possibility of correlating lead exposure with learning deficits and alterations in CNS neurotransmitters in bullfrog tadpoles. The use of this tadpole model shows promise as a means to examine and understand the mechanisms involved in lead neurotoxicity. 
3883446|Neuropeptides are regulatory molecules produced by neural and non-neural tissues. They are engaged in multiple forms of receptor-mediated intercellular communication, ranging from hormonal (blood-borne) to close-range (synapse-like) signalling. In their neurohormonal capacity, these peptides convey directives from the nervous to the endocrine system, as well as to terminal target tissues. As participants in interneuronal chemical communication, neuropeptides may act as neurotransmitters, or as modulators of signals exchanged between synaptically linked neurons. Outside the realms of neuroendocrinology and neurobiology, peptidergic messenger substances carry out a variety of functions, including autoregulatory and integrative activities in the immune system.
3883422|In order to create solution cavities in coastal salt domes to store the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserves, it has been necessary to dispose of up to a million barrels of concentrated brine daily in coastal waters for several years. The natural system receiving this effluent is characterized by a variable hydrographic regime and high but variable standing crops of plankton, benthos and nekton. In the summer months the system is periodically stressed by stratification of the water column and bottom hypoxia. The brine effluent was found to remain near the bottom, achieve very rapid dilution, and impinge upon no more than
3883675|Large, agglutinating protozoans belonging to the Foraminiferida (suborder Astrorhizina) and the Xenophyophorea are conspicuous, often dominant faunal elements in the deep sea. A review of known and suspected interactions between these forms and metazoans reveals a potentially significant role for the protozoans in structuring deep-sea metazoan assemblages. Direct interactions include provision to metazoans of (a) hard or stable substratum, (b) refuge from predators or physical disturbance, and (c) access to enhanced dietary resources. In some instances, rhizopod tests may provide a nursery function. Xenophyophore modification of flow regimes, particle flux, bottom skin friction and sediment characteristics appear likely and are believed to account for altered composition and abundance of meiofauna and macrofauna in the vicinity of rhizopod tests. Some analogous interactions are observed between metazoans and biogenic sediment structures in shallow water. However, metazoan-rhizopod associations are hypothesized to be more highly developed and complex in the deep sea than are comparable shallow-water associations, due to rhizopod abilities to enhance scarce food resources and to low rates of disturbance in much of the deep sea. Agglutinating rhizopods appear to be a significant source of heterogeneity on the deep-sea floor and large tests often represent 'hotspots' of metazoan activity. As such, they are hypothesized to have contributed to the origin and maintenance of metazoan diversity in the deep sea by providing distinct microenvironments in which species can specialize.
3884272|Avian integument is thin, elastic, and loosely attached to the body, giving birds the freedom of movement needed for flight. Its epidermis is both keratinized and lipogenic, and the skin as a whole acts as a sebaceous secretory organ. The skin is covered by feathers over most of the body, but many birds show colored bare skin or integumentary outgrowths on the head and neck. Heavily cornified epidermis covers the beak, claws, spurs, and the scales on the legs and feet. These structures (except the back of the leg and underside of the foot) contain beta-keratin like that in reptilian scales. Most birds have sebaceous secretory glands at the base of the tail and in the ear canals. Feathers are the most numerous, elaborate, and diverse of avian integumentary derivatives. Their diversity is due to the possibilities inherent in their basic plan of a shaft with two orders of branches and the use of modified beta-keratin as a strong, light, and plastic building material. The evolution of feathers in birds has been accompanied by the development of complex systems for producing colors and patterns, the innovations of feather arrangement and follicles with their musculature and innervation, and the process and control of molting.
3884275|The origin of birds has been discussed since the discovery and description of Archaeopteryx in Bavaria in 1861. By 1868, Thomas Henry Huxley realized its significance as a connecting form, which illustrated how birds might have evolved from dinosaurs. A century later John Ostrom articulated a convincing modern case for the origin of birds from theropod dinosaurs. Recent cladistic analyses of theropod, bird and bird-like fossils seem to confirm this scenario of bird origins. The purpose of this paper is to examine both the philosophic principles and the practice of cladistic analysis upon which the dinosaur-bird link is currently based. Cladistics is based on a Popperian philosophy that emphasizes the hypothetical nature of all knowledge. Such a philosophy seems more suitable for analyzing idealized characters unrooted in time or space rather than real objects. A philosophy of critical realism seems more congenial for analysis of evolutionary biological individuals having a real history. Cladistics uses parsimony as a first principle, which may be rejected on the grounds that nature is prodigal in every regard. Parsimony based on morphology suffices only when there are no other data sets to consider. Cladistics systematically excludes data from stratigraphy, embryology, ecology, and biogeography that could otherwise be employed to bring maximum evolutionary coherence to biological data. Darwin would have convinced no one if he had been so restrictive in his theory of evolution. The current cladistic analysis of bird origins posits a series of outgroups to birds that postdate the earliest bird by up to 80 million years. This diverts attention from the search for real bird ancestors. A more coherent analysis would concentrate the search for real avian ancestors in the Late Jurassic.
3884363|Marine benthic communities living in shallow-water habitats (<100 m depth) in Antarctica possess characteristics reminiscent of Paleozoic marine communities and modern deep-sea communities. The absence of crabs and sharks, the limited diversity of teleosts and skates, the dominance of slow-moving invertebrates at higher trophic levels, and the occurrence of dense ophiuroid and crinoid populations indicate that skeleton-breaking predation is limited in Antarctica today, as it was worldwide during the Paleozoic and as it is in the deep sea today. The community structure of the antarctic benthos has its evolutionary roots in the Eocene. Data from fossil assemblages at Seymour Island, Antarctic Peninsula suggest that shallow-water communities were similar to communities at lower latitudes until they were affected by global cooling, which accelerated in the late Eocene to early Oligocene. That long-term cooling trend ultimately resulted in the polar climate and peculiar community structure found in Antarctica today. Declining temperatures beginning late in the Eocene are associated with the disappearance of crabs, sharks, and most teleosts. The sudden drop in predation pressure allowed dense ophiuroid and crinoid populations to appear and flourish. These late Eocene echinoderm populations exhibit low frequencies of sublethal damage (regenerating arms), demonstrating that there was little or no predation from skeleton-breaking fish and decapods. Current scenarios of global climate change include predictions of increased upwelling and consequent cooling in temperate and subtropical upwelling zones. Limited ecological evidence suggests that such cooling could disrupt trophic relationships and favor retrograde community structures in those local areas.
3882024|Recent work on sensory, motor and behavioral aspects of walking in a variety of decapod Crustacea is discussed and compared. In these studies there has been considerable emphasis on modifications of the motor program by variations imposed experimentally to test its capabilities and by naturally occurring variations in environmental conditions which challenge the integrated system. The roles of sensory structures in signalling such changes are discussed as well as the integrative capabilities of neuromuscular systems in adaptive responses.
3881855|Leeches swim by undulating; they alternately form crests then troughs at their anterior end and move them backward, thereby producing forward thrust. These movements are accomplished by alternating contractions of dorsal and ventral longitudinal muscles in each of the 21 body segments. These contractions are caused by bursts of impulses in groups of excitatory and inhibitory motor neurons. Connections among motor neurons help to coordinate these bursts: synergistic muscle excitors are electrotonically coupled, which aids in keeping their bursts nearly synchronous; muscle inhibitors also inhibit the excitors to the same muscles, and it is this inhibition which keeps the excitors from being tonically active during swimming. Neurons sensitive to either dorsal or ventral body wall stretch produce reciprocal stretch reflexes to the muscle excitors, probably via the inhibitors. That these stretch reflexes may be involved in generating the periodic bursts is supported by the results of both behavioral and electrophysiological experiments.
3883458|Three species of benthic marine macroalgae comprise the chief components of the seaweed flora of McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. Quantitative studies at Cape Evans demonstrate a depth-related distribution pattern, with Iridaea cordata (Turner) Bory in shallow water, Phyllophora antarctica A. and E. S. Gepp abundant and fertile at intermediate depths, and Leptophytum coulmanicum (Foslie) Adey dominant below 20 m. The vertical distribution of species is correlated with irradiance levels. At sites with thinner annual sea ice and less snow accumulation (e.g., Cape Evans, Cape Royds, and Granite Harbor), vertical distributions are shifted downward relative to those at sites that remain covered most of the year with thick or snow-covered fast ice (e.g., Cape Armitage and New Harbor). Disturbance caused by ice scour and anchor ice probably determines the upper limit of algal distribution; herbivory is apparently absent. There is a disproportionate representation of cystocarpic female gametophytes in populations of I. cordata and P. antarctica. Perennation via persistent basal crusts and apogamic recycling of gametophytes are suggested as factors structuring phase distribution. Although the overall size of I. cordata blades is greater (and cystocarpic plants more abundant) at Cape Royds than at Cape Evans, cystocarpic blades are similar in minimum size at both sites, indicating a threshhold size or age for the onset of reproduction in this species.
3883882|An understanding of the ecology of a species depends upon knowing the effects of an array of biotic and abiotic environmental variations on individuals. Population patterns are determined by the collective responses of individuals to environmental variation. Moreover, each individual, age class, size class, and both sexes may have a unique array of abilities. Therefore, it should be an imperative to focus on autecology as a mechanistic foundation of population and community ecology and conservation biology. The autecology of the western whiptail lizard, Cnemidophorus tigris (Teiidae)-an abundant and tractable species-was examined in the Sonoran desert of southern California for eight years. Spring-to-summer changes in the spatial and temporal patterns of foraging in adult C. tigris were related to arthropod distribution and abundance. Moreover, year-to-year variation in rainfall and plant productivity influenced (1) arthropod abundance and (2) the patterns of behavior, growth, and reproduction of C. tigris. Changes in the population size of C. tigris also were closely related to environmental variation. The perspective of a multi-year study may provide enough knowledge of a species to enable one to anticipate and perhaps, obviate the consequences of impending anthropogenic disturbance for that species, other members of the biological community, and its congeners in other biological communities.
3883122| Molecules that identify cell type and position in the nervous system were detected by monoclonal antibodies. One molecule, TOP, is distributed in a 35-fold topographic gradient from the dorsoposterior margin to the ventro-anterior margin of avian retina. The gradient is present in young embryos, increases with retinal growth, and persists in the adult. TOP molecules are present on most or all cells of retina. The number of TOP molecules detected per cell varies continuously along the axis of the antigen gradient. Thus, TOP can be used to identify position in the plane of retina along that axis. Other antigens that identify cell type and position across the thickness of retina also were detected. Molecules that mark such cellular organization may represent a neuronal recognition system. Antibodies were used to examine the role of markers of cell position in development of the nervous system. Antibody to TOP from hybridoma cells that were injected into in vivo embryo eyes diffused into the retina and bound in a topographic gradient of [AbTOP] complexes. Synapse formation in retina was inhibited in the presence of anti-TOP antibody. This suggests that TOP is involved in synapse formation and that recognition of position by neurons is necessary for normal synapse formation. 
3883249| Fish respond to parasite infections (and infestations) by the production of antigen specific IgM-like antibodies as well as by the elaboration of nonspecific soluble factors and phagocytic cells. Fish infected with the hemoflagellates Trypanosoma and Cryptobia generally elicit antibody and complement dependent responses. The levels of these responses vary depending on ambient temperature fluctuations. Below 10-15C there is an almost complete depression of immune responsiveness. The protozoan that has received the greatest emphasis regarding studies of immunity is Ichthyophthirius multifiliis. Both primary and secondary antibody responses are produced in fish to this parasite. Cellular responses are also produced against "Ich." These cells (nonspecific cytotoxic cells) may provide an important (but previously not described) component of anti-parasite resistance. The second major group of parasites considered in this review are categorized as helminths. Among these, the cestodes, trematodes (mono- and digenetic), and Acanthocephala have been studied for elicitation of immune responses in fishes. For virtually all organisms studied, the host response was mediated via antibodies (plus complement in most cases). Cellular responses (neither antigen specific nor phagocytic activities) have not been shown to mediate any type of anti-helminth response in fishes. 
3883230|Reductionism has become the object of a great deal of criticism from a variety of quarters within evolutionary biology in recent years. Many contemporary anti-reductionists argue that reductionism is inappropriate in biological inquiry given the prevalence of hierarchies, scales of complexity and levels of organization in the organic world. They further contend that a commitment to reductionism has led evolutionary theorists to make a large number of methodological blunders and conceptual errors in constructing explanations of biological evolution. The contemporary critics of reductionism have not made a persuasive case for the ontological peculiarity of the organic world. Much of their argument concerning hierarchy and levels appears to rest on assertion rather than metaphysical necessity or ontological peculiarity. Moreover, the interpretations of reductionism attacked by contemporary critics in biology are narrow and overly simplistic. The modern synthetic theory of evolution may well have explanatory inadequacies that demand the attention of biologists working in many fields. But attempts to motivate theoretical alternatives to this theory based solely on ontological grounds appear to place the ontological cart before the theoretical horse. Theories dictate ontological commitments and, as a result, it is at the level of theoretical rather than ontological adequacy that the assessment of the modern synthetic theory ought to proceed.
3883191|Studies of 16 polymorphic loci in the fish Fundulus heteroclitus have uncovered significant directional changes in gene frequencies with latitude (i.e., clines). These spatial patterns could have arisen by primary and/or secondary intergradation. While we cannot presently distinguish between these two models, mitochondrial DNA analyses indicate that if previous isolation occurred as required for secondary intergradation, it must have been relatively recent and of short duration. Herein we discuss the roles of genetic drift, random migration, nonrandom migration, selection and others as potential driving forces for both modes of cline formation. In addition, we address the potential role of the last glacial period in (1) creating isolating barriers, (2) the opening of unoccupied habitats for range extension, and (3) as a mechanism for thermal selection. While some evidence exists that at least one of the driving forces is selection, the extent to which it and other deterministic forces participate as opposed to various stochastic processes must await further analysis.
3883566|It is generally believed that the functional design of an organism relates to its ecology, yet this ecomorphological paradigm has historically suffered from the lack of a rigorous framework for its implementation. I present a methodology for experimentally exploring the ecological consequences of variation in morphology. The central idea is that morphology influences ecology by limiting the ability of the individual to perform key tasks in its daily life. In this scheme the effect of morphological variation on behavioral performance is first tested in laboratory experiments. As the behavioral capability of an individual defines the range of ecological resources that it can potentially make use of (the potential niche), the second step in the scheme involves comparing the potential niche of an individual to actual patterns of resource use (the realized niche). This permits a quantitative assessment of the significance of an organism's maximal capabilities in determining actual patterns of resource use. An example is presented from work on the feeding biology of fishes in the family Labridae (wrasses and parrotfishes). Most labrids feed by crushing shelled prey in their powerful pharyngeal jaws. This example explores the dietary consequences of variation in crushing strength among and within species. Crushing strength was estimated from biomechanical analyses of the crushing apparatus in several species, and these predictions of relative strength were tested in laboratory feeding experiments with hard-shelled prey. Morphology accurately predicted relative crushing ability, and the final section of the study explored the effect of variation in crushing ability on diet. Within each of three species crushing strength appears to underlie a major ontogentic dietary switch from soft-bodied prey to a diet dominated by hard-shelled prey. In each species this switch occurred at about the same crushing strength, around 5 Newtons (N), in spite of the fact that this crushing strength is achieved by the three species at different body sizes. Diet breadth increases during ontogeny in each species, until a crushing strength of 5 N is achieved, when diet breadth begins to decline. The strongest fishes specialized almost entirely on molluscs and sea urchins. Thus, these labrids take advantage of ontogenetic and interspecific differences in crushing strength by including harder and harder prey in their diet, and ultimately specializing on hard prey types. The specialized organization of the labrid pharyngeal jaws can be viewed as a key innovation that has permitted this lineage of fishes to invade the mollusc eating niche, a relatively empty trophic niche within the highly speciose and diverse communities of coral reef fishes.
3882810|In the Nemertina there are three putative neuroendocrine devices: the cephalic gland, the cerebral organs and the neurosecretory system (cerebral ganglia). Cytological, behavioral and physiological evidence suggests involvement of these systems with preydetection, reproduction and volume regulation. The neuroendocrine function(s) of each of these devices must be considered putative except where classical ablation-replacement experiments have been performed. Thus, a specific role in gonad maturation has been successfully demonstrated for the cerebral ganglia, a primary neurosecretory center. Although the evidence is not as strong, cytological and physiological studies indicate that all three neuroendocrine devices, where they are present, are involved in response to variation in environmental osmolality. In the physiological response to osmotic variation, evidence most strongly points to neuroendocrine control (first order or second order) of extracellular volume. In this control, two different mechanisms may be involved, i.e., stimulation of nephridial elimination of extracellular water and solutes and a change in permeability of the integument or gut to ions. In first order reactions, the neuroendocrine devices would act directly and independently upon a target organ such as the nephridia, integument, or gut to regulate extracellular volume. In a second order reaction, neurosecretory material would stimulate enhanced release of acid mucopolysaccharides from the cephalic gland or cerebral organs (depending on the species) into the vascular system. These substances (active principle or carrier) would, in turn, affect regulation of extracellular volume via the nephridia, integument, or gut. Further experimentation is required to separate the effects observed after neuroendocrine manipulation as well as the contributions made by each of the potential neuroendocrine devices.
3884155|Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), in spite of its name, is synthesized and secreted in vertebrates by both the atria and the ventricles and also a number of extracardiac tissues. Likewise, the list of putative targets of ANP is large and includes, in addition to the kidney and vascular smooth muscle, the ion- and water-transporting intestine. Immunohistochemical staining of the intestine of the euryhaline marine goby Gillichthys mirabilis demonstrates the presence of ANP-ergic neurons in the submucosa suggesting paracrine delivery to intestinal epithelial and smooth muscle cells. ANP inhibits ion absorption across the goby intestine, supporting an osmoregulatory role for ANP.
3881730|Current concepts of melanin pigmentation in mammals, with special reference to man, are explored centering on the notion that the multicellular epidermal melanin unit, rather than the melanocyte alone, serves as the focal point for melanin metabolism within mammalian epidermis. The structural and functional organization of epidermal melanin units is described with particular attention to the intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms which regulate their activities. The significance of the epidermal melanin unit concept in the description and interpretation of skin color variations in man is evaluated in the light of new information.
3883720|Two species of polychaetous annelids are dug for sale as bait from intertidal mudflats of Maine. This effort generates nearly $3.5 million in annual revenue and comprises over 90% of the baitworm fisheries in the U.S. The two species are (1) sandworms or clamworms, Nereis virens (family Nereididae) and (2) bloodworms or beakworms, Glycera dibranchiata (family Glyceridae). Numbers of baitworm diggers licensed annually in Maine have increased from 449 in 1948 to a maximum of 1,455 in 1974 and decreased since then to 801 in 1991. Sandworm landings increased from the late 1940s until the early 1960s when they leveled off. They fluctuated between 300,000 and 400,000 lbs landed annually for the next 20 years. Between 1982 and 1991, the sandworm landings ranged between 179,000 (1990) and 380,000 (1982) lbs landed per year. Bloodworm landings were at a maximum between 1960 and 1976, ranging between 140,000 and 215,000 lbs landed annually. After a sharp decline in the bloodworm fishery in the late 1970s, annual landings ranged between 102,000 (1988) and 168,000 (1982) lbs. Reasons for the fluctuations and recent decreases in landings remain unexplained. Some data suggest that market demand limits the baitworm landings for both species, while others imply that overharvesting, at least for bloodworms, may be a problem for these resources.
3881815|Recent advances in the cellular aspects of chromatophoric activities in fishes are reviewed, special emphasis being laid on the black pigment-containing cells, the melanophores. A few recent electron-microscopic studies have disclosed the fine structure of melanophores. They are enclosed with a single cell membrane, within which melanosomes and other cell organelles are found. All observations favor the view that melanosomes are selectively moved through the cellular processes, leaving the cell contour rather fixed. In regard to these findings, current ideas about the mechanisms of pigment movements are discussed. Particular attention is directed to the possible intervention of microtubules and the theory of migration of pigment by intracellular electrophoresis. The regulatory mechanisms of pigment cells are then dealt with. The adrenergic nature of transmission is affirmed in the peripheral melanin-aggregating nervous system. The mode of nervous supply to a melanophore is also analyzed. Investigations of the antagonistic, melanin-dispersing, nervous system are also considered, with special reference to recent physiological studies and to the finding of synaptic vesicles by electron microscopy. On the basis of these results, a new interpretation of the so-called Parker effect is proposed.
3882158|In Drosophila melanogaster, the level of X-linked gene products is found to be equivalent in normal males and females (dosage compensation) and in metafemales (3X;2A); it is also equivalent in triploid females, intersexes (2X;3A) and metamales (XY;3A). In all instances, the expression of X-linked genes is regulated in such a fashion that it is concordant with the level of autosomal gene activity. This means that at least five different transcriptional levels exist for X-linked structural genes; the lowest in metafemales, the highest in metamales, and three different intermediate levels, in females (diploid or triploid), intersexes and males. Two models have been proposed for the regulatory mechanism. These models are discussed and current experimental approaches are reviewed.
3883147|Biological oceanographers have traditionally emphasized food and temperature as the most important factors governing the population dynamics of marine copepods. This paper addresses the importance of light and light-dark periods as stimuli for the induction of specific biological processes and activities. Attention is focused on photoperiodic control of dormancy and vertical migration, and the rhythmic expression of daily functions such as the timing of feeding and egg-laying. Emphasis is placed on relating the genetic basis of photoperiodically determined responses and activity rhythms to the population dynamics, ecology and evolution of marine copepods, and the maintenance of diverse zooplankton communities.
3883579|Many enzymes of animals, especially enzymes that regulate metabolic pathways, exhibit one or more types of inter- and intracellular compartmentation. A given type of catalytic activity is effected by different isoforms (isozymes) of a class of enzyme in different tissues, cells, or organelles, and many enzymes alter their locations within the cell under different physiological conditions. These compartmentation properties reflect major features of animal organization and function, e.g., the occurrence of different metabolic tasks in different tissues or cellular compartments, and enormous changes in muscle metabolic rate during intense locomotion. Enzymes of glycolysis, notably phosphofructokinase (PFK) and hexokinase (HK), manifest these forms of compartmentation. PFK occurs in several isozyme forms that differ in kinetic properties. Skeletal muscle PFK binds reversibly to actin in a pH-dependent manner. Binding of PFK to actin affects the enzyme's catalytic activity, sensitivity to regulatory modulators, and structural stability in the face of decreasing intracellular pH ( pH
3882648|The developing teleost embryo is a highly complex and balanced physico-chemical system in equilibrium with its environment. Even slight alterations of the external aquatic environment, or a pathochemical modification of the immediate maternal environment, may lead to developmental modifications. Multiple malformations produced as a result of metabolism of teratogens and interacting factors are similar to syndromes obtained by hybridization. Modifying factors, although possessing some specificity as to intracellular targets are nonspecific as to the types of anomalies produced in most instances. Embryonic responses to teratogens occur at various developmental stages and at different levels of organization, modifying the normal development. Intracellular molecular syntheses and sensitive metabolic targets essential for normal development may be blocked or modified, and rates of differentiation and growth affected. Embryo-sensitivity and resistance is related to tolerance level and regulatory capacity. The terata observed have been correlated with molecular mechanisms and disorganization with disruptions of cellular contacts and translocatory yolk cytoplasmic movements. Causality as it pertains to early teleost aberrant development is reviewed, and suggestions for research and an extensive bibliography of the relevant literature provided.
3882818|Separation of neuropeptides by high-pressure liquid chromatography and proteins by gel electrophoresis has been undertaken for the X-organ-sinus gland (XOSG) neurosecretory system of the crab, Cardisoma carnifex. Biosynthetic incorporation of [
4620213|Two fundamentally opposed theories have been proposed to account for the origin of the body plan of the flatworms. Each theory relates to a different concept of the evolution of the early metazoans. For the defenders of the classical planuloi'd/acoeloid theory, the simple organization of the flatworms is reminiscent of an hypothetical acoelomate worm-like ancestor of all bilaterians. Flatworms therefore emerge very early in the bilaterian tree before the appearance of the coelomate organisms. For the proponents of the more disputed archecoelomate theory, all the bilaterians are descendants of a primitively coelomate ancestor. Flatworms would have lost the coelom secondarily. Since their acoelomate condition is no longer indicative of a primitive origin, most of their characters put them in the protostomes, with the spiralian phyla. These competing theories about the position of flatworms in the metazoan phylogenetic tree can now be tested with molecular markers. This article reviews the arguments from 18S rDNA and Hox gene evolution. There is convergence between these data in favor of a late emergence of at least the rhabditophoran platyhelminths. Planarian Hox genes show more similarities with the Hox genes of annelids. On this basis, flatworms can be convincingly grouped with the spiralian coelomate protostomes. This position suggests the ancestors of flatworms lost both the anus and the coelom. Progenesis has been proposed as a possible mechanism by which these losses have occurred. This hypothesis is re-examined in the light of the affinity of the flatworms with other spiralian phyla.
3883861|The classical theory that coelomates evolved from pseudocoelomate and acoelomate ancestors implies that mesodermally derived tissues such as body wall muscles, somatic reproductive tissues, and connective tissues are homologous throughout the Triploblastica and distinct from the epithelial coelomic lining. Ultrastructural studies reveal the mesoderm of hatchling chaetognaths to consist entirely of an epithelial coelomic lining that includes the longitudinal body wall muscles. Comparisons of hatchling and adult mesodermal organization are used to infer that all adult mesodermally derived tissues and organs form by localized elaboration of the hatchling coelomic lining. These findings provide no basis for inferring that any adult mesodermally derived structures evolved independently of or prior to the coelomic epithelium. The presence in hatchlings of myoepithelial body wall muscles supports the theory that coelomates evolved by elaboration of an epithelial coelomic lining from the myoepithelial gastrodermis of diploblastic ancestors.
3884501|Suction feeding is recognized as the dominant mode of aquatic prey capture in fishes. While much work has been done identifying motor pattern variations of this behavior among diverse groups of actinopterygian fishes, many rayfinned groups are still not represented. Further, the substantial amount of inherent variation in electromyography makes much of the pioneering work of suction feeding motor patterns in several basal groups insufficient for evolutionary comparisons. Robust evolutionary comparisons have identified conserved qualitative traits in the order of muscle activation during suction feeding (jaw opening > buccal cavity expansion > jaw closing). However, quantitative traits of suction motor patterns (i.e., burst durations and relative onset times) have changed over evolutionary time among actinopterygian fishes. Finally, new motor pattern evidence is presented from a previously neglected group, the Elopomorpha. The results suggest that future investigations of the muscles influencing lateral expansion of the mouth cavity and head anatomy may provide valuable new insights into the evolution of suction feeding motor patterns in ray-finned fishes. In addition, the evidence illustrates the value of comprehensive EMG surveys of cranial muscle activities during suction feeding behavior.
3883673|Data are presented on northern Bering Sea benthic amphipod growth rates and age at maturity, indicating that high latitude species grow slowly, require 2 to 4 years to mature, reach a large size, and have long lifespans. Data are also presented demonstrating predation by benthic amphipods on newly metamorphosed juveniles of a potential space competitor, the northern sand dollar Echinarachnius parma. Such facultative predation by the predominantly herbivorous amphipods may, in part, explain the existence of alternative benthic communities in the eastern Bering Sea. Incorporation of the high latitude results into a review of benthic amphipod life histories revealed several important patterns. Amphipod growth rates and molting rates appear to be decoupled, resulting in small adults at warm temperatures and large adults at lower temperatures. We posit that molting rate is temperature-sensitive, that at warm temperatures molting occurs rapidly regardless of limited instar tissue growth, and that the amphipods reach sexual maturity after a fixed number of molts. Alternatively, gonad development is also temperature-dependent and may drive maturation, regardless of the number of molts experienced. Amphipods have linear or exponential growth rates, as opposed to the familiar asymptotic curve. Consequently, secondary production is highly dependent upon the proportion of large individuals in the population, in contrast to organisms with asymptotic growth in which production is largely determined by the proportion of young, growing individuals present. Production in amphipods is significantly correlated with standing stock. P:B ratios are not correlated with production in amphipods, and probably are not in other organisms with linear or exponential growth rates, and thus appear to have no comparative value other than as a possible index of generation times.
3882441|Studies on thermoregulation in the laboratory and field have come a long way from the early work done between 1940 and 1960. While some physiological studies on amphibians have progressed at the same rate as those on reptiles, field studies have been far behind. Laboratory studies have largely delt with thermal acclimation, evaporative water loss, and thermal and moisture gradient behavior. Field studies, following early summaries of body temperatures of field animals, have stressed behavioral thermoregulation; yet, detailed studies on behavioral thermoregulation in amphibians have been completed for only a handful of species. A few studies have placed behavioral and physiological thermoregulation into an ecological or energetic framework; these studies are reviewed, and suggestions are made for future work.
3882541|The nervous control of regeneration of body parts in the urodele amphibian and other animals has been one of the best model systems for the study of the neurotrophic phenomenon. In the past most of these studies were experimental morphological, but recently the salient problems on the nature of the cellular response to the neurotrophic agent and the nature of the nervous agent itself are also analyzed molecularly. The ensemble of studies reviewed in the present work, which also show that the agent of the nerve is a peptide and defines aspects of its effect on molecular synthesis in regenerate cells, leads me to advance the following theories. I propose that the neurotrophic agent affects only the rate of ongoing events in the cell and not the quality and kind of the events; that the events are already indigenous to the responding cells; that alteration in the rate of events, for example increasing the rate of molecular syntheses, yields an increased cell population which by its size and increased cellular interactions has formative and differentiated capabilities which do not exist in a smaller cell population; and finally that the neurotrophic factor (NTF) is one of many "conversational" peptides including nerve growth factor (NGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) which function to alter the absolute rate of ongoing cellular events.
3884060|In many high latitude-breeding avian species, reproductive and wintering seasons are separated by migratory periods that involve dramatic physiological and behavioral adjustments such as hyperphagia and fat deposition. The endocrine mechanisms responsible for these adjustments have been extensively studied, yet remain only partly understood. The currently available information indicates that food consumption and/or fattening can be experimentally modulated by multiple hormones including testosterone, prolactin, glucocorticoids, and opioids. These hormones may control migratory functions through mutual interactions rather than independently. Little is known, however, concerning the nature of these interactions and their relative importance in the control of annual cycles in natural conditions. This paper focuses on the role of gonadal androgens in the control of migratory functions, and it summarizes the information which is available on the physiological and behavioral interactions between these androgens and other hormones.
3882137|Lipids represent a biochemically efficient mechanism for storing energy to be used at a later date for maintenance and/or reproduction. This storage and utilization at different times results in seasonal patterns of lipid cycling. Reptiles exhibit a number of lipid cycling patterns which can be explained by seasonal patterns of food availability. Seasonality in food availability determines the quantity of lipids stored, when lipids are stored, and for what purposes these lipids are utilized. Lipid cycling patterns are in turn correlated with life histories.
3883790|Any attempt at understanding the problem of differentiation within the face is one of understanding the processes which manipulate cranial neural crest into the myriad of tissue types and forms this population of cells provides to the embryonic primordia of the craniofacial region. The differentiation of facial ectomesenchyme (neural crest-derived mesenchyme) is analyzed at 3 major developmental points: 1) The early commitment of neural crest prior to migration which will influence subsequent differentiation; 2) Induction and the inductive signal which initiates the differentiative cascade; and 3) The differentiative event itself, including factors which affect the processes of differentiation and growth and our current (limited) state of knowledge of the factors which control pattern formation during the differentiative process. Experimental embryological evidence and the analysis of in situ Hox gene expression is used to argue for the early commitment of cranial neural crest with respect to antero-posterior position within the head. The necessity of epithelial-mesenchymal interaction during induction and recent experimental evidence which suggests that one or more of the bone morphogenetic proteins is the inductive signal is presented. Our current knowledge of the role(s) that growth factors, retinoic acid and Hox genes may be playing to modulate the differentiative process, once activated by the inductive event, is discussed. Finally, the limited knowledge which exists on pattern formation in the face is reviewed and some initial studies on regional specification of tissues within the facial primordia, beginning with the chondrogenic potential of the avian mandible, is presented as a method to initiate a search for the mechanism which controls pattern formation during facial differentiation.
3883112|Comparative investigations of diverse taxa of snakes demonstrate numerous adaptations for counteracting effects of gravity on the circulation, including morphological, physiological and behavioral specializations. Arboreal and terrestrial snakes that are normally subjected to stresses from gravity are characterized by relatively high arterial pressures and ability to regulate pressure by physiological adjustments of flow and flow resistance. The heart occupies an anterior position, and the arterial blood column between the heart and head is comparatively short. Terrestrial snakes characteristically possess short vascular lungs which eliminate risks of pulmonary edema due to gravity effects during vertical posture. Problems of blood pooling in peripheral systemic vasculature are counteracted by relatively non-compliant body tissue, vasomotor adjustments, and specific movements that facilitate the venous cardiac return. Anatomical valves appear to be absent from major venous channels, but gravity, acting in concert with specific features of venous morphology, can create valving actions that impede shifts of blood volume to dependent segments of these vessels. Nearly all of these characteristics are absent or deficient in several independent lineages of aquatic snakes that are far less subject to gravitational disturbance of hydrostatic pressures. Thus, snakes provide diverse and particularly useful models for examining cardiovascular adaptations to gravity, including mechanisms of function and the evolution of cardiovascular design.
3882595|Pieces of hydra tissue of various sizes and shapes were cut from the body columns of adult hydra and allowed to regenerate. The proportions of the resulting animals were determined first by counting cells in the head and body, and secondly by measuring the structures directly using an ocular micrometer. Head-body proportions were found to be constant over a tenfold size range. Very small regenerates had a larger head fraction and large budding regenerates had a smaller head fraction. Extra structures developed in certain shape pieces, but total head-body tissue remained proportional. More detailed measurement of the head showed that the hypostome regulated only slightly with total size change, while the tentacle tissue varied considerably to maintain the head-body ratio. This suggested that the patterning of the hypostome and the tentacles might involve separate processes, with the latter being responsible for proportion regulation. While the body mass appeared to be determined by the proportioning mechanism, its circumference was related to the circumference of the hypostome, suggesting a causal relationship between the two organizers and the column shaping. The basal disc remained proportional to the body except in the smallest pieces. A Gierer-Meinhardt pattern formation scheme could account for the results found.
3883530|In this paper we briefly review recent studies concerning amine and peptide modulation of the neurogenic Limulus heart. We have organized the presentation of our most recent data in terms of patterns that have emerged from our work which also appear to be true in several other systems. The comparative and perhaps evolutionary patterns which we have focused on are as follows: 1. A given modulator often acts at a number of sites in the system, or the organism, to produce an organized change in behavior or function. 2. Some modulators use the same second messenger to mediate their effects at each site in a system. 3. Modulators that have the same effect on a target tissue can use different cellular mechanisms. 4. The physiological state of a particular tissue in vivo may be markedly different from an isolated preparation due to local and circulating neuromodulators. 5. Each member of a family of modulators may play a unique role in vivo.
3883504|What is the status of organisms in modern evolutionary biology? I argue that this is a question which centers on the question of reduction, and towards a complete answer, I pursue issues through three different senses of the term: ontological, methodological, and epistemological. The first sense refers to the ultimate status of the entities of the organic world, and in this sense I argue that organisms have no special status. The second sense refers to the question of organization, and I argue that in the light of modern evolutionary biology organisms do have a distinctive "design-like" organization. The third sense refers to the relationship between theories, in particular to whether the theories of the biological sciences can be shown to be logical consequences of the theories of the physical sciences. I argue that such reduction may be possible in principle but difficult in practice. However, from the perspective of the working scientist, this hardly matters. In conclusion, I argue that in some respects organisms are not distinctive and in other respects they are. Certainly biologists need not worry for the autonomy of their subject.
3882752|Many aquatic plants and animals spend part of their lives anchored to the substratum as water flows by. There are a number of mechanisms by which such sessile organisms can affect the magnitude of the flow-induced forces they encounter, as well as the distribution and magnitude of the mechanical stresses in their bodies produced by those forces. Furthermore, the mechanical properties of the skeletal tissues of such organisms affect how much they deform and whether or not they will break in response to flow-induced stresses. There are different mechanisms by which organisms can withstand the water flow characterizing a particular type of habitat. Biomechanics is a useful tool for studying how the performance of organisms depends on their structure. Biomechanical studies should be accompanied by knowledge of the natural history and ecology of the organisms in question if they are to lead to insights about how organisms work.
3881816|The bright colored pigment cells of fishes and amphibians include xanthophores, erythrophores, and iridophores. Their ultrastructure and pigmentary composition are discussed. The role of the hypophysis in controlling both physiological and morphological changes of color in both groups is discussed. The nervous system may be involved in physiological responses of fish iridophores. The physiology of the amphibian iridophore is discussed from the point of view of its parallelism of response to that of the melanophore. Intermedin causes iridophores to contract as do several drugs; the effect of intermedin can be reversed by still other agents. Melatonin has no effect on iridophores. Xanthophores of some fishes and amphibians are induced to expand by intermedin. The morphological effects of intermedin at the organellar level are presented in terms of ultrastructure and pigmentary composition. The integrated response of amphibian dermal chromatophores to intermedin is described as a basic mechanism for change in color.
3883920|In the last quarter of the nineteenth century several investigators including Richard and Oskar Hertwig, Theodor Boveri, Hans Driesch, Curt Herbst, T. H. Morgan and others turned their attention to sea urchin eggs and early embryos. This favorable combination of outstanding investigators and the sea urchin embryo as an experimental organism contributed to a fundamental understanding of the cell, fertilization and heredity. The advantages of the sea urchin continued to be recognized as experimental embryologists used these embryos to develop the concepts of gradients, regulative development and inductive interactions. Then, as developmental biology arose from chemical embryology, the sea urchin embryo once again emerged as an ideal experimental animal, pivotal in the understanding of the molecular and developmental biology of eukaryotic organisms.
3881446|Olfactory cues play an important role in the behavior of fishes, such as the procurement of food, recognition of sex, defense against predators, parental behavior, and orientation. By monitoring and three-dimensional photographic techniques, analyses were made of some aspects of orientation mechanisms through olfaction. None of the marine and freshwater species investigated moved randomly in an experimental environment void of directional cues. When changing direction, the radius of the curve is fixed within fairly narrow limits and seems to be species-specific. Left- and right-hand turns are not evenly distributed. This locomotor behavior results in a non-random pattern of relatively rigid parameters. The introduction of an odor without directional cues causes these parameters to change drastically. Invariably, the radius of the curve in changing direction decreases and the ratio of left-handed to right-handed turns is greatly changed in most experiments. When an attractant odor is introduced uni-directionally, none of the species studied could locate the source, unless the odor was associated with a differential in the rate of flow of the water. It is suggested that an attractant odor releases rheotactic response, which was not present in the animal in the experiments previously referred to, so that the localization of the source of the odor takes place through rheotaxis rather than through orienting cues provided by the odor gradient. Furthermore, it is proposed that this mechanism forms the basis for homing orientation in those migrating species in which olfactory cues are required for the localization of spawning grounds in river systems.
3882217| The analysis of avian sex differentiation in vitro has been limited to the following problems: morphological sex differentiation of gonads cultured in vitro; analysis of the chemical nature of the hormonal secretion; differentiation of germ cells in relation to their somatic environment. Morphological sex differentiation of avian gonads occurs in vitro. Differentiated gonads of the chick embryo carry out biosynthesis of sex hormones from several radioactive precursors. Female gonads in particular synthesize estrogens while male gonads synthesize testosterone. Some experiments have given evidence of estrogen synthesis by undifferentiated female gonads. Embryonic gonads of quail, like those of chick, are able to synthesize sex steroids from radioactive precursors. However, in the quail and mainly in the testes, a delayed appearance and a lower activity of the enzyme system 3-HSDH-
3882375|A survey has been made of the types of progeny in fourteen groups of axolotl spawnings from parents both heterozygous for the same two mutant genes. For none of the parental types did the progeny homozygous for both mutant genes constitute a distinct phenotype as did the rr/xx larvae recently described by Humphrey and Chung (1977) from matings of parents both heterozygous for genes r and x. In four of the fourteen types of matings some few double homozygotes were recognizable by the fact that the gene pair dominating the development of their morphological type had failed to prevent the appearance of one particular feature resulting from the action of the second gene pair. In spawnings from parents with the other ten gene combinations no double homozygotes were recognized. In many of these, the excess number of mutants of one of the two expected types indicated that the double homozygotes had been identified as being of that type. It is concluded that in the majority of matings in which double homozygotes are expected, the mutant gene whose influence on development begins earliest determines the visible pattern of morphology and also the approximate life span of the double homozygote. The latter sometimes dies before the stage at which features determined by its second gene pair are due to appear. Only when the two pairs of mutant genes act more or less simultaneously and in a cumulative fashion is the double homozygote likely to appear as a phenotype distinctly different from the two usual mutant types included among its siblings.
3884349|Insulin was discovered in 1922 as the causative factor for a human metabolic disorder (diabetes mellitus), but it was recognized early that the hormone had a broad phylogenetic distribution. By the mid 1970s, insulin had been isolated and sequenced from all classes of vertebrates, including Agnatha. Also it was discovered that the insulin gene family in vertebrates included two closely related hormones named insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I and -II. More recently, the application of recombinant DNA techniques have identified insulin-like peptide genes in invertebrates, including insects, molluscs and nematode and these findings clearly establish that insulin is an evolutionarily ancient hormone which is present in all metazoa. Here we briefly review the structure and function of the insulin/IGF gene family in vertebrates and invertebrates. Although these studies are ongoing, it appears that in invertebrates the insulin-like peptides function predominately as mitogenic growth factors that act to promote tissue growth and development. However, in vertebrates the mitogenic growth function has been subsumed by IGF-I and -II while insulin has acquired the function of being primarily a metabolic regulatory hormone. The gene duplication and divergence events necessary for this development probably occurred early during vertebrate evolution in the transition from protochordates, represented by extant amphioxus, to primitive jawless vertebrates, represented by extant lamprey and hagfish.
3883006|The contributions of modern genetics to the understanding of evolution have been threefold. First, it has documented the extent of genetic variation that exists in populations as a basis for future evolution. In particular it has shown that natural selection has not destroyed all variation, as might be predicted, so that there must be mechanisms for the maintenance and origin of new selectable variation that balance the homogenizing forces of selection. Second, it has begun to provide a mechanism of the origin of genetic novelties which must be at the basis of the major features of the history of life. In doing so, it has shown how selection for new features is at all times historically contingent and that evolution is at all times at risk of falling into genetic dead-ends. Third, modern genetics has greatly enriched the diversity of mechanisms known to cause evolutionary change. All of these mechanisms involve the conversion of variation between individuals into variation between populations in time and space, but many are non-selective or even counter-selective. Natural selection is not the only mechanism of evolution.
3883552|A critical review of past and current theories of mammalian brain evolution is presented in order to discuss conceptual problems that persist in the field. Problems with the concept of homology arise because of the interaction of cell lineages and axonal connectivity in the determination of structural features of the brain. Focusing on the continuity of information represented by ontogenetic mechanisms as opposed to morphological features avoids many of these problems and suggests homological relationships that otherwise have gone unnoticed. Many apparently progressive trends and parallelisms in mammalian brain evolution turn out to result from the influence of underlying developmental homologies. Confusions about evolutionary advancement, increasing architectonic differentiation, and the evolution of new brain structures result from a failure to appreciate how increasing brain size can bias developmental processes with respect to axonal competition, increased cellular metabolic demands and decreased information processing efficiency. Explanations of the evolution of novel structures and new connectional patterns are criticized for their failure to consider the constraints of neural developmental processes. The correlations between structural neogenesis, functional specialization and size changes in brain evolution are explained by a theory of competitive displacement of neural connections by others during development under the biasing influences of differential allometry, cell death or axon-target affinity changes. The "displacement hypothesis" is used to propose speculative accounts for the differential enlargement and multiplication of cortical areas, the origins of mammalian isocortex, the unusual features of dolphin cortex and the dramatic structural and functional reorganizations that characterize human brain evolution.
3882260|Although having a number of functions in reproductive, territorial and aggressive behavior, Anolis dewlaps are only one means of intraspecific signaling and they are always present in small anole faunas (e.g., those of one or two species islands) but here, in contrast to the situation in large faunas, their color and pattern appear usually very similar and appear to be unimportant for species (or population) recognition. The latter function is then performed by such characteristics as adult size and body color and pattern. Where, however, numerous species about or overlap, dewlap color and pattern tend to be diverse and diagnostic (particularly between overlapping forms). Even here, however, adult size, body shape and body color often redundantly reinforce the species and population recognition function of even marked dewlap difference. In certain cases in complex faunas, size and/or body pattern substitute for the species recognition function of reduced or absent dewlaps.
3884282|This paper describes how climate variation in time and space can constrain community structure on a global scale. We explore body size scaling and the energetic consequences in terms of absorbed mass and energy and expended mass and energy. We explain how morphology, specific physiological properties, and temperature dependent behaviors are key variables that link individual energetics to population dynamics and community structure. This paper describes an integrated basic principles model for mammal energetics and extends the model to bird energetics. The model additions include molar balance models for the lungs and gut. The gut model couples food ingested to respiratory gas exchanges and evaporative water loss from the respiratory system. We incorporate a novel thermoregulatory model that yields metabolic calculations as a function of temperature. The calculations mimic empirical data without regression. We explore the differences in the quality of insulation between hair and feathers with our porous media model for insulation. For mammals ranging in size from mice to elephants we show that calculated metabolic costs are in agreement with experimental data. We also demonstrate how we can do the same for birds ranging in size from hummingbirds to ostriches. We show the impact of changing posture and changing air temperatures on energetic costs for birds and mammals. We demonstrate how optimal body size that maximizes the potential for growth and reproduction changes with changing climatic conditions and with diet quality. Climate and diet may play important roles in constraining community structure (collection of functional types of different body sizes) at local and global scales. Thus, multiple functional types may coexist in a locality in part because of the temporal and spatial variation in climate and seasonal food variation. We illustrate how the models can be applied in a conservation and biodiversity context to a rare and endangered species of parrot, the Orange-bellied Parrot of Australia and Tasmania.
4620123|Sexual selection theory predicts a coevolution between male sexual ornamentation and female preference. The implication of this prediction for sensory ecology is that there should be a tight coupling between the physiology of male signal production and the physiology of female signal reception. Indicator models of sexual selection predict that male ornamentation is correlated with male conition, dand that female preference is correlated with male ornamentation. Indicator models of sexual selection have a conceptual overlap with resource acquisition and investment models of behavioral ecology. Empirical studies with fishes, particularly with guppies (Poecilia reticulata) and threespine sticklebacks (Gasterosteus aculeatus), suggest a strong connection between acquired resources, male condition, male ornamentation, male courtship, and female preference.
3881455|Synchronous (fibrillar) insect flight muscle oscillates according to a myogenic rhythm. The oscillator is built into the contractile structure, which can oscillate and perform work in a constant chemical environment with ATP as the only source of energy, when it has been isolated by glycerol-extraction. During oscillation, changes in tension follow changes in length with a delay, since contractile activity is switched on and off with a delay by elongation and shortening of the glycerol-extracted fibers (stretch activates, and release of the fibers deactivates, the contractile ATPase). Consequently, sinusoidal stretch and release induce oscillation (driven oscillation) associated with extra ATPase activity. The latter is proportional to the power-output, implying a biochemical Fenn-effect. Power-output and ATPase activity can be increased by raising the concentration of calcium or-at constant chemical conditions-by increasing the frequency or the amplitude of driven oscillation, demonstrating a mechano-chemical coupling between mechanical performance (product of delayed tension and speed of shortening) and enzymatic activity.
3881921|The characterization of cell junctions in normal tissues has increased rapidly in the past several years. Junctional structures can now be separated into five major groups, each with significant structural pleomorphism. Cell junctions have been described in developing tissues, and their appearance can often be associated with significant morphogenetic events. Recently, the process of junctional membrane differentiation has been examined in sea urchin embryogenesis and rat testis organogenesis. Both studies indicate that dramatic membrane assembly processes are involved in cell junction development (maturation).
3883563|The identification and demonstration of an evolutionary constraint is suggested to be a four step process: 1) recognition of a possible mechanism of constraint, 2) formation of an historical scenario of the consequences of the constraint, 3) elucidation of the causal mechanism in the modern analog or model, and 4) phylogenetic correlation of the constraint with the proposed effect in extant lineages. Steps 1 and 2 represent the formation of two interdependent hypotheses, and steps 3 and 4 are tests of those hypotheses. This approach is illustrated with an example from the musculo-skeletal system of tetrapod vertebrates. Consideration of the anatomy and mode of locomotion of lizards led to the hypothesis that they may not be able to run and breathe at the same time. Analysis of the pattern of ventilatory airflow of lizards supports this hypothesis. Tidal and minute volume increase above resting levels during slow walking (i.e., speeds below 10% of maximum running speed), but decline rapidly at higher speeds. Furthermore, electromyographic monitoring of the hypaxial muscles indicates a clear conflict between locomotor and ventilatory functions. Key anatomical characters, suggested to be responsible for the conflict, can be traced back to the earliest tetrapods. The organization of the two extant lineages that do breathe while running (i.e., birds and mammals) suggests that the evolution of an ability to breathe during locomotion required modifications of the ancestral configuration that separate locomotor and ventilatory function.
3882466|Parasite systematists may question whether or not all the parasites of a given host taxon share a common evolutionary history, especially one which also includes the host taxon. This study presents a method for testing hypotheses of such faunal coevolution using crocodilians and their digeneans as a model host-parasite system. First, phylogenetic analysis, using numerical methods when large data bases require such handling, produces estimates of genealogical relationships among members of various taxa represented. The estimates, in the form of branching diagrams (cladograms), can each be compared with host genealogy and with geographic genealogy for the areas in which the parasites occur. Congruence of such patterns suggests a common evolutionary history and corroborates an hypothesis of faunal coevolution; incongruence suggests an invasive or colonizing fauna and falsifies an hypothesis of faunal coevolution. The digeneans of crocodilians apparently have coevolved as a faunal unit with their host group, at least since the end of the Mesozoic.
3884257|Comparative physiologists and physiological ecologists have striven to elucidate the physiological adaptations which eliminate or mitigate environmental stress. Stress tolerance is thought to influence the distribution of species as well as the fitness of individuals within various habitats. Differential stress tolerance depends in large part on physiological mechanisms which mitigate the deleterious effects of stress. Very little information is available, however, regarding the mechanisms and pathways by which such physiological adaptations arose and were modified. We point out two methods by which one can investigate the evolution of stress tolerance: phylogenetic studies and selection studies. Phylogenetic studies have the advantage that they can be used to study wild populations, with the drawback that species numbers and distribution may be limiting. In addition, for many physiologically interesting clades, the phylogenetic relationships have yet to be determined. Selection studies have the advantage that the evolution of physiological systems can be studied in response to very specific forms of stress. In addition, the phylogeny of the organisms can be experimentally manipulated and replication permits rigorous statistical analysis. The results of studies of the evolution of increased desiccation resistance in Drosophila are presented as an example of the methods by which insights can be obtained regarding the variables which respond to selection, the rate of evolutionary change and the process by which physiological performance changes over evolutionary time. Selection studies can be designed to provide models regarding the mechanisms, timing and directions of physiological evolution.
3882671|Although the literature on speciation is large, surprisingly little attention has been paid to methodological considerations. If there is a general methodology within this literature, it consists of delimiting taxa and their distributions, describing patterns of phenotypic (and occasionally genotypic) variation, noting contact zones and hybridization, reviewing information on past climates and vegetations, and from these constructing a narrative scenario of the pathway of speciation. However, two kinds of knowledge, essential for reconstructing speciation, are typically lacking: a genealogical hypothesis of the relevant taxa based on cladistic analysis, and a hypothesis of the interrelationships of areas of endemism based on vicariance biogeography. Both are necessary to develop and test alternative hypotheses about the mode of taxonomic differentiation. A model of speciation analysis is constructed using taxa of Australian birds as the empirical data base. Cladistic relationships among taxa and vicariance patterns among areas of endemism reveal a specific, nonrandom historical relationship among the areas of differentiation for Australian birds and suggest that type la allopatric speciation (of Bush, 1975) is more common than type 1b, that peripheral isolates are less important than previously maintained, and that parapatric speciation is rare. The model can also be used to examine the patterns of concordance between phenotypic and genotypic characteristics during geographic differentiation and to investigate their relative and absolute rates of change.
3883843|The technique of in vivo brain microdialysis rapidly is becoming a popular tool for research on the neurochemical basis of physiological and behavioral functions. The present study describes the application of microdialysis to investigate the endogenous release of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and glutamic acid in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of hamsters. There were apparent circadian patterns of release of both of these neurosecretions, with peak levels occurring during the dark phase. Pharmacological manipulations of serotonin release and reuptake, using tetrodotoxin and citalopram, respectively, provided evidence that the nocturnal increase in 5-HIAA reflects an increase in serotonergic synaptic activity, rather than intraneuronal metabolism of unreleased serotonin. These results illustrate the usefulness of the microdialysis technique for studies on the neurochemistry of central pacemaker function.
3882562|The cellular inflammatory responses of annelids, which include chemotaxis, phagocytosis, encapsulation, and various phases of wound healing, are effected by coelomocytes, particularly the hyaline amoebocytes. Coelomic epithelial cells and specialized nephridial cells also participate in phagocytosis. A number of factors related to inflammation in vertebrates have been identified in annelids, i.e., histamine, kallikrein, lysosomal enzymes, agglutinins, lysins and antibacterial substances. However, their precise function in annelid inflammatory responses has yet to be determined.
3884207|The majority of bird species exhibit age-dependent survival and reproduction. In almost all cases, first time breeders or young individuals perform at a lower and slower rate than older individuals. This review highlights the importance of age-dependent effects and urges further study of the proximate and ultimate mechanisms involved. Age effects show substantive variation across life history stage, breeding season, year, cohort, habitat types and environmental conditions both within and across taxons. In some populations or years, age effects disappear. Despite the variable patterns, age effects show amazing persistence in a variety of extreme ecological and environmental conditions. Experimental manipulations of food, predation pressure and breeding experience do not usually remove age effects. Age-dependent effects may be maintained or accumulate through the breeding season and profoundly influence fitness, or they may be washed out or reversed by events later in the breeding season. Recently, we have amassed substantive information about the patterns of variation in age-dependent reproduction and survival among individuals, but we have made little progress toward understanding the proximate mechanisms responsible for this variation. Proximate and ultimate processes are inextricably linked, and thus the study of age-dependence is highly relevant to the further development of life history theory. Studies of age-dependent performance have general relevance to population management and conservation issues as age sub-structuring may contribute substantially to annual or inter-populational variation in reproductive success.
3881333|Although classical work continues, particularly on the trematodes, for the most part the basic life cycle patterns must be regarded as worked out. Helminthologists are increasingly turning attention to the mechanics of the life cycle with the result that parasitology is becoming an experimental science. Worms are now under study from the biochemical, physiological, and behavioral points of view. As a result, ideas of specificity have been altered, new physiological races of parasites discovered, and a number of new human helminthiases recognized, chiefly zoonotic and involving larval forms. The number of parasitic worms successfully adapted to laboratory propagation in animal hosts steadily increases, providing new and fruitful models for investigation. Even more striking is the great breakthrough in the last decade involving in vitro culture. Several cestodes and a variety of nematodes can now be reared through various stages, if not their entire life cycle, in partially defined media, and progress is being made with trematodes and acanthocephalans. Behavioral studies are beginning to shed light on how parasites find their hosts and how they locate each other inside the host. And in spite of long-held views to the contrary, evidence increases that certain activities of helminths may be under hormonal control.
3882742|Theory can have many different kinds of use in illuminating ecological research. The examples sketched in this paper include: the uses and short-comings of population models currently used in setting catch quotas for whales and for fisheries; the rich array of behaviour displayed by nonlinear equations and its relevance to understanding natural and managed populations; models for the interaction between populations (particularly the regulation of natural populations by diseases); and some general patterns of community organization. The paper concludes with some remarks on the contrasts between public pieties about "The Scientific Method" and the way scientists actually work, from Darwin's day to our own.
3884523|As the primary link between environmental change and physiological response, the neuroendocrine system is a critical part of osmoregulatory adaptations. Cortisol has been viewed as 'the' seawater-adapting hormone in fish and prolactin as 'the' fresh water adapting hormone. Recent evidence indicates that the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor I axis is also important in seawater adaptation in several teleosts of widely differing evolutionary lineages. In salmonids, growth hormone acts in synergy with cortisol to increase seawater tolerance, at least partly through the upregulation of gill cortisol receptors. Cortisol under some conditions may promote ion uptake and interacts with prolactin during acclimation to fresh water. The osmoregulatory actions of growth hormone and prolactin are antagonistic. In some species, thyroid hormones support the action of growth hormone and cortisol in promoting seawater acclimation. Although a broad generalization that holds for all teleosts is unlikely, our current understanding indicates that growth hormone promotes acclimation to seawater, prolactin promotes acclimation to fresh water, and cortisol interacts with both of these hormones thus having a dual osmoregulatory function.
3881504|The burying behavior in two South American forms of the haplogyne spider genus Sicarius is cinematographically analyzed and found to be qualitatively stereotypic with 16 successive, distinct steps comprising the whole behavior. This ethological character is therefore of potentially great systematic value. The quantitative (time) relationships of the components of the behavior are more variable and probably controlled by certain feedback mechanisms. Several possible functional explanations are suggested, a defensive function appearing most probable.
3883899|Studies of hormone receptors and the transcription factors that they induce are providing new insights into the control of growth and metamorphosis of insects. The epidermis and the nervous system are used to illustrate the power of these new approaches. Many aspects of a tissue's response to the molting hormone are encoded at the level of the ecdysteroid receptor (EcR) itself. For example, there is a correlation between the presence of EcR and a particular tissue's response to ecdysteroids during larval molts. In preparation for metamorphosis around the time of commitment, all tissues express high levels of EcR as they are losing their larval identities and preparing to transform into the adult. Different forms of EcR are then associated with different programs of differentiation during the subsequent adult development. Tissue- and cell-specific aspects of responses to ecdysteroid are presumably also reflected in quantitative and qualitative alterations in the cascade of transcription factors that the hormone elicits. In Manduca sexta the ecdysteroid-induced transcription factor MHR3 shows a region-specific onset of expression in the epidermis that mirrors the spread of competence to form a new cuticle in response to the rise of ecdysteroid. Juvenile hormone (JH) prevents metamorphosis by modulating ecdysteroid action during the molt and thus may also influence the levels and forms of the EcR and the ecdysteroid-induced transcription factors. Studies of a putative nuclear receptor for JH have shown that its expression is influenced by both the ecdysteroid and JH titers.
3882722|Communication through electric discharges is a rich and varied modality of social communication among mormyrid fishes of West Africa. Field studies permitted an analysis of the electric signals of over 20 species of Mormyridae living sympatrically in and near the Ivindo River of Gabon. Electric discharges can be classified according to their waveforms and can be shown to be species-specific in many cases. The waveform of the discharge is a signature which is a carrier for social communication signals. The paper asks: "Why is the signature, or carrier, adaptive?" An analysis points to competitive and cooperative forces in the evolution of electrical waveforms, not physical or habitat forces. Competition between species, as well as mutualistic interactions, appear important in explaining how electrical signatures are adaptive for: 1) channel privacy (noise immunity); 2) unique signals for species recognition; and 3) electrolocation signals less vulnerable to jamming.
3881520|The parathyroid glands in reptiles generally develop from the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches. In lizards and crocodiles, usually only one pair of glands (from the third pouch) persists, while turtles and snakes generally retain both pairs of glands in adults. The glands consist of cell cords and are similar in structure to those of birds and mammals. A common feature of reptilian parathyroids is the organization of cells around a lumen in a follicular arrangement. The few physiological studies which have been made indicate that parathyroid function in reptiles is in many respects similar to that of mammals. For example, in lizards, parathyroidectomy results in tetanic convulsions and lowered values of plasma calcium, while administration of parathyroid extract increases urine phosphate and serum calcium in turtles, and increases the number of osteoclasts in bone of lizards and turtles. However, there are some obvious differences between parathyroid function in reptiles and mammals, on which much more work is needed.
3881332|Some of the accumulated knowledge on the complex problems involved in the transmission of helminths of domestic animals in the USA is summarized. The following conditions are usually necessary for the development outside the final hosts of infective stages of these helminths: moderate temperatures, adequate moisture, oxygen, and protection from freezing, desiccation and direct sunlight. Once the infective stages of helminths are attained, either free-living or parasitic in intermediate hosts, those of most species are more resistant to adverse conditions than pre-infective stages. Because temperature and moisture influence the development and survival of helminth infective stages, variable climatic and weather conditions directly or indirectly affect helminth transmission. Climate and weather maintain or alter the microclimates of the microhabitats in which helminth eggs and larvae normally live until infection of the final hosts is accomplished. We are only beginning to learn how long-term climatic trends and short-term weather influence helminth transmission. Recent attempts, however, to relate variations in climate and weather to degree and kind of helminth transmission by use of bioclimatographs, the interrelationship of evapotranspiration and precipitation, estimates of potential transmission periods, etc., have increased our understanding of helminth life cycles and helminth diseases of domestic animals, and have aided in developing increasingly effective methods of helminth control.
3881630|Macrourid fishes are one of the most diverse and numerous groups of deep bottom fishes in the world. The great majority are benthopelagic, with a few bathypelagic members. Benthopelagic species are usually endemic, and most common on continental slopes, whereas bathypelagic species are more cosmopolitan in distribution. The center of distribution for Macrourids is in the Indo-Pacific region. Little is known of their life history; eggs are thought to ascend after fertilization and develop in the midwater below 200 m. Although few gut content analyses of adults have been performed, fin structure and photographs indicate that they feed mostly on bottom invertebrates.
3882090|Growth zones in echinoid skeletal ossicles are mainly the result of differences in structural characteristics. In the test plates, opaque zones, which appear light in reflected light, dark in transmitted light, and are X-ray dense, have relatively larger trabecules and smaller intertrabecular channels. Translucent zones, which appear dark in reflected light, light in transmitted light, and are less X-ray dense, have relatively smaller trabecules and larger intertrabecular channels. Organic material in the plates, especially when pigmented or charred, enhances the appearance of the growth zones. Opaque zones result from relatively fast plate growth while translucent zones result from relatively slow plate growth; food deprivation leads to the formation of translucent zones. The growth zones appear to be formed seasonally, at least in some cases, probably in relation to seasonal changes in growth rates, and perhaps in relation to seasonal reproductive activity.
3881939|This review summarizes the biochemistry, mode of action, physiologic functions, and clinical usefulness of glucagon, with emphasis on its role as a mobilizer of glycogen and fat, when adequate amount of exogenous nutrients are unavailable (starvation, heavy exercise, neonatal state) or cannot be properly utilized (diabetes mellitus). The "anti-insulin" properties of glucagon and the lessons of comparative physiology are reviewed.
3881398|In the Order Decapoda four families of Macrura, one of Anomura, and seven of Brachyura include semi-terrestrial or terrestrial representatives, primarily tropical and subtropical in distribution. Observations have been made largely on brachyurans. In these forms mating takes place on land, and courtship involves mainly visual and acoustic signals rather than chemical and tactile ones. During copulation the female is often hard rather than soft and may assume a position above the male rather than beneath him, as in many marine forms. Eggs are carried by the female on land. Larval development takes place either in sea water or, in the case of some fresh-water crayfishes and crabs, entirely within the egg. Extremes of temperature are met primarily by acclimation, transpiration, or escape (immersion, burrowing). During transpiration body temperature is lowered by a few degrees but water is lost. In some species water can be replenished by uptake from a moist substratum and stored within the pericardial sacs. Ionic regulation occurs largely through antennal glands, gills, and gut and helps to move water from exterior into hemolymph and from hemolymph into gut and its diverticula. In Gecarcinus lateralis at ecdysis, large amounts of water move from hemolymph into gut, this process being controlled by a hormone from the thoracic ganglionic mass.
3881756|Obligate arrhenotoky is known to have evolved only eight times, once each in the rotifer order Monogonanta, the arachnid order Acarina, the insect orders Hymenoptera and Thysanoptera, and in two families of Homoptera (Coccidae and Aleyrodidae) and Coleoptera (Scolytidae and Micromalthidae). In this paper it is argued that in male haploids the population genetic parameter which is most nearly analogous to the average fitness in ordinary diploids is the geometric mean of the average fitness in the two sexes. The geometric mean fitness is maximized by selection in a random mating population, provided one takes into account the fact that the system of inheritance imposes constraints on the gene frequencies in males and females. Furthermore, under sufficiently small selection intensities, the rate of change in geometric mean fitness is approximately equal to the additive genetic variance in fitness, where the additive variance is defined as the variance due to the regression on a model of gene action which assumes no dominance in females and complete dosage compensation in males. Some problems concerning the sex ratio in male haploids when there is extreme inbreeding are also discussed.
3883634|The existing literature concerning reproduction of snow crab (Chionoecetes opilio) is critically reviewed and discussed in the context of recent conceptual paradigms and ongoing research. The functional anatomy of the male and female reproductive systems is presented and interpreted in terms of the various mating pathways available to this species. Hypotheses to account for immediate and delayed fertilization are presented. The possible adaptive values of spermatophore storage and a novel mechanism for ensuring last male precedence are explored. In addition to critical gaps in our understanding of reproduction in snow crab and other brachyurans, ambiguities in current concepts and terminology are highlighted. Directions for future research which addresses central problems of snow crab reproductive biology are suggested.
3884364|A major objective of the multidisciplinary Palmer Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) program is to obtain a comprehensive understanding of various components of the Antarctic marine ecosystem-the assemblage of plants, animals, ocean, sea ice, and island components south of the Antarctic Convergence. Phytoplankton production plays a key role in this polar ecosystem, and factors that regulate production include those that control cell growth (light, temperature, nutrients) and those that control cell accumulation rate and hence population growth (water column stability, advection, grazing, and sinking). Several of these factors are mediated by the annual advance and retreat of sea ice. In this study, we examine the results from nearly a decade (1991-2000) of ecological research in the western Antarctic Peninsula region. We evaluate the spatial and temporal variability of phytoplankton biomass (estimated as chlorophyll-a concentration) and primary production (determined in-situ aboard ship as well as estimated from ocean color satellite data). We also present the spatial and temporal variability of sea ice extent (estimated from passive microwave satellite data). While the data record is relatively short from a long-term perspective, evidence is accumulating that statistically links the variability in sea ice to the variability in primary production. Even though this marine ecosystem displays extreme interannual variability in both phytoplankton biomass and primary production, persistent spatial patterns have been observed over the many years of study (e.g., an on to offshore gradient in biomass and a growing season characterized by episodic phytoplankton blooms). This high interannual variability at the base of the food chain influences organisms at all trophic levels.
3883031|Systematic zoology has undergone a revolution during the past 25 years. A major step was in the formulation of an explicit and objective methodology for determining phylogenetic relationships that results in testable hypotheses. The methodology of phylogenetic systematics has spawned vicariance biogeography and is applicable not only to traditional morphological characters but to new kinds of systematic characters. Innovative biochemical, cytogenetic, and developmental approaches to phylogenetic relationships have broadened the scope of systematic zoology. This diversity increases the potential for generating and testing hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships and temporal evolution.
3883800|The stomatogastric nervous system of decapod crustaceans is an ideal system for the study of the processes underlying the generation of rhythmic movements by the nervous system. In this chapter we review recent work that uses mathematical analyses and computer simulations to understand: 1) the role of individual currents in controlling the activity of neurons, and 2) the effects of electrical coupling on the activity of neuronal oscillators. The aim of this review is to highlight, for the physiologist, what these studies have taught us about the organization and function of single cell and multicellular neuronal oscillators.
3882078|Current research on the mechanisms of sperm-egg fusion, the block to polyspermy, and metabolic activation are described. A cinemicrographic analysis of fertilization reveals that fusion of sperm and egg occurs between non-motile gametes, indicating that the flagellar motion of sperm is not required. The block to polyspermy is reviewed, emphasizing recent work on the role of cortical granule protease in altering sperm receptors of the vitelline layer. Metabolic activation or derepression at fertilization is highly regulated and occurs in a definite sequence. The primary event appears to be release of intracellular Ca
3882042|The investigations leading to an explanation of the mechanism of sperm chemotaxis in the hydrozoa depend heavily on purification and identification of the compounds responsible for the attraction. The substance(s) are of low molecular weight, are stable to heat and to high and low pH under moderate conditions, and are highly positively charged. Recent work using the attractant from Tubularia indicates that ion-exchange chromatography coupled with the proper gradient elution techniques is beginning to yield partially purified attractant. The biological activity is eliminated after strong-acid hydrolysis and after treatment with crude proteolytic enzymes, like pronase and pancreatin. The active components of these mixtures of enzymes are neutral proteases with a serine residue in the active site. The stability of the molecule(s) to pH, their apparent ninhydrin-insensitivity, and their chromatographic behavior are indicative of a low molecular-weight peptide, possibly one of the cyclic peptides. Promising avenues leading to further purification have been opened up by the work reported here, and it would appear to be only a matter of time before pure attractant is available for chemical analysis.
3881978|Between 1964 and 1969, studies were made of Prairie Chicken reproductive behavior on a lek with a stable social organization. The social organization of this lek was altered by the removal of dominant males; three in 1970 and two in 1971. Social organization and reproductive behavior were observed on this lek prior to and following removal of the dominant males. Removal of dominant males disrupted the stable social organization on the lek. Total number of aggressive interactions between males increased following removal of dominant males. No change was noted in the total number of females visiting the lek in 1970 compared with the previous 6-year period. Likewise, no change was noted in the number of attempted copulations observed in 1970 compared with previous years. However, the number of successful copulations was drastically reduced (90% fewer) during 1970 because of increased male-male aggressive interactions on the lek. During 1971, fewer territorial males were on the lek compared to previous years, and fewer females visited the lek and fewer successful copulations were recorded than in previous years. Late nests of Prairie Chickens are less successful and contain fewer eggs compared with nests begun earlier. In some instances, the female social hierarchy may serve to delay onset of nesting, therefore reducing total reproduction for the year.
3884104|I review the basic rationale for risk-sensitive foraging, and present a few of the most common expressions of risk-sensitivity theory. A simple heuristic, the energy-budget rule, and the z-score model are explained. These functional models of risk sensitivity assume or explicitly model fitness as a nonlinear function of an animal's energy state. For such nonlinear relationships, Jensen's inequality predicts that the fitness realized by an animal with a more constant energy state may be higher or lower than the fitness resulting from a variable energy state with the same mean, depending on the shape of the fitness function. Predictive functional models of behavior, like the energy-budget rule and the z-score model, depend on specific features of the function relating energy state to fitness, which may or may not be general features for most organisms. While behavioral ecologist have studied the functional significance of animal responses to variation in foraging rewards, psychologists have long studied the psychological mechanisms by which preferences for variable or constant rewards are expressed. Jensen's inequality is applied here too; psychologists propose nonlinearities in the perception and processing of information. The growing number of different relationships that might account for risk-sensitive behavior is a potential source of confusion. I advocate "returning to the basics," i.e., that hypotheses to explain risk-sensitive behavior should specify precisely the assumed nonlinear relationships.
3884375|Soft-bodied animals are an answer to the problem, solved for each species over evolutionary time, to design a cylindrical, motile machine composed of pliant polymeric materials (collagen and glycoproteins) and actuated by a contractile polymer (actomyosin). The vertebrate body is a cylindrical set of pliant collagenous membranes. Axial notochords and backbones occur where membranes intersect. The basis for all vertebrate architecture is the collagen fiber that best functions to resist tension. Axial compressive forces in notochords and backbones occur as tensile stresses in collagen fibers in intervertebral discs and zygapohyseal ligaments. Bone provides local stiffening where muscles pull. Large muscle masses apply large forces via tendons thus allowing for leverage in the function of axes of bodies and appendages. Although isolated species in invertebrate phyla have notochord- or backbone- like structures, only echinoderms and vertebrates have a central axis to resist axial compression. Design is a useful tool in forming scientific hypotheses.
3884489|Hox genes in bilaterians specify distinct regions along the anterior-posterior axis. A question of interest is when in metazoan evolution did this class of genes take on this function. Hox genes have been isolated from a number of cnidarian species including hydra. The expression patterns of two of them, Cnox-3 and Cnox-2 have been examined in adult hydra. Cnox-3, a labial homologue, plays a role in oral/anterior patterning, while Cnox-2, a Deformed homologue or a Gsx homologue of the ParaHox cluster appears to repress anterior patterning in the body column. The two genes play a role in axial patterning that is consistent with the tissue dynamics of an adult hydra.
3881656|Some insects adjust heat production and heat loss, while others depend upon adjustments in location and posture to regulate body temperature. Many activities of insects are tuned to internal temperature. These two features predict that the nature and form of temperature control in insects interact strongly in adaptation to climate, energy demand, niche specialization, and population size of insects.
3883161|Herbert Spencer Jennings (1868-1947) succeeded W. K. Brooks as Director of the Zoological Laboratory at Johns Hopkins University in 1910. His scientific work in the next two decades included experimental genetics of protozoa and mathematical analysis of the linear arrangement of chromosomes. At the same time, Jennings was involved in philosophical discussions of the nature of biological thought. His point of view expressed the biologist's awareness of diversity and historical process, against both the excesses of vitalism and of the modern reductionist methods of physico-chemical biology. These philosophical discussions are seen against the background of his difficulty in building up the zoological laboratory at Johns Hopkins in the 1920s, when the university tried unsuccessfully to return to the ideal of pure research which had guided it under its first president. Moreover, Jennings faced strong competition for resources from within the university itself, especially at the medical school. His position illustrates the predicament of the modern general biologist in an environment increasingly dominated by the medical sciences.
3881470|The respiration of frog twitch muscles rises markedly when
3884152|The hormone peptide tyrosine-tyrosine (PYY), first isolated from pig intestine, is localized to endocrine cells in the lower bowel and exercises a predominantly inhibitory action on gastro-intestinal function. Mammalian tissues also produce the homologous peptides neuropeptide Y, localized to central and peripheral neurons, and pancreatic polypeptide localized to the pancreatic islets. Analysis of tissue extracts from species of bird (chicken), reptile (alligator) and amphibian (frog) indicates that these classes of vertebrate also synthesize the three members of the peptide family that occur in mammals. Extracts of brain tissue from teleost (trout) and elasmobranch (dogfish) fish contain a neuropeptide Y-related peptide, but only a peptide related to PYY was identified in both pancreatic and gastrointestinal tissues. Only one member of the peptide family (peptide methionine-tyrosine), showing structural similarity to both neuropeptide Y and PYY, was found in brain and intestinal tissue of the Agnathan, Petromyzon marinus. The data suggest the hypothesis that an ancestral peptide gene underwent a duplication to produce a gene encoding neuropeptide Y and a gene encoding the common precursor of PYY and pancreatic polypeptide. A subsequent duplication of this latter gene gave rise to separate genes encoding PYY and pancreatic polypeptide. The primary structures of neuropeptide Y and PYY have been quite strongly conserved during vertebrate evolution whereas pancreatic polypeptide has undergone an accelerated rate of mutation.
3883063|We examine the importance of both the hydric environment of naturally incubating reptilian eggs and the energetic needs of hatchlings via an investigation of reproduction in Galapagos land iguanas (Conolophus subcristatus). Hatching success of egg clutches and the size of subsequent hatchlings are both positively correlated with the water potential of natural nests, as predicted from previous laboratory experiments. Water potentials representing optimal incubation environments are available for only a brief period in nature, and depend upon the same seasonal rainfall as does food abundance for the emerging hatchlings. The temporal placement of the reproductive season of Conolophus subcristatus balances these conflicting needs for water by eggs and energy by hatchlings. Oviposition occurs slightly before suitable water potentials are reached and hatchling emergence occurs after the peak in food abundance. Morphological adaptations by Conolophus subcristatus to their precarious reproductive phenology include greater amounts of albumen in their eggs, and greater energy reserves in emergent hatchlings than most other lizard species. These adaptations lessen the severity of an arid environment where water becomes available for periods too short to allow both oviposition and hatching to be temporally placed in an optimal manner.
3881589|The relationship between movement of ions and the electrical properties of microorganisms (algae, fungi, and bacteria) are reviewed, with particular emphasis on the giant alga, Nitella, and the fungus, Neurospora. The hypothesis is presented that there are two basically different components to the membrane potential of both organisms: (1) one arising from the diffusion of sodium, potassium, and hydrogen ions down their chemical gradients, and (2) one associated with the utilization of energy and the active efflux of hydrogen ions, and attributed to an "electrogenic H+ pump." Numerous discrepancies between the measured electrical properties of the algae or fungi and the predictions of ordinary ion-diffusion theory can be accounted for by such an H
3883901|Neuropeptides of the insect brain that regulate juvenile hormone synthesis by the corpora allata include allatotropins, stimulatory modulators, and allatostatins, inhibitory modulators. A radiochemical assay for juvenile hormone synthesis by corpora allata in vitro was utilized in the high pressure liquid chromatographic isolation of brain neuropeptides leading to the determination of their primary structure. Identified are an allatotropin and an allatostatin from a Lepidopteran, Manduca sexta, and a family of five allatostatins from a Dictyopteran, Diploptera punctata. These neuropeptides are all unique, effective at low concentration (10
3882721|Aggressive interactions between male northern elephant seals, Mirounga angustirostris, observed during the course of three breeding seasons are analyzed from the perspective of costs and benefits to individuals. Males spend less than one percent of their time in aggressive activities and the overwhelming majority of agonistic interactions consist only of visual and vocal threats rather than physical combat. Males are most likely to threaten other males when the likelihood that they will be successful in displacing the opponent is high. Males who are mounting females, or who are in close proximity to females, are threatened more frequently than males who are otherwise occupied. However, high ranking bulls do regularly issue threats which are not provoked by the location or behavior of the recipient. Despite the obvious costs of such threats, this behavior may be favored as a result of female choice. Estrous females are more receptive when mounted by a male who has just dominated another than when mounted by a male of similar rank who has been resting or recently displaced by a still more dominant male. A general argument is made that in species where social status of males is correlated with their genetic fitness, female choice is likely to be based on social signals which are used in competition between males.
3883264|Inferences about one aspect of human embryology came from analysis of the obscure cytogenetic phenomenon of intercalary heterochromatin in Drosophila melanogaster. The bridge between these two topics is a human syndrome that represents the most common cause of inherited mental retardation, the fragile-X syndrome. Two models were developed to make this bridge. One model uses intercalary heterochromatin to provide an explanation for the basis of human fragile sites. The other model presents an explanation for the complex pattern of inheritance and expression of the fragile-X syndrome. This syndrome is proposed to result from abnormal chromosome imprinting. The imprinting event gives a potentially mosaic population of primary oocytes in females who inherited a non-imprinted fragile-X chromosome. This mosaicism provides a method to estimate the number of oogonial progenitor cells in humans. This example illustrates the unpredictable course of basic research, and emphasizes the usefulness of maintaining for such basic research adequate research funding from biomedical research budgets.
3883588| The chicken major histocompatibility complex (chicken MHC or B complex), at present the most extensively characterized non-mammalian MHC, differes from its human and rodent counterparts in its overall organization. Prominent features of the B complex are its reduced size, the proximity between class I and class II genes, which are intermingled, and the close association of these transplantation antigen-encoding genes with nonclassical MHC genes. In contrast, the genetic organization of individual class I and class II genes, including intron-exon structure and certain transcription regulating elements, and the primary structure of their products are remarkably conserved. 
3883838|A hypothesis generated from field observations of lions and tigers was tested in a zoo setting. The presence of a whitish material in urine marks, detected by visual inspection, led to the surmise that anal-sac secretions were expelled along with urine. This hypothesis was evaluated by labelling anal-sac secretions of various felids with an inert dye. The animals were monitored thereafter for signs of dye in urine-marks, on feces or in their enclosures. The failure to find anal-sac secretions in urine or on feces led to a search for an alternate explanation for the whitish material. A likely answer was found in the confirmation of considerable lipid in the bladder urine of lions and tigers, which separates to form a visible, whitish layer. Relative levels of urinary lipid reflect general condition of an animal as they correlate with kidney fat reserves (Hewer et al., 1948), so the amount of lipid in a scent mark could serve as an indicator of condition. Furthermore, because lipid retards the release of volatile compounds (Regnier and Goodwin, 1976), lipid in a scent mark will extend release time of a pheromonal message.
3882269|The Pacific hagfish, Eptatretus stoutii, is capable of a variety of immunologic responses including allograft rejection and serum antibody production to soluble and cellular antigens. Interest has revived in the morphology of hagfish lymphoid tissues. The search for a thymus in young specimens has resulted in the discovery of a phagocytic and antigen-receptive cell population associated with the pharyngeal velar muscles. We suggest that a protothymus or precursor of the thymus of higher vertebrates may be contained within this velar muscle complex.
3884494|The early origin of four vertebrate Hox gene clusters during the evolution of gnathostomes was likely caused by two consecutive duplications of the entire genome and the subsequent loss of individual genes. The presumed conserved and important roles of these genes in tetrapods during development led to the general assumption that Hox cluster architecture had remained unchanged since the last common ancestor of all jawed vertebrates. But recent data from teleost fishes reveals that this is not the case. Here, we present an analysis of the evolution of vertebrate Hox genes and clusters, with emphasis on the differences between the Hox A clusters of fish (actinopterygian) and tetrapod (sarcopterygian) lineages. In contrast to the general conservation of genomic architecture and gene sequence observed in sarcopterygians, the evolutionary history of actinopterygian Hox clusters likely includes an additional (third) genome duplication that initially increased the number of clusters from four to eight. We document, for the first time, higher rates of gene loss and gene sequence evolution in the Hox genes of fishes compared to those of land vertebrates. These two observations might suggest that two different molecular evolutionary strategies exist in the two major vertebrate lineages. Preliminary data from the African cichlid fish Oreochromis niloticus compared to those of the pufferfish and zebrafish reveal important differences in Hox cluster architecture among fishes and, together with genetic mapping data from Medaka, indicate that the third genome duplication was not zebrafish-specific, but probably occurred early in the history of fishes. Each descending fish lineage that has been characterized so far, distinctively modified its Hox cluster architecture through independent secondary losses. This variation is related to the large body plan differences observed among fishes, such as the loss of entire sets of appendages and ribs in some lineages.
3882368|The adaptive significance and evolutionary history of the internal architecture of the masseter muscle in suid artiodactyls are investigated. Hypotheses are developed on the basis of anatomical and physiological studies in the pig, Sus scrofa, and used to make predictions about the expected anatomy in the giant forest hog, Hylochoerus meinertzhageni and the warthog, Phacochoerus aethiopicus. The hypotheses are then tested by anatomical examination of these animals. In the pig, pinnation of the masseter serves to increase masticatory force and to partition the muscle into three semi-independent parts: vertical anterior fibers, which are used especially to close from wide gape; a central pinnate portion, which is used for all activities; and horizontal fibers covering the jaw joint, which are used especially for anterior translation of the condyle. In the giant forest hog and warthog the structure of the masseter is more uniform and the physiological cross section is larger than in the pig. These changes are interpreted as correlates of decreased emphasis on gape and increased emphasis on masticatory force in the African suids. In order to clarify the evolutionary sequence, masseteric architecture in the suids is compared with that of tayassuids and the hippopotamus.
3884045|Phonotaxis by female crickets to the calling song of males, is an important model for investigating the neural basis of auditory behavior. Recent advances make it possible to explain some components of this behavior and its hormonal control, at the level of identified neurons and molecular expression within those neurons. Tonotopically arranged afferents from the cricket's ear, project to local and intersegmental prothoracic interneurons. Bilateral processing of signals and some temporal-pattern specific processing occurs in the prothoracic ganglion and influences acoustic information that is sent to the brain via ascending interneurons that are demonstrably involved in phonotaxis. High, low and band- pass interneurons in the brain continue temporal pattern processing which matches the selectivity of phonotaxis and may be filters for recognition of the calling song. Neurons descending from the brain and prothoracic ganglion, direct multimodal signals (including auditory) to more posterior regions, possibly the leg motor neurons that are responsible for phonotaxis. Age-related changes or artificially induced changes in Juvenile Hormone III levels regulate the threshold for phonotaxis in Acheta domesticus, by varying the threshold of L1, a prothoracic ascending interneuron that is necessary for phonotaxis to low intensity calling songs. Results from in situ hybridization suggest that this might be accomplished, in part, by controlling the levels of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-like mRNA expressed in L1, presumably by increasing its neurotransmitter receptor density. L3 is a prothoracic ascending interneuron that exhibits band-selective response properties to the syllable period of the calling song. L3's response is age and JHIII related, and is correlated to phonotactic selectivity. These changes in L3 might be accomplished, at least in part by JHIII regulating the expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-like mRNA in L3.
3882924|Examples of current research of importance to the conceptual and informational bases of evolutionary biology in the areas of morphology, development, physiology, ecology, population biology, natural history, and systematics are discussed. A synthetic approach to problems that utilizes ideas and techniques from several areas of biology characterizes much current research, and it is providing new conceptual frameworks and new, testable hypotheses. Some of the possible problems with methods of presentation as we often teach in these areas of biology are considered.
3881566|The middle ear regions of reptiles and amphibians frequently are grouped into morphological types on the basis of structural resemblances. The arrays of animals resulting from such a grouping have a fair degree of taxonomic continuity. The types in most instances include a "central" pattern, presumed to be primitive, and modifications that are considered to have been derived from the "central" type by evolutionary processes. Some understanding of phylogeny, thus, is a necessary precursor to the formation of the groups. This raises problems when, as is often the case, the groups based on ear structures are used as a basis for phylogenetic interpretations. Among reptiles the theropsid-sauropsid case is the best known. The principal morphological types are described and discussed. The middle ear, as a sound-transmitting apparatus and in its associations with the masticatory apparatus, is highly susceptible to adaptive modifications. Some morphological types, such as those in archosaurs and labyrinthodonts, are quite stable. Others show marked evolutionary diversity. The middle ear structures, hence, appear quite useful as phylogenetic indicators within morphological types but less so when relationships between types are considered.
3883426|The causes of the extensive (0.86%/yr; 288,414 ha/yr) and well documented dramatic and accelerating rate of coastal wetland loss in the northern Gulf of Mexico were investigated by an interdisciplinary university research team to discern the role of outer continental shelf development. The landscape changes and potential causal agents are emphasized herein. Natural driving factors include sea level rise and geological compaction, which appear to remain constant this century, and sediment supply from the Mississippi River which has declined by 50% since the 1950s. Man-made influences include hydrologic changes from river diversions, flood protection levees, an extensive canal and spoil bank network, belowground fluid withdrawal and accidental and intentional impoundments. Wetland loss is not simply a geological phenomenon. Wetland plants hold sediments together, add to vertical accretion rates, withstand storm winds and waves, and assist in sediment trapping. Plant physiologic stress is documented where hydrologic changes occur, and much of the wetland loss could be attributed to the effects of soil waterlogging on plants, not to sediment deprivation.
3883985|The different forms of morphological integration, developmental, functional, genetic, and evolutionary are defined and their theoretical relationships explored. Quantitative genetic models predict that the co-selection of traits involved in a common function will lead to pleiotropic effects at the loci affecting them while functionally-unrelated traits will be affected by separate sets of loci (Wagner, 1996). The patterns of genetic variation produced by these pleiotropic mutations and stabilizing selection for functionally and developmentally interacting traits results in their specific co-inheritance relative to other traits. This in turn leads to their co-ordinated response to selection. Therefore, functional and developmental integration lead to genetic integration which, in turn leads to evolutionary integration. Three examples of how developmental integration structures pleiotropy and morphological variation in non-human primate crania, artificially-modified human crania, and for the effects of individual genes on murine mandibular morphology are presented.
3882089|In all four types of feeding echinoderm larvae, particles are retained upstream from the ciliated band, probably by an induced local reversal of ciliary beat. Comparative studies and theoretical considerations suggest that increasing the length of the band may be the only means of increasing the rate at which water is processed for particulate food. This would account for the long looping band and late development of adult structures in echinoderm larvae. Estimates of the minimum food requirements of early echinplutei and of uptake of amino acids by embryos are calculated. Various means of rejecting particles are described and observations related to nervous control of feeding and rejection are discussed. The possible disadvantages of larvae developing from smaller but more numerous eggs are discussed. It is argued that loss of a feeding larval stage is usually an irreversible evolutionary change in echinoderms, and some general implications of the irreversibility of such a change in life history are mentioned.
3882545|The amphibian limb is an example of a secondary embryonic field that can be reactivated during larval or adult life so that amputated parts are regenerated. Two major questions are: (1) what is the origin of the morphogenetic field of the regeneration blastema, and (2) what is the nature of this field and how does it specify the spatial pattern of blastemal redifferentiation? Evidence is analyzed here which leads to the following propositions: (1) the field is represented in latent form by properties of the mature limb cells, and these properties are activated and inherited by the blastemal cells after amputation and dedifferentiation. At the same time, the inherited field is sensitive to the mature stump tissues and its spatial organization can be altered by a stump pattern alien to the one from which it was derived. (2) The properties of the mesodermal limb tissues represent positional values that are arranged in gradients along the proximal-distal, anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral axes. These properties allow dedifferentiated mesodermal cells to change their positional value to any value between their original one in the limb and the value of any neighboring cell after creation of a discontinuity. The direction of change is always from proximal to distal in the PD axis; it is uncertain as to whether change can take place only centripetally or both centripetally and centrifugally along the AP and DV axes. (3) Epidermal cells have the same positional value everywhere in the limb and act as the distal and circumferential boundaries up to which the mesodermal cells may change their positional values. The proximal boundary is represented by the level-specific properties of the mesodermal cells at the maximum extent of distal to proximal dedifferentiation. Normal regeneration can then be visualized as occurring in the following way. When deletions are made in the limb pattern, cells with widely different positional values are confronted. During regeneration, blastema cells increase in number and continually interact with their neighbors to adjust their positional values within the boundaries until discontinuities are eliminated. The multiple limbs resulting from rearrangement of stump tissue patterns can also be accounted for by using these propositions. It is suggested that positional information is encoded on the cell surface and/or in the extracellular matrix.
3883500|Adult alligators perform two conspicuous social displays, bellows and headslaps. Both of these behaviors are performed from a "head oblique tail arched" (HOTA) posture. Bellow displays, by both males and females, involve the production of a loud, roaring vocalization. Male alligators also produce a infrasonic signal, termed subaudible vibrations, just prior to the audible bellow. Bellowing occurs throughout the year but is most frequent during the courting season, when alligators bellow daily in choruses. Chorus length appears to be correlated with the size of the adult population. Chorusing is frequently initiated by females but seems to be perpetuated by male alligators. Bellowing may serve to attract alligators of the opposite sex and possibly to space out animals of the same sex. The headslap display is an assertion display consisting of eight component behavioral acts: the elevated posture, HOTA posture, subaudible vibrations, headslap, jawclap, growl, inflated posture, and tail wag. Each act component is variable in presence and intensity producing a highly variable, graded signal. The alligator typically remains motionless in the HOTA posture for about 16 sec before executing the headslap/jawclap acts. The headslap display involves a rapid clapping shut of the jaws as the undersurface of the head is slapped against the water surface. Headslapping is most common in early morning and afternoon hours. Analysis of 1,050 headslap displays by 91 known individuals indicates that 94.5% of the observed displays were performed by males. Headslap displays are generally performed from typical display sites which the alligator seeks out prior to the display. Responses to headslap displays include headslapping by others, lunges, approaches, and bellow growling. The headslap display functions as a declaration of presence. A musky odor is commonly detected in association with both of these social displays, suggesting a possibly important, but little understood, pheromonal component of these behaviors. The displays both involve complex signals including visual, auditory, olfactory and possibly tactile channels of communication. Most of the behaviors described are shared with many other species of crocodilians.
3883424|Between 1980 and 1987, the U.S. Department of the Interior funded a series of benthic studies of the continental shelf off southwestern Florida. The goal was to gather environmental information in order to make decisions about offshore oil leasing. One major study element was habitat mapping. Fourteen transects were surveyed geophysically (side scan sonar, subbottom profiler) and visually (underwater video and still cameras), and the results were compiled in atlases showing the distribution of substratum types and visually distinct benthic communities. Rock outcrops were rarely seen and usually of low relief (<1 m), but patches of reef-associated sessile epifauna such as sponges, hard corals, gorgonians, ascidians, and bryozoans occupied 31% of the seafloor surveyed. Most of the sessile epifauna were seen on hard bottom covered by a thin sand veneer, or on biogenic rubble layers (shell rubble, coralline algal nodules). A second major study element was benthic station sampling. Fifty-five stations were sampled from two to twelve times each, and over 1,500 species of epibiota and over 1,100 species of macroinfauna were identified. The species composition of both hard- and soft- bottom communities varied primarily in relation to water depth.
3884222|Reef corals and the communities they form evidently possess effective mechanisms of adaptation and acclimation that have ensured their survival and recurrence over geologic time. Current reef degradation suggests that these mechanisms are being taxed beyond their limits; understanding of the problem is hampered by serious inadequacies in our understanding of physiological stress responses, the range and implications of reproductive strategies, and the mechanisms of calcification and algal symbiosis. Reef community and population responses to environmental change appear substantially different on different time scales, and a combination of short-term perspectives and definitional confusion complicates interpretation and prediction of reef responses. Calcium carbonate saturation state is now recognized as a potentially important control of reef calcification, which means that rising atmospheric CO
4620200|Recent research in fish locomotion has been dominated by an interest in the dynamic mechanical properties of the swimming musculature. Prior observations have indicated that waves of muscle activation travel along the body of an undulating fish faster than the resulting waves of muscular contraction, suggesting that the phase relation between the muscle strain cycle and its activation must vary along the body. Since this phase relation is critical in determining how the muscle performs in cyclic contractions, the possibility has emerged that dynamic muscle function may change with axial position in swimming fish. Quantification of muscle contractile properties in cyclic contractions relies on in vitro experiments using strain and activation data collected in vivo. In this paper we discuss the relation between these parameters and body kinematics. Using videoradiographic data from swimming mackerel we demonstrate that red muscle strain can be accurately predicted from midline curvature but not from lateral displacement. Electromyographic recordings show neuronal activation patterns that are consistent with red muscle performing net positive work at all axial positions. The relatively constant cross-section of red muscle along much of the body suggests that positive power for swimming is generated fairly uniformly along the length of the fish.
3883262|Transposable elements were first discovered in maize by Barbara McClintock more than 40 years ago. Today it is apparent that transposable elements are a common component of the genetic material in virtually all organisms. The best studied maize transposable elements belong to the Activator-Dissociation and Suppressor-mutator families. They are short DNA sequences that consist of genes required for mobility and regulation. Both the expression and the mobility of transposable elements are regulated in development by a mechanism that relies on the methylation of element sequences critical for expression. Elements can be stably inactivated by the same mechanism, persisting in the genome in a cryptic form for long periods. The ability of the host organism to regulate the highly mutagenic transposable elements may be critical to their survival, as well as their utility as agents of genomic change.
3884553|Following a brief overview of the patterns of ontogeny of osmoregulation in postembryonic stages, this review concentrates on the ontogeny of osmoregulation during the embryonic development of crustaceans, particularly in those species living under variable or extreme salinity conditions and whose hatchlings osmoregulate at hatch. Two situations are considered, internal development of the embryos in closed incubating, brood or marsupial pouches, and external development in eggs exposed to the external medium. In both cases, embryos are osmoprotected from the external salinity level and variation, either by the female pouches or by the egg envelopes. The mechanisms of osmoprotection are discussed. During embryonic life, temporary or definitive osmoregulatory organs develop, with ion transporting cells and enzymes such as Na
3882663|Locomotor adaptations in actinopterygian fishes are described for (a) caudal propulsion, used in cruising and sprint swimming, acceleration, and fast turns and (b) median and paired fin propulsion used for slow swimming and in precise maneuver. Caudal swimming is subdivided into steady (time independent) and unsteady (time dependent acceleration and turning) locomotion. High power caudal propulsion is the major theme in actinopterygian swimming morphology because of its role in predator evasion and food capture. Non-caudal slow swimming appears to be secondary and is not exploited before the Acanthopterygii. Optimal morphological requirements for unsteady swimming are (a) large caudal fin and general body area, (b) deep caudal peduncle, often enhanced by posterior dorsal and anal fins, (c) an anterior stabilizing body mass and/or added mass, (d) flexible body and (e) large ratio of muscle mass to body mass. Optimal morphological requirements for steady swimming are (a) high aspect ratio caudal fin, (b) narrow caudal peduncle, (c) small total caudal area, (d) anterior stabilizing body mass and added mass, and (e) a stiff body. Small changes in morphology can have large effects on performance. Exclusive morphological requirements for steady versus unsteady swimming are partially overcome using collapsible fins, but compromises remain necessary. Morphologies favoring unsteady performance are a recurring theme in actinopterygian evolution. Successive radiations at chondrostean, halecostome and teleostean levels are associated with modifications in the axial and caudal skeleton. Strength of ossified structures probably limited maximum propulsion forces early in actinopterygian evolution, so that specializations for fast cruising (carangiform and thunniform modes) followed structural advances especially in the caudal skeleton. No such limits apply to eel-like forms which consequently recur in successive actinopterygian radiations. Slow swimming using mainly non-caudal propulsion probably first occurred among neopterygians in association with reduced and neutral buoyancy. Slow swimming adaptations can add to and extend the scope of caudal swimming, but specialization is associated with reduced caudal swimming performance. Marked exploitation of slow swimming opportunities does not occur prior to the anterodorsal location of pectoral and pelvic girdles and the vertical rotation of the base of the pectoral fin, as found in the Acanthopterygii.
3883282|The argument is advanced that a fundamental role of thyroid hormones is to preadapt animals to exploit new habitats by inducing developmental changes in the gut and other structures associated with the acquisition and transport of nutrients. Two early life transitions of migratory salmonids are examined: first, larval development and the transition from dependence on yolk reserves to active feeding; and second, smoltification and adaptation to seawater. These developmental phases are similar in that thyroid hormone levels are elevated for a period immediately preceding changes in the animal's gut and habitat. In turn, another period of elevated thyroid hormone levels accompanies adaptation to the new environment where growth rate accelerates. Salmon that stop growing after entering seawater before smoltification occurs show reduced thyroid function and nutrient transport capabilities. These considerations might provide a point of departure for re-examining the functions of thyroid hormones, if any, in jawless fishes and lower chordates. The metamorphosing lamprey, amphioxus, and tunicates are discussed as excellent model systems in which to test whether thyroid hormones induce important developmentally specific events in the gut and associated structures.
4620172|Terrestrial and semi-terrestrial crustaceans are exposed to fluctuations in ambient temperature and conditions that favor evaporative water loss. These environmental stresses alter performance limits in the laboratory and behavior in the field. The maximal rate of oxygen consumption, maximum aerobic speed, and endurance capacity are greater at a body temperature (T
3883826|Zoological parks are evolving institutions in respect to the conservation of biological diversity. From past functions in recreation as menageries and in education as living museums, they are coming to discharge these functions, plus other meaningful ones in research and conservation, as internationally oriented conservation centers. Education is the primary function in conservation, but zoos have begun to make significant contributions as genetic refuges and reservoirs, especially for large vertebrate species threatened with extinction. In developing this capacity zoos have fostered investigations into several facets of small population biology. These have extended to simulation modelling to help predict the outcome of various combinations of ecological, genetic, and demographic factors on the viability of populations in captivity and in the wild. Because resources of zoos are limited in respect to their enlarged functions in conservation and research, they are encouraging development of criteria to help prioritize actions for conservation of biodiversity. North American, European, and Australian zoos are meanwhile assisting the development of technical capacities among zoo counterparts, government agencies, and protected areas in both developoing and developed countries of the world to further the conservation of biodiversity. Similar involvement by other biological institutions and by biological professional associations can make important contributions to policies of nations and actions of people that determine the prospects for survival of much of the biota.
3881737|Chalones, inhibitors of cell division have been isolated and studied from a number of mammalian tissues, most notably, the epidermis. The epidermal chalone is a glycoprotein. It exhibits considerable, but not complete specificity. The epidermal chalone decreases mitotic activity by inhibiting cells in the G-2 phase of the cell cycle from entering mitosis, and probably also by inhibiting cells in the G-1 phase of the cell cycle from entering mitosis. To inhibit cells in G-2 from entering mitosis the chalone requires adrenalin, and for maximal activity, hydrocortisone. It is not known if adrenalin and hydrocortisone are required for chalone inhibition of cells in G-1. In addition to inhibiting cell division in normal epidermal cells, the epidermal chalone can inhibit cell division in regenerating epidermal cells induced to proliferate by chemical damage. The phase of the cell cycle in which the chalone inhibits regenerating epidermal cells from entering mitosis is not known. Epidermal tumors contain a decreased amount of chalone. Mitosis in epidermal tumors is inhibited by treatment with epidermal chalone. Tumor cells are inhibited from entering mitosis from either the G-1 or G-2 phases of the cell cycle. Chalones are said to inhibit mitosis by a negative feedback mechanism. However, experiments which presumably result in a decrease in chalone concentration do not result in an increase in mitotic activity. It is suggested that if chalones are physiological controllers of cell division they do not act by a simple negative feedback mechanism, but require the action of a substance to decrease their concentration.
3883759|This paper summarizes some general approaches to quantifying radiative environments and estimating radiative heat loads on animals. Because natural radiation environments can be very complex, practical limits to their evaluation are most likely to arise from difficulties in analyzing their patchy nature. Accurately estimating radiative heat loads accrued by animals is particularly likely to be limited under practical conditions by difficulties in determining effective animal surface area and quantifying effects of radiation penetrating into fur or feather coats.
3884140|Organisms living in coastal waters, and especially estuaries, have long been known to have behavioral or physiological mechanisms that enable them to exist in water containing low amounts of oxygen. However, the respiratory consumption of oxygen that generates hypoxia is also responsible for producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide. An elevation of carbon dioxide pressure in water will cause a significant acidosis in most aquatic organisms. Thus, the combination of low oxygen and elevated carbon dioxide that occurs in estuaries represents a significant environmental challenge to organisms living in this habitat. Organisms may maintain oxygen uptake in declining oxygen conditions by using a respiratory pigment and/or by making adjustments in the convective flow of water and blood past respiratory surfaces (i.e., increase cardiac output and ventilation rate). Severe hypoxia may result in an organism switching partially or completely to anaerobic biochemical pathways to sustain metabolic rate. There is also evidence to suggest that organisms lower their metabolism during hypoxic stress. Elevated water CO
3882020|Two aspects of crustacean neuromuscular physiology are discussed: (1) the ultrastructural identification of the excitatory and inhibitory nerve terminals, and (2) the characteristics of, and the possible mechanisms for, facilitation. The first problem was studied in crayfish opener muscle which has one excitatory and one inhibitory axon. One of the nerves was stimulated in the presence of DNP until synaptic transmission failed; the preparations were then fixed for electron microscopy. Whenever the excitatory nerve was stimulated, the terminals with round synaptic vesicles were depleted while nearby terminals with smaller elongate vesicles were normal. When the inhibitory nerve was stimulated, the converse was true. The possible reasons for the diversity in crustacean neuromuscular properties are discussed. Large EPSP's with a high quantal content (m), appear to be produced by terminals which are invaded by a propagated spike. Small EPSP's (small m) appear to be produced by terminals which don't spike and which are depolarized by a decrementally conducted potential. There is an inverse relationship between m and the amount of facilitation. The physiological basis for facilitation is discussed; previous hypotheses are found wanting and a new one is proposed, that of slow depolarization.
3881432|Ecological studies of timber wolves (Canis lupus) in a forested environment have always been difficult to undertake in the past, particularly during the summer months, because of the lack of a suitable technique. In 1960 Pimlott devised a technique which employed the use of broadcast wolf howls in locating wolves in the field. This report reviews the success of this technique in studying the movements of two packs of wolves, and their use of home sites in Algonquin Park, Ontario. Wolves responded by howling a total of 476 occasions or approximately 13% of the occasions that broadcast howls were given. Human imitations were more successful than tape-recordings in inducing responses. Wolves responded at any time of day, but dusk was the most favorable period. They also responded more frequently in July and August than in May and June. Two types of home sites were found: the den site, occupied during the early life of the pups, and the rendezvous site, a place occupied by wolves during later development of pups. All of the home sites were adjacent to some immediate source of water. The movement of wolves appeared also to be concentrated along the water courses. The locations of the home sites and the evidence obtained from howling responses, tracks, and scats suggested that the summer range comprised a minimum area of eight square miles. The same range was utilized by a pack in 1961 and 1963.
3882815|The difficulties that usually prevent successful construction of animals by piecing together body parts from different adults are overcome by using nemertines of the genus Lineus. I have constructed viable composite orthotopic (anatomically complementary) or heterotopic Lineus by grafting. In species capable of reproducing vegetatively, composite worms were obtained from adults of the same clone. In species unable to reproduce asexually, and in studies to follow chimera components by genetic markers, composite worms were produced from pieces of genetically different donors. The fates of syngeneic (intraclonal), allogeneic (intraspecific), and xenogeneic (interspecific) chimeras were in accordance with the basic principle of tissue transplantation in Lineus, i.e., isografts and allografts succeed but xenografts fail. In L. ruber, the greater the number of donors, the more fragile were intraspecific chimeras, although this fragility has not prevented successful long-term experiments (multiparental worms live several years). Also generally the less orthopic the construction at grafting, the less the vitality of the chimeras. By transferring pieces, various manipulations of anatomical patterns of body segments were tested. In multi-donor orthotopically constructed L. ruber, putative allogeneic immunorecognition was investigated. Multi-donor heterotopically constructed Lineus provided evidence for mechanisms of regulation as well as for the persistence of mosaic status in developmental processes. Skin pigmentation and sex characteristics were useful markers both to probe chimerism and to study humoral and cell interactions between chimeric parts derived from donors of two sexes. Adults of the marine ribbon worm Lineus offer a convenient experimental system for better understanding mechanisms of communication between differentiated cells.
3883884|We examined eleven years of annual survey data on fish assemblages in seven lakes. Expectations based on biogeographic literature were that, owing to the isolation of lakes, fish species structure should be relatively stable and species turnover low. Our original objective was to determine whether lakes house relatively stable fish assemblages or ones with high rates of species turnover. Methodological issues became apparent that caused us to consider issues of rare species and sample sufficiency. Our data were from samples rather than complete counts and rare species could have been missed. In our results mean annual richness was considerably lower than cumulative richness. In addition, species turnover was overestimated and decreased exponentially as the number of years between observation increased. Sampling variability might explain these results; however, given the same number of survey years, cumulative richness increased with the number of years between observations. Apparently extinctions and invasions occurred even within eleven years, but uncertainty remains because rare taxa can be missed and their appearances and disappearances in the record influence estimates of richness and turnover. To compensate for this problem we removed rare taxa and corrected turnover rates by removing an estimate of sampling error (the turnover rate between adjacent years). Even using these conservative approaches, estimates of turnover among lakes ranged from 0.36% to 0.50% per year. Because the threshold for species detection by most sampling regimes is greater than zero, survey data are expected to underestimate species richness and overestimate species turnover even with standardized methods. Conservation biologists should evaluate claims of decline in species richness against such considerations.
3881753|Two types of parthenogenesis, arrhenotoky and thelytoky, exist in the Hymenoptera. Arrhenotoky, the development of males from unfertilized eggs, is present in all wasps and bees. Thelytoky, the development of diploid females from unfertilized eggs, is present in a few species. Two types of thelytoky, apomixis and automixis, are known. Most thelytokous Hymenoptera are automictic. No meiosis, only mitosis, occurs in apomixis. Meiosis does occur in automixis, allowing crossing-over and segregation of genes. Advantages of thelytoky are that heterotic combinations become fixed, gene loss is reduced, and reproduction requires only a single individual. One advantage of arrhenotoky is that genetic load in males is eliminated. Both environmental and genetic factors contribute to sex-determination in the haplodiploid system of Hymenoptera. Haplodiploidy can facilitate the evolution of social behavior. Parthenogenesis creates some taxonomic problems since thelytokous clones do not fit the generally accepted biological species concept. Some members of bisexual populations probably acquire thelytoky, forming their own clones, races, or species.
3883322|The first pair of thoracic limbs in many crustaceans is elaborated into claws in which the principal muscle is the closer. Changes in the fiber composition of the closer muscle during claw development, regeneration and reversal are reviewed here and the hypothesis is advanced that such changes are nerve-dependent. In adult lobsters, Homarus americanus, the paired claws and closer muscles are bilaterally asymmetric, consisting of a minor or cutter claw with predominantly fast fibers and a small ventral band of slow and a major or crusher claw with 100% slow fibers. Yet in the larval and early juvenile stages the paired claws and closer muscles are symmetric consisting of a central band of fast fibers sandwiched by slow. Differentiation into a cutter or crusher muscle during subsequent juvenile development is by appropriate fiber type transformation. Experimental manipulation of the claws or the environment in early juvenile stages when the claws are equipotent revealed that the determination of claw and closer muscle asymmetry is dependent on the convergence of neural input from the paired claws: the point of convergence most likely being the CNS. Bilaterally symmetrical input results in the development of paired cutter claws while bilaterally asymmetric input gives rise to dimorphic, cutter and crusher claws. In the northern crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, where the paired claws are bilaterally similar, the closer muscle transforms its central band of fast fibers to slow, both during primary development and regeneration. Whether these fiber type transformations are nerve-dependent is unknown. In adult snapping shrimps, Alpheus sp., the paired claws and closer muscles are asymmetric: the minor or pincer claw has a central band of fast fibers flanked by slow while the major or snapper claw has 100% slow fibers. Claw reversal occurs with removal of the snapper resulting in the transformation of the existing pincer to a snapper and the regeneration of a new pincer at the old snapper site. Transformation of the closer muscle from pincer to snapper type is by degeneration of the fast fiber band and hypertrophy of the slow fibers. Claw transformation can be either prevented if the pincer nerve is sectioned at the time of snapper removal or promoted if the snapper nerve is sectioned: both results implicating a neural basis for muscle transformation.
3883315|Three locomotory muscles of adult male cockroaches have been biochemically and structurally compared. All fibers of two muscles are innervated by the same motoneuron; both muscles are monofunctional-used only in running. Fibers of the third muscle are also innervated by a single, but different motoneuron. This muscle is bifunctional-used in both walking and flying. Histochemical observations of enzymes associated with energy production indicate that the three muscles are each comprised of a homogeneous population of fibers. However, qualitative differences do correlate with muscle use. The bifunctional muscle shows high oxidative and glycolytic enzyme localization; the monofunctional muscles show a low profile for these enzymes. Quantitative determinations of specific activity for similar enzymes corroborate the histochemical observations. Light and electron microscope observations also indicate that fibers from each of the two muscle groups are structurally homogeneous and distinct. The two monofunctional muscles parallel one another for all structures examined and are different from the bifunctional muscle. The bifunctional muscle fibers have cross-sectional areas twice that of the monofunctional muscles, have a greater myofibrillar diffusion distance, and have about half as many actin per myosin filaments. Stereometric analyses show volume densities for mitochondria and tracheoles to be five times greater; membrane systems associated with excitation-contraction coupling, however, are half as extensive; and myofibrillar volume about 1.3 times less. These data form the basis for studies of denervation and cross-reinnervation, and the role of individual motoneurons in specifying muscle fiber properties.
3882433|Crocodilians, like other reptiles, regulate their body temperatures by a combination of behavioral and physiological mechanisms. Behaviorally, they seek warm surface water or bask when cool and avoid overheating by the evaporation of water from their dorsum, evaporation of water by gaping or by retreating to deep, cool water. Physiologically, crocodilians increase cutaneous thermal conductance by increasing blood flow to the skin (and subdermal musculature) during warming. This hastens the warming process. Cutaneous blood flow is reduced during general cooling and locally if the body temperature exceeds skin temperature. This enables crocodilians to increase body temperature significantly while basking in cool shallow water. Large crocodilians appear to be able to alter their rates of heat exchange to a larger extent than small ones and they can do so with less cardiovascular involvement. Large crocodilians, with their lower surface/volume ratio, are capable of producing sufficient metabolic heat to elevate their body temperature above water temperature.
3883419|The Minerals Management Service (MMS) must foster development of marine mineral resources while protecting environmental resources and giving attention to other matters of social and economic concern. In the conduct of its mission, MMS has, in recent years, sponsored a great deal of scientific research on the physical environment and living resources of the northern Gulf of Mexico. The present article presents both the general management perspective and the regional management perspective of MMS, and it details how the scientific knowledge aids in dealing with concerns of the Agency. The general management perspective takes into account the resource and industry being regulated and the legislative and regulatory framework, as well as the risk setting, social setting, and environmental setting. Application of each of these elements within the eight regions of the northern Gulf permits focus upon matters of particular management concern. To date, there has been some environmental enhancement as a result of oil and gas development activities in the northern Gulf and little deterioration of the marine environment. In general, the impacts of offshore oil and gas activities are manifested in the coastal zone.
3883917|Oscar Hertwig (1896) noted that the central biological problem concerned preformation and epigenesis: which provides the basis for organic development? Does an organism begin preformed and just grow larger, or does form and organization emerge gradually? And how? The best scientific approach to the problem seemed to lie with Wilhelm Roux's program of materialistic experimental developmental mechanics, or "Entwickelungsmechanik." Yet that path did not lead directly to answers. Instead, embryology experienced a cycle of highs and lows throughout the first half of this century, and problems of morphogenesis have often faded into the background, regarded as old-fashioned, descriptive, and nonproductive science. A century later, morphogenesis has regained a central place within biology. A special issue of Science recently reported that "unlike human centenarians who are reaching the end of life, developmental biology is basking in its full-blown prime. Indeed the excitement and promise of the field have never been greater, as researchers close in on the secret of how a single fertilized egg cell goes through the complex and beautifully orchestrated series of changes that create an entire organism" (Baringa, 1994, p. 561). Despite their centrality to biology's experimental traditions, the pioneering work and research traditions of developmental biology have remained little explored. This project will take up that exploration, analyzing the changing ways central issues of development were addressed earlier this century. Against the background of similar questions, significantly different details in approaches, methods, techniques, and basic assumptions have pushed and pulled researchers in a variety of directions. This paper will focus on the emergence of four research traditions between 1890 and the 1930s, traditions that have waxed and waned in importance since then.
3882530|Models to predict feeding behavior at the level of consumption and use of energy involve either details of internal (physiological) controls or economic principles of regulation based on optimal (evolutionary) foraging theory. These two approaches will ultimately be related, but the former requires more information for specific predictions. The latter can provide predictions based on selected criteria for regulation. Meal sizes and feeding frequencies of hummingbirds are examined relative to two regulatory criteria: maximizing rate of net energy gain and maximizing efficiency (intakes/expenditures) through a "crop emptying" model that incorporates energy intake from food and energy expenditures for short-term (meal to meal) maintenance and longer-term (overnight) energy storage. Experimental results suggest that the feeding behavior of hummingbirds is differentially sensitive to short-term and daily uses of energy. Changes in overnight energy storage requirements result primarily in changes in meal size, while changes in meal to meal maintenance requirements result primarily in feeding frequency changes. The economic models predict these responses. The feeding behavior of hummingbirds also appears to be sensitive to food quality, time spent flying to and from a food source, and costs associated with the weight of ingested food.
3884227|Projected global increases in temperature, sea level, storminess and atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
3881586|The electrical potential difference across a plant or animal cell membrane can be caused by at least three different mechanisms, acting alone or in concert. First, a Donnan equilibrium can account for a sizable membrane potential without the participation of any active transport process. In a Donnan equilibrium the membrane potential is generated by the diffusion of permeating ions down their concentration gradients. The asymmetric distribution of permeating ions is caused by the presence of charged, nondiffusible ions, e.g., proteins inside the cell. The second mechanism is an electrically neutral ion pump, e.g., the coupled sodium-potassium pump found in many types of cells. An electrically neutral pump can generate a large membrane potential if the membrane has a high passive permeability to one of the actively transported ions, usually potassium. The third mechanism is an electrogenic ion pump, which makes a substantial contribution to the membrane potential in several types of plant and animal cells. An electrogenic pump directly causes a net movement of charge across the cell membrane. The membrane voltage generated by the pump then causes a passive flow of diffusible ions which partially short circuits the potential difference generated by the pump.
3883008|Genetics contributes to our way of knowing in two ways: 1) there is an analytical method that sorts out relationships between genes and phenotypes and 2) the genes transmit biological information, specify cellular structure, and mediate homeostasis and development. Human genetics can be used to clarify many aspects of human variation. The paper deals with three: 1) the meaning of individuality; 2) the nature of causes; and 3) possibilities and limits for goals in medicine. The genes define individuals as unique representatives of many classes. They contribute variability to the qualities of each class. Phenotypes have two kinds of causes (Mayr, 1983): proximate causes lead to events consequent upon decoding of the DNA, while ultimate causes consist of the genetic and cultural events that shape the species and the individuals of which they are composed. Disease is a consequence of incongruence between a genetically conditioned homeostasis and experiences and events. The genes set limits for homeostatic response thereby limiting both the forms and expressions disease can take in various individuals and the extent to which the latter can be modified by treatments of various kinds.
3882966|The RPCH-AKH peptide family is a group of structurally similar peptides which are apparently widely distributed in arthropods, and which serve a variety of functions in different settings. The first three recognized members of this family were detected and purified based on endocrine activities including color change in crustaceans (RPCH) and effects on energy metabolism in insects (AKH and Compound II). The most recently identified family members, MI and MII, were found on the basis of neuromuscular activity as well as endocrine effects, and a combination of histological and physiological evidence strongly suggests that at least some of these peptides are localized in neurons including motor neurons which use them as transmitters. Thus this is one of several neuropeptide families with highly conserved structures, but diverse endocrine and neural functions. The significance of structural similarities between family members is unclear. Fortunately the arthropod preparations in which these peptides have been identified lend themselves to detailed developmental, anatomical, and physiological analysis, so there is every reason to suppose that molecular biological and physiological investigations currently in progress will shed significant light on the meaning of the phenomenon of structurally conservative peptide families.
3881482|Macaca mulatta with multilead electrodes permanently implanted in the brain were electrically stimulated, either under restraint, or by radio while moving freely as part of a colony, in which case individual and social behavior were recorded, analyzed, and quantified with the aid of time-lapse photography. Some cerebral radio stimulations evoked complex sequences of well organized responses. Increase in running and in offensive behavior was produced by excitation of midline thalamus, while even faster running without changes in aggressiveness was produced by stimulation of the fimbria of the fornix. Conditioning was absent in the first case, but it was easily established in the latter. Increase in aggressive behavior was also produced by stimulation of Forel's field, the nucleus ventralis posterior lateralis of the thalamus, and the central gray matter. Increase in aggressiveness was oriented by the animal according to past experience, likes and dislikes, and was adapted to the changing strategies of its opponent, indicating an excellent processing of sensory information, and demonstrating that brain stimulation had induced a "drive" and not a stereotyped motor response. As a working hypothesis it is proposed that cerebral mechanisms for perception of pain and for aggressive behavior have different anatomical and physiological systems closely interrelated by use, disuse, and conditioning.
3882728|Non-gravid female Rana pipiens clasped by sexually active males emit a release call and thereby signal their unreceptive status to the clasping male. The receptive condition of gravid females is indicated by absence, or inhibition, of the call. This paper provides evidence that arginine-8 vasotocin (AVT) can inhibit the release call by causing water uptake when a female is in an aquatic environment, and suggests that water might exert this effect by means of a mechanical distension of the body wall or internal pressure. This paper also includes evidence that the ovaries are not necessary for AVT's inhibition of the call. The literature dealing with the physiological basis of female frog reproductive behavior and the physiological basis of the release call are reviewed.
3882229|There is an intricate integration of parts in the bodies of animals which can in some cases and to some extent be demonstrated quantitatively and must presumably be maintained in evolution. There is intricate fit between parts packed together in the bodies of animals so that changes in the relative sizes of organs may make complex rearrangement necessary. These points are illustrated by examples concerning the legs of dogs and the heads of ostariophysan fishes.
3882888|The value of optimization theory is to provide falsifiable hypotheses and, when appropriate, alternative models of resource regulation. A consideration of alternatives suggests optimal energy regulation through feeding depends on time scale and supplies of energy relative to demands. Maximization (on-off) control of energy reserves occurs over short intervals involved in consumption, while proportional control occurs over longer intervals (between meals) or as a consequence of trade-offs between energy regulation and nutrient or predation constraints. Maximization of rate of net energy gain occurs most frequently when energy supplies are low relative to demands and when energy and nutrients are not associated. This may be typical for small endothermic nectar feeders, while proportional controls are characteristic of feeding behaviors for many other animals. Controls for regulating energy content must also be affected by external environmental variation which may require use of "rules of thumb" that approximate the maximum rate of return.
3883170|The basic mating system of the prairie vole, Microtus ochrogaster, consists of monogamous breeding units comprised of one reproductive female and male and their offspring. Most surviving young remain at the natal nest; those that do so normally remain non-reproductive. Of 281 total breeding units monitored in free-living populations 50.2% were monogamous. Twenty-seven percent consisted of a single reproductive female that apparently has lost her mate. The remaining 22.8% of the breeding units included two or more unrelated adults males and/or females (="complex" breeding units). In general, monogamy was the predominant type of breeding unit at the highest (> 100 adults/ha) as well as at low (> 20 adults/ha) population densities. There was no consistent relationship between the number of residents of a breeding unit and population density. Significantly more young females remaining at the natal nest became reproductive at high rather than at low population densities (77.1 and 17.6%, respectively). Monogamy was prevalent during the winter as well as during the other seasons; however, there were significantly more complex breeding units during the winter than during other seasons. Breeding unit size was significantly larger during the winter than at other seasons. There was no difference in the proportions of breeding unit types or the number of residents of a breeding unit during breeding and nonbreeding seasons. Increased breeding unit size appears related to low temperatures and associated physiological stresses during the winter rather than to population density.
3883822|Temperate marine ecosystems are some of the most productive and diverse of all ecosystems. Over the past century the resources contained within these communities have been subjected to gross mismanagement. They are continually subjected to threats from multiple stresses imposed mostly by human activities, predominantly as a result of increased population growth. The most significant categories of threats derive from: (1) habitat loss and degradation, (2) pollution from numerous sources including sewage, pesticides, pulp mills, thermal effluents, polychlorinated biphenyls, heavy metals, oil and radionuclides, (3) overexploitation, (4) species introductions, (5) global climate change, (6) misguided human perceptions and (7) legal complexities. Furthermore, because subtidal and offshore coastal marine communities are not easily observed, their deterioration often goes mostly unnoticed. Impacts from stresses on coastal marine communities are manifested at the individual species level, but magnify in effect throughout the entire ecosystem because of complex inter-connected relationships between species at different trophic levels, including interactions such as predation, competition and mutualism. Therefore, one missing species or group of species that may be affected by some particular local pollutant, for example, may have unpredictable direct or indirect consequences through secondary effects on the ecosystem, possibly leading to the loss of a few to many species. Rather than striving to maintain some specific level of diversity, we should endeavor to understand the basic ecological processes that control populations, communities and ecosystems so we can best predict what kinds of stresses will cause the most serious alterations to the system and avoid them. In addition, we should be conservative about protecting systems even before we understand the processes fully.
3882192|Metamorphosis of the pelagic larvae of benthic marine invertebrates is often a cataclysmic event in which a rapid loss of organs specialized for larval life occurs simultaneously with the renewal or increased rate of development of potential adult organs. In the nudibranch gastropod Phestilla sibogae this change involves loss of the velum, shell, operculum, larval kidney, some retractor muscles, and some of the pedal mucous glands. Exit from the larval shell at metamorphosis is rapid and is correlated with the spread of epidermis from the larval foot over the visceral mass as the visceral mass emerges from the shell aperature. This spreading of epipodial epidermis to cover the entire body has not been previously reported for other nudibranchs. Neither cell proliferation nor active cell motility are responsible for this epidermal migration. Rather it appears that the action of larval muscles pulls the visceral organs out of the shell and simultaneously causes the epipodial epidermis to cover the visceral mass. This epidermis becomes the definitive adult epidermis.
3883629| The claw closer muscle of the land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis, undergoes a cyclical atrophy and restoration during the interval between ecdyses. During proecdysis (stage D
3881942|The biology of the fish endocrine pancreas is discussed from viewpoints of cytology, peripheral physiology, and control of islet secretion. The clear cell often described in Brockmann bodies is probably not a real entity, but the islets of many fish species probably contain a fourth granular cell type in addition to the usual population of A-, B-, and D-cells. Numerous studies employing islet cytotoxins and exogenous hormone treatments have been reported, but a unified concept of islet function in any fish species still does not exist. Recent data indicate that metabolic parameters other than blood sugar must be measured in order to obtain a more accurate assessment of islet function. The direct relationship of the nervous system to islet endocrine cells also raises questions regarding the control of islet secretion and necessitates consideration of laboratory conditions and seasonal or diurnal variation as probable influencing factors of islet activity.
3884263| Our understanding of evolutionary mechanisms leading to population differences in mean performance values relies on understanding performance variation within single populations. Unfortunately, relatively little information about physiological variability within natural populations of organisms is available. In particular, to begin to understand how physiological traits evolve we need information on the extent of physiological variability related to the extent of genetic variability over a range of environmental conditions experienced by individual populations. Clonal organisms may be particularly well-suited to such studies because they provide an opportunity to use replicated genotypes (i.e., clonemates) in controlled experiments. We are using the cosmopolitan sea anemone Haliplanella lineata to explore physiological variance in natural populations. Growth, absorption and routine rates of oxygen uptake do not vary among three clones from a single population when measured at 15C, the approximate midpoint in the seasonal range of water temperatures experienced by this population. Broad-sense heritabilities for routine rates of oxygen consumption and ammonia excretion (0.14 and 0.09, respectively), indicate a relatively low fraction of variance in these physiological rates is attributable to genetic variation among five clones in this population. Although some literature indicates that such low heritabilities may be expected when physiological traits are measured at environmental mid-range as opposed to extremes, other evidence indicates that it will be difficult to predict the trend between environmental stress and genetic variance in physiological performance. 
3881698|Measurement of carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity in homogenates of accessory boring organs of the muricid gastropod, Purpura lapillus, by Meldrum and Roughton's manometric method showed that CA is always present in boring as well as in inactive ABOs, but in variable amounts. Tests by the same method on whole ABOs in an isotonic solution were negative, proving that CA remains intracellularly. Experiments in vivo on inhibition and activation demonstrated clearly that CA is responsible for demineralization of the valves of lamellibranchs by Purpura: (a) at low concentrations of Diamox, partial inhibition of the enzyme occurred, that is, the number of complete holes decreased or disappeared and etchings increased; and at higher concentrations full inhibition took place. Inhibition is reversed when snails are replaced in normal sea water; (b) action of pure CO
3883381|Fitness relations in behavioral energetics can be studied using the optimality approach (cost-benefit analysis), correlational analysis of selection, the experimental approach and the comparative method, as well as other approaches. These approaches ask different questions, have different virtues and different deficiencies. By using the approaches in combination we could gain new understanding of the relationships between behavior, energy and fitness.
3882273|Anuran amphibian larvae of the genus Rana possess three major lymphoid organs: the thymus, the lymph gland, and the spleen. Other accumulations of lymphocytes are present in the kidney, liver, and intestine. The thymus develops lymphocytes first followed by peripheral differentiation of other lymphoid centers. Since bone marrow is absent in larvae, there must be an alternative source of stem cells that differentiate into T cells under thymic influence or B cells under the influence of some other organ(s). We are concerned with the source of B cells after bullfrog larvae become immunologically mature. Such an organ should possess stem cells, and, to qualify further, it should play a major role in antibody synthesis. The lymph gland seems to fulfill this requirement. Contrary to our expectations, lymph glands can restore not only antibody synthesis but also transplantation immunity in a significant number of larvae. Thus, the lymph gland may house stem cells that can differentiate into B cells and T cells.
3882000|The social play of domestic cats in the laboratory and at home was examined. Categories and sequences of motor patterns were identified and analyzed. The developmental period during which social play was most frequent was established to be from 4 weeks to 4 months. The results suggest that social play functions to provide specific forms of exercise and as a means of developing and maintaining social relations among littermates. The decline in social play appears to be related to dispersal of the young and to a decrease in preference for social contact.
3883425|A multi-disciplinary study of the south Texas continental shelf in 1975-1977 investigated physical, chemical, geological, and biological characteristics over spatial and temporal scales, and the results are briefly summarized here. Chlorophyll a concentrations and zooplankton density and biomass showed reductions related to distance from shore. These factors also displayed north-south gradients and correlations with surface salinities. Bottom sediments graded seaward from fine sands nearshore to silts and clays on the outer shelf. Coarser sediments were associated with geologic and physical features such as ancestral deltas and wave action. Benthic populations were distributed in relation to sediment type, but other features such as depth, bottom water variability/stability, and primary production in the overlying waters were also important in determining benthic community structure. The study provides a baseline for future process-oriented investigations and environmental assessments.
3881897|In enrichment batch experiments, samples from three water bodies were alternatively supplemented by various amounts of organic material and incubated at 20 C. Colpidium campylum reached its highest total cell volumes in cultures with the highest initial total cell volumes in cultures with the highest initial concentrations of organics; Cyclidium glaucoma preferred lower concentrations; and Glaucoma chattoni occupied the intermediate position. None of the species preferred any special type of organic material. In two-stage continuous-flow units, a mixed culture of bacteria was kept in stage I and the clones of ciliates were maintained in stage II. The interrelations between the total cell volumes of ciliates at various concentrations of bactopeptone were in accordance with the results from the enrichment experiments. Since the growth of bacteria continued in the presence of ciliates, a four-stage apparatus was constructed in which a bacterial culture was raised and diluted in three stages before entering the culture of Colpidium. The bacterial growth in the presence of Colpidium was not eliminated even by this arrangement, as demonstrated by dosing antibiotics along with bacteria. An effect of ciliate metabolites on bacterial growth rate is suggested, completing a metabolic cycle in the bacteria-protozoa system.
3881461|Properties of crustacean muscle fibers and neuromuscular synapses are discussed, with particular reference to the problems of fast and slow contraction, synaptic diversity, and peripheral inhibition. Electrical and mechanical responses of crustacean muscle fibers are variable, and govern to a large extent the muscle's performance. Fast and slow contractions are often mediated by distinct "phasic" and "tonic" muscle fibers, as in abdominal muscles, in which such fibers are segregated into two parallel sets of muscles. In leg muscles the fibers are often heterogeneous in properties and innervation. In doubly-motor-innervated muscles of crabs the axons producing fast and slow contractions preferentially innervate rapidly and slowly contracting fibers, respectively. Crustacean neuromuscular synapses vary greatly in electrical behavior and in ultrastructural characteristics. Some motor axons possess both facilitating and non-facilitating synapses. The proportion of the different types of synapse associated with a motor axon probably determines in large measure the properties of the postsynaptic potentials evoked by that axon. Pre-synaptic and post-synaptic inhibition both occur, sometimes in the same muscle. The latter type is more common. Pre-synaptic inhibition is thought to be mediated by the action of an inhibitory transmitter-substance on receptors of the motor nerve terminals.
3884380| The lateral hypaxial musculature (LHM) of salamanders may serve as a useful model for understanding the functions of LHM in tetrapods more generally. Salamanders have between two and four layers of LHM, arranged segmentally in myomeres. These layers produce three primary mechanical actions: they bend the body, pressurize the body, and produce or resist torsion about the long axis of the body. The optimum muscle fiber angle for forceful bending is 0 to the long axis, the optimum angle for pressurization is 90, and the optimum angle for torsion is 45. For generating bending and torsional moments, lateral (superficial) muscle layers have greater mechanical advantage than medial (deep) layers. For increasing body pressure, by contrast, medial layers have greater mechanical advantage. A comparison of muscle fiber angle in aquatic and terrestrial salamanders reveals that some aquatic salamanders have one muscle layer with a low fiber angle which may represent a specialization for swimming. Overall, however, the fiber angles in the LHM of terrestrial and aquatic salamanders are surprisingly similar. In contrast, the pattern of fiber angles in caecilians is different, suggesting that these amphibians use their LHM differently. The fiber angle models and morphological observations presented here form a framework which may be useful in future studies of lateral hypaxial musculature. 
3883692|The development of air-breathing organs in bimodally breathing fish has necessitated a degree of vascular remodelling in order to enhance gas exchange and support other homeostatic activities. Macrocirculatory changes include several plumbing schemes that allow perfusion of the gills, air-breathing organ, and systemic circulations in a variety of in-parallel and in-series arrangements. The incorporation of structural adaptations designed to minimize admixture of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood in transit through the heart as well as vascular shunts further increases the efficiency of the gas exchange process. A number of anatomical modifications in capillary architecture and endothelial cell structure are found in air-breathing fish and appear to be unique to these vertebrates. The physiological significance of the microcirculatory adaptations remains, to a large extent, speculative.
3883258|The evolution of internal membrane systems has introduced many additional control steps into pathways that, although basically similar in prokaryotic cells, are less sophisticated and leave many aspects up to chance. Temporal and spatial control of secretion, quality control of the proteins secreted or inserted into the plasma membrane, and exquisite control over the selective degradation of macromolecules, for example, are apparently indispensible requirements in multicellular organisms, but are relatively unimportant in bacteria. Although complicated in detail, most membrane traffic in the eukaryopic cell can be reduced to a few basic principles. Such a reductionist's view provides a conceptual framework that allows the reader to organize an otherwise overwhelming amount of data on cellular membrane architecture and dynamics.
3884049|Insects and anurans show various patterns of selective responsiveness to playbacks of natural and synthetic sounds. Preferences and tuning of the auditory system most often match one or more strongly emphasized frequency components in long-range, mate-attracting signals typical of conspecific individuals, but exceptions, in which frequencies lower or higher than the mean are preferred, occur in some species. In some insects the most preferred frequencies may correspond to regions that maximize localizability of signals rather than regions of maximum sensitivity. Patterns of preference for fine-temporal properties are typically stabilizing within a population; females prefer values near the mean and few males produce calls with values that deviate sufficiently to make them less attractive than calls with average values. Preferences for gross temporal properties (e.g., the rate and duration of signaling) are usually highly directional, with much higher than mean values preferred. In anurans, call rate is a better predictor of male mating success than dominant frequency. Nevertheless, a variety of factors, especially close-range assessments that are common in insects, may modify or negate the advantages of producing long-range signals of high relative attractiveness. The evolutionary consequences of selective responsiveness in anurans and insects are discussed.
3882591|As compared to integumentary uptake systems of soft-bodied marine invertebrates, bacterial systems, in terms of transport constants, are much better adapted to the low concentrations of dissolved organic nutrients encountered in coastal and offshore waters. Bacteria respond to the presence of suitable dissolved organic substrates with induction, uptake and multiplication, maintaining the concentrations of dissolved organic matter (DOM) permanently low. At realistic in situ concentrations, epidermal uptake by pelagic and epibenthic animals proceeds at such low rates that scarcely a substantial proportion of their metabolic needs is provided by absorption. In marine sediments, where the life processes of bacteria and animals are closely interrelated, the macrofauna is sheltered by shells, firm tubes and burrows, which are irrigated by means of overlying water of the water column. Hence, interstitial water with its sometimes higher concentrations of DOM is scarcely available to sediment-dwelling larger metazoans. The meiofauna mainly inhabits the few millimeters of the upper sediment layers and the thin halos surrounding irrigated macrofaunal burrows, where sufficient oxygen is available. Unless the magnitude of horizontal water movement, the amounts of diffusional nutrient supply and the percentages, by which nutrient concentrations are reduced by meiofaunal uptake, are known, estimations of nutritional benefits from uptake of DOM by meiofauna cannot be made. For all infaunal taxa, bacteria appear to represent a major food supply.
3882322|Ultrasounds are emitted by developing rodents, and changes with age in several parameters of vocalization have been reported for numerous myomorphs. In this paper I integrate with ultrasonic vocalization several behaviors which change during development. Included are studies controlling stimulation by olfactory, thermal, and tactile cues as well as detailed studies of specific responses such as movement, suckling, grooming, and huddling. Development is analyzed in well-known species, such as the rat (Rattus norvegicus), and in less familiar species, especially the pine vole (Microtus pinetorum). Lacking the capacity for physiological thermoregulation, altricial rodent pups with their mother use several behavioral strategies which facilitate thermoregulation. Inside the nest, pups adjust the temperature by changing their huddling. The mother regulates the length of suckling bouts according to her body temperature. When a pup is removed from the warm nest, vocalizations of the pup can increase the likelihood of retrieval by the mother and thereby indirectly facilitate thermoregulation. In several species which have been studied, vocalization rates are highest when pups begin to move into and out of nests and exhibit olfactory-directed movement. As olfactory preferences become established and movement is coordinated, a decline in vocalization appears in rat, mouse, hamster, spiny mouse, and pine vole. In the gerbil, however, the decline precedes competence in olfactory-directed movement. In the presence of home shavings, young rats emit low rates of vocalization, while pine vole young emit calls at a high rate. This contrast may relate to the intensive attachment of young pine voles to the mother in early life.
3882631| Cuticular proteins show specificity for stage, age, and anatomical region. Analysis of the cuticular proteins of second pupae created by application of juvenile hormone demonstrates that the hormone prevents the onset of new sequences of syntheses and favors repetition of the region-specific, temporal pattern of syntheses used in the previous stage. The argument made is that juvenile hormone might exert this "status quo" action by preventing alterations in chromatin configuration. Evidence from a wide variety of systems shows that polyamines might be involved in reprogramming chromatin. Ecdysterone induces ornithine decarboxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in animal polyamine synthesis. I suggest that juvenile hormone might be exerting its status quo action by inhibiting this induction. Preliminary studies of ornithine decarboxylase induction support this specific hypothesis; experiments with an inhibitor of this enzyme, -difluoromethyl ornithine, however, do not show the expected juvenile hormone mimicry. Further studies are needed to define the control of polyamine biosynthesis in insects and to discover whether juvenile hormone plays a role in this control. 
3884242|All vertebrates except cold-water ice fish transport oxygen via hemoglobin packaged in red blood cells (RBCs). Vertebrate RBCs vary in size by thirtyfold. Differences in RBC size have been known for over a century, but the functional significance of RBC size remains unknown. One hypothesis is that large RBCs are a primitive character. Agnathans have larger RBCs than do mammals. However, the largest RBCs are found in urodele amphibians which is inconsistent with the hypothesis that large RBCs are primitive. Another possibility is that small RBCs increase blood oxygen transport capacity. Blood hemoglobin concentration ([Hb]) and mean RBC hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) increase from Agnatha to birds and mammals. However, the changes in [Hb] and MCHC do not parallel changes in RBC size. In addition, RBC size does not affect blood viscosity. Thus, there is no clear link between RBC size and oxygen transport capacity. We hypothesize that RBC size attends changes in capillary diameter. This hypothesis is based on the following observations. First, RBC width averages 25% larger than capillary diameter which insures cell deformation during capillary flow. Functionally, RBC deformation minimizes diffusion limitations to gas exchange. Second, smaller capillaries are associated with increased potential for diffusive gas exchange. However, smaller capillaries result in higher resistances to blood flow which requires higher blood pressures. We propose that the large capillary diameters and large RBCs in urodeles reflect the evolutionary development of a pulmonary vascular supply. The large capillaries reduced systemic vascular resistances enabling a single ventricular heart to supply blood to two vascular circuits, systemic and pulmonary, without developing high pressures on the pulmonary side. The large RBCs preserved diffusive gas exchange efficiency in the large capillaries.
3882134|Nowhere among the vertebrates does the capability for storing and using triglyceride as an energy reserve exceed the level found in the class Aves. Adult avian depot fats are composed largely of 16-and 18-carbon fatty acids and are mostly unsaturated. Variation in fatty acid composition among species may be attributed to dietary differences and physiological state of the bird. Storage occurs mainly by addition of lipid to adipocyte vacuoles without an increase in cell number. Daily cycles of fat deposition and use are of greater amplitude at higher latitudes, but in general the lipid stored during the day will only provide energy for the overnight fast plus a few daylight hours. Storage levels may be minimized due to the disadvantages of increased wing-loading. A variety of behavioral, physiological and morphological adaptations may be used to reduce the need for overnight energy reserves. Migratory fattening is largely a function of migration speed, magnitude of barriers to be crossed and aerodynamic considerations. Lipid reserves are greatest in eggs of precocial birds and are retained longer in precocial young. Adaptive strategies of fat deposition in young birds are related largely to the ability of adults to feed young before and after fledging.
3883630|Many environmental pollutants have toxic effects that can alter normal limb regeneration and molting in Crustacea. The most common effect of heavy metals is that of retardation of regeneration of limbs accompanied by a delay in ecdysis; in some cases regeneration is affected without altering the molt cycle. Chlorophenols and dithiocarbamates caused inhibition of regeneration without affecting molting in shrimp. Organic toxicants such as aromatic hydrocarbons and dioxins also result in a decrease in the growth increment per molt, while DDT was found to accelerate regeneration and molting. A number of toxicants also produce morphological alterations in the regenerated limbs of crabs. These may be relatively minor, such as reduced number of pigment cells, setae, or tubercles in the regenerated limbs (mercury and cadmium), or may be more major deformities, such as abnormal bending in the limb or claw (tributyltin), or defects in chitin formation in the exoskeleton (diflubenzuron).
3881416|Male fiddler crabs (Genus Uca) employ both visual and acoustical signals to attract females for mating. In U. pugilator and several other American species, the males attract females during the day first by waving, then by producing sounds just within their burrows. At night, the males produce sounds at low rates, but when touched by a female, they increase their rate of sound production. In the European species, U. tangeri, many elements of courtship are similar to those in U. pugilator, but two types of sounds are produced. One of these, the short drumwhirl, appears to substitute for waving when the male is temporarily obscured from the female during his diurnal courtship activities. The long drumwhirl is used under different circumstances. The acoustical responses of a male to a female influence the courtship behavior of other males in the area. When sounds from stimulated males are played back to test males during the day, their rates of waving increase. At night, the playbacks elicit increases in rates of sound production. The influence of tidal oscillations, temperature, and light cycles on the behavior of males is discussed. Courtship activities of aquatic crabs are compared to those of terrestrial Brachyura. In aquatic forms, courtship may be absent or, if present, does not involve elaborate signalling by the male. Chemical or visual cues at close range are the most important stimuli. In several genera of terrestrial crabs, visual signalling for prolonged periods is common, and sounds are often emitted by males to "call" females from their burrows to the surface for mating. Some of the factors that may account for differences in courtship activities in aquatic and terrestrial species are discussed.
3884412| Seven subjects walked on a programmable treadmill both at constant (3.5  0.0 and 5.0  0.0 km/hr) and oscillating speeds (0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0 km hr
3884279|A selective regime favoring a streamlining of body contours and surfaces is proposed as having been instrumental in driving the morphological and functional transformations of an unfeathered reptilian integument into a feather-bearing avian one. This hypothesis is consistent with a new, structurally and functionally coherent analysis of the microanatomy of the avian feather-bearing integument as a complex, integrated organ system that includes an intricate, hydraulic skeleto-muscular apparatus of the feathers, a dermo-subcutaneous muscle system of the integument, and a subcutaneous hydraulic skeletal system formed by fat bodies. Key elements of the evidence supporting the new hypothesis are (1) the presence of depressor feather muscles that are not needed as antagonists for the erector feather muscles, but can counteract external forces, such as air currents; (2) the fact that the highly intricate feather-bearing integument represents a machinery to move feathers or to stabilize them against external forces; (3) the crucial role of the coat of feathers in streamlining the body contours and surfaces of birds; (4) the aerodynamic role of feathers as pressure and turbulence sensors and as controllable temporary turbulators; and (5) the critical role that a streamlined body plays in avian flight and is likely to have played in the evolutionary transformations from ecologically and locomotorily versatile quadrupedal reptiles to volant bipedal birds without passing through parachuting or gliding stages. These transformations are likely to have occurred more than once. The ancestral birds were probably small, arboreal, hopping, and using flap-bounding, or intermittent bounding, flight.
3883902|Similar to juvenile hormone production in adult insects, the production of methyl farnesoate (MF) seems to be related to reproduction in both sexes in mature crustaceans. The mandibular organ (MO) synthesizes MF, and its activity corresponds to reproductive stages. High MF levels in the blood are found in vitellogenic females and reproductively active males. Conversely, low levels are found in immature females, non-vitellogenic females, and males that are in reproductive diapause. The MO is under inhibitory control by neurosecretory factors from the sinus gland located in the eyestalks, and may be stimulated by factors from the brain and/or thoracic ganglion.
3883314|Isometric contraction kinetics were measured and fiber structure was quantified in tymbal muscles from different cicada species. Twitch duration is directly correlated with the size of the myofibrils and with the ratio of the fraction of fiber volume which is myofibril to that which is sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and T-tubules (fast muscles have small myofibrils and a relatively large volume of SR and T-tubules). Twitch duration is not significantly correlated with fiber size, with sarcomere length, nor with the fractional volume of the fibers which is mitochondria, indicating that these structural features are not strongly involved in the determination of isometric contraction kinetics. In the tettigoniid Neoconocephalus robustus, twitches from forewing muscles of male animals become progressively shorter over the first five days following the adult molt. This change in contraction kinetics is associated with an increase in the relative volume of SR and T-tubules. Denervation blocks the acquisition of rapid kinetics, indicating that neural input is necessary for this transformation.
3883848|In the dwarf siberian hamster, Phodopus sungorus, the photoperiodic response can be modified by numerous environmental stimuli, including social interactions, dietary, and climatic changes. Photoperiodic information is processed in both the medial basal hypothalamus and the preoptic area. Transfer of animals from a long summer photoperiod to a short winter photoperiod results in decreases in the concentration of both norepinephrine and dopamine in both of these brain areas. Results from these studies indicate that both dietary supplements and social interactions can override the effects of day length on changes in brain neurotransmitters. Specifically, social interactions can override the decreases in norepinephrine and dopamine in the medial basal hypothalamus but not the preoptic area. Conversely, dietary manipulations override the decreases in the preoptic area but not in the medial basal hypothalamus. These results suggest that photoperiod is a general stimulus that depresses neurotransmitter activity in multiple brain areas including the medial basal hypothalamus, and preoptic area. Fine tuning information, such as dietary and social cues, is then processed in very specific areas of the brain and can override the photoperiod induced changes in these specific areas.
3883943|A major theme of many papers in this symposium is the identification of broad physiological trends and patterns that extend beyond the boundaries of data from individual studies. Recognizing patterns in everything from hypoxic ventilatory patterns to regulation of blood gases not only helps the investigator understand specific data sets, but also helps place those data in a broad context. Yet, recognizing physiological patterns is confounded by two factors: phylogenetic relationships and physiological state. Fortunately, the last decade has seen infiltration of sound evolutionary theory, including tools of cladisitic analysis and population genetics, into more and more studies of comparative physiology. However, even when an experimenter carefully accounts for phylogeny, differences in physiological state in the experimental animals can still obscure physiological patterns. Two informal categories of physiological state are described, the first obvious and frequently controlled for, and the second less obvious and typically not controlled for. Examples of the latter, including seasons, rhythms, prandial effects and sex of the animal, are developed to show how ignoring these can lead to considerable misleading variation in cardiorespiratory data sets. Considering physiological state is vital in producing reliable data that can be used meaningfully for delineating broad physiological patterns.
3882505|Membrane enriched fractions of eggs show changes in relative lipid and acylglyceride fatty acid content at maturation and fertilization, when many critical membrane changes occur. Many of the changes in lipids seen at fertilization in sea urchins are reversed from those seen at maturation in starfish. Maybe a special permissive lipid content appears at maturation and disappears at fertilization. Mycostatin alters the lipid content of unfertilized eggs, prevents fertilization, blastula cell aggregation and normal development, with decreasing susceptibility with age, suggesting altered cell surfaces during development. Membrane enriched fractions also show changes in enzyme specific activity at fertilization. Attempts were made to localize these enzymes in various surface components (membrane or associated coats or adherent cortex) and several fractions were separated. Egg surfaces are complex and therefore difficult to study. DTT or pronase treatment, for example, changes the activity of G6PD in the surface of whole eggs, with further changes occurring in such eggs following fertilization. Increases in G6PD activity in ghosts and supernate of fertilized eggs appear due to isoenzyme changes instead of one enzyme changing compartment. Isozyme patterns of G6PD extracted from pellets differ from those of supernates. Patterns also differ following fertilization or partial activation by ammonia or calcium ionophore. Some isozymes seem to be breakdown products of larger forms, and can be produced by treatment with papain, DTT, or urea. Isozyme studies support a dynamic model of the egg surface. Surface changes may occur enzymatically, by insertion of vesicles, or by release of material from vesicles.
3882876|Tectal anatomy and physiology of the blind cave characin, Astyanax hubbsi, have been compared with that of its sighted ancestor Astyanax mexicanus (the river fish) and with goldfish. Normal and experimental neuroanatomic methods have revealed that, with the exception of a greatly reduced retinotectal projection, connectivity and structure of cave fish tecta are similar to those described in sighted species. It appears that the rudimentary retinotectal input is nonfunctional, since no tectal evoked responses could be elicited with electrical or visual stimulation of the optic cyst, and all attempts to visually condition cave fish were unsuccessful. Attempts have also been made to record somatosensory, auditory and lateral line activity in the tecta of the blind and sighted fish. A sparse somatic representation was found in the deeper portion of the sighted fish tecta which contrasts with a dense, well-organized one in the cave fish. No tectal responses were found to auditory or lateral line stimuli. CNS plasticity is discussed in relation to studies of fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals, in which a reduction of sensory input by any one of a number of means has resulted in alterations of structure and function.
3884493|Ascidians, along with other urochordates, are the most evolutionary distant group from vertebrates to display definitive chordate-specific characters, such as a notochord, dorsal hollow nerve cord, pharynx and endostyle. Most solitary ascidians have a biphasic life history that has partitioned the development of these characters between a planktonic microscopic tadpole larva (notochord and dorsal nerve cord) and a larger sessile adult (pharynx and endostyle). Very little is known of the molecular axial patterning processes operating during ascidian postlarval development. Two axial patterning homeobox genes Otx and Cdx are expressed in a spatially restricted manner along the ascidian anteroposterior axis during embryogenesis and postlarval development (i.e., metamorphosis). Comparisons of these patterns with those of homologous cephalochordate and vertebrate genes suggest that the novel ascidian biphasic body plan was not accompanied by a deployment of these genes into new pathways but by a heterochronic shift in tissue-specific expression. Studies examining the role of all-trans retinoic acid (RA) in axial patterning in chordates also contribute to our understanding of the role of homeobox genes in the development of larval and adult ascidian body plans. Our studies demonstrate that RA does not regulate axial patterning in the developing ascidian larval neuroaxis in a manner homologous to that found in vertebrates. Although RA may regulate the expression of some ascidian homeobox genes, ectopic application of RA does not appear to alter the morphology of the larval CNS. However, treatment with similar or lower concentrations of RA, have a profound effect on postlarval development and the juvenile body plan. These changes are correlated to a dramatic reduction of Otx expression. Through these RA-induced effects we infer that while RA may regulate the expression of some homeobox genes during embryogenesis it has a far more dramatic impact on postlarval development where regulative processes predominate.
3882227|The ground-plans of higher metazoans seem to have originated chiefly in two waves, one near 700 million, the other near 580 million years ago. The first wave, involving the origin of the coelom, was probably associated with invasion of the substrate and the evolution of an infaunal community, while the second involved a reinvasion of the sea-floor surface and the development of an epibenthic fauna, for which skeletonization was a common adaptation. Each of these waves seems to represent adaptations to patterns of environmental variability-that is, they originate as adaptive strategies. Later waves of diversification tend to involve lower taxonomic categories but nevertheless appear to have been associated with changes in adaptive strategies.
3882600|The activity of the genes of the bithorax complex (BX-C) of Drosophila is necessary for the normal development of thoracic and abdominal segments. Primordia destined to form the different segments of the fly are established in different positions prior to BX-C function. Different combinations of BX-C genes are then activated in each position to specify for the different segment types. In this process some BX-C genes act before others. I propose a temporal binary mechanism which accounts for the different combinations of active and inactive BX-C genes in the thoracic segments.
3882939| Pigment movements triggered by the vertebrate melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) are known to be mediated at the cellular level by cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). A similar role for cAMP is indicated in the melanosome-dispersing action of catecholamines acting via -adrenergic receptors. Thus, MSH and -adrenergic agonists cause an elevation of cAMP within chromatophores. On the other hand, a lowering of cAMP level seems to be associated with the paling action of melatonin and -adrenergic agonists. Depending upon the cell type and species tested, cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) may have no effect or cause either darkening or paling. Although cGMP induces paling in frog skin, the lack of evidence for a physiological paling agent makes it difficult to assign a role for cGMP. The mechanism of action of cyclic nucleotides and the details of the pigment-translocating mechanism are far from clear, but recent studies indicate that changes in free calcium ion levels play a critical role. This article will primarily review three areas: the paling action of cGMP, the darkening action of ionophore A23187, and the actions of enkephalins and endorphins on chromatophores. In addition, new data are presented to support the concept that the A23187-induced darkening of frog skin does not involve either prostaglandin biosynthesis or adenylate cyclase stimulation. 
3883713|A review of body odor-mediated behaviors of hermit crabs, predatory gastropods, barnacle larvae and brachyuran crabs includes a model based on the hypothesis that all the behaviors are mediated by a similar chemical detection mechanism. A key assumption is behaviors evolved due to a selective advantage conferred by detection of information in body odors. In the model, exogenous trypsin-like proteases digest structural proteins to generate neutral-basic peptides. The receptor is postulated to have resulted from a point mutation in a trypsin-like membrane protein. Transduction of the binding event is via second messenger mediated pathways. Examples of body odors functioning as cues, allomones and pheromones are presented. The model is supported by a review of structure-function studies employing synthetic neutral basic peptides and studies with other macromolecules.
3882352| The extracellular vascular hemoglobins (erythrocruorins) of annelids are polymeric oxygen carriers with molecular weights of approximately 3 10
3882122|Pinealectomy of sparrows abolishes the free running rhythm of locomotor activity in constant darkness. Without their pineals, sparrows still entrain to light-dark cycles and show other signs that they retain part, but not all, of the circadian system. Interruption of either the neural input to the pineal or its neural output, or both, does not abolish the free running rhythm. Rhythmicity can be restored to a pinealectomized bird by implanting the pineal of a donor into the anterior chamber of its eye. A model of the circadian system controlling locomotor behavior is proposed to account for these facts. We suggest that the avian pineal contains a self-sustained oscillator, and as a consequence, produces a rhythmic hormonal output. Circadian fluctuations of this hormone entrain a damped oscillator located elsewhere, which in turn drives the locomotor activity. Each oscillator has separate access to environmental light cycles. The behavior of a pinealectomized bird is determined exclusively by its damped oscillator. It does not free run because it lacks the self-sustained oscillator which, however, can be restored by transplantation. The transplanted pineal continues its self-sustained circadian hormonal output which entrains the damped oscillator and restores the system to its normal state.
3882069|After hydranth removal of Tubularia the level of DNA synthesis, measured by nuclear incorporation of thymidine- H
3883238|Morphology explains structures by pure description, induction or deduction. Induction generates a view on architectural order in living systems. Deduction explains specific cases by connecting some structure with other features by an explanatory theory like geometrics, mechanics or selectionism. This theory includes an architectural order. The explanatory power of the reigning optimal design/holistic machine concept is high. In quantitative deductions, however, unexplained noise occurs. Our group shows today two reactions to that aspect: an ultra- and a neutro-mechanist approach. Both approaches are exemplified here. The methods are reinforced in the first approach and the concept on architectural order is extended in the second approach. The development of evolutionary theories is shown to influence that of the organismic concept strongly. A similar split as in the organismic concepts is found in evolutionary theories: selectionism, sustaining the holistic machine concept, and a.o. neutralism and dualism sustaining an open system's concept. I suggest that for a functionalistic mechanistic explanation of some structural elements, the behavioral status of that element is formulated first because of possible flexibility in the use of that element. Such a flexibility is found as an oscillatory pattern in a steady state at muscle-activity level, in a gradual and a saltational change at intra- and inter-fixed action pattern level respectively. The oscillatory pattern is assumed to be a neutral interaction between structural elements and stochastic occurring environmental features, mediated by central nervous system activity and occurring prior to mechanization of a pattern for functioning.
3884057| The reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) is a semidomesticated holarctic ruminant subject to economic activity. Our research was carried out in Northern Finland, at latitude 6910N, where the daily light-dark rhythm has a polar pattern: constant darkness starts on November 26th and lasts about 10 weeks, while the polar day of about 10 weeks starts on May 15th. We had previously found distinct daily rhythms in reindeer melatonin secretion in autumn, winter and spring but not at all in summer. Here we determine how the daily melatonin pattern develops after the period of polar day and how it disappears at the beginning of that period. Melatonin showed increased concentrations very soon after the first sunset. Thereafter the daily pattern developed gradually and was fully developed around the autumn equinox. Its shape was asymmetric and the maximum amplitude occurred near the end of the dark period. The disappearance of this daily pattern in spring was also gradual. The maximal concentrations depended on ambient illumination, especially the duration of the dark period. In spring the reindeer appeared to be more sensitive to light than in autumn. Additionally illumination of the same magnitude suppressed serum melatonin levels more effectively before midnight than afterwards, which is in accordance with the asymmetric secretion pattern. Melatonin secretion was always suppressed when the ambient illumination exceeded 1,000 lx. The pattern of melatonin secretion in reindeer is different from those described earlier and hence the reindeer may serve as a model for melatonin secretion at high latitudes. We suggest that, in addition to the duration of the melatonin secretion, changes in amplitude are also of importance in the reindeer. 
3884528|We have shown that eastern gray squirrels and other animals consistently prefer to store intact acorns from the red oak group rather than those from the white oak group. We hypothesized that the ultimate advantage to this behavior comes from the dormancy of red oak acorns. Acorns of the white oak group germinate early in the autumn; thus, we hypothesize that avoiding germination is the primary selective advantage to the preference for caching red oak acorns. Here, we test two alternative hypotheses to explain the benefits of this caching preference: 1) storing red oak acorns allows the high tannin concentrations in red oak acorns to decline (making them more palatable), and 2) storing red oak acorns minimizes losses to insects, presuming they are less infested with insects. We also test the effect of germination schedule on squirrel caching preferences directly, by presenting them with dormant red oak acorns, and red oak acorns about to germinate. We find no evidence that tannin concentrations in red oak acorns decline, although tannin levels did decline in our white oak acorns. We found high losses to insect infestations in one white oak species, but a second white oak species lost very little mass to insects. Finally, we found that germination schedule directly affects squirrel caching preferences: red oak acorns that are near germination are treated like white oak acorns. We conclude that the primary advantage to the preference for caching red oak acorns is that they are less perishable, due to their dormancy. We discuss the effects of this preference on the dispersal of red and white oak acorns, and the subsequent effects of differential dispersal on the ecology and evolution of oaks.
3881670|The morphology of acrothoracican boreholes primarily expresses a mechanical mode of boring. Paleozoic representatives rasped only in the vertical plane, while Mesozoic forms developed an additional horizontal rasp to carve out the cavity for the ovaries. Boring barnacles strongly prefer shells of live hosts to inorganic and dead substrates, and epibenthonic shells to other ones, but otherwise show little host specificity. Only a few species seem to have developed close commensal relationships with specific hosts, such as burrowing echinoids, nectonic belemnites, and hermit crabs.
3882351| Hemoglobin is widely distributed among the invertebrates. Intracellular hemoglobins consist of relatively small molecules with mol wts of 15-17,000 or dimeric, tetrameric or octameric aggregates of 15-17,000 mol wt subunits. Sequence homology is present but not extensive in those pigments which have been studied, and the characteristic myoglobin fold of vertebrate hemoglobin occurs in at least two invertebrate hemoglobins. The wide array of aggregation states among invertebrate hemoglobins provides some simple models for understanding homotropic functional properties exhibited by many of these pigments. Polymeric extracellular hemoglobins are present in annelids, molluscs, crustacean arthropods and nematodes. Annelid extracellular hemoglobins and chlorocruorins consist of 3 10
3883847|The luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) system appears to be the final common pathway for integrating multiple estrogen-induced signals into a trigger for the preovulatory LH surge. Because LHRH neurons do not contain estrogen receptors, we have had no cellular marker to identify LHRH neurons involved in triggering the LH surge. Using an estrogenized ovariectomized rat model, we selectively deprived brain regions of estrogen action with microimplants of antiestrogen. We showed that the rostral medial preoptic area (MPOA) is required for estrogen-dependent LH surges and that LHRH neurons in this region are involved in the surge. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we compared temporal changes in LHRH mRNA levels in MPOA neurons in animals exhibiting LH surges with those in which LH surges were absent. We defined a characteristic pattern of changes in LHRH mRNA seen only in animals exhibiting the surge and, therefore, believe that these changes in LHRH mRNA levels are cellular correlates of the positive feedback effects of estrogen on LHRH neurons. These findings are exciting because we now have a cellular marker for detecting changes in the neuronal activity of subpopulations of the anatomically and functionally diverse LHRH system. We can use this marker in future studies to define the complex neurocircuitry which mediates the effects of estrogen on LHRH neurons. In addition, we are currently examining temporal changes in LHRH transcription rate, LHRH mRNA stability and LHRH translation to determine the significance of changes in LHRH mRNA levels in terms of biosynthesis.
3884150|The presence of a number of peptide hormones and other biologically active peptides (BAP) in the milk of various species, together with the low proteolytic activity in the gastrointestinal tract of newborns and "permeability" for macromolecules, suggests their potential significance for the neonate. I review the presence of hormones and other biologically active peptides (BAP) in milks of various species. Furthermore, I summarize data demonstrating the effects of orogastrically administered BAP with special attention to epidermal growth factor.
3882302|Fishes display a variety of anatomical relationships between brain and pituitary to a degree unique among vertebrates. This group is pivotal for understanding evolution of functions of hypophysiotropic peptides. We review information concerning occurrences, distributions and physiological activities of three identified peptides in fish brain, and biological properties of fish brain extracts. Thyrotropin releasing hormone may be present universally in piscine central nervous tissue; however, this peptide has not been clearly demonstrated to have hypophysiotropic activity in fishes. Somatostatin also has been shown to occur in fish brains; studies of actions of this substance are virtually absent. Gonadotropin releasing hormone is apparently of broad occurrence in fishes; its hypophysiotropic activity is well established for several teleostean species. Anatomical relationships between brain and pituitary are particularly varied among elasmobranchs. Investigations involving additional elasmobranch representatives, as well as other fishes, are needed before generalizations can be made. Widespread extrahypothalamic distribution of hypophysiotropic peptides in lower vertebrates and neurotransmitter (or related) functions of neurones containing these peptides provide a basis for proposals concerning evolution of hypothalamic control of the pituitary gland.
3882847|This paper shows how some basic ecological themes can be illustrated, in a very explicit and quantitative way, by examples drawn from the interactions between human hosts and their infectious diseases. I first discuss the population biology of infectious diseases, showing how basic reproductive rates and density dependent limitations may be estimated. Observed cycles in the incidence of childhood infections are discussed as examples of Lotka-Volterra prey-predator cycles. Trade-offs between virulence and transmissibility in the evolution of parasite life histories are discussed in general, with the Australian rabbit-myxoma virus story as a case study. I conclude by mentioning ways in which the interplay between population density and transmission thresholds may have influenced human history.
3882947|Arginine vasotocin (AVT) is one neurohypophyseal principle that has been found in all vertebrates including the cyclostomes. Although many effects have been seen with administered AVT in many vertebrate species, the physiological role of endogenous AVT is largely unknown. In this review, the evolution of the renal and vascular actions of AVT are discussed. Injection of AVT produces diuresis in teleosts and lungfishes, but antidiuresis in tetrapods. In fishes and all tetrapods except birds, AVT is hypertensive. We have proposed that the renal responses can in fact be explained by the vascular responses. In our hypothesis, there are four types of responses to AVT. In type I, the peripheral vasculature is more responsive to AVT than the renal preglomerular arteriole so that AVT will cause a significant rise in systemic blood pressure and a net increase in the glomerular perfusion. This will then result in diuretic and pressor responses. Teleosts and lungfishes belong to this type. Type II is exemplified by the mudpuppy which responds to AVT with antidiuresis and blood pressure increase. This can be explained by an increase in sensitivity to AVT by the preglomerular arteriole so that AVT will cause a decrease in glomerular perfusion even when systemic blood pressure is increased. In type III which can be seen in the bullfrog, the vascular response to AVT will produce glomerular antidiuresis and blood pressure increase. In addition, tubular receptors for AVT are also present and these receptors are involved in the tubular reabsorption of water, thus enhancing the antidiuretic response. Type IV as seen in mammals is mainly a tubular antidiuretic response to ADH. Evidence in support of this hypothesis is given in the paper. The above discussion concerns the renal and vascular actions of exogenous AVT. Our studies so far indicate that endogenous AVT is not the major regulatory mechanism in renal and vascular functions of the lungfish or bullfrog, although it may have a modulatory role.
3881984|Much of the social behavior and organization of ungulates can be related to ecological parameters such as fiber content of forage, plant productivity, plant biomass, plant species diversity, productivity gradients, temporal and spatial fluctuations in productivity, habitat stability, food dispersion, three-dimensional structure of habitat, colonization, and predator density and diversity. These ecological variables can be linked via individual natural selection with the species' anti-predator strategies, emphasis on different channels of communication, relative frequency of damaging and non-damaging overt aggression, gregariousness and group structure, juvenile dispersal, home-range traditions, monogamy and polygamy, sexual dimorphism, territoriality, hierarchical rank structure, and plasticity of social structures. The ecological variables have primary manifestations which are behavior or which affect behavior, as well as secondary manifestations affecting behavior. There are logical links between the hypothesis linking ecology and behavior discussed here with some principles from bioenergetics, zoogeography, and paleontology. Although links do exist between ecology and behavior, they nevertheless represent distinct realms of natural selection in which social behavior appears as the more conservative element. The theoretical basis for this is discussed.
3882747|Different bone tissues differ in their amounts of porosity, mineralization, reconstruction, and preferred orientation. All these have important effects on mechanical properties. Very porous, cancellous bone is always weaker and more compliant than compact bone on a weight for weight basis, yet it occurs in places where its energy-absorbing ability, or its low density, is advantageous. Bone varies considerably in its mineralization, and such variations have quite disproportionate effects on mechanical properties. These variations can be shown to be adaptive. In particular, there must always be a compromise between stiffness and resistance to fracture; these two properties run contrary to each other. The reason for secondary remodeling is an unresolved problem, though in a few places the role of such remodeling in changing the grain of the bone is clearly mechanically adaptive. The mechanical properties of non-mammalian bone are obscure, and as the histology of such bone is often quite different from that of mammalian bone, we are no doubt in for some surprises when the mechanical properties of nonmammalian bone are discovered.
3881982|Data are presented from 17 months of systematic sampling of the food habits, ranging patterns and distribution of food of a group of red colobus monkeys. No positive or negative correlations were found between the diversity of ranging patterns and the diversity of diet, distribution of food species, or percentage of young growth in the diet. There was, however, a significant correlation between the diversity of ranging pattern and the number of days per monthly sample that the group was proximal to or had aggressive encounters with another group of red colobus monkeys.
3881587|Epithelial membranes are useful and convenient tissues in which to study fundamental processes of ionic transport. They devote a substantial fraction of their total energy resources to transport, they serve as a convenient model for plasmalemmal transport, and they have interesting properties related to hormonal regulation. The frog's skin, in particular, has been fruitful in generating concepts relating to the properties of serial membrane systems and to the use of isotopic tracers in the study of transport mechanisms.
3883886|For reef fish in temperate marine regions, such components of local assemblage diversity (i.e., within a reef) as species richness, total fish density, and rank order of abundance can remain relatively constant through time. Long-term data (17 years) for assemblages on 2 reefs in Southern California revealed that, despite high turnover in rare species, overall species richness was affected only moderately by major oceanographic disturbances. This resilience of the assemblage is in marked contrast to high temporal variation in densities exhibited by many local populations of individual species, and it suggests that measurements of diversity to indicate status of an assemblage should be used with caution. Here we consider various processes and factors, together with the spatial and temporal scales over which they operate, that can influence local diversity (and its estimation) of reef fishes. Mechanisms that can "buffer" local diversity of reef fishes include dispersal of young that inter-connects subpopulations, high "inertia" in relative abundance and population structures (especially for long-lived species), and broad ecological requirements of many species. These considerations suggest that the effect of disturbances on local diversity of reef fishes will depend in part on the magnitude, duration, frequency and spatial scale of the perturbation. While long-term data are few, available information suggests that, due to life history characteristics of the fish and the spatial and temporal scales at which disturbances are likely to occur, assemblages of temperate marine reef fish might be relatively resilient to environmental perturbations.
3883789|It has become clear that many gene products containing the homeodomain, a helix-turn-helix DNA motif, are involved in establishing the initial pattern of differentiation during development. The msh family of homeobox containing genes is just being characterized in vertebrate embryos where it is widely expressed during craniofacial development. msh transcripts accumulate in the dorsal neural tube, presumptive neural crest, and many tissues in the craniofacial region during a period when tissue patterning is occurring, but not after cytodifferentiation. Based on these observations, it is likely that this group of homeobox containing genes is involved in the development and evolution of the craniofacial region.
3881634| Phosphofructokinase (PFK) extracted from muscle of abyssal Coryphaenoides fishes common in the deep waters around the Galpagos Archipelago is extremely unstable upon decompression and extraction and can be recovered only in low activities. Preliminary studies indicate that the pressure responses of the enzyme are complex: At low pressures, the enzyme is activated; at moderate pressures, activity passes through a pressure optimum; at high pressures, maximum catalytic activity is decelerated. At low pressures, the volume change of activation is about -
3882155|Pulse treatment of Drosophila melanogaster larvae with thymidine analogs in the presence of inhibitors of thymidylate synthetase activity induces a variety of growth lesions in the adult flies. We determined the frequency of the developmental lesions induced for a variety of treatment conditions and examined the incorporation of the analogs into DNA of larvae treated in a similar manner for each of these conditions. Lesion induction is correlated with bromodeoxyuridine incorporation into DNA. The distribution of incorporated bromodeoxyuridine in the pyrimidine oligonucleotides released from DNA by formic acid-diphenylamine hydrolysis was compared with the incorporation pattern of exogenous thymidine. This comparison shows that bromodeoxyuridine is not randomly accepted at all thymine sites for incorporation into DNA under the feeding conditions used in these experiments. There were also differences between the patterns of bromodeoxyuridine-incorporated DNAs from larvae receiving the analog under conditions slightly effective and highly effective for morphogenic lesions. Examination of the size and frequency of lesions as a function of larval age at the time of treatment indicates there is a clonal pattern of propagation of the analog-affected cells. Since several cell generations separate the analog pulse and the time of eventual differentiation of the imaginal discs, we conclude that following the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine into morphogenically critical base sequences of DNA, a cell undergoes an informational change that is transmitted to its progeny cells which differentiate during metamorphosis as a cluster of phenotypically altered cells. The presence of bromodeoxyuridine per se in each cell of a clone is not necessary for expression of the altered patterns of differentiation.
3883035|Paternal investment in terrestrial arthropods occurs in three contexts. Prezygotic investment includes indirect contributions to offspring through nutrients provided to the male's mate. Biparental care refers to joint male and female care of offspring. Finally, exclusive paternal care occurs when only the male invests in offspring following oviposition. Examples of exclusive paternal care are known in insects such as assassin bugs (Reduviidae), harvestmen (Opiliones), and millipedes (Diplopoda), although it is far more common in a group of secondarily aquatic insects, namely, the giant water bugs (Belostomatidae). Biparental care is also uncommon and is best developed in burying beetles (Silphidae), dung beetles (Scarabaeidae), and termites (Isoptera). The most pervasive type of paternal investment appears to be prezygotic in the form of spermatophore products and other "nuptial gifts" provided to the female parent. The evolution of paternal investment is a complex process and no single hypothesis nor evolutionary pathway appears adequate to explain the diversity of paternal investment strategies in terrestrial arthropods. As is the case with other animal groups, paternal investment is correlated with certainty of paternity and male territoriality. Ecological factors also appear important, especially in the way these influence the ability of males to enhance the survivorship of offspring and/or the fecundity of their mates. Physically harsh or biotically dangerous habitats and ephemeral, highly prized, productive resources are all associated with high levels of paternal investment. Finally, the indirect sperm transfer strategies common to many terrestrial arthropod species seem to preclude males from contributing materially to their offspring by dissociating parent from progeny. This dissociation may explain in part the relative paucity of high levels of paternal investment by terrestrial arthropods.
3883078|We analyze territorial behavior in terms of decisions about time allocation. Such decisions must be made whenever time invested in territorial defense cannot be devoted to feeding, and vice versa. We describe the ecology and territorial behavior of the great tit (Parus major) to show that a tradeoff exists, and then outline a series of laboratory and field experiments in which the value of feeding or defense was experimentally manipulated. Territorial male great tits began to invest more heavily in territorial vigilance after encountering intruders, but the increase in vigilance depended on the rate at which they could feed, as well as their hunger level. We outline a dynamic analysis that takes account of the fact that the optimal tradeoff will change as hunger is reduced. The results of an experimental test of this dynamic model are also presented. We briefly review other techniques whereby territorial tradeoffs have been investigated.
3883470|In this paper I test the hypothesis that bioenergetic and biomechanical constraints to migration play a pivotal role in shaping the life history characteristics of migrants. Firstly, I examine bioenergetic constraints on the ability to migrate by active transport and how they shape the life histories of insects and fish, and, secondly, the consequences of biomechanical constraints to the migration by passive transport in insects and spiders. In both insects and fish the mass-specific energetic costs of active transport (flight and swimming, respectively) decrease with body size, and hence selection should favor large size in migrant species. Because their habitats are ephemeral, migrant insects must grow rapidly. In fish, migrant species are able to exploit resources unavailable to more sedentary species and hence should also show an enhanced rate of growth. These predictions are supported by comparisons within populations, between populations, and among species in both groups. In contrast to the above, biomechanical factors limit the upper size at which insects and spiders can migrate by passive transport. Theory predicts that ballooning will be most likely in spiders considerably less than 6 mm in length. Therefore, species that migrate as adults are predicted to be smaller than those that do not. This prediction is supported by a comparison of migratory and non-migratory spider species from the United Kingdom. The average length of species that migrate as adults, and of migrating young of spiders too large to balloon as adults, is about 2 mm. Further, within this geographic species assemblage, the size distribution of adult spiders is markedly peaked in the 2 mm region, suggesting that biomechanical constraints on ballooning may have a major influence on the evolution of body size in spiders.
3884266|Physiological phenotypes are the result of the coordinated function of many genes, some of which may be differentiated between conspecific populations. Within any one population, natural selection will favor evolution of a coadapted set of alleles which optimizes physiological performance and reproductive success. The existence of such coadapted gene complexes may be assessed by assaying phenotypes of interpopulation hybrids: inferior performance of hybrids suggests that the allelic combinations present in the parental populations are coadapted. This approach has been used to examine the genetic architecture of physiological traits in the copepod Tigriopus californicus, a species characterized by sharp genetic differentiation of populations. Developmental time and response to osmotic stress both show pronounced F
3882100|A revised interpretation of the mode of action of the heterocercal tail in sharks shows that the upturned tail axis tends to produce a thrust directed downwards behind the centre of balance of the fish and thus gives a moment turning the head upwards. This is countered in two ways-by the rotation of the tail along its longitudinal axis during each lateral beat, and through the action of the ventral hypochordal lobe. The shape of the tail and the mode of action of the tail in all sharks so far considered reflects a balance between these three factors, in all of them the net effect being the production of a forward thrust from the tail that passes directly through the centre of balance of the fish. There is normally therefore no tendency for the fish to turn around the centre of balance in a sagittal plane but there is a net sinking effect that is countered by the planning effect of the pectoral fins and the ventral surface of the head. A study of 56 species of sharks shows that the tail is constructed according to a remarkably consistent common plan, the extremes being the high angled rather symmetrical tail of pelagic sharks such as Isurus, Lamna and Rhincodon and the straight tails of benthic sharks such as Ginglymostoma in which a ventral hypochordal lobe is absent. When the general body shape of sharks, including the position of insertion of the median and paired fins and the pattern of growth of fin surface areas is considered, the uniformity of the shark body plan and locomotor function is further emphasised. Four patterns of body form in sharks are recognised: 1) The fast swimming pelagic sharks and the whale sharks have a tail with a high aspect ratio, a conical head, a lateral fluke on the caudal peduncle. 2) The generalised sharks typified by the Carcharhinidae, have lower heterocercal angles, a flattened ventral surface on the head and lack the caudal fluke. 3) The demersal sharks typified by the catsharks (Scyliorhinidae) have a very low, almost straight tail. The ventral hypochordal lobe is absent and the first dorsal fin is posterior in position. 4) The squalomorph sharks are distinct in the absence of the anal fin, presence of a marked epicaudal lobe in the tail and often an elevated insertion of the pectorals. The anal and second dorsal fins are always the smallest fins and the pectorals grow at the fastest rate. In general there is an inverse relationship between size and rate of growth of all fins and the ventral surface of the head. In hammerheads the growth data confirms that the head has a significant planing action in swimming. The pectoral, second dorsal and anal fins show an extreme constancy of position of insertion in all sharks studied. The locomotor mechanism of sharks is adapted for an efficient cruising swimming but at the same time, the potential instability in the sagittal plan allows for the production of turning moments that are used in attack and feeding.
3883398|Cutaneous ion transport has long been studied for its role in osmotic and ionic regulation in amphibians. In addition to this role, it is becoming clear that cutaneous ion exchange influences, and is influenced by, a number of other physiological and morphological factors. The exchange of Na
3881931|There are presently two hypotheses concerning the modulation of avian vocalizations, one holding that resonance phenomena play an important role, the other that modulations are source generated. A wide variety of data tend to question the former and support the latter. The Greenewalt model is examined in the light of recent findings, many of which support its major contentions and implications. On the other hand, the model seems to have certain weaknesses in describing the interactions of pressure, tension, and membrane movement, hence the linkage of AM and FM. Mathematical expressions of these relationships are developed. They show that the amplitude of oscillation will vary with the magnitude of the driving pressure perturbation and with the interaction of the frequencies of the perturbation and the resonant frequency of the membrane. This suggests an alternative mechanism for the AM-FM linkage. Caution is advised in the development of generalized models. Although all birds may exploit certain fundamental principles, the possibility remains that a variety of techniques may be employed. A major difference between the techniques utilized by oscines and non-oscines is especially probable.
3883061|Frogs exhibit extensive diversity in their repertoires of social, reproductive, defensive, and predatory behavior, and in the metabolic processes that support these activities. Three aspects of anuran biology (foraging mode, post-metamorphic ontogenetic changes in ecology, and reproductive behavior) are analyzed for their correlations with metabolic capacities. Anurans that forage widely for prey have greater capacities for aerobic ATP production than do sedentary foragers. This relationship appears to extend to intraspecific analyses; significant differences in aerobic capacity among populations of a species of dart-poison frog are associated with differences in feeding ecology. Ontogenetic change in metabolic capacity is directly coupled with ontogeny of behavior. The magnitude of post-metamorphic changes in physiology, behavior, and ecology appears to be related to differences in life history. A relatively short larval stage and small body size at metamorphosis, such as that found in American toads, are associated with extensive post-metamorphic changes in oxygen carrying capacity of the blood, cardiac muscle mass, and aerobic capacity of predispersal juveniles. In contrast, predispersal juveniles of species with long larval periods and large body size at metamorphosis possess adult physiological and behavioral features. Anuran reproductive activities, especially calling to attract mates, are energetically demanding, suggesting that the behavior of male frogs at a breeding pond may be limited by their metabolic capacities. However, the only study that has attempted to relate individual variation in reproductive behavior to individual variation in aerobic capacity found no correlation between those characteristics. The complexity of anuran biology ensures that physiological characteristics of anurans reflect many aspects of ecology and behavior, some of which act independently, others in concert. Carefully designed experiments that incorporate both field and laboratory data are required to assess these interlocking features.
3881623|The criteria established by Drach for subdividing the molting cycle into stages are reviewed, and a suggestion is made for improving the uniformity of postmolt staging of different species. Changes in the epidermis during the molting cycle of the crayfish Orconectes obscurus and O. sanborni are described. Epidermal DNA content was measured throughout the cycle and found to drop sharply at stage D
3884287|The oldest known feathers from the Late Jurassic are already modern in form and microscopic detail. Because these oldest examples are assignable to an extinct branch (Sauriurae) of the basal avian dichotomy, their features must have been established at a significantly earlier date. The skin of a wide variety of dinosaurs is now known and is unlikely to represent a predecessor to a feather bearing integument. Examples of feathered dinosaurs result from erroneous identification of internal structures as part of the skin covering, and from the confusion of flightless birds from the Early Cretaceous of China with dinosaurs.
3881351|The possible role of the neurosecretory system in regulation of salt and water has been studied in the annelids and crustaceans. In the earthworm, Lumbricus terrestris, a brain factor influences the salt and osmotic concentration of the blood and coelomic fluid. Removal of the brain results in the increase of water influx with a decrease in the salt and osmotic concentrations of the body fluids. The decreases in salt and osmotic concentrations can be prevented by the implantation of the brain or the injection of brain homogenates. In the freshwater crayfish, Procambarus clarkii, a factor, presumably secreted in the brain and released in the eyestalk, seems to maintain the normal permeability of the body surfaces to water. Eyestalk removal, which eliminates the release site, results in the increased influx of water with a decrease in the salt concentration of the blood. A brain factor also seems to be involved in maintaining the sodium and osmotic concentrations of the blood. In the semi-terrestrial grapsid crab, Metopograpsus messor, the thoracic ganglion, under the control of an eyestalk element, secretes a factor involved in increasing the permeability of the body surfaces to water. The removal of the eyestalks, the implantation of the thoracic ganglion, or the injection of extracts of thoracic ganglia, results in changes in the osmotic concentration of the blood tending toward that of the medium. In all three species studied, the neuroendocrine factors seem to be involved primarily in the regulation of the permeability of the body surfaces to water.
3882278|The development of the mesenteric lymph node was studied in the polyprotodont marsupial, Marmosa mitis. A primary mesenchymal radiation from the mesenteric arterial investment into the surrounding mesenteric lymph space yielded reticulum having lymphoid affinity. A secondary radiation yielded the supporting connective tissues, i.e., the node's hilum and trabeculae. This secondary radiation is limited to eutherian and metatherian mammals; its absence in prototheria explains both the absence of complex lymph nodes in these mammals and the singular follicles found in their lymph vessels. The mesenchymal source indicates that complex lymph nodes, like splenic follicles, derive from mesenchyme associated with portions of the arterial tree. The ensuing evolution from source mesenchyme to mature nodal configuration is described in a tentative histogenetic scheme.
3883845|There is mounting evidence that prolactin influences reproductive function in several vertebrate species via direct action on the central nervous system. In most instances, however, the basic properties of these prolactin-induced alterations in brain function, the neurochemical mechanisms underlying these effects, and the identity of the prolactin-like molecules that might normally promote these changes have yet to be adequately characterized. Several properties of the prolactin-brain relationship that have emerged from our work in the ring dove (Streptopelia risoria) are described in this paper and discussed in relation to similar work in other species. Receptor binding studies using radiolabelled mammalian prolactin preparations consistently indicate the existence of saturable, high affinity binding sites for prolactin in the brains of several vertebrate species. The apparent concentration of these sites in the diencephalon is corroborated by recent mapping studies in rabbits, ring doves, and three song birds in which in vitro autoradiography and densitometry was employed. Nevertheless, direct comparisons among the three songbird species suggest some differences in the precise distribution and/or concentration of prolactin binding sites within the preoptic-hypothalamic continuum that may relate to species differences in the display of prolactin-related incubation behavior and parental activities. Although definitive evidence is currently lacking, it would appear that blood-borne prolactin gains access to binding sites in the central nervous system and that a receptor-mediated, blood-to-cerebrospinal fluid transport process in the choroid plexus may be a major conduit for such uptake. Recent findings from several vertebrate species also suggest that the brain may synthesize one or more prolactin-like molecules that could conceivably interact with these binding sites. Direct actions of prolactin and related hormones on brain mechanisms underlying reproductive processes are suggested by the profound dose-dependent suppression of gonadotropin secretion and gonadal activity in ring doves by intracerebroventricular administration of prolactin or growth hormone at doses that are below those required for significant peripheral actions. A major challenge for future investigation will be to identify the brain site(s) at which these and other effects of prolactin are exerted and to determine how blood-borne prolactin of pituitary origin, prolactin-like molecules of brain origin, and growth hormone-like molecules interact with each other and with other neurochemical systems to promote these types of changes under normal physiological conditions.
3881165|In the light of existing work on the behavioral physiology of this anemone, the structure of parts of the neuromuscular system has been examined in detail. In the sphincter region, the morphological basis for rapid through-conduction and motor innervation is a network of bipolar nerve cells, which is connected to the similar retractor nerve-nets of mesenteries. Sphincter muscle fibers are arranged at the periphery of tubes, which form a meshwork within the mesogloea. Bipolar nerve cells appear to run in these tubes. Neurites also reach the sphincter from the endodermal nerve-net by penetrating the mesogloea directly. The nerve-net over the circular muscle is richer than in other parts of the column, but shows similar features. It includes small multipolar cells of unknown function. Coordination between different parts of the anemone is discussed in terms of possible pathways for the transmission of excitation. For example, bundles of retractor and parietobasilar muscle fibers continue from both surfaces of mesenteries into the mesogloea of the pedal disk, suggesting a possible route for neurites passing to or from the ectoderm. If confirmed, the existence of this route could throw light on a number of sequences of behavior.
3883595|Captive flocks of red jungle fowl (Gallus gallus) experimentally infected with the intestinal nematode Ascaridia galli were used to test Hamilton and Zuk's (1982) hypothesis that parasites adversely affect male secondary sex characters and that females prefer unparasitized over parasitized males. Infected chicks grew more slowly than uninfected controls, with the effect particularly pronounced on comb length rather than tarsus length or body weight. At sexual maturity, infected roosters had duller combs and eyes, shorter combs and tail feathers, and paler hackle feathers than control roosters. In experimental mate choice tests, females preferred unparasitized over parasitized roosters by about 2: 1, and an analysis of covariance revealed that the hens were using the traits on which the two groups differed to make their mate choice decisions. Finally, in a test of an extension of the Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis, control and infected males were not distinguishable based on non sexually-selected characters such as bill size, suggesting that parasites have a disproportionately larger effect on ornamental traits.
3883072|Territoriality is an integral part of breeding behavior in many animals. Because the reproductive success of territorial males is often limited by access to females, breeding males should behave as "area maximizers" when the basis of female choice is either the abundance of resources within the territory or territory area per se. Being reproductively more limited by energy, territorial females should be "energy maximizers." A series of simple analytical models of territory area for such foragers is developed to explore how changes in local food production and/or local competitor density affect both the probability of a territorial male securing more than one mate (polygyny) and the probability of his and his mates' reproductive success increasing. Two cases are modeled (only males territorial vs. both sexes territorial), each for various sets of assumptions regarding interactions between food production, feeding efficiency, and competitor density. Concurrent responses in territory area, territory food reserves, net energy gain, and time budgeting provide testable sets of predictions for each scenario. Where only males are territorial (Case I), changes in food production can have different (indeed, opposite) effects upon an individual male's probability of becoming polygynous, depending upon whether the basis of female choice is the abundance of food within the territory or another factor positively correlated with territory area. Increases in competitor density usually decrease the probability of polygyny regardless of the basis of female choice. Where both sexes are territorial and territories overlap intersexually (Case II), the mating system becomes a function of the number of female territories within each male's territory, which varies with the ratio of male to female territory areas. In this case, the probability of polygyny occurring will increase if food production for both sexes increases without concurrent increases in competitor density, and will decrease if competitor density for both sexes increases without concurrent increases in feeding efficiency. Few data are presently available to test either these general predictions or numerous sets of secondary predictions tabulated in the text. Available evidence is largely consistent with the models, but mostly circumstantial. This is because the predictions of these and other models of territory area are strongly assumption dependent, and few published studies have investigated these assumptions. These analyses demonstrate that to accurately assess the mechanisms by which environmental factors affect territory area, and thus mating systems, tests of the underlying assumptions of models are essential.
3883156|From its inception in 1876, Johns Hopkins University has stood out as an institution where the laboratory and experimentation have been accorded the highest respect and priority, and where the most capable people have been chosen to occupy positions of authority. The first president of the University, Daniel Gilman, was able to guide and shape the university unencumbered by outside influences and began the tradition of hiring the best men to work with him. H. N. Martin and W. K. Brooks in biology were two of these leaders in the early period of the university (1876-1908). During the middle years (1909-1939), expansion diluted faculty and diverted them away from research and toward teaching. Herbert Spencer Jennings headed the Zoology Department during this middle period and in spite of the general trend away from quality research activities, maintained a standard of excellence in his department. Another leader during this period and one whom some consider more influential than Jennings was Burton E. Livingston, chairman of the Plant Physiology Department. The modern period began in 1939 and saw some rebuilding of the biological sciences after World War II, combining of the Zoology, Botany, and Plant Physiology Departments into one Biology Department, the building of the Mergenthaler Laboratory for Biology, the modernization of the department into one oriented toward molecular biology, and a host of quality appointments. Most of these accomplishments can be attributed to H. B. Willier who headed the department from 1940 to 1955. Presently the Department of Biology at Johns Hopkins University is one of this country's leading centers of molecular biology.
3883350|The skull of modern leporid lagomorphs is structurally specialized to permit significant intracranial movement. This appears to be the first recorded instance of organized cranial kinesis in mammals. A well-defined intracranial joint encircles the braincase between the posterior occipito-otic complex and the remainder of the cranium. It arises from the retention and elaboration of a zone of patency found in neonates. The joint allows the much heavier anterior region of the cranium (+ mandible) to move relative to the posterior region which is stabilized by its muscular attachment to the neck. It is hypothesized that the kinesis functions as a shock-absorbing mechanism to minimize the jarring effects (possibly on the visual apparatus) of the large impulsive loads associated with running and jumping. The dissipation of kinetic energy through controlled skull deformation may be augmented by the hydraulic displacement of intracranial blood through a specialized system of venous channels and sinuses located within the fenestrated posterior regions of the cranium. Both biomechanical considerations and behavioral observations indicate that the relatively massive external ears of cursorial leporids may play a vital role in cranial kinesis by helping to "reset" the kinetic mechanism between loading cycles. The evolutionary origin of this specialized cranium, it is suggested, may be associated with the development of a cursorial, saltatory locomotor habit in lagomorphs. Cranial kinesis is lacking in such noncursorial forms as the living pikas (=Ochotonidae) and certain primitive fossil leporids of North America (e.g., Paleolagus, Megalagus).
3881163|Six types of nematocysts and their nematocytes in tentacles and acontia of the sea anemone Metridium senile fimbriatum were studied by electron microscopy. Microbasic b-mastigophores, microbasic amastigophores, and basitrichs have one fundamental feature in common: a straight, complexly-folded shaft with dense spines pointing apically. An additional resemblance between a b-mastigophore and a basitrich is the possession of a long, narrow, coiled thread bearing spines. An amastigophore is characterized by a short, looped, unspined thread and a cup-shaped granular matrix. Atrich and holotrich nematocysts have a coiled, spined tube of uniform diameter which lies in an evenly granular matrix filling the entire capsule. The above five nematocysts have three flaps at the apex of the capsule which open upon discharge, and each nematocyte possesses a flagellum with which is associated one or two centrioles and a striated rootlet. The long rootlet of the b-mastigophore-bearing nematocyte passes through a circular band of fibrils surrounding the neck region of the capsule, and the short rootlet of the atrich lies in a dense fibrous sheath surrounding all but the apex of the capsule. The spirocyst differs from the other nematocysts in having a thin, ridged, single-walled capsule; an inverted tube containing bundles of tubules; an apical disk covered only by a thin layer of granular material and the nematocyst membrane; and the absence of a flagellum in its nematocyte. Theories of excitation and mechanism of discharge of nematocysts and the function of spirocysts are discussed in the light of this and other recent studies of the fine structure of nematocysts. Special attention is drawn to the probable role of the folds in the walls of shaft and thread in increasing the length of the tube upon discharge.
3883603|The desert toads, Scaphiopus couchii, have an annual activity season of less than 8 weeks and experience only one significant parasite infection: the monogenean Pseudodiplorchis americanus is transmitted during host spawning and provides a natural system for testing the influence of parasite burden on host mating success. The 10 month hibernation involves total starvation during which the blood-feeding parasites reduce fat reserves and haematocrit. The toads emerge and spawn on the first night after rainfall, before they replenish depleted reserves. Male chorusing is energetically very demanding and mate selection, limited to a 7 hr nocturnal assembly, is determined principally by female choice. Parasite transmission triggered by host sexual activity results in 100% prevalence and high intensities of infection amongst males. Around 50% of toads lose their burdens entirely but the rest carry chronic infections throughout host hibernation. Field data show a consistent reduction in intensity each year strongly suggesting resistance. Parasite infection is pathogenic and creates extra stress during hibernation; therefore, to the extent that elimination of infection is heritable, toads entering spawning assemblies with heavy burdens should make poor mates. However, extensive field studies show no correlation between mate success and parasite burden. Although infection can prejudice survival, it is only one of several inter-related factors (including feeding success, tolerance of hibernation). The condition of successful and unsuccessful males in spawning assemblies indicates that all exceed a threshold at which parasite-induced pathology is significant. Males which are debilitated by infection-or other factors-are selected against before mate choice begins.
3884264|We offer the thesis that environmental physiologists and evolutionary biologists can find fertile common ground in the study of how individual variation in physiological phenotypes originates and develops. The sources of such individual variation are often complex; the consequences affect how natural selection will act on a suite of traits, of which some may seem, at first glance, far removed from the usual domain of environmental physiology. We illustrate our thesis in two ways. First, we offer two examples drawn from studies of thermal tolerance in the poeciliid fish Heterandria formosa. We show how fitness variation can be a complex function of the gestational temperature and thermal tolerance and how these effects can produce environmentally induced variation among populations in thermal tolerance that mimics a pattern of adaptive variation. Second, we review two case studies that illuminate how environmental effects on a multivariate phenotype can channel the action of natural selection. The phenotypic plasticity of male life history in Poecilia latipinna in response to temperature embraces a spectrum of traits; the effects of each one upon fitness will influence the ability of selection to mold the response of any one of them to temperature. The phenotypic covariances in thermal tolerance and life-history traits in Heterandria formosa differ slightly between populations from different parts of the species range, apparently because of differences between them in thermal sensitivity; this difference insures that the multivariate nature of selection will be correspondingly different in those different populations.
3882796|Welcoming remarks are given. Various phases in the lives of Thomas Hunt and Lilian V. Morgan are presented.
3883933|The pulmonary and systemic circulations are not completely separated in reptiles and amphibians, so oxygen-rich blood returning from the lungs can mix with oxygen-poor blood returning from the systemic circuit (cardiac shunts). In these animals, the arterial blood gas composition is determined by both lung ventilation and the cardiac shunt. Therefore, changes in cardiac shunting patterns may participate actively in the regulation of arterial blood gases. In turtles the cardiac shunt pattern changes independently of ventilation and the cardiac R-L shunt (pulmonary bypass of systemic venous blood) is reduced under circumstances where the demands on efficient gas exchange are high (hypoxia, hypoxemia or exercise). We propose, therefore, that the size of cardiac shunts is regulated independently of ventilation and hypothesize that there exist at least two groups of peripheral chemoreceptors with different reflex roles.
3884005| Fishes power steady, undulatory swimming using both red and pink muscle. In this study we examined the roles of the two fiber types in generating power for swimming by using a two-step technique. First, in vivo data is collected from swimming fish, and second, the electrical activity and muscle length change conditions recorded in vivo are recreated in vitro with isolated muscle bundles. Force production and power generation by muscle during swimming can then be estimated. In scup, both red and pink muscle are recruited to power swimming at the maximum sustained swimming speed. For both fiber types, the duration of electrical activity decreases from anterior to posterior. However, the amplitude of muscle length change increases anterior to posterior. Mass-specific power production increases posteriorly for both muscle types. The faster contraction kinetics of pink muscle translate to higher power production by pink muscle relative to red muscle for all longitudinal positions of the fish. Determination of absolute power production, based on mass-specific power and muscle mass, shows that the posterior regions of the fish generate the most power for swimming. At 20C, red muscle generates more absolute power than pink due to its higher muscle mass. However, at 10C, pink muscle generates more absolute power than red, because red muscle produces little or no positive power for all longitudinal positions. 
4620216|Molecular sequence analysis is providing new insights into the study of metazoan relationships. The use of ribosomal RNA sequences is revising many of the metazoan phylogenies that have been established traditionally with anatomical and embryological data. Four new findings that seem to be well supported by molecular data, both from the authors' laboratories and from others, are described and discussed. First, the arthropods are members of a deep primary clade within the protostomes and are not the sister taxa of either the annelids or the mollusks. Second, the lophophorate animals are clearly protostomes and are contained within a lophotrochozoan superclade including the mollusks, annelids, and many other phyla. Third, the arthropods together with all other molting animals comprise a second monophyletic superclade within the protostomes, the ecdysozoa. Fourth, the platyhelminthes are contained within the lophotrochozoan superclade.
3882449|An analysis of pattern can reveal a great deal about the processes that regulate the species structure of a community, especially in those cases where experiments are not possible. It is predicted that differing mechanisms of regulation should result in different patterns in the distribution and abundance of potentially competing species and in the ways in which they utilize limiting resources. In this paper we describe these patterns in the zooplankton community of the North Pacific central gyre. The gyre community is old, stable and diverse and past studies have suggested that it is regulated by in situ processes. An analysis of samples collected over many years shows that the species are close to equilibrium. There are not large spatial, seasonal or year to year changes in abundance and disturbances do not seem to be large enough to perturb the species structure and prevent competitive exclusion. Food and predation are the two main limiting factors. Competition, by inference, appears to be strong, even between relatively dissimilar species. In spite of this the species do not seem to be specialists and niche separation is not apparent in either space or food utilization. This is surprising considering the age, stability and high diversity of the system. It is concluded that either some other mechanism, such as frequency dependent predation, regulates the species structure or that the mechanisms of niche separation are much more subtle than is suspected. Some of the implications of regulation through predation are discussed.
3883299|Swimming is a common and important component of vertebrate behavior. Therefore the study of swimming form and function is essential to understanding vertebrate biology. An interactive process between biologists and hydrodynamicists has proven extremely successful in providing such understanding. This process starts with a definition of forces that may act on an animal; viscous and pressure drag, acceleration reaction, lift and body inertia, and ground reaction. Dominant force components are selected on the basis of ground contact, Reynolds number, reduced frequency, and shape. Conservation of momentum requires forces and their moments be in balance leading to models describing swimming motions and associated forces. These provide the bridge between the hydrodynamics studies and biological applications. Numerical solutions to models estimate thrust and drag, and rates of working, which are several times greater than expected for man-made non-flexing bodies. These solutions are used in prediction of optimal two-phase swimming behaviors, alternating high resistance swimming with low resistance behavior such as gliding. Qualitative predictions from models define optimal forms for various behaviors and habitats. Optimal forms tend to be mutually exclusive, providing bench-marks for analyses relating form and function in an ecological context. Life history patterns are also affected by locomotor capabilities of various morphologies. Scale effects limit the distribution of propulsors. Numerical solutions to models are probably only good within an order of magnitude because of the assumptions in their formulation, but rankings of mechanisms or organisms are adequate for comparative study. Predictions must be tempered by consideration of non-locomotor function, developmental limitations of structural options, and non-equilibrium community structures.
3883215|Throughout the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, researchers have gone in increasing numbers to the seashore to carry out biological research. Some people have chosen to study organisms in the sea, others life forms at the sea's edges. While not all of these researchers actually have needed to be at the seashore to do their work, a significant number of research programs have, in fact, depended on the ability to study marine life in its natural setting. The Marine Biological Laboratory pioneered in supporting the research functions in the United States, though the MBL also received inspiration from the successes of the Naples Zoological Station and other European laboratories. This paper explores the initial moves by researchers to study marine life and to set up stations in remote settings away from the comforts of home and of the home laboratories. It also outlines the sorts of work undertaken at the seashore.
3884516|The control of cell volume in all cell types is accomplished by the regulation of two general categories of osmolytes: inorganic ions, most commonly K
3882341|The contributions of ultrastructural research to the elucidation of invertebrate evolution are discussed by means of a number of selected examples. Studies of the fine structure of the integument of Aschelminthes and Platyhelminthes illustrate the method of interpretation. In addition, the following subjects and their significance for phylogeny are treated: annelid setae, sensilla of Pentastomida, choanocyte-like cells, epitheliomuscular cells, podocytes, gills of Polychaeta and lungs of Decapoda, and spermatozoa.
3883515|Controversies occur frequently, are unavoidable, and probably represent an important component of biological research. Ironically, emerging empirical evidence appears to contribute less to the development of controversy than the fierce loyalty with which many biologists adhere to some traditional methodology and/or outlook in their scientific discipline. Not infrequently, prevailing attitudes inhibit biologists from recognizing that a new experimental protocol might provide an appropriate means for testing an established hypothesis. Lack of consensus about the suitability of different experimental approaches can also help explain why scientific manuscripts and grant proposals which support existing theory and which have employed traditional approaches encounter less difficulty during the review process than do those manuscripts or proposals which contest established hypotheses or whihc offer alternative hypotheses and approaches. That is true even if the conclusions drawn in supportive manuscripts and proposals are not parsimonious. When a biologist's allegiance to an established hypothesis and/or when a traditional methodology becomes the overriding concern in research, new empirical evidence emerging from careful study of living organisms becomes relatively unimportant. I provide here some examples of biological controversies and disparities that stemmed from adherence to prevailing hypotheses. The biologists involved either did not recognize that favored hypotheses lacked confirming empirical evidence or that those hypotheses could not account for important new evidence.
3882740|In 1959, in his seminal paper "Homage to Santa Rosalia," G. E. Hutchinson asked, Why are there so many kinds of organisms? This paper focused attention on problems of species diversity and community organization that have occupied many theoretical and empirical ecologists for the last two decades. In the present paper I evaluate the attempt to answer Hutchinson's question by considering three topics. First, I reexamine the main themes which Hutchinson developed in "The Homage" and call attention to the central importance of energetic relationships in his view of ecological communities. Second, I examine the development of theoretical community ecology over the last two decades in an attempt to determine why some avenues of investigation, such as competition theory, have proven disappointing, whereas others, such as the theory of island biogeography, have enjoyed at least modest success. Finally, I suggest that future attempts to understand patterns of species diversity might focus on developing two kinds of theoretical constructs: capacity rules, which describe how characteristics of the physical environment determine its capacity to support life, and allocation rules, which describe how limited energetic resources are subdivided among species.
3883138|In many historical studies emphasis is placed on the scientist as an individual and little on the institutions that supported him or her. This article details the institutions that supported the explorer/naturalists of the American West during the nineteenth century. The institutions are arranged in chronological order of their founding. In discussing each institution I include information concerning its founding, its structure, the way in which it supported naturalists and their studies, and important naturalists associated with it.
3883184|Three attributes of communities-the number, relative abundances, and phenotypic attributes of coexisting species-together define their "structure," as the term has been used in the literature. Most ecologists have tried to uncover determinants of community structure by analyzing patterns of morphology or resource use, or by experimentally manipulating the species composition or environmental context of communities. Less often used is a mechanistic analysis of processes operating at the level of individuals or populations. I discuss the logical basis for each of these approaches and illustrate their virtues and limitations with examples drawn from work on heteromyid rodents. While pattern analytic and experimental approaches have provided an efficient means of identifying proximate determinants of species number and relative abundance, a mechanistic approach holds more promise for answering questions about the ultimate determinants of phenotypic patterns within communities.
3882474|Dr. Frank R. Lillie, embryologist extraordinary, was uniquely invaluable in innumerable ways to zoologists, directly during his lifetime and indirectly thereafter. He excelled academically in teaching, research and administration at the University of Chicago. His research was masterfully planned, highly productive, exciting, and stimulating to many others and invariably opened up new and fundamental research areas for further exploration by others. He is most widely known for his vital leadership in development of the Marine Biological Laboratory during critical years of its survival and expansion. He was unanimously elected president of the National Academy of Sciences and chairman of the National Research Council, the first person to hold these two key positions simultaneously, and in addition was active in establishment of the Union of Biological Sciences responsible for publication of Biological Abstracts, establishment and administration of the National Research Council Fellowships in the biological sciences and in motivation of research in problems of sex, especially those concerned with the roles of sex hormones in sexual differentiation. The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution was established largely through his skill and labor and he served as president of its corporation from 1930 to 1939. His uniqueness resided in his capacity to function in a highly effective manner and often simultaneously in many key positions of responsibility and still function effectively as a highly personable and respected human being.
3884477|One of the major changes that occurs during the maturation of oocytes is the accumulation of yolk protein, or vitellin (Vn). To better understand how this process is regulated, we characterized the Vn of the ridgeback shrimp, Sicyonia ingentis (Penaeoidea). This Vn is a 322 kDa molecule composed of three subunits. Using purified Vn, we developed an anti-Vn antiserum and used it to characterize vitellogenin by Western blot analysis. The antiserum was also used in an ELISA to measure hemolymph levels of vitellogenin. Previous studies suggested the presence of vertebrate-type steroids might stimulate reproductive processes in decapod crustaceans. Treatment of sexually quiescent female shrimp with progesterone, hydroxyprogesterone, and estradiol did not increase hemolymph levels of yolk protein precursor. The absence of a response to these steroids may reflect the presence of other hormones (such as the gonad-inhibiting hormone) that prevent oocyte development. To examine the molecular basis for the regulation of vitellogenesis, ovarian and hepatopancreas expression cDNA libraries were screened using the anti-Vn antiserum. A 2.9 kilobase clone was isolated from both cDNA libraries suggesting that both tissues are sites of vitellogenin synthesis. These molecular tools should be useful for in vitro studies of vitellogenin synthesis.
3882941|The chromatophore organs of Loligo are each composed of five types of cells: a central pigment cell; radially arranged, obliquely striated muscle fibers; neuronal processes; glial cells; and an investment of sheath cells. Sheath cells are absent in Octopus chromatophore organs. The cycle of expansion and retraction of a chromatophore organ may occur within the order of a second. It is clear that the muscle fibers expand the pigment cell and spread out the pigment granules. The pigment is contained within an unusual, filamentous, cytoplasmic compartment called the cytoelastic sacculus. This compartment has elastic properties. Reflector cells and iridocytes produce structural colors even though their components are colorless. Reflector cells in Octopus bear peripheral sets of leaf-like reflecting lamellae called reflectosomes; these contain proteinaceous platelets with a high refractive index (1.42). In each reflectosome the reflecting lamellae are separated by gaps that are about equal to the thickness of the lamellae, but have a lower refractive index (1.33). Reflectosomes are believed to reflect light and to function as thin-film interference devices. Iridocytes in squid and cuttlefish contain iridosomes that are also composed of sets of ribbon-like platelets but these are located centrally within the cell body. The platelets are usually oriented on edge with respect to the surface of the skin. The possibility that dermal iridocytes may act as diffraction gratings is discussed. Leucophores have thousands of processes that contain globules of protein with a high refractive index. These cells scatter light of all wave lengths and appear white in white light.
3882658|The concept of the Actinopterygii as a natural group of fishes was not generally accepted until early in this century. Ever since, the characterization of the group has been blurred by the problem of cladistian (polypterid) relationships. From a review of the structure of polypterids and actinopts, it is concluded that Cladistia are the sister-group of Recent actinopterygians (Actinopteri), the two groups together comprising the Actinopterygii. Recent chondrosteans are more closely related to higher actinopts (Neopterygii) than to cladistians. The extinct Palaeonisciformes appear to be a paraphyletic group, comprising stem-group actinopterygians (e.g., Cheirolepis), stem-group actinopterans (e.g., Moythomasia) and relatives of higher actinopterans (e.g., Pteronisculus).
3884432|Research on the dimorphic claws of the snapping shrimp Alpheus has revealed moult-associated changes in structure and biochemical composition-including atrophy and biochemical modification-of claw muscle fibers during morphological transformation of a claw from a pincer to a snapper. Electrophysiology, SDS-PAGE gel electrophoresis, and immunocytochemistry were used to analyze changes in claw closer muscle function and composition during the transformation process. Remodification of closer muscle during claw transformation, involving the complete loss of a central section of fast-contracting fibers and their replacement through enlargement of existing slowly-contracting segments of the muscle, may mimic similar muscle modifications during initial claw development. Exposure of intact animals to environmental ecdysteroid hormones accelerated the rate of these changes. These processes appear to be a product of a remarkable trophic plasticity of crustacean skeletal muscle first discovered by Skinner.
3882637|Four principal stages of oocyte growth are recognized among teleosts. During gonadotropin-independent primary growth, multiple nucleoli form as well as a Balbiani body which eventually disperses throughout the ooplasm. The first gonadotropin-dependent stage involves the formation of yolk vesicles, the precursors to the cortical alveoli. True vitellogenesis follows during which vitellogenin is sequestered from the maternal blood and packaged into yolk granules or spheres. The latter generally fuse centripetally at some time during oocyte growth to give a continuous fluid phase surrounded by a peripheral layer of cytoplasm containing the cortical alveoli. Maturation represents the final stage and is accompanied in many teleosts by water uptake; among marine teleosts with pelagic eggs, most of the final egg volume may be achieved by this process. Ovaries may be synchronous, asynchronous, or group-synchronous. Among the latter, a clutch of oocytes may be recruited from an asynchronous population of earlier stages into any of the subsequent stages. In teleosts which spawn repeatedly, recruitment of new clutches can usually be associated with the transition of a previously recruited clutch from one stage to the next. Teleosts thus offer examples of virtually every conceivable type of ovarian physiology and provide a wealth of experimental material for exploring the cellular and hormonal mechanisms which regulate oocyte recruitment and growth throughout ovarian recrudescence.
3881620| The current status of the pathway of ecdysone biosynthesis and inactivation in insects is discussed. Evidence is presented demonstrating that -ecdysone is generated from -ecdysone by fat body, Malpighian tubules, gut, and body wall, but not by blood, oenocytes muscle, salivary gland, or the prothoracic gland itself (in vitro experiments with prepupal Manduca sexta tissues). Since -ecdysone does not appear to have demonstrable hormonal activity at physiological concentrations in in vitro tissue systems which cannot metabolize it to -ecdysone, it is suggested that -ecdysone serves as a prohormone rather than as a hormone. The role of the prothoracic gland in the production of -ecdysone remains to be defined. 
3883649|Coral reefs have deteriorated at an accelerating pace during 40 years of ecological study at 11 sites around Jamaica. This is due to a variety of causes, whose effects are analyzed by comparing sites with known and divergent histories of environmental change. Degradative factors include overgrowth by algae, sponges, and soft corals, eutrophication by sewage nutrients, reduced herbivory due to overfishing and natural causes, hurricanes, sedimentation, diver and boat damage, and coral bleaching. These stresses have very different histories and gradients at different sites, allowing separation of their effects. Mass coral bleaching is apparently a novel phenomenon of the past decade. Non-parametric statistical analysis of relative stresses at the 11 sites shows that its pattern in space and time is unrelated to previously existing stresses.
3883883| Models of global climate change predict an increase in the mean surface temperature between 1.5 and 4.5C by the middle of the next century. Even a moderate increase of 3C is likely to result in a shift in the distribution of North American habitat types and vegetational associations, either in latitude or elevation or both. The challenge to Conservation Biology is to predict the responses of terrestrial organisms to the expected alteration in habitats and ecosystems. Recent biophysical models have been expanded to demonstrate the intimate associations between the thermal environment, organismal physiology and ecology. Thus, the expected turnover in habitats may have a profound influence on the distribution of organisms. I describe one possible approach that couples temporal and spatial variation in an ecologically relevant physiological trait, locomotory performance, in a widespread species of lizard, Urosaurus ornatus, to predict the expected response of species to global change. Estimates of maximum velocity and endurance capacity were obtained from 16 populations throughout the range of U. ornatus. Information on spatial variation was supplemented with data on temporal variation spanning an eight year period from a single reference population. I used these data to address two questions: 1) is there an association between locomotory performance and the expected habitat changes predicted from global climate models and 2) is there sufficient variation within a population to respond to habitat modification. Populations of U. ornatus varied significantly in sprint speed and stamina. Several environmental factors expected to correlate with global climate change were evaluated using the patterns of variation in locomotor performance. Results from this study suggest that high elevation populations found in ponderosa pine forests should be most susceptible to changes in climate. Within-population variation was found to span the range of variation seen among populations and was sensitive to temporal variation in climatic conditions. Given the expected and rapid change in environments, small, ectothermic, terrestrial species may not have the ability to modify their geographic distribution. However, the results presented here suggest that only certain populations are at risk; yet the evolutionary response of the population may be long relative to the rate of environment change. 
3881721| The pineal gland is biochemically very active. In mammals, it has the unique capacity to synthesize the hormone melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxy-tryptamine). Although the synthesis of melatonin is confined mainly to the pineal gland of all vertebrates, the eyes and brains of amphibians and fish also can form melatonin. Melatonin is synthesized in the pineal as follows: tryptophan  5-hydroxy-tryptophan  serotonin  N-acetylserotonin  melatonin. The final step is catalyzed by the enzyme, hydroxyindole-O-methyl transferase (HIOMT), which is highly localized in the pineal of all vertebrate species examined. The activity of HIOMT is changed when animals are kept in constant darkness or light. In rats, highest HIOMT activity is present in constant darkness, while the reverse occurs in avian species. In mammals, information about lighting reaches the pineal via the retina  inferior accessory optic tract  preganglionic sympathetic fibers  superior cervical ganglia  postganglionic fibers  pineal parenchymal cells. Lighting messages reach the hen's pineal via a nonretinal pathway. Studies with tissue culture indicate that noradrenaline liberated from sympathetic nerves stimulates synthesis of melatonin. There are circadian rhythms in pineal serotonin content which are endogenous and abolished by removal of superior cervical ganglia or by decentralization. There is also a 24-hour rhythm in pineal noradrenaline. This rhythm is exogenous and is abolished by blinding or cutting the inferior accessory optic tract. 
3883738| The tngara frog has an advertisement call with two structurally and functionally distinct components: the whine is both necessary and sufficient for species recognition, and addition of chucks further enhances call attractiveness. Only the fundamental frequency of the whine contributes to phonotaxis; the upper harmonics play no role. Furthermore, only a small portion of the whine, within the first 0-100 msec, is necessary to elicit phonotaxis; there is some redundancy since either the 0-50 msec or the 50-100 msec portion elicits a response. Most of the remainder of the whine's fundamental further enhances call attractiveness. Only the amphibian papilla in the peripheral auditory system is involved in decoding the whine. In stark contrast, several chuck variants, which stimulate either the amphibian papilla or the basilar papilla, and white noise are as effective in enhancing call attractiveness as is the normal chuck, showing that either peripheral end organ can be involved in the perception of a more attractive call. Thus there is greater receiver specificity for decoding stimuli in interspecific mate choice, and greater receiver permissiveness for decoding stimuli in intraspecific mate choice; it appears that intraspecific mate choice can take advantage of a greater array of neural pathways for call decoding than can interspecific mate choice. 
3883045|Both laboratory and field studies of the effects of paternal care on offspring development are useful for explaining and controlling offspring development, for discovering the mechanisms involved, and for explaining the presence of and variance in paternal care. Many observers of paternal behaviors have simply assumed that paternal care has beneficial effects on the offspring. This assumption needs to be tested. Several experimental and nonexperimental research strategies are discussed. Documented effects of paternal presence on offspring development include effects on survival and growth, sexual maturation, sexual preference, aggressiveness, and various social behaviors. Paternal modification of maternal behavior is one very interesting avenue through which fathers may affect the development of their offspring, but it must be remembered that mothers, fathers, and offspring are each part of a complex web of reciprocal relationships.
3882823|The neurosecretory structures in the crustacean eyestalk are considered to be the source of factors regulating a considerable variety of physiological processes. Although many hormonal "factors" have been postulated, only a few have been characterized in detail. Two pigmentary effector regulating neuropeptides have been completely characterized. A third substance, the hyperglycemic hormone, has been isolated and characterized in terms of amino acid composition. It is larger than the pigmentary effector hormones (mol wt 6,000-7,000) and it is the first of the heretofore described invertebrate neurohormones that contains disulfide bridges. Unlike the pigmentary effector hormones, the hyperglycemic neuropeptide exhibits species or systematic group specificity, recognizable by differences in amino acid compositions and also expressed by lack of interspecific (or intergroup) biological activity. An antiserum permitted the development of a radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemical demonstration of the hormone producing perikarya in decapods and in an isopod. Large immunopositive perikarya form a distinct group in the medulla terminalis ganglionic X-organ. This group sends a conspicuous tract of axons to the neurohemal organ, the sinus gland, where the hormone is stored in large quantities. It is believed to be necessary for the regulation of resting levels of blood sugar and for elevation of blood sugar in situations of physiological need. In general, however, the physiological mode of action of the hormone is largely unknown.
3883905|This paper reviews the evidence dealing with hormonal controls on egg production in Rhodnius prolixus by which the inputs of feeding and mating are integrated. Juvenile hormone, secreted by the corpus allatum, plays a central role in egg production, intervening at several sites to control the duration of egg production. The controls on the corpus allatum are complex and apparently highly redundant, and the necessity for this redundancy is analysed in terms of the strategic advantage conferred on the insect by this network of controls.
3882191|In a brief review of development of the phylum Sipuncula, four patterns of development are recognized: (1) direct with no pelagic stage; (2) one larval stage, a lecithotrophic trochophore; (3) two larval stages, a lecithotrophic trochophore and a lecithotrophic pelagosphera; (4) two larval stages, a lecithotrophic trochophore and a planktotrophic pelagosphera. Larval types and their metamorphoses are described, with special attention to the development and morphology of the larval cuticle. In the majority of species studied, the egg envelope is transformed into the larval cuticle at metamorphosis of the trochophore. The cuticle of many planktotrophic pelagosphera larvae is characterized by surface papillae of diverse form and pattern. The underlying cuticle in some species is composed of layers of fibers at right angles to one another.
3882552|Although much life-history theory assumes otherwise, most life-history traits exhibit phenotypic plasticity in response to environmental factors during development. Plasticity has long been recognized as a potentially important factor in evolution, is known to be under genetic control, and may or may not be adaptive. The notion of adaptive plasticity contrasts with the idea that developmental homeostasis is a major evolutionary goal. The conflict was resolved in principle by Ashby's cybernetic analysis of homeostasis, which showed how plasticity in "response variables" might act to screen "essential variables" from the impact of environmental disturbance. To apply this analysis to life-history plasticity, it must be incorporated into a demographic model. An approach is presented here using life cycle graphs and matrix projection models. Plasticity in response to temporal variation leads to time-varying matrix models: plasticity in response to spatial variation leads to models structured by criteria other than age. The adaptive value of such plasticity can be assessed by calculating its effects on a suitable measure of fitness: long-term growth rate for time-invariant models, expected growth rate discounted by variance for time-varying models. Three examples are analyzed here: plasticity in the rate of development from one instar to the next in a stage-classified model, plasticity in multiplicative yield components, and plasticity in dormancy as a response to environmental cues. Development rate plasticity is adaptive if reproductive value increases from the instar in question to the next, maladaptive otherwise. Plasticity in yield components reduces fitness variance, and hence is adaptive, if the responses of successive developmental steps (e.g., flowers/stem, seeds/flower) are negatively correlated. Plasticity in dormancy is adaptive if it responds to the same factor(s) influencing mortality, but with opposite sign. A number of important problems, including trade-offs between genetic and phenotypic adaptation and the distinction between continuous and discontinous plasticity remain to be solved.
3881631|The degree of participation of any given enzyme reaction in metabolism is not determined by energy-volume relationships, but rather by enzyme affinities for key regulatory ligands. In temperature adaptation, enzyme-substrate affinities often decrease as thermal kinetic energy increases, thus compensating for temperature-induced changes in reaction velocity at low substrate concentrations. Since the effects of pressure are not unidirectional (some enzymes are accelerated; some are unaffected; some are decelerated), a more functional solution in pressure adaptation is to elaborate enzymes whose affinities for key metabolites are pressure independent. In consequence, at physiological substrate concentrations, the pressure sensitivities of catalysis and control of catalysis are probably held at a minimum.
3884251|Some anamniotic aquatic vertebrates lay eggs in a terrestrial habitat that is hostile to the survival of hatchings or larvae. These terrestrial eggs are ready and able to hatch at a particular developmental time, but do not hatch until presented with suitable conditions for aquatic larval survival. Beyond this time, hatching is possible whenever aquatic conditions occur. The duration of extended terrestrial incubation is dependent on the availability of energy for metabolism from the yolk. Extended incubation is useful for anamniotic eggs laid in terrestrial habitats where conditions suitable for larval survival arrive with unpredictable or variable timing. Examples of anamniotes with delayed hatching and extended terrestrial incubation can be found among teleost fishes, anurans, and caudate amphibians. This paper characterizes the embryonic period, compares this mode with other forms of developmental plasticity in anamniotes, evaluates the constraints and advantages of this life history mode, and examines how some fishes and amphibians are able to obtain the benefits of terrestriality for their eggs when the timing of the return to aquatic conditions is not entirely predictable.
3883423| Recent transects across the continental slope off western Louisiana, the Mississippi River delta, and the Florida peninsula in the general depth range of 300-3,000 m have provided information on habitat variables and on faunal composition, density, and depth zonation. In the meiofauna (retained by 63 m screens) nematodes, harpacticoid copepods, nauplii, polychaetes, ostracods, and kinorynchs were numerically dominant, in that order, and together these groups made up 98% of the fauna. The macrofauna (retained by 0.3 mm screens) was dominated by polychaetes, ostracods, bivalves, tanaids, bryozoans, and isopods in that order, and together these made up 86% of the fauna. Densities of both groups were highest on the Central Transect, and densities of both tended to decrease with depth. Between the depths of 300 m and 3,000 m there was a threefold decrease in meiofaunal and a twofold decrease in macrofaunal density. Among the megafauna (collected by otter trawl) invertebrate densities, dominated by crustaceans, were four to five times as great as fish densities at all depths and on all transects. Densities were greatest on the Eastern and least on the Central Transect, and on all transects they decreased with depth. On the slope off Louisiana and East Texas, in the depth range of 400-900 m, dense biological communities have been encountered at about 40 locations aggregated around oil and gas seeps. These organisms include clusters of large tube worms (vestimentiferans), vesicomyid clams, mussels, galatheid crabs, bresiliid shrimps, neogastropods, limpets, and fishes. This community is trophically dependent upon chemoautotrophic bacteria (which utilize hydrogen sulfide), although some mussels directly utilize methane as a carbon source. This community is closely related to that of the hydrothermal vent systems of the East Pacific Rise and to the seep communities at the base of the Florida escarpment. The megafauna of the northern and eastern Gulf of Mexico falls naturally into the following depth distribution pattern: Shelf/Slope Transition Zone (118-475 m), Archibenthal Zone-Horizon A (500-775 m), Archibenthal Zone-Horizon B (800-975 m), Upper Abyssal Zone (1,000-2,275 m), Mesoabyssal Zone (2,300-3,225 m), and Lower Abyssal Zone (3,250-3,850 m). Biological characteristics of each zone are discussed. 
3883253|The cycles, pathogenicity and immune processes observed in 3 intracellular infections, with the protozoa Toxoplasma gondii, several Sarcocystis species, and the nematode Trichinella spiralis are described. All three organisms have cycles that have co-existed with their hosts for an evolutionarily long period. Natural hosts of the protozoa generally are able to develop immunity after primary infection in a timely manner. However infection is often fatal in certain unusual hosts not naturally exposed to Toxoplasma and Sarcocystis. It is suggested that whereas hosts may have selected strains of intermediate pathogenicity, the two protozoa may have selected for hosts that can develop timely immune responses and survive with chronic persistent infection. Stability of cycle is maintained by co-evolution in the definitive host through which the cycle must pass almost regularly. Toxoplasmosis and sarcosporidiosis join malaria and African trypanosomiasis as infections that co-evolved with their hosts, selecting for immunocompetency and intermediate to low pathogenicity (Allison, 1982). The plea is made to consider the probable evolutionary experience of experimental hosts when studying their specific immune mechanisms and before possibly generalizing from such studies, because the immune response is dependent on evolutionary experience. In respect to infection with Trichinella spiralis one might consider carnivores to have been selected and pure herbivores unselected. However, infection occurs in a wide variety of hosts, with carnivorous, scavenging and accidental transmission, some of which are of recent modification by man. Because infection is of low prevalence, and involves a wide variety of hosts, and pathogenicity is more related to the degree of hypersensitivity, than to frequency of transmission and worm load, no uniform effects of selection are apparent. Trichinella infected athymic mice have a high worm load with little pathogenic effect. Immunologic processes, while restricting the number of worms, are much more important in making the host sick. In all three intracellular infections both protective immunity and delayed type hypersensitivity are operative. In balance, these immune responses are protective in Toxoplasma and Sarcocystis infection, but are pathogenic in trichinellosis, often causing the death of the infected host.
3881889|The potential impact of frog diseases on basic research is discussed in practical terms.
4620165| Diuretic peptides stimulate primary urine production by insect Malpighian tubules and, along with antidiuretic hormones, regulate water loss from the excretory system. There are two structurally distinct families of diuretic peptides. CRF-related diuretic peptides belong to the vertebrate CRF/sauvagine/urotensin I/urocortin superfamily. They increase urine production via a cyclic AMP-dependent mechanism, and there is evidence for one of them (Lom-DH) having a hormonal function in the control of post-feeding diuresis in locusts. Related peptides appear to trigger post-eclosion diuresis in moths. The insect kinins act via a Ca-dependent mechanism to stimulate urine production. They are found in hemolymph at levels sufficient to stimulate tubule secretion, but their role in the control of diuresis in vivo has still to be defined. In locusts, these two classes of diuretic peptide act synergistically to accelerate tubule secretion, which may be of physiological relevance. Indeed, synergism may be the norm in controlling tubule secretion, and can involve both neuropeptides and biogenic amines (notably serotonin). Although other diuretic peptides have been identified, their role as circulating hormones has yet to be established. 
3883524|This chapter reviews experimental evidence for peptides acting as transmitters or morphogens in the Cnidaria. A wide range of brain/gut peptides have been localized immunohistochemically to specific neuronal populations in Hydra. These include gastrin/CCK, substance P, neurotensin, bombesin, oxytocin/vasopressin and FMRFamide. In most cases the amino-acid sequences of the cnidarian peptides are somewhat different from their mammalian counterparts. The functions of these peptides in Hydra are unknown. A series of neuropeptides with the carboxy-terminus, Arg-Phe-amide, is ubiquitous within the phylum. Immunoreactivity to antisera against RFamide is seen in two characteristic neuronal subpopulations; a sensory and a ganglionic cell type. Two of these peptides have now been isolated and sequenced. One has the structure, pGlu-Gly-Arg-Phe-amide (Antho-RFamide) and is found in several anthozoans, a second with the sequence pGlu-Leu-Leu-Gly-Gly-Arg-Phe-amide (Poly A peptide) is found in the hydrozoan Polyorchis. Arg-Phe-amide peptides have excitatory effects on both muscles and neuronal systems. In the anthozoans, RFamide peptides can increase the tone, contraction amplitude and frequency of a number of smooth muscle systems. Additionally, in the anemone Calliactis, application of Antho-RFamide can dramatically increase the firing rate in one of the ectodermal conducting systems, the SS1. In Polyorchis several RFamides produce long duration spike trains in motor neurons that may or may not be associated with membrane depolarization. A peptide called 'head activator'
3883347|Studies of interlimb control during cat locomotion are directed at four different levels of organization. Interlimb stepping patterns are described from studies of the timing of electromyographic activity of muscles of different limbs. Patterns of coordination are based on the frequency of occurrence of the phasing of step cycles of the different limbs. Selective spinal cord lesions are used to perturb those patterns of coordination and have implicated two ascending spinal systems in interlimb control: long ascending propriospinal neurons (LAPNs) and neurons of the ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT). The results of neuroanatomical tract tracing experiments indicate that two different populations of LAPNs exist which might provide direct connection between cervical and lumbosacral locomotor centers but that neurons of the VSCT do not make such connections. These results imply that the role of the VSCT in interlimb control is by way of the cerebellum. Unit recordings made from axons of the VSCT during treadmill locomotion are consistent with the VSCT carrying information about the timing of both hindlimb step cycles.
3882103| Patterns of chondrichthyan reproduction and development are diverse. Species either are reproductively active throughout the year, or have a poorly defined annual cycle with one or two peaks of activity, or have a well defined annual or biennial cycle. Based on embryological origin and adult morphology, their reproductive system is more similar to tetrapods than to teleosts. Primordial germ cells are of endodermal origin. The Wolffian ducts in males and Mllerian ducts in females become the functional urogenital ducts. Differentiation is under hormonal control. Unusual features of the reproductive system include an epigonal organ in males and females. It contains lymphoid and hemopoietic tissue. Leydig's gland, a modified region of the kidney, produces seminal fluid. In some species, sperm passing through the vas deferens, is enclosed in spermatophores. Rotating about their long axis, helical spermatozoa can move forward or reverse direction. Spermatogenesis often occurs in bicellular units, spermatocysts. These consist of a spermatogonium enclosed in a Sertoli cell. Fertilization is internal. Claspers, modified portions of the pelvic fins act as intromittent organs. In many viviparous sharks and rays, the female reproductive system is asymmetrical. Eggs of some sharks are the largest known cells. Yolk platelets contain lipovitellin. Oocytes have lampbrush chromosomes. Eggs released from the ovary into the body cavity are transported by ciliary action to the ostium of the oviduct. There they are fertilized. Physiological polyspermy is normal. The shell gland, a specialized region of the anterior oviduct, functions both in long term sperm storage and in egg case production. Egg cases of sharks and skates consist of unique collagenous protein with a 400  period, organized as a cholesteric liquid crystal. Chimaeroid egg cases contain 550  pseudotubules in orthogonal lattices. In small sharks, males copulate by coiling around the female. A parallel position is assumed by large sharks. Skates and rays copulate with ventral surfaces apposed or by a dorsal approach. Biting is a pre-copulatory release mechanism. Parental care, except for selective oviposition, is lacking. Heavily yolked eggs undergo meroblastic, discoidal cleavage. Development is lengthy, shortest (2-4 months) in rays, longer in skates (3-8 months) and longest (9-22 months) in sharks and chimaeras. Most sharks and all rays are viviparous. Chimaeras, skates, and some sharks are oviparous. Viviparity either involves a yolk sac placenta or is aplacental. If aplacental, the embryo derives nutrients either from yolk reserves, or by intra-uterine embryonic cannibalism, or from placental analogues which secrete "uterine milk." Phylogenetic position, geographical distribution, benthic vs. pelagic habitat, adult size, egg-embryo size, feeding ecology, and embryonic osmoregulation are factors in the retention of oviparity or the evolution of viviparity. 
3882072|Growth patterns of the Scyphomedusa Aurelia aurita from Tomales Bay. California, were examined in the field and in the laboratory. Manipulation of growth patterns demonstrated that degrowth and regrowth are not constrained by initial developmental stage. Although initial degrowth of certain tissues is allometric (e.g., gonads regress in 5 to 8 days; bell diameter decreases more rapidly at first than do the oral arms), thereafter regression appears identical to, but reversed from normal growth. Regrowth patterns are normal. Sexual maturation in the sea does not always alter subsequent capacity for degrowth or regrowth to sexual maturity in the laboratory, because reproductive and somatic tissues do not always degenerate after spawning. Gonadal tissue can be renewed and maintained in a ripe condition in the laboratory apparently indefinitely. Sexual maturation is a size-dependent phenomenon, not an age-specific developmental event. Spermatogenesis, once initiated, proceeds irrespective of outside events. Labeled spermatogonial cells can continue to differentiate to form sperm even though the gonad containing those cells, and the animal itself, show rapid degrowth. The importance of this decoupling of developmental events is discussed. The experimental importance of animals with flexible life cycles is emphasized.
3882849|Paul Sears identified ecology as a subversive science; William Ophuls, referring primarily to its human applications, called it a conservative science. Both characterizations are correct. Human ecologists aim to conserve natural resources, thereby making it possible for our posterity to enjoy a quality of life at least equal to ours. Frequently this kind of conservatism is at odds with the conservation of traditional religious beliefs, political practices, and social privileges: hence the aptness of the adjective "subversive." The essence of human ecology is found in a few propositions of the sort that mathematician E. T. Whittaker called "postulates of impotence." These lead to simple but profound generalizations, of which a dozen are offered here.
3882685|Comparative studies on the compound ascidians Distaplia occidentalis and Diplosoma macdonaldi indicate that larval myogenesis is divisible into three periods. In the proliferative phase, the presumptive muscle cells divide by mitosis, assume specific relationships to the notochordal and epidermal rudiments of the embryo, and assemble the synthetic machinery to support the ensuing period of myogenesis. In the synthetic phase, the differentiating muscle cells increase in volume, establish the contractile apparatus, and augment the cisternae of agranular sarcoplasmic reticulum. The sarcoplasmic reticulum and sarcolemma form local adhesions that foreshadow structural couplings. In the elaborative phase, the caudal muscle cells refine the contractile apparatus, envelop it with perifibrillar cisternae of sarcoplasmic reticulum, and anchor it to the sarcolemma at the transverse cellular boundaries. Dyadic couplings link the perifibrillar sarcoplasmic reticulum to the sarcolemma. Subsarcolemmal specializations appear at future synaptic sites shortly before hatching.
3882188|Early development of the oyster embryo to the swimming stage (late blastula-early gastrula) is under control of information transcribed during oogenesis and stored in the egg. At the swimming stage, the nuclei become increasingly active in RNA synthesis and produce at least one new class of transcript. Transcription during this stage appears necessary for further development. This pattern of gene expression correlates with results found by others for the clams Spisula and Mulinia. The pattern of gene expression for bivalves is similar to that found for lower deuterostomes but is in contrast to various results from studies on different gastropods. There is evidently no general "spiralian" mode of gene expression during early development.
3884417| Several neuroactive compounds have been implicated as playing roles in the circuitry that controls larval metamorphosis in marine molluscs. For the caenogastropod Ilyanassa obsoleta, results of neuroanatomical studies suggest that the production of nitric oxide (NO) increases throughout the planktonic stage and that NO production is necessary for the maintenance of the larval state, especially as it becomes metamorphically competent. Bath application or injection of exogenous serotonin (5HT) can initiate metamorphosis in competent larvae, and exogenous NO can inhibit such serotonergically-induced metamorphosis. Inhibition of endogenous nitric oxide synthase (NOS) can also trigger larval metamorphosis. The production of endogenous NO appears to decrease concurrently with the initiation of metamorphosis, but the specific interactions between serotonergic and nitrergic neurons are unknown. Evidence in support of NO acting to up-regulate the enzyme guanylyl cyclase (GC) is still equivocal. Thus, we do not yet know if NO exerts its effects through the actions of cyclic 3,5-guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) or by a cGMP-independent mechanism. The ubiquity of nitrergic signalling and its significance for developing molluscan embryos and larvae are still the subject of speculation and require further investigation. 
3882325|Adult male mice (Mus musculus) which have a prior history of experience with other adult male and adult female mice readily produce 70 kHz ultrasonic vocalizations in the presence of urine from adult females but not in the presence of urine from adult males. Urine from immatures of either sex does not elicit ultrasounds from socially experienced adult males. The ultrasound eliciting potency of adult male urine was not improved substantially following castration of adult males, injection of testosterone propionate to castrated adult males, administration of estradiol benzoate to castrated adult males, or neonatal castration. Ovarian hormones do not appear to be necessary for either the appearance at puberty, or the maintenance during adulthood, of the ultrasound eliciting cues of female urine. Stage of estrus did not have a major modulating effect on urinary cues eliciting male ultrasounds. Treatments that did not substantially reduce the signal value of adult female urine include ovariectomy before or after puberty, ovariectomy with adrenalectomy, and neonatal administration of testosterone. The administration of testosterone to ovariectomized adult females, and hypophysectomy, virtually eliminated the ability of urine from adult females to elicit ultrasounds from socially experienced adult males. The implication of pituitary hormones in the modulation of female urinary cues that elicit ultrasounds is particularly interesting since pituitary factors are also implicated in the proximal causation of postparturient maternal aggression, which adult male ultrasounds may function to moderate.
4620175|Models of energy budgets often allocate energy between the broad categories of maintenance, growth, and reproduction. An important component of maintenance costs is standard metabolic rate, which is partially determined by body temperature. The relationship between thermoregulation, standard metabolism, and egg production was investigated in adult females of the acridid grasshopper Xanthippus corallipes from six populations along an elevation gradient. Individuals thermoregulate and maintain stable afternoon body temperatures which correlate negatively with elevation. Standard metabolic rates were calculated at each population's afternoon body temperature. These rates were then used to investigate the effect of variation in standard metabolic rate on egg production. Because of the pervasive effect of mass on standard metabolic rate and egg number, the variables were log-transformed. The effect of mass was removed by regression analyses, and residuals were calculated. An analysis of the residuals revealed that intermediate values of field standard metabolic rate correlate with high egg production, suggesting stabilizing selection on standard metabolic rate.
3882620|This paper describes factors which regulate the corpora allata (CA) during the reproductive cycle in the viviparous cockroach Diploptera punctata. Experiments, designed to alter the rate of juvenile hormone (JH) synthesis by the CA, are performed on whole animals and their effects are demonstrated by an in vitro radiochemical assay for JH synthesis by the CA. The CA is both inhibited and stimulated. Axonal pathways from the brain to the CA are required for inhibition of the CA in virgin females but not in young pregnant females. Humorally transmitted inhibition of the CA is caused in vivo by JH (in high titers) and ecdysteroid hormone. JH in low titers also stimulates the CA. Since these hormones do not affect the CA in vitro we suggest that they exert their effect via the central nervous system. The ovary, a possible source of ecdysteroids in the hemolymph, is necessary both for maintenance of JH synthesis and for inhibition in the rate of JH synthesis at the end of egg growth.
3881961|Although the thyroid gland evolved from the gut, there is no evidence that thyroxine functions as part of the gastro-intestinal endocrine system nor does it have any major function analogous to the control of glucose by the pancreatic islets. The control of the thyroid evolved from the pituitary control of the gonad suggesting that an early role of thyroxine was in reproduction. This idea is supported by the presence of cycles of thyroid activity associated with reproduction in both elasmobranchs and teleosts. In teleosts thyroxine is necessary for gonadal maturation. The numerous other effects of thyroxine in teleosts may have evolved from this maturational effect or have been added to it during the course of teleost evolution.
3881603|An enormous challenge for the entomologists and public health specialists of the next 30 years, is the development of integrated control programs to complete the conquest of the important vector-borne diseases of man: African and American trypanosomiases, filariasis, onchocerciasis, scrub typhus, trachoma, and encephalitides. New insecticides will play an important role in these programs. However, we must learn to use these chemicals in ways which will maximize effectiveness to vectors, minimize side-effects to man and the environment, and permit their use at costs which can be met by developing countries. This will require an immense amount of research directed at full understanding of the ecology of the vector species and their interrelationships with man and animal reservoirs of the disease.
3884379| Tadpoles are exceptional among vertebrates in lacking vertebrae along most of their body axis. Their caudal myotomes are also unusually simple for freeliving vertebrates. This overall morphological simplicity, in theory, makes tadpoles good models for exploring how vertebrates control undulatory movements. We used electromyography (EMG), high speed cin, computational fluid dynamics (CFD), and mechanical tissue testing to understand how Rana tadpoles regulate their locomotion. Bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) tadpoles have several patterns of muscle activity, each specific to a particular swimming behavior. Ipsilateral muscles in the tail were active either in series or simultaneously, depending on the tadpole's velocity, and linear and angular acceleration. When R. catesbeiana larvae swam at their natural preferred tail beat frequency, muscles at the caudal end of their tail were inactive. Mechanical tests of tissue further suggest that the preferred tail beat frequency closely matches the resonance frequency of the tail thus minimizing the energetic cost of locomotion. CFD modeling has demonstrated that the characteristically high amplitude oscillations at a tadpole's snout during normal rectilinear locomotion do not add to drag, as might be supposed, but rather help generate thrust. Mechanical testing of the tadpole tail fin has revealed that the fin is viscoelastic and stiffer in small rather than large deformations. This property (among others) allows the tail to be light and flexible, yet stiff enough to generate thrust in the absence of a bony or cartilaginous skeleton. Many recent studies have documented predator-induced polyphenism in tadpole tail shape. We suggest that this developmental plasticity in locomotor structures is more common in tadpoles than in other vertebrates because tadpoles do not need to reform skeletal tissue to change overall caudal shape. Tadpole tail fins and tip, in the absence of any skeleton, are fragile and often scarred by predators. Based on the high incidence of tail fin injury seen in tadpoles in the wild, we suggest that the tadpole tail fin and tip may play an ecological role that goes beyond serving as a propeller to help tadpoles stay beyond predators' reach. Those soft tissue axial structures, by failing under very small tensile loads, may also allow tadpoles to tear free of a predator's grasp. 
3883366|Regeneration of the nervous system of Melampus following cerebral ganglion removal proceeds through tract, bud, and ganglion stages. Each stage can represent a terminal condition in some animals. Early events of regeneration appear to include roles for chemotactic and growth-promoting agents and axonal guidance by preferential adhesion to a connective tissue sheath. This latter proposed mechanism accounts for the observed sequence in which the neural elements unite in the tract stage and for the pattern of failures that result when the sheath is disrupted. In the tract stage of regeneration, communication through the site of the missing ganglion is restored within the central nervous system, and between neurons of non-excised ganglia and the denervated periphery. Some behavioral recovery results. The bud stage of regeneration is characterized by neuropil development and associated swelling at the site of confluence of the tracts. Serotonin immunohistochemistry of bud stage preparations and retrograde dye transport via bud nerves show tracts and numerous synaptic varicosities, but the neuron somata that are labeled are located in other ganglia. Ultrastructural examination of late bud/early ganglion stage tissue reveals the presence of small undifferentiated cells. By six to seven months postoperative, some snails have clearly reached a ganglion stage of regeneration characterized by the appearance of differentiated neurons within the bud. The origin of these new neurons is currently under investigation.
3882580|Playback experiments using synthetic sounds indicate that gravid females of the gray treefrogs (Hyla versicolor and H. chrysoscelis) and the green treefrog (H. cinerea) selectively respond to sounds on the basis of physical properties that show inter-individual variation in the calls of conspecific males. Although the specificity is adequate to differentiate among the signals of many males, this potential for mate choice may not be fully realized in acoustically complex situations such as natural breeding aggregations. Female selectivity in H. cinerea was less precise in four-speaker experiments than in two-speaker experiments. An analysis of female preferences with respect to a call property correlated with body size was only partially successful in predicting the size distribution of successful males in a natural population. Finally, the existence of other synchronously breeding species of frogs with similar calls may impose significant constraints on intraspecific mate choice, and female specificity with respect to some acoustic properties of mating calls is difficult to explain otherwise.
3881454|Different insect muscles have been studied with the electron microscope and the distribution of the two kinds of myofilaments compared. In muscles other than those of flight, each thick filament is surrounded by 9-12 thin filaments, whereas, in the flight muscles, the contraction frequency of which is much higher, there are only 6 thin filaments surrounding each thick one; nevertheless, in the flight muscles of some butterflies, the wing stroke frequency of which is particularly low, there are 7-9 thin filaments. It seems then that there may be a relation between the ratio of the two kinds of myofilaments and the frequency of muscular contraction. In the muscles which have more than 6 thin filaments surrounding each thick one, the structure of the Z line appears to be different from that which was described in dipteran flight muscles. A peculiar aspect of the M line is observed in lepidopteran flight muscles.
3884522| The physiological mechanisms by which aquatic animals regulate the osmoconcentration of their body fluids remain unclear despite many excellent studies of tissue and cell function. This review summarizes the current status of an ongoing molecular biological approach to investigating transporters and transport-related enzymes in ion-transporting gills of osmoregulating crustaceans. We have identified cDNAs coding for six candidate proteins in gills of the blue crab Callinectes sapidus and the green shore crab Carcinus maenas, including a Na
3883395|Although primarily limited by the rate of diffusion of oxygen and carbon dioxide across the integument, cutaneous gas exchange is also affected by adjustments in the absolute flow of blood to the skin, the pattern of distribution of blood within the cutaneous vascular bed, and the effects of central vascular shunting on gas partial pressures of arterial blood perfusing the skin. The interplay of these various factors, particularly in animals with heterogeneous arterial supply to the skin and/or with highly variable intracardiac shunts, potentially is complex, only poorly understood, and worthy of considerable future experimentation.
3882321|Infant rodents of many species emit high frequency vocalizations when aroused. These signals, when detected by adult females of the same species, elicit increased caregiving. The behavior of the dam towards her offspring influences the development of arousal mechanisms of the offspring and appears to alter turnover of brain dopamine. These effects are quite pervasive since altered maternal care induced by ultrasonic vocalizations from an initial litter is observable in the behavior of the dam towards a subsequent litter; similar alterations in the development of arousal mechanisms and brain dopamine turnover are observable in the subsequent litters; and the effects of this altered caregiving during the first three weeks of development are observable in laboratory rats (Rattus norgevicus) at one and two years of age.
3882309|Experiments in which avian embryos are treated with sex steroids or steroid antagonists suggest that sexual differentiation of reproductive behavior (and thus differentiation of the brain mechanisms for such behavior) is controlled by steroids produced by the embryonic gonads. In chickens and Japanese quail, males hatched from eggs treated with estradiol or testosterone during incubation are feminized (demasculinized); they fail to exhibit masculine sexual behavior as adults, and no longer are behaviorally distinguishable from females. Some evidence suggests that testosterone may mimic the feminizing action of estradiol by being converted to an estrogen in the embryonic brain. Genetic female quail exposed to an antiestrogen during embryonic development are masculinized; they exhibit an increased ability to display the masculine copulatory pattern. Thus the behavior of these species is feminized by embryonic exposure to sex steroids, the anhormonal (neutral) sex for behavioral differentiation appears to be the male, and females appear to result from estrogen produced by the embryonic ovaries. In contrast, sex steroid treatment of mammals early in development masculinizes behavior, the female is the neutral sex, and males result from fetal androgen secretion. These opposite patterns of psychosexual differentiation in birds and mammals are correlated with a major difference between the avian and mammalian sex-determining mechanism. Implications for other vertebrates are discussed.
3882822|Vitellogenesis in the amphipod Orchestia gammarella, in natantian decapods and probably in other Malacostraca involves two phases, primary and secondary vitellogenesis. Oogenesis from oogonia to the end of primary vitellogenesis is a continuous process. The primary proteic vitellus is endogenous. The secondary vitellogenesis takes place during the reproductive season. Fully grown primary follicles are surrounded by a permanent follicular tissue (secondary folliculogenesis). The resulting secondary follicles grow synchronously until ovulation. A tubular network has been observed in secondary follicle cells of prawns. The prominent feature of secondary vitellogenesis is the uptake of vitellogenin by the oocytes. This vitellogenin is synthesized by the fat body. Secondary vitellogenesis is controlled by neurohormones that have not yet been isolated and whose modalities of action still remain unclear. In Decapoda, the classical gonad-inhibiting hormone or GIH released by the sinus glands inhibits secondary vitellogenesis and the synthesis of vitellogenin. In Isopoda, vitellogenesis-inhibiting hormone is synthesized by neurosecretory cells in the median part of the protocerebrum. In Amphipoda, neurosecretory cells of this region secrete a neurohormone inducing secondary folliculogenesis and triggering secondary vitellogenesis. The neurohormones would control the formation of functional secondary follicles during the reproductive season. Other hormones are involved in control of secondary vitellogenesis. In Peracarida molting hormone is necessary for a normal synthesis of vitellogenin and the uptake of this protein by growing oocytes. In the amphipod Orchestia gammarella secondary folliculogenesis requires a low titer of ecdysteroids which characterizes postecdysis. The correlation between molt cycle and secondary vitellogenesis would be established in this way. After secondary folliculogenesis, the secondary follicle cells become endocrine and secrete the vitellogenin-stimulating ovarian hormone (VSOH).
3883787|Neurogenic placodes are focal ectodermal thickenings that give rise to the sensory neurons, and in some cases, the receptor cells of vertebrate sensory systems. There are no markers for the identification of undifferentiated placodal epithelia, but derivatives of the nasal placode, for example, are characterized by unique production of GnRH and olfactory marker protein. Placode morphogenesis occurs by invagination and/or delamination to form sensory epithelia, sensory neuroblasts and in some cases, migratory receptor primordia (e.g., lateral line receptors). Specification of neurogenic placodes and pattern formation of their derivatives has been a subject of study for over eighty years, and is still not well understood, but, several genes have been implicated in pattern formation in the derivatives of the otic placode. The lateral line system is unique among placode-derived sensory systems in vertebrates in that it is only present in anamniotes, it is derived from multiple placodes, has an extensive migratory component and gives rise to two classes of sensory receptor organs that mediate two distinct sensory modalities (mechanoreception and electroreception) which share nervous innervation, but project independently to the hindbrain. Nasal and otic placodes, like other epithelia are capable of inducing skeletogenesis in neural crest and mesodermal mesenchyme and thus via induction contribute to the morphogenesis of the vertebrate skull. The long-standing hypothesis that neuromast receptors induce the formation of the lateral line canals associated with the dermal bones on the heads of fishes remains untested, but it is evident that lateral line bones are composed of both dermal bone and lateral line canal bone and may be subject to two discrete and potentially conflicting sets of functional demands in the heads of fishes.
3882008|Recently there has been renewed interest in the origin and subsequent evolution of such "lower" forms of life as the eukaryotic protists. Concern is expressed that the most significant questions to be asked may often be slighted in workers' attempts to find answers to isolated problems in the phylogeny of these organisms. Stress is placed on questions involving the ciliate Protozoa, following brief description of this intriguing group and of approaches to their study. Is their nature cellular or acellular? Are they closely related to other protozoan groups? How did they arise themselves and to what, if any, metazoan assemblage did they possibly serve as ancestors? How united are the ciliates among themselves? Related questions treated include the concepts of monophyly and polyphyly (widely neglected or misunderstood by many practicing taxonomists) and the possible reflection of phylogenetic considerations in practical schemes of higher-level classification among various protistan groups. Throughout the paper, emphasis is placed on formulation of relevant questions and on the value of the comparative approach to their resolution; seldom are attempts made to provide detailed answers to the problems posed. A plea is made for keeping an open mind in all research in this broad area.
3884517|Extrapolating from a body of work on isolated neurons, a model is suggested for how central nervous system (CNS) neurons in situ may handle local swelling and shrinking perturbations so as to interfere minimally with the primary role of neurons, synaptic information processing. The strategy used for osmoregulatory membrane adjustments may first come into play during ontogeny, when it could provide membrane tension sensitive membrane trafficking in arborized neurons subjected to morphogenetic forces.
3884353|The incretin hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), coencoded and expressed in the proglucagon gene in intestine and endocrine pancreas of all vertebrates, is an important regulator of insulin secretion in the postprandial state of mammals. Additionally, the hormone acts in concert with insulin to remove glucose from the plasma. In mammalian B cells, lung, intestine and brain, GLP-1 receptors activate the adenylyl cyclase/cAMP system of message transduction, with ancillary involvement of calcium and inositoltrisphosphate. While the peptide is fairly conserved in vertebrates, the fishes show dramatic biochemical and physiological differences to the situation in mammals and an incretin function in fishes is questionable. Fish GLP-1 acts preferentially on the liver, and recently enterocytes and brain membranes have been shown to be potential targets. GLP-1 actions generally oppose those of insulin and supplant or supplement those of glucagon by activating glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis and lipolysis in liver and by accelerating glucose transport and curtailing glucose oxidation in enterocytes. In brain and enterocytes, GLP-1 targets adenylyl cyclase, while in the liver adenylyl cyclase and cAMP play subordinate roles only. Although phospholipase C had been implicated in GLP-1 action, the prevalent route of message transduction in fish liver needs to be elucidated. The unique functional switch of GLP-1 from a hyperglycemic hormone in fish to a glucostatic incretin in mammals remains a matter of conjecture.
3881125|Fossil evidence concerning the Anura adds guide-lines to phylogenetic interpretations, but in large part evolutionary information has come from comparative studies of moderns. Trends within the Anura, established in different lines, provide an important source of clues for major phylogenetic interpretations. A number of such trends, both osteological and non-skeletal, are analyzed and their phylogenetic implications assessed. Two major lines of development are postulated. One branch includes the notobatrachid-ascaphid and the pipid-rhinophynid sublines. The other major branch includes the advanced frogs with procoelous centra. The advanced frogs were derived from a primitive stock prior to the development of anything that would be recognized as a notobatrachid-ascaphid-opisthocoelan line, rather than from such a line.
3882857|Knowledge of the embryonic morphogenetic movements of any group of vertebrates must be explored by experimental means in order to answer the questions and correct the errors left over from simply watching development or studying a series of stages in serial sections. The holostean fishes are among numerous important groups of vertebrates that have not previously been explored by the newer cell-marking techniques. Because of superficial resemblances of the epibolic blastodisc and yolk plug of the Amia embryo to those of amphibia, earlier reports usually postulated for this species an invagination of cells over a dorsal lip. Vital staining of the surface cells calls this into question, showing that most if not all of the mesoderm and endoderm is formed from originally internal cells without contribution from the outer layers that form the general ectoderm and the nervous system. The prostomal thickening, a cluster of cells under the so-called dorsal lip, was earlier considered to arise from various sources and seen as the agent which formed more or less of the endoderm by a process called invagination. Evidence is presented that the prostomal thickening is not a constant feature in Amia embryos, when present has not been derived from the embryo's external epithelial covering, and has little if anything to do with formation of the endoderm.
3881565|From a survey of the structure of the skull in rhipidistian fishes and early labyrinthodont Amphibia and of the mechanism of hearing in these two groups, an account of the evolution of the tetrapod middle ear is presented. The overall modification of the otic region of the skull during the rhipidistian-amphibian transition is analyzed in terms of changes in different organ systems in response to different selective pressures (affecting, for example, the feeding, respiratory, and locomotory mechanisms). These changes are seen to occur in a completely integrated pattern. Considerations of the different requirements for sound reception under water and in air, in connection with this correlated progression of evolutionary change in the otic region of the head, reveal the manner in which the hyomandibular, spiracular diverticulum, and operculum of rhipidistian fishes became modified to form the stapes, the tympanic cavity, and the outer portion of the tympanum, respectively, of tetrapods.
3881895|Ciliates are the dominant protozoa in activated sludge, and those which either attach themselves to or crawl over the surface of the sludge are the most common. Experimental work has demonstrated that ciliated protozoa are essential for the production of a good quality effluent. Without ciliates, highly turbid, low quality effluents are obtained. Experimental evidence further suggests that the predatory activities of the ciliates upon the dispersed growths of bacteria are responsible for clarification and for the reduction of coliform numbers during the activated-sludge process. Mathematical models have been devised which take into account both the bacterial and the protozoan populations. The populations have been simulated on a computer and the results obtained in this way have helped to explain many of the observations that have been made upon the microbial populations found in full-scale activated-sludge plants.
3882149|Ligation of developing embryos of Drosophila melanogaster was performed at three different stages of nuclear multiplication and at the cellular blastoderm stage. Egg fragments of variable sizes are able to continue development up to the hatching stage. Partial embryos differentiate larval structures, anterior fragments forming larval head and posterior fragments larval abdominal structures. These fragments differentiate a variable number of the twelve larval cuticular bands formed by intact embryos. We found that ligation at cellular blastoderm can lead to anterior and posterior fragments which differentiate together all the twelve bands, indicating that at this stage the embryo develops these patterns in a mosaic fashion. Ligation of younger embryos prevents the differentiation of some intermediate larval cuticular bands, while the terminal ones are consistently differentiated. The number and position of the deleted bands is correlated with the time and position of ligation. This indicates that the mosaic pattern present in the egg at blastoderm is not fully formed at earlier stages in development.
3881367| The widespread distribution of certain steroids and amino acid derivatives with hormonal properties is considered evidence in support of the dictum that "it is not the hormones that change, but rather the uses to which they are put." However, analyses of the distributions, biological activities, immunological cross-reactivities, and sequences of amino acids of five representative peptide and protein hormones or groups of hormones-lactogenic hormone, growth hormone, the corticotropin-MSH- lipotropin family, insulin, and the neurohypophysial hormones-support a concept of change and of molecular evolution of these polypeptidic molecules. When analyzed in terms of the genetic code, the amino acid interchanges which have been revealed by determination of sequences of amino acids can, most often, be explained by single base mutations in the appropriate codons. In two instances where two base mutations within a single codon are required, intermediate replacements of amino acid have been suggested; one of these would lead to a 2-ALA- MSH, and the other to a 4-PRO, 8-ILE-oxytocin. 
3884532|Plant secondary compounds are deterrents and toxins to a variety of herbivores. The effect of secondary compounds on water balance of herbivores is virtually unexplored, yet many secondary compounds are renowned for their diuretic effects in humans and laboratory rats. We review data from the ethno-pharmocological literature on plants with diuretic effects. We also present our data from experiments on water intake of specialist (Neotoma stephensi) and generalist woodrats (N. albigula) consuming plant secondary compounds from their natural diet. We measured effects of dietary secondary compounds on voluntary water consumption, urine volume and urine osmolarity. Ingestion of secondary compounds increased water intake and urine output and decreased urine osmolarity in both species. However, the generalist was more impacted by dietary secondary compounds than the specialist. Our results combined with that from the literature suggest that diuresis may be a prevalent consequence of ingestion of secondary compounds. Many herbivores live in arid habitats with limited access to free-standing water, thus an increase in the desire for water may have profound consequences on foraging behavior and fitness.
3881691|More than 17 molluscan species were obtained from burrows in coral substrata at Al-Ghardaga (Hurghada on maps) on the Red Sea coast, six of which in particular bore into living colonies. The species reported in this paper belong to the families Mytilidae, Coralliophilidae, and Gastrochaenidae. The direction of boring in living corals is to the outside, the borers keeping pace with the growing coral layer to maintain their burrows open. Coral growth is generally of a higher rate than that of borers, and burrows are accordingly mostly much larger than their inhabitants. There is evidence in such cases that burrows form initially by growth of coral around the settling young. Boring of Lithophaga species is mostly due to the abrasive action of the shell which moves straight and posteroventrally without any rotation. In coralliophilids, boring is also executed mechanically by the turning movements of the shell. Boring in dead coral is directed inwards, and burrows are nearly as large as the borers. The latter avoid the blocking of their burrows (e.g., by a living coral incrustation) either by great siphonal extension (Rocellaria) or the free ends of the shell may be strengthened to maintain the capability of boring in the opposite direction (Lithophaga laevigata). Both L. laevigata and Modiola cinnamomeus bore mainly mechanically by the rocking movements of the shell. Chemical boring is still a possibility, particularly in the posterior narrow region of burrows of Modiola lodging the extended pallial siphons which are deprived of any effective mechanical devices for boring. The role of boring algae in rarefying bored coral material has also to be included as an indirect chemical factor.
3884482|Marine fishes that spawn at the water's edge or even out of water provide their eggs with the advantages of the warmer temperatures and high oxygen availability of the high intertidal zone. However, they increase the risks of desiccation and terrestrial predation. Beach spawners are present in at least 6 families of teleost fishes. Two hypotheses about the origin of beach spawning are tested by mapping of reproductive habitat and spawning site utilization onto phylogenies of two families that contain multiple species that spawn on beaches: Osmeridae, the smelts, and Atherinopsidae, the silversides. Our analysis suggests that beach spawning has evolved repeatedly in certain lineages, and that its antecedents are different for each family. Anadromy appears to have been the precursor for at least 3 different evolutionary origins of beach spawning in osmerids, while nearshore marine spawning in association with plant or gravel substrates was probably the precursor for the atherinopsids. Phylogenetic analysis enables us to reject or support specific evolutionary hypotheses for each clade.
3881516|This report summarizes the parameters of parathyroid physiology in the mammal. Emphasis is given to the part played by this hormone in the processes of growth and remodelling in bone as well as to its function in the maintenance of a relatively constant level of ionic calcium in the extracellular fluid. The importance of phosphate ions has been shown, particularly with respect to their role in the rate of Ca-transport through the extracellular fluid compartments, and their influence on the rate of parathyroid secretion. In addition, the inter-relationship of the newly discovered hormone, thyrocalcitonin, is considered. The latter hormone, by suppressing resorption of bone, may have an influence in stabilizing plasma levels of calcium; it also has a moderate, but long range effect on the rate of bone remodelling. Finally, an attempt has been made to relate the vast amount of work done with these two hormones in mammals to their phylogenetic development in vertebrates. It is suggested that the parathyroids developed at the time when the specialization of bone in vertebrates produced a solid structure which was incompatible with the fluid calcium concentration needed for the maintenance of many physiological functions. The parathyroid hormone, by its action to increase the transfer of calcium from bone against a concentration gradient, permitted these vertebrates to maintain the higher fluid calcium ion concentration needed for the normal functioning of the animal.
3884301| In accord with the notion that retinoid signalling is of central importance in vertebrate evolution, a number of its components are evolutionarily conserved. Retinoid X nuclear receptors (RXRs), which interact directly with a number of signalling pathways, are highly conserved among mammals, Xenopus, and chick. We have studied RXRs in zebrafish and find that they are also very well conserved with respect to amino acid sequence and function, compared to mammalian RXRs. However, zebrafish has additional subtypes (RXR and RXR) which are altered in structure and function. New information which has come to light since these were first described suggests ways in which these unique subtypes could fine-tune retinoid signalling in zebrafish. We have performed phylogenetic analysis with the zebrafish RXRs and RXRs from other species to try to understand the evolutionary relationships among them. In addition, we have found a retinoic acid (RA)-inducible, RA-metabolizing cytochrome P450 (P450RAI/CYP26) which is evolutionarily conserved among vertebrates and has an important role in controlling retinoid signalling by regulating the level of biologically available RA. 
3881812|A population of Transennella tantilla living on an intertidal sandflat became cold-adapted in late autumn. The nature of the adaptation, corresponding with Prosser's pattern IIIA, consists of a clockwise rotation of the respiratory rate-vs-temperature line and a rarely found intersection with the warm-adapted rate-temperature line within the normal range of habitat temperature. The incomplete temperature-compensation in metabolism puts the species in type 3 of Precht's classification. The seasonal change in the temperature-coefficient of respiration is believed to be induced in autumn and winter by the characteristic temperature-regime of the tideflat, and in late spring and summer, as the result of the population's growth cycle. This study raises the need for thoroughness in measuring seasonal respiration as a function of size and temperature when investigating the energy flow of populations suspected of seasonal temperature-compensation. A plea is made for physiologists to present their data on respiration in a form more useful to ecologists working on the problems of energetics of a community.
3883289|Precocial and altricial birds have distinctly different patterns of general ontogeny and metabolic/thermoregulatory development. In my laboratory, we have studied the development of thyroid function in Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) and Ring doves (Streptopelia risoria) as examples of precocial and altricial development, respectively. In this paper, I review the literature and our work on the factors that influence peripheral hormone dynamics in birds. The first section of the paper describes adult peripheral thyroid function to set the stage for the developmental picture. Thyroid development is divided into two phases: Phase I, in which the thyroid gland develops functional capacity but there is low thyroid activity in the periphery, and Phase II, in which peripheral thyroid function increases and approaches adult levels. In precocial development Phase I occurs during embryonic life and Phase II begins at the perinatal period. In altricial development, the pattern of thyroid functional development is different and delayed. Peripheral thyroid hormone patterns in both developmental modes are discussed with reference to the factors that determine their dynamics: hormone availability from the thyroid gland, total serum hormone concentrations, the roles of serum binding proteins in regulating freehormone concentrations, hormone turnover and excretion, hormone receptors and thyroid hormone metabolism, especially extrathyroidal production of triiodothyronine from thyroxine.
3883467|Although only a small number of disparate taxa have been studied in detail, there are some general themes that transcend the orientation and navigation mechanisms of animals. I will identify some of these commonalities and illustrate them with data from selected species. Nearly all species rely on multiple environmental cues in orientation and these mechanisms seem often to be related hierarchically. Magnetic effects on orientation are widespread. The various cue-based orientation mechanisms are not independent, but influence one another during early development and later in life. The development of orientation capabilities involves complex interactions of experience and endogenous rules and learning predispositions. At the same time, considerable plasticity characterizes both the development of orientation and the behavior of adults in response to environmental situations requiring oriented movement.
3883143|Gametogenesis and gonadal growth in the west coast sea star Pisaster ochraceus normally begins in the fall and leads to large gonads full of gametes in the spring, when spawning occurs. The timing of gametogenesis can be shifted simply by maintaining the animals on a seasonally changing photoperiodic regime out of phase with ambient. When they are kept on a spring-summer photoperiodic regime during the fall and winter, gametogenesis proceeds 6 mo ahead of schedule in the following spring and summer. Gametogenesis can be shifted out of phase even when the eyespots are removed. Short daylengths that normally occur during the fall and winter are not required for gametogenesis to proceed, nor are even the long daylengths of spring and summer that precede the initiation of gametogenesis in the fall. The temporal program is insensitive to fixed daylengths (LD 15:9, 13:11, 12:12, 9:15) and appears to involve an endogenous calendar. Shifting the photoperiodic regime 6 mo out of phase also leads to a shift of the gametogenic temporal program in the sea stars Leptasterias sp. (a brooder) and Asterias vulgaris (from the New England coast), but not in the sea star Patiria miniata. Gametogenic timing also can be switched in the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus but the mechanism of the photoperiodic response is fundamentally different; gametogenesis requires short daylengths; continues indefinitely under a repeated short day, fall-winter photoperiod regime, and apparently does not involve an endogenous calendar. As photoperiodic responses are investigated further in these and other marine invertebrates, the models developed primarily from studies on terrestrial organisms may need to be extensively modified or additional new models required.
3883604|Pathogen stress is an important form of environmental extremeness and uncertainty for humans as well as other organisms. It is predicted to: [1] increase the degree of polygyny (as fewer males become appropriate mates); [2] make non-sororal polygyny more frequent (as variable offspring become more advantageous), and [3] be correlated with signs of sexual selection: physical dimorphism, societal rules about allowed wives for men in different categories, both achieved and inherited. The first two hypotheses are supported. As pathogen stress increases, the degree of polygyny increases, no matter how polygyny is measured. As pathogen stress increases, non-sororal polygyny and capture of women from outside societies increase; sororal and other endogamous forms of polygyny decrease. The third hypothesis is not supported. Measures of male-male competition and reflections of male status are not associated with pathogen stress. A man's actual present appearance (physical, behavioral) may provide a more direct and accurate reflection of a man's worth as a mate. It is possible that the measures available for testing here are not fully appropriate. These results suggest that major pathogens may have been, during human evolutionary history, an important selective force, shifting the polygyny threshold, and resulting in greater polygyny, and polygyny of specific types, in areas of high stress. The relationship appears to be of a threshold sort (at high levels of pathogen stress monogamy, polyandry, and mild polygyny are absent) rather than a linear relationship. We need within-society data for appropriate pathogens regarding relationship between individual pathogen load and probability of getting a mate, possible interactions between pathogen stress and resource accumulation in sexual selection, and impact of pathogen load on fertility.
3881774|The major theoretical contributions concerning the behavior of social insects reflect a dichotomous predilection, in that most studies have been approached from either an ontogenetic perspective or from an evolutionary perspective. Wheeler and, to a greater extent, Schneirla have concentrated on an analytic and developmental approach, aimed at explicating how processes of reciprocal stimulation among all members of the colony serve to keep the individuals together and functioning as an integrated unit. Hamilton, by contrast, has emphasized the evolutionary approach, by considering the adaptive value of the genetic mechanism of sex determination that occurs in the insect order Hymenoptera. Attempting to explain the occurrence of any behavior pattern only in terms of its adaptive value is, in a sense, arguing from hindsight, because there is no way of predicting in advance whether any particular adaptive characteristic will indeed evolve. Furthermore, evolution selects for reproductively adaptive outcomes, and not for any particular set of mechanisms and processes that produce the adaptive phenotype. As a result, an understanding of these mechanisms and processes can only come from developmental studies of behavior. It is concluded, therefore, that ontogenetic and phylogenetic approaches are complementary and that both are necessary for a complete understanding of the evolution and development of behavior.
3883131|The Long Expedition left for the headwaters of the South Platte River in June of 1820 and returned to Ft. Smith, Arkansas that same Fall. In contrast to previous expeditions to the West (Lewis and Clark and Pike), Long brought with him men who had had some formal training in natural history. Thomas Say and Titian Peale served as his zoologists, and Dr. Edwin James as a botanist/geologist. Long himself was a graduate of Dartmouth College and had served as an instructor at West Point. He was one of ten select topographical engineers and had already explored the frontier wilderness of western Arkansas and the headwaters of the Mississippi River. During the course of the summer the scientific party explored the Front Range of the Colorado Rockies. Although the outcome of the expedition has received mixed reviews from historians, viewed in the context of the times, I believe it to be a limited success and a model for expeditions that were to follow. The naturalists continued in their careers and made their marks on American natural history. Long anchored his position when he coined the term "Great American Desert," his description of Colorado that summer of 1820, a label quite appropriate, but not beloved by politicians or tourist bureaus.
3884007| C-starts are high acceleration swimming movements critical for predator avoidance by fishes. Since larval fishes are particularly vulnerable to predation, C-start behavior is likely to be especially important during early life history stages. This paper examines the developmental changes in C-start performance with kinematic data on immature chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) (eleuthroembryo stage, sensu Balon, 1975). The scaling of C-start kinematics of immature fishes differs from that of adults. Adult C-start durations increase with increasing body length while C-start durations of immature fishes decrease (e.g., adult stage 1 duration [sec] = 0.0019length [L] [cm] + 0.026
3884232|Molecular genetic studies are revealing the presence of cryptic taxa, and patterns of gene flow in coral reef species, that do not correspond to present day ocean circulation patterns. Concordant borders of genetic inhomogeneity in several taxa emphasise the influence of historical barriers to gene flow. The persistence of genetic differences between sites apparently connected by present-day currents provides evidence for lack of effective contemporary gene exchange. A review of the limited data available to date cannot be conclusive, but suggests that present patterns of genetic variation in the Indo-Pacific have resulted from highly pulsed dispersal events associated with range expansion during interglacial periods. Thus, population genetic structure appears to be dominated by events associated with global climate change and sea level fluctuation during the last 1-3 million years, rather than vicariant geological events in the early Caenozoic. Regional speciation outside the tropical Indo-West Pacific and movement of these species into that region may have played a more important role in producing diversity in that region than traditionally recognised. Some genetic variants have arisen before, and have persisted through, several cycles of climate change. The genetic structure of populations is likely to have been maintained for several thousand years after they were first established, during or immediately after range expansion, by the occurrence of co-adapted gene complexes of some form, and because of more limited opportunity for dispersal than has been assumed to date.
3881986|When parent-offspring relations in sexually reproducing species are viewed from the standpoint of the offspring as well as the parent, conflict is seen to be an expected feature of such relations. In particular, parent and offspring are expected to disagree over how long the period of parental investment should last, over the amount of parental investment that should be given, and over the altruistic and egoistic tendencies of the offspring as these tendencies affect other relatives. In addition, under certain conditions parents and offspring are expected to disagree over the preferred sex of the potential offspring. In general, parent-offspring conflict is expected to increase during the period of parental care, and offspring are expected to employ psychological weapons in order to compete with their parents. Detailed data on mother-offspring relations in mammals are consistent with the arguments presented. Conflict in some species, including the human species, is expected to extend to the adult reproductive role of the offspring: under certain conditions parents are expected to attempt to mold an offspring, against its better interests, into a permanent nonreproductive.
4620209|Numerous reports suggest that populations of amphibians from a wide variety of locations are experiencing population declines and/or range reductions. In some cases, unusually high egg mortality has been reported. Field experiments have been used with increasing frequency to investigate ultraviolet radiation as one of the potential factors contributing to these declines. Results from field experiments illustrate that hatching success of eggs is hampered by ultraviolet radiation in a number of species, while other species appear to be unaffected. Continued mortality in early life-history stages may ultimately contribute to a population decline. Although UV-B radiation may not contribute to the popu declines of all species, it may play a role in the population decline of some species, especially those that lay eggs in open shallow water subjected to solar radiation and in those that have a poor ability to repair UV-induced DNA damage.
3882330|Ultrasonic emissions in gerbils are produced by body movements which force air through the larynx and out the nose. Social stimuli are necessary for their production, yet they do not seem to be oriented directly toward conspecifics. Much information could be contained in the physical parameters of the ultrasounds and their variation associated with body movements.
3882450|The traditional agroecosystem of the neotropics has a legacy of several thousand years and may well represent a natural experiment in coevolution. The harvest yield in this system is influenced by the interactions among microorganisms, higher plants, and arthropods. These interactions include diffuse exploitative and antibiotic interference competition between saprophytic microorganisms and pathogens, predator-prey relationships and mutualistic relationships between and among microorganisms, higher plants, and arthropods. The tropical agroecosystem has been poorly studied from an ecological perspective and the analysis of population and community interaction is still in the descriptive stage.
3881169|Optical and electron microscopy leave little doubt that nerve and muscle fibers are completely absent from large stretches of the epithelium covering the swimming bells in siphonophores (Class Hydrozoa). Behavioral experiments show that these regions must conduct, and electrophysiological evidence of propagated depolarizations in the epithelial cells has been obtained. Conduction velocities are in the order of 20-50 cm/sec, and a refractory period of 2-3 msec has been measured. Conduction is non-decremental and unpolarized. Non-nervous conduction probably occurs in other siphonophore tissues (two examples are discussed), and it may be important in the behavior of many Hydrozoa.
3884563|Modern frogs and toads possess a structurally unique saccule, endowing them with seismic sensitivity greater than that observed so far in any other group of terrestrial vertebrates. In synchrony with their advertisement calls, approximately half of the calling males of one frog species, the Puerto-Rican white-lipped frog (Leptodactylus albilabris), produce impulsive seismic signals (thumps). The spectral distribution of power in these seismic signals matches precisely the spectral sensitivity of the frog's saccule. The signals have sufficient amplitude to be sensed easily by the frog's saccule up to several meters from the source-well beyond the typical spacing when these frogs are calling in a group. This circumstantial evidence suggests that white-lipped frogs may use the seismic channel in intraspecific communication, possibly as an alternative to the airborne channel, which often is cluttered with noise and interference. Using the frog's vocalizations as our assay, we set out to test that proposition. In response to playback calls, the male white-lipped frog adjusts several of its own calling parameters. The most conspicuous of these involves call timing-specifically the tendency for a gap in the distribution of call onsets, precisely timed with respect to the onsets of the playback calls. When the airborne component is unavailable (e.g., masked by noise), approximately one in five animals produces the calling gap in response to the seismic signals alone.
3883465|Four species of seals occupy the pack-ice region of the oceans surrounding the Antarctic Continent. These seals include the crabeater (Lobodon carcinophagus), leopard (Hydrurga leptonyx), weddell (Leptonychotes weddellii), and ross (Ommatophoca rossii), and are true seals with special adaptations for living in the pack-ice region. Two other seal species, the southern elephant seal (Mirounga leonina) and the fur seal (Arctocephalus gazella) (the only eared seal of this region) generally occur further to the north and use land rather than ice during the period of birth of young. This paper reviews the status of these species, and examines the general ecology of the four species that inhabit the pack-ice zone. In general, the four species that occupy the pack-ice zone have specialized in habitats and habits so that little overlap in diets or habitat use exist among these species. The exception is the interaction between the leopard and the crabeater which occupy the same regions and eat krill (Euphausia superba), particularly during the winter. The impact of the potential harvest of krill by man on these species is discussed. Further, the impact that recovery of the large baleen whales that feed in this region during the summer is discussed with regard to the changes that might occur as competition for krill by the large vertebrate species increases.
3884004|Anguilliform locomotion is the mode of undulatory swimming used by eels and other elongate vertebrates in which waves (of shorter length than the body of the animal) are propagated posteriorly along the length of the animal, propelling it forward. Although a broad array of vertebrate taxa convergently use this locomotor mode, much of what we know regarding the kinematics of anguilliform swimming derives from the classic work of Sir James Gray in the 1930s on the European eel, Anguilla anguilla. To better understand the variability within this phylogenetically widespread mode of locomotion, I have reviewed recent work on the swimming kinematics of elongate fishes, salamanders and snakes. The amplitude and relative speed of the undulatory waves propagated along the body during swimming differs among elongate vertebrate taxa, and can also vary with swimming speed. In addition, the lateral velocity and orientation of tail segments can reach their maxima at different times within a tailbeat cycle (in contrast to Gray's suggestion that these two events occurred simultaneously). Finally, the angle of attack of tail segments is negative during a consistent portion of each tailbeat cycle in the elongate salamander Siren. While this has yet to be examined in other anguilliform taxa, it is possible that they will also show this pattern. Hence, although Gray's descriptions of anguilliform swimming are generally accurate, gaining a broader understanding of this mode of locomotion requires the characterization of the diversity and complexity found among animals using this undulatory mode.
3882468|As the history of science has developed as a professional intellectual discipline, it has had and will continue to have an important role in defining science and its place in our culture. Such definitions should be based on as much information as possible. Scientists can help supply some of this information through participation in symposia on the history of science. In addition, scientists can learn much about the nature of their discipline by becoming aware of the concepts of science which are derived from the careful analysis of its history. Efforts should be made to bring historians of science and scientists together for their mutual benefit.
3883839|This project was designed to provide quantitative analyses of the reproductive and social dynamics of a single-male captive colony of Ateles geoffroyi (black-handed spider monkey). Data were collected using focal animal and scan sampling techniques and were subjected to a series of statistical tests which provided quantitative descriptions of group social structure and measures of female secondary sexual behavior cyclicity. Results indicated that the colony is highly social, with tactile and olfactory cues important in their communication process. In addition, only the reproductive female was found to exhibit cyclical secondary sexual behaviors. Greater understanding of the patterns and variability in the social and reproductive behavior of Ateles will require comparative studies of other single-male and multimale populations.
3884415|The study of the kinetics of O
3883190|A hypothesis of the evolutionary relationships of thirty-four species of Fundulus and their closer relatives is presented. The study is restricted to morphological characters which could be determined to be primitive or derived using the methods of phylogenetic systematics. Following Parenti, a family Fundulidae is recognized. It is composed of four genera of North American killifishes. (Cyprinodontidae as usually constituted is polyphyletic.) No convincing characters demonstrate that Fundulus is a natural group (a monophyletic group). However, all species of Fundulus share four derived characters with Lucania. The sister group (closest genealogical relative) of Fundulus plus Lucania is a group composed of the genera Adinia and Leptolucania. Four monophyletic groups of Fundulus can be recognized based on shared derived characters: (1) subgenus Fundulus (seven species excluding three species placed in Fontinus); (2) subgenus Fontinus (six species); (3) subgenus Xensima (five species); and (4) subgenus Zygonectes (thirteen species). Three species, F. (Plancterus) zebrinus, F. lima, and F. parvipinnis are of uncertain affinities within the Lucania-Fundulus clade.
3881412|The surface area of pericardial sacs of the semiterrestrial crab, Ocypode cordimana, is greater than that of pericardial sacs of the intertidal crabs, Ocypode macrocera and Ocypode platytarsis. Responses of the pericardial sacs with relation to conservation of water and molting vary with the species. In the semiterrestrial crab, Ocypode cordimana, the pericardial sacs store water during proecdysis which is used to stretch the new cuticle after ecdysis. In contrast, the pericardial sacs of the intertidal crabs, Ocypode macrocera and Ocypode platytarsis, do not store water during proecdysis. But the sacs of these crabs swell for a brief period during ecdysis, apparently to accommodate excess fluid entering the body while the legs are being withdrawn from the old exoskeleton. Although the significance remains unknown, deposits of uric acid are found in the pericardial sacs of Ocypode cordimana but not in the pericardial sacs of Ocypode macrocera and Ocypode platytarsis. Exposure of specimens of Ocypode cordimana to dry sand reduces the swelling of pericardial sacs, while proecdysial growth of the limbs remains unaffected. The pericardial sacs of Ocypode cordimana swell at a rapid rate if the crabs are maintained in darkness rather than in light. Implications of the present findings are discussed with relation to the habitat of the crabs.
3881397|Truly terrestrial Amphipoda are known solely in the Family Talitridae, the only family also found extensively in the supralittoral. Commonly, they are crytozoic inhabitants of the leafmold of tropical or southern cold-temperate forests. Except as recent introductions, they are absent from Europe and North America. There are a few records from Central America and the Caribbean. The success of the talitrids in colonizing the land is considered due to invasion of leafmold direct from supralittoral debris. Leafmold provides an insulated niche with sufficient food and moisture for colonization with little modification. Apart from possible loss of pleopods, adaptations appear merely to continue trends already present in littoral species. Present distribution can only partly be explained in terms of past geology. Leafmold species are derived from cosmopolitan supralittoral genera and may have arisen independently in different countries. Some widely-distributed species, e.g., Talitrus pacificus, may have been transported by man; accidental transplantation of terrestrial amphipods is known. The Amphipoda have not achieved the terrestrial independence of the Isopoda; they are restricted to a fairly narrow niche. Some species have colonized grasslands but in circumstances which are not environmentally very different from leafmold.
3883348|Although the methods discussed in this report have been applied to biomechanical studies on horses, these techniques have broad applications to locomotor research on all species. Cinematography has been and will continue to be the most widely applied of these methods. Recent advances in video imaging will complement, but not completely replace, this technique. Electrogoniometry has been primarily restricted to use on human beings and horses. This method has far broader kinematic applications and its use should be seriously investigated by researchers studying other species. Force plates have been used widely, and with the advances in research technology, even broader applications of this technique will be available. The technology used in the development of the instrumented shoes can be used to develop instrumentation for investigations in other species. Substantial modifications including the miniaturization of electrical components will be necessary. The references cited in this discussion, although in no way all-inclusive, indicate that a vast amount of research using a variety of methods has been conducted on the locomotion of animals. We have just begun to define and understand the complex interactions of the musculoskeletal system with other body systems. Students of locomotion must use their imagination and ingenuity in refining and adapting these techniques, and in developing new methods to solve the many unanswered questions.
3881738|If a hole is cut through the ear of a rabbit, it will fill in by the convergent growth of new tissue from around the margins. Centimeter wide holes are usually obliterated in 6 to 8 weeks. The regenerated tissues include newly differentiated cartilage and occasional tufts of hair. To determine the specificity of skin in this kind of growth, that on both sides of the ear was replaced by grafts of belly skin. When holes were subsequently punched through the transplant regions, limited regeneration ensued but no new cartilage was produced. If sheets of cartilage were removed from portions of rabbit ears and the resultant areas perforated through the remaining two layers of skin, no regeneration whatever occurred. Not even the missing cartilage grew back. These results indicate that replacement of the cartilaginous sheet requires the proximity of a healing wound in the overlying ear skin, and that skin from elsewhere on the body cannot support its regeneration.
3882519|The neuromuscular system can adapt to a variety of different kinds of chronic workloads. The specificity of these adaptations is reflected in the specific components of the neuromuscular system that are overloaded. An examination of changes that occur during normal development can serve as a basis for efforts to understand the mechanisms which are responsible for the maintenance of a given histochemical, biochemical and physiological profile of a motor unit. The normal process of muscle development can be retarded by spinal transection or immobilizing a neonatal muscle and some of the neonatal features can be reintroduced in adult animals by these same procedures. In general the speed related properties of fast skeletal muscle are not altered markedly by any type of physiological overload. There is some evidence that immobilization or intense endurance trained slow muscle is faster than the normal muscle. The metabolic properties related to maintenance of tension during prolonged work are readily adaptable to chronic low resistance-highly repetitive contractions. Factors that determine the specificity of the response to neuromuscular overload seem to be motor unit recruitment frequency, the tension produced within the musculature and the duration of the tensions.
3883757|Ecologists and physiologists have used biophysical models to answer questions and investigate hypotheses about animal biology for over 20 years, but many investigators do not use such techniques because such modelling is perceived as an arcane art. Indeed, there is no magic strategy to allow all ecologists to model any biophysical problem accurately by means of simple recipes. In practice, biophysical ecology depends heavily on mathematical and engineering principles. But, it need not be impenetrable. Here we discuss relatively simple models that can be incorporated into many ecological studies. We also discuss some of the important approximations and assumptions inherent in our treatments of radiative, convective, evaporative, and conductive heat transfer. In so doing, we hope to encourage the use of such models, and to engender an appreciation of when and under what conditions predictions from such models are most likely to be misleading. Thus, we hope to help ecologists to get into and, hopefully, out of trouble in biophysical ecology.
3883192|Recent studies have shown distinct patterns of variation in the egg morphology (oil droplet number, diameter and density of chorionic filaments) of Fundulus heteroclitus along the east coast (including Chesapeake and Delaware bays). We tested the hypothesis that variation in adult morphology and in electromorphs is concordant with that of egg morphology over the same range by subjecting data for these character sets to the Mantel test. This analysis was based on data for three egg characters, nineteen adult morphological (meristic and morphometric) characters and five protein characters from locations along the Atlantic coast. If the geographical differences observed among locations reflect genetic differences between two forms that have established secondary contact after isolation, we would expect general concordance between the different character sets. We would expect little concordance between the sets if they are each affected by different selectional and/or developmental responses to environmental regimes. Our analyses indicate that patterns of variation among localities for meristic, egg, and genetic character sets are all concordant, and thus the observed differences among locations are likely the result of secondary intergradation between two previously isolated forms. These conclusions are supported by similar patterns of geographical variation in spawning site preference and body coloration. Thus, these results support our earlier suggestion that these morphs should be treated as separate taxa, with F. h. heteroclitus occurring along the east coast from New Jersey south to Florida including lower Chesapeake and Delaware bays and F. h. macrolepidotus distributed from Connecticut north to Newfoundland with disjunct populations in upper Chesapeake and Delaware bays. Intergrade zones occur where the two morphs come together along the east coast in northern New Jersey and on Long Island, as well as in Chesapeake and Delaware bays.
3883803| The visual system of the horseshoe crab, Limulus polyphemus, provides an excellent opportunity for studying the neural basis of behavior. Quantitative analysis of the animal's visual behavior is now possible as is theoretical analysis of information processing in its retina. We combine these theoretical and behavioral approaches to investigate the nature of the signals the eye transmits to the brain for the animal to see. Over the years theoretical studies of the Limulus eye were restricted by the limited capabilities of single processor digital computers. However, a breakthrough in technology with the advent of parallel computers greatly enhances the analysis of large neural networks such as that of the retina. We have developed a time-dependent model of the Limulus retina on the Connection Machine (Model CM-2), which is a massively parallel computer containing 32,768 processors. The model represents a matrix of 64  128 receptors and simulates interactions among receptors with digital filters and transduction and adaptation within a receptor by a multistage cascade. Neural response patterns computed with the Connection Machine model replicate to a first approximation the patterns of neural activity recorded in the laboratory. Behavioral studies of Limulus vision carried out in the field can be simulated on the Connection Machine. Neural responses recorded from behaving animals serve to test the accuracy of the model. Thus far we have developed just one model of the retina, but it eventually will have two forms, "daytime" and "nighttime," to account for the known circadian rhythms in retinal function. With a combination of field, physiological, and theoretical studies, we hope to gain a better understanding of the neural mechanisms that underlie the animal's visually-guided behavior. 
3884105|This paper concerns the response of foraging animals to variability in rate of gain, or risk. Both the empirical and theoretical literatures relevant to this issue are reviewed. The methodology and results from fifty-nine studies in which animals are required to choose between foraging options differing in the variances in the rate of gain available are tabulated. We found that when risk is generated by variability in the amount of reward, animals are most frequently risk-averse and sometimes indifferent to risk, although in some studies preference depends on energy budget. In contrast, when variability is in delay to reward, animals are universally risk-prone. A range of functional, descriptive and mechanistic accounts for these findings is described, none of which alone is capable of accommodating all aspects of the data. Risk-sensitive foraging theory provides the only currently available explanation for why energy budget should affect preference. An information-processing model that incorporates Weber's law provides the only general explanation for why animals should be risk-averse with variability in amount and risk-prone with delay. A theory based on the mechanisms of associative learning explains quantitative aspects of risk-proneness for delay; specifically why the delay between choice and reward should have a stronger impact on preference than delays between the reward and subsequent choice. It also explains why animals should appear to commit the "fallacy of the average," maximising the expected ratio of amount of reward over delay to reward when computing rates rather than the ratio of expected amount over expected delay. We conclude that only a fusion of functional and mechanistic thinking will lead to progress in the understanding of animal decision making.
3883669|Most of the organisms that live in marine, soft-sediment environments are hosts for parasites. Rates of infection by micro- or macroparasites can be quite high, but vary in space and time. Despite the prevalence of parasites, their potential influence on soft-sediment communities is poorly understood. None of the conceptual models of soft-sediment community structure or dynamics published to date considers the impact of parasitism. A variety of potential direct and indirect effects of parasites on host populations and communities are discussed. The greatest challenge for future research in this area is the development of experimental methods for manipulating the abundance of parasites under field conditions.
3881480|Aggressive behavior can be elicited by aversive stimuli as an unconditioned reflex. Electric shock, heat, physical blows, and intra-cranial stimulation are among the stimuli which will elicit fighting. Various characteristics of the stimulus-such as frequency of presentation, intensity, and duration, in the case of shock-and of the environment in general, influence the rate at which pain-elicited fighting occurs. Characteristics of the animals-such as sex, age, sensory impairment, species, and social experience-also influence the occurrence of respondent aggression. Aggression can be conditioned according to both the operant and the respondent paradigms. Since both operant and respondent aggression can occur concurrently, interesting interactions result. Depending upon a number of variables, respondent aggression exerts a disruptive influence on social behavior controlled by aversive stimuli. The interference of aggression with behavior maintained by aversive stimuli may cause us to revise our opinion of the efficiency of aversive stimuli in social situations. Although pain is probably a source of human aggression, further research with infrahuman animals, as well as actual research with humans, should elucidate the relationship between aversive stimuli and aggression in man.
3882354|This review brings together and discusses the significance of existing information about water-soluble (small molecule) organic phosphate constituents of red blood cells in different vertebrate species, with emphasis on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), inositol pentaphosphate ( IP
3883352|Respiratory gas bladders are found in the Osteoglossomorpha, Elopomorpha and Euteleostei and are absent in the Clupeomorpha. All teleosts with respiratory gas bladders share a common pattern of air ventilation: during the transfer phase gas is transferred passively from the gas bladder to the buccal cavity. Subsequently, gas is expelled during the active expulsion phase mediated by action of the geniohyoideus muscle causing a positive pressure pulse in the buccal cavity. This is followed by an active intake phase by action of the sternohyoideus muscle creating a negative pressure pulse, which is succeeded by an extensive compressive phase by action of the geniohyoideus muscle forcing fresh air into the gas bladder. Saltatory evolution of gas bladders and their buccal pumps seems to have proceeded by major transformations in structural design without appreciable changes in the pattern of neural control. The hypothesis of symmorphosis in gas bladder design is well corroborated by the independent evolution of accessory esophageal pumps in three unrelated lineages. Evolutionary reversals (Primitive lung evolving into nonrespiratory hydrostatic swim bladder which subsequently reverts back to become a respiratory gas bladder) have occurred repeatedly. Such reversed shifts are facilitated by the conserved neuromuscular pattern during functional transformations. Experimental comparative evidence is offered for the notion that evolutionary innovations may involve the addition of entirely new functions (respiratory) of a structural complex (gas bladder) while the original functions (hydrostatic, hearing and sound production) are rigidly retained. The paucity in Elopomorpha and absence in Clupeomorpha of respiratory gas bladders reflect the lack of functional demands for new habits in the environment rather than the absence of essential preexisting building blocks.
3881600|A symposium at the AAAS meeting in 1957 provided an important impetus for biological and chemical control of plant and animal pests. The World Health Organization has recognized the need for an ecology-based unit to detect agents for control of disease vectors, and established an International Reference Center to locate eligible biological agents. Bacillus thuringiensis, several viruses of insects, sterilization of males, and other techniques have been developed to control disease vectors. Nevertheless, chemical techniques and to a much lesser extent sanitation or "cultural" techniques predominate today. Additional alternative techniques include sterility induced by radiation; use of predators, pathogens, and parasites; genetic incompatibility; use of chemosterilants and attractants and use of hormones. None of these, however, has been developed to the level necessary for use in an integrated program.
4620163|Nectar is a simple food consisting of varying proportions of sucrose, glucose and fructose dissolved in water. The mechanisms of its secretion are poorly understood. Osmosis may explain why hexose-rich nectars are produced in larger volumes and are more dilute than sucrose-rich nectars. Unless protected, nectar tends to equilibrate with ambient humidity, and the concentrations available to flower visitors can vary from 7-70% w/w. Most nectars are osmotically concentrated, especially when rich in hexose sugars. The only digestion needed is sucrose hydrolysis, and monosaccharides and water are rapidly absorbed across the midgut of insects. Large flying insects feeding on nectar produce an excess of water which must be eliminated by evaporation and excretion. Animals which utilise this attractively packaged and easily digested food source may have osmoregulatory problems when nectar concentrations do not match their water requirements.
3882105|The lateral line sense organs of sharks include ampullae of Lorenzini and neuromasts. Each of these two classes of receptors is highly specialized and therefore can be expected to biologically respond to one specific modality of stimulus of minimal threshold intensity. Current anatomical, electro-physiological and behavioral evidence indicates that the ampullae are organized to respond to very weak DC and low frequency AC electric fields that originate from external sources in the environment and that this information is used in the detection of prey. Neuromasts consist of canal receptors and pit organs and are mechanoreceptors that are sensitive to water movements caused by external sources as well as the animal's own swimming movements. There is no convincing experimental evidence of the behavioral role that neuromasts play in the life of sharks, but they can orient toward a source that causes water displacements and perhaps use the neuromast system in the coordination of locomotor activity. Ampullae and neuromasts are innervated by different components of the lateral line nerves that project to special terminal areas within the central nervous system. The dorsal root of the anterior lateral line nerve, which is believed to carry nerve fibers from the ampullae of Lorenzini exclusively, enters and terminates within the anterior lateral line lobe of the medulla. Neuromasts (canal and pit organs) are innervated by the ventral root of the anterior lateral line nerve and posterior lateral line nerve, which project to the posterior lateral line lobe (nucleus medialis) of the medulla and, in addition, distribute to the eminentia granularis of the cerebellum, superior and inferior lobes of the auricle, and to the spinal cord. There is no apparent overlap between those central terminal fields that receive fibers from electroreceptors and those that receive fibers from mechanoreceptors nor with the central terminal field of
3882963|The effects on the central nervous system of four hypothalamic peptides, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), melanocyte stimulating hormone release-inhibiting factor-1 (MIF-1), the structurally related Tyr-MIF-1, and corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) are reviewed. Attention is focused on those functions, particularly behavioral actions, that are not dependent upon the pituitary effects of the peptide. For LHRH, growing evidence indicates that the structural requirements that are important for its behavioral effects are different from those essential for gonadotropin release. Actions of LHRH analogs at the pituitary often do not correlate with the behavioral effects and C-terminal fragments that are inactive at the pituitary can facilitate lordosis. The same portion of the decapeptide shows species differences in the naturally occurring form of the molecule, raising the possibility that these structural differences could be behaviorally relevant. MIF-1 appears to exert many of its effects on the CNS by antagonizing the effects of opiate substances or by potentiating the effects of dopamine. Neither of these actions appears to involve classical agonist- or antagonist-like binding to the opiate or dopamine receptor, but MIF-1 can increase the affinity of agonist binding to the dopamine receptor. Tyr-MIF-1, like MIF-1, can antagonize some opiate-induced effects but differs from MIF-1 in other tests including in vitro binding. CRF shows several behavioral effects that are independent of its ability to release the pituitary hormones ACTH, beta endorphin and MSH or are different from the effects seen after administration of those hormones.
3882248| Brachiopods consume oxygen at relatively low rates, and sometimes consume none at all for hours. Specimens of Terebratulina septentrionalis survived total anoxia for 3.5 days at 3C. Isolated tissues converted
4620144|Current theories assert that organisms finely adjust the order, or fluidity, of their cellular membranes in response to changes in their physiochemical environment (e.g., pressure, temperature, salinity, etc.). However, membrane order may not be the only property that is conserved. The most commonly observed alterations in cell membrane composition under conditions of altered physiochemical environment, namely changes in the phosphatidylethanolamine/phosphatidylcholine (PE/PC) ratio and the content of highly unsaturated acyl chains, are difficult to fully reconcile with the conservation of membrane order alone. This report reviews the literature concerning two properties of membranes that may play vital roles in the adaptation of cellular membranes to changing environments: a) the tendency of membranes to relax into the reversed hexagonal phase and b) the occurrence and structure of lipid-driven domains within the membrane. The tendency of a membrane to form the reversed hexagonal phase is a property central to a variety of important cellular events. This tendency is tightly regulated by variation of the ratio of hexagonal phase-forming lipids to lamellar phase-forming lipids in the membrane. In most animal cells, this corresponds to the PE/PC ratio. Highly unsaturated acyl chains, in conjunction with cholesterol, modulate the occurrence and structure of lipid-driven membrane domains. These membrane domains are also critically involved in a number of key cellular processes. The changes in membrane lipid composition that occur during adaptation to the environment may be required for the preservation of the tendency to form nonlamellar phases and of the occurrence and specific structure of domains within the membrane, in addition to overall membrane order.
3883089|The cell lineage phenomenon in ascidian embryos appears to be based in large part on the occurrence of maternally derived egg cytoplasmic determinants. These factors are localized in certain cytoplasmic regions of the zygote and are differentially segregated during early cleavages into specific later tissues and regions of the embryo, where they presumably play some role in establishing the selective developmental fate of larval tissues. Commitment to muscle differentiation is correlated with segregation of a discrete "myoplasmic" region of the zygote; developmental autonomy (self-differentiation) of isolated muscle lineage cells confirms a very early commitment to the restricted fates suggested by the classic cell lineage map. Transfer of myoplasm to other cell lineages by artificial displacement results in some conversion of those cells to muscle expression. Larval muscle acetylcholinesterase, one of the transformation markers used, originates from newly synthesized acetylcholinesterase mRNA at gastrulation; this mRNA first appears only in muscle lineage cells. Indirect evidence suggests that the muscle determinant is a positively acting control factor related to the expression of this and other muscle genes.
3883799|Heartbeat in the medicinal leech is paced by a neural oscillator comprising two elemental oscillators whose activity is coordinated by intersegmental coordinating fibers. The elemental oscillators each consist of a bilateral pair of heart interneurons linked by reciprocal inhibitory synapses. The activity cycle of each elemental oscillator consists of alternating bursts of action potentials (plateau/burst phase) and periods of inhibition (inactive phase). Oscillation ensues in the reciprocally inhibitory pairs because each neuron is able to escape from the inhibition of its contralateral partner and thus move on to the plateau/burst phase. We have identified and described membrane currents that contribute to oscillation and studied graded synaptic transmission between the neurons, using discontinuous current clamp and switching single electrode voltage clamp techniques. A hyperpolarization-activated inward current, I
3881748|This report deals with observations which suggest new insights and speculations with regard to the unique developmental cycle of lymphoreticular neoplasia in adult Xenopus laevis and the systemic controls which may be imposed upon it. Evidence is presented which suggests that: (1) Organismally imposed necrosis of visceral tumor foci was effectively suppressed by subsequent implantation of allo-tumor foci but not by normal tissue allo-grafts; (2) Recovery of the healthy state of neoplastic foci following necrosis appears to depend on the acquisition of new tumor cells rather than on cloning by survivors of necrosis in primary foci; (3) Diseased organisms eventually develop controls which suppress the growth of implanted allotumor foci (tumor growth suppression was also demonstrated with splenic but not liver fragments from a toad which survived a prior challenge with a homogenate of neoplastic tissue); (4) Animals with this lympho-proliferative disorder appear to have an immunologic deficiency for cell-mediated responses; (5) Normal young adult Xenopus hosts generate a chronic rather than acute allograft response. This information may be of interest in considering the phylogeny of both the cell-mediated response and the type of surveillance mechanism utilized as a defense against neoplasia.
3882064|Pattern formation and cell proliferation have been believed to have a causative relationship in the colonial hydroids. Here linear stolon growth was assumed to be dependent on polarized cell proliferation restricted to the extreme end of the stolon. The popularity of the concept that pattern formation was a result of restricted meristematic cell proliferation was based on a correspondence between the observed growth patterns and the concept. Nevertheless, there is little direct knowledge of cell proliferation in the stolons of hydroids. The primary objective of this investigation was to determine the sites of cell proliferation in the terminal growth zones of the colonial hydroid Campanularia flexuosa in order to evaluate this concept. The results give evidence that cell proliferation is more or less uniformly distributed throughout the terminal stolon and the internodes of upright stems, and not restricted to the tips of the stolons and internodes as has been previously postulated. Cell proliferation occurs in both the epidermis and gastrodermis of the stolon in a ratio of 3 to 2. The formation of a new upright is accompanied by increased cell proliferation localized at the site of initiation. The uniform distribution of cell proliferation in the stolon supports the hypothesis that growth is via intercalary cell proliferation, which was proposed earlier on the basis of evidence obtained from the displacement of vital stained bands of tissue in the stolon. Stolon growth via intercalary cell proliferation requires a reconsideration of the factors which control morphogenesis. Wolpert has pointed out the importance of determining the mitotic pattern in a developing system before an understanding of positional information within the system may be studied. Thus, information for greater insight into the study of positional information in a developing hydroid has been obtained.
3881177|The specific architecture of a Hydroid polyp or a colony is, morphologically speaking, not a stable entity, because it is subjected to an incessant turnover and renewal at both cellular and higher levels. A continuous morphogenetic activity is in many cases (e.g., Hydra) necessary for the maintenance of the shape and size of the individual polyp, because it has to compensate an equally continuous loss of cells at the level of the tentacles and at the base of the polyp. Colonial species, such as Tubularia, Campanularia, and others, show regression-replacement cycles, some of which are conditioned by endogenous factors, while others are released by ecological factors, such as environmental stresses. In all these morphodynamic events, regeneration plays an important part. It is an expression of the morphogenetic plasticity of the hydroid polyp, just as is asexual reproduction, another category of morphodynamic efforts these organisms are subjected to.
3881162|Waves of excitation, visible as ciliary waves, pass along the elongated cells of the ciliated grooves to the comb plates. The frequency of waves is controlled by the loading of the statolith on the balancer cilia, which stand at the head of the grooves. They are primitive mechanoreceptor cilia. A beat of the balancer cilia is the initiation of a wave to the comb rows. All cilia in this sensory-conduction-effector line are marked by compartmenting lamellae. This is a distinct system superimposed on others in the animal, and reasons are given for suggesting that neuroid transmission in it will prove to be electrical transmission. This system is not anaesthetized by excess Mg
3881464| The record of change in volume, obtained from a frog sartorius muscle mounted isometrically at reference length shows a characteristic two-phased change. Five msec after the start of stimulus pulse of 4 msec an increase in volume begins. This increase peaks at about 7 msec and a decrease in volume begins. This decrease is at a minimum at about 23 msec, and the volume then returns to its pre-twitch level. (The temperature is 24C.) A small variation, averaging less than 10%, is seen in the above parameters when records from different sartorius muscles are compared. (The time to the minimum of the decrease is slightly more variable, showing as much as 40% variation among different sartorius muscles.) A rise in tension begins approximately at the start of the increase in volume. Tension reaches a peak at about 33 msec after the start of the stimulus. (This is well after the minimum of the volume-decrease.) The record of change in volume obtained from muscles contracting isometrically at lengths well below reference length is characteristically different from that obtained from muscles contracting isometrically at reference length. "Slack" muscles, upon stimulation, show a large, rapid decrease in volume. This is probably similar to the decrease described by Ernst in his studies on "tensionless' muscles. This large, rapid decrease in volume is not seen if the muscle is stimulated isometrically at reference length. It is likely that this effect of length of muscle on the record of volume-change explains the difference in the results obtained by Ernst and co-workers on one hand and Meyerhof and his co-workers on the other. (Meyerhof's work appears to have been done with the muscle held at or near reference length.) The magnitude of the initial decrease in volume varies with length of the muscle (below reference length). It is maximal at "slack" or "end-free" lengths and decreases as the muscle is held near reference length. The initial decrease in volume at these lengths is abruptly terminated by a rapid volume-increase. The magnitude of this increase is also a function of the muscle length. Following this increase, the volume-record returns to its initial level. 
3882448|Marine benthic environments are of two basic types: hard substrata and sediments. Organisms living in these habitats are morphologically and taxonomically diverse. Nevertheless, they can be subdivided into a limited number of functional groups according to the different ways they use and alter the substratum. Each functional group is polyphyletic and includes many trophic modes. Two groups, tube builders in sediments and sheet-like animals on hard substrata, are examined in detail. Factors most important in competition between members of different functional groups are often not the same as for competition between members of the same functional group. In both situations there is more evidence for competition between distantly related taxa than between closely related forms.
3882766| In general, ionic regulation will depend on active transport by epithelia and also on the permeability properties of these tissues. Passive permeability has recently been studied in the hindgut of the desert locust Schistocerca gregaria using electrophysiological and radiotracer techniques. Although locust rectum has low electrical resistance, cell membranes provide the major route for transepithelial ionic diffusion; i.e., the locust rectum is a tight epithelium. Potassium permeability
3881170|The scyphistoma of Aurelia aurita was stimulated electrically and mechanically in various well defined regions. Each of these regions is neurologically independent in that the effects of the stimulation are localized to just one region of the polyp. Co-ordination of the different regions during prey capture and ingestion is still possible however because of the arrangement of the parts of the polyp in which one action sets off another one mechanically. The polypoid form of the scyphistoma is a geometrical arrangement allowing mechanical co-ordination. Such a co-ordination mechanism would not be suitable for the life of a medusa whose complicated problems necessitate neurological connections between the body regions for their co-ordination. On the principle that simple organisms arose first during evolution, it is maintained that the polypoid preceded the medusoid form in the Class Scyphozoa. Of the three polypoid types viz. hydropolyp, scyphopolyp and anthopolyp, the scyphopolyp has the simplest neuromuscular system and behavior.
3881442|Patterns of social behavior in the Family Canidae appear to be conservative traits in evolution. Darwin's concept of sexual selection may be broadened to "social selection," including all factors in the social environment which exert selection pressure. In a highly social species, the social environment tends to be stable, generation after generation, accounting for the stability of social behavioral patterns. The evolution of social behavior is also related to development, with different and sometimes opposite selection pressures acting at different periods in life. Some myths and misconceptions regarding dog-wolf behavior are described, and some problems for future research outlined.
3881695|Penetration of shell by the muricid gastropod, Urosalpinx cinerea follyensis, is accomplished by successive alternating periods of (a) chemical activity by the accessory boring organ (ABO), and (b) rasping by the radula. This paper reports on the functions of the radula and of the ABO in producing the characteristic geometry of the borehole, and on the effects of radular teeth and of the ABO secretion on the microscopic anatomy of the surface of the borehole during the process of shell-boring. Radulae of U. c. follyensis and the surfaces of incomplete boreholes in the shell of Crassostrea virginica, Mytilus edulis, and Mya arenaria were examined by means of light and scanning electron microscopy. Hardness tests of radular teeth and shell of prey demonstrated that marginal teeth are harder than rachidian teeth, and that the range of hardness of rachidian teeth overlaps that of the three species of shell. Rasping is carried out by two, occasionally three, of the five rachidian cusps. Rasping patterns are shallow and asymmetric. Rachidian teeth are worn to the base with use; marginal teeth wear only slightly as they are employed mainly in feeding. The distance between the tips of rachidian cusps corresponds with the interval between the parallel cusp traces rasped by them in shell. During each rasping period, snails scrape off about 1/10 to 1/5 of the surface of the chemically treated area of the bottom of the borehole. Dissolution of shell is accomplished by secretion from the secretory disk of the ABO. With each application of the ABO, most or all of the radular marks of the previous rasping period are erased by solution of a thin layer of shell. The pattern of etching is specific for each of the species of shell studied. In oyster and mussel shell, initial solubilization occurs through the organic, non-mineralized, prism sheaths, exposing prismatic forms shown by other workers to be distinctive for these species, and then proceeds into the organic-calcareous structure of individual prisms. Etching of Mya shell revealed no fundamental prismatic form. Shell-penetration includes dissolution of both organic complexes and CaCO
3882193|Sabellid regeneration and the expression of polarity are known to be under direct neural control. During regeneration nerves exhibit both neurotrophic and neurosecretory capacities. Indeed, it is proposed that the basic neurotrophic control mechanism is neurosecretory in nature, involving the synthesis, packaging and transport of neurosecretory granules to the wound site. The expression of polarity is envisioned as a cellular differentiating response to a threshold increase in neurohormone. Under maximal stimulus, anterior regeneration involves the sequential synthesis and assembly of a rich hyaluronate matrix followed by the deposition of chondroitin sulfate and collagen to form the normal adult crown. Posterior regeneration, according to the model, is under minimal stimulation and does not progress beyond the hyaluronate stage. The relationship between neural control and the assembly of extracellular macromolecules during regeneration is discussed in relation to the proposed model.
3883283| The thyroid system in endothermic birds and mammals as well as ectothermic teleost fish is profoundly sensitive at several levels to acute and chronic alterations in the quality and quantity of ingested food. Predominant amongst the thyroid changes is a consistent alteration in peripheral T
3881434|The social organization of a group of wolves in a large outdoor enclosure was followed through several breeding seasons. During the breeding season conflicts become more frequent and the social hierarchy obvious. The more dominant animals restrict courtship activities by inferior wolves of their own sex. However, apparently as a correlate of their position, two alpha males have shown less mating activity than other males. Mate preferences exhibited by animals of both sexes also limit the number of matings. The preferences appear related to the social hierarchy existing when an animal matures. Cultural transmission of social status is suggested by some changes in ranking of wolves raised in the woods at Brookfield. Temporary removal of the original alpha male and death of the original alpha female appear to have promoted changes in social order and an increase in actual mating combinations. The probable consanguineous nature of wolf groups and facets of the social behavior suggest that some form of group selection could be operative in the wild.
3881847|Locomotor responses of ciliate protozoans to external stimuli primarily depend on changes in ciliary motion evoked by the stimuli. Certain regions of the protozoan cell produce a receptor potential in response to stimulation. The receptor potential electrotronically spreads to the entire cell membrane and generates an overall electric response due to the electrical excitability of the general membrane. The ionic mechanisms for electrogensis are basically identical to those in nerves, muscles, and receptors of metazoan organisms. The ionic movements across the membrane associated with the electrogensis modify directly and/or indirectly the concentration of certain cations within the cell. The catonic concentration change brings about a modification of the contractile activity of cilia, which in turn results in a change in the ciliary movements. Cilia on different locations of the cell have intrinsically ionic concentrations. This fact, together with the morphological specialization of cilia in different locations on the cell, contributes to the complexity and adaptiveness of locomotor responses found in the ciliated protozoa.
3882409|Gas moves through the pores of the egg shell by diffusion in the gas phase. The gas flux is therefore determined by the product of the effective conductance of the shell and the partial pressure gradient of the gas between the ambient air and the inner side of the shell. The partial pressure gradient of oxygen is decreased by a reduction of the oxygen partial pressure in the ambient air. This can be achieved by reducing barometric pressure at normal ambient oxygen concentration or by reducing ambient oxygen concentration at standard barometric pressure. Both methods are reported to decrease oxygen consumption of the embryo but to a different degree: At the same ambient oxygen pressure the reduction is less in eggs exposed to a reduced barometric pressure. In an attempt to explain this difference, chicken embryos aged 16-19 days were exposed to various oxygen concentrations and carbon dioxide production was measured. At subnormal oxygen concentrations carbon dioxide output diminished as the oxygen concentration was lowered and the duration of exposure was prolonged. At oxygen concentrations above normal a small but significant increase in carbon dioxide production was found. Finally the results are compared with those in the literature on the diverse effects of a continuous reduction of barometric pressure and ambient oxygen concentration. This difference is ascribed to the fact that a reduction of barometric pressure not only decreases oxygen partial pressure in the ambient air but also increases effective conductance of the egg shell, the latter being inversely proportional to the barometric pressure.
3883586|In an attempt to understand the evolutionary history of the major histocompatibility complex, we have characterized crossreactive molecules from nonmammalian vertebrates using rabbit antisera and monoclonal antibodies to mammalian and chicken MHC molecules. By this analysis, some chains of these heterodimers evolve more slowly than others, and interdomain contact sites evolve more slowly than surface residues. The antibodies to human MHC molecules crossreacted with amphibians much better than reptiles, the reverse was true for the antibodies to chicken MHC molecules, while neither crossreacted with recognizable molecules in fish. We then analyzed a chicken class I heterodimer in detail, and found that homologous domains have different rates of evolution, that most (but not all) interdomain and intradomain contacts are conserved or invariant, that the surface residues are quite diverged, but that patches of invariant residues occur in areas thought to interact with other molecules. Some of the domains are encoded by exons very rich in guanine and cytosine, to the point of affecting the amino acid composition relative to mammals. We present a very speculative model, in which the antigenic similarities of reptile and bird MHC molecules compared to mammals and amphibians are due to this high content of guanine and cytosine, and this in turn is due to the presence of these genes on microchromosomes. Finally, we try to explain the compressed nature of chicken immunoglobulin loci as another consequence of location on microchromosomes.
3881890|Northern leopard frogs are afflicted with a spontaneous malignant neoplasm of the mesonephros. A herpesvirus is invariably associated with tumors obtained from frogs hibernating 30 days or longer and in tumors of frogs taken from breeding ponds. Tumors obtained from prehibernating frogs do not have viruses as detected by electron microscopy but virus particles are found in some tumors within 7 days after the onset of hibernation. Tumors of frogs maintained at warm temperature in the laboratory do not have viruses and tumors of frogs maintained at cold temperatures in the laboratory do contain viruses. However, the production of viruses in the laboratory follows a distinctly slower chronology than that which occurs in nature. Injection of cell fractions containing the herpesvirus into frog embryos induces tumors near the time of metamorphosis in many experimental animals. Embryos injected with tumor extracts not containing herpesviruses do not develop tumors. Environmental and laboratory observations are discussed which may relate to natural transmission of this presumed viral oncogenic agent.
3882465|An assessment of similarity among individuals, species, and higher taxa is an essential component of biological classification. Multivariate phenetic techniques can be used to carry out this task, and to provide a logical basis for the recognition of taxa and the construction of phylogenies. Cluster analysis and ordination are current techniques used to group by similarity. These techniques are discussed and some of them applied to a representative taxon of parasites, the mite family Harpyrhynchidae. Taxonomic structure within the family is described in terms of parasite morphology, host association, and probable coevolution.
3884226|Coral population size structure is generally highly skewed, with a preponderance of the smallest colony size class in populations. To begin to assess possible effects of global change on coral populations, which will be largely controlled in the next decade(s) by "non-climate variables" such as sedimentation, turbidity and nutrient load, we compared degraded reef environments with less degraded reefs. To consider population dynamics within and between parts of coral species metapopulations we use data over two spatial scales (10 and 2,000 km). Colony size distributions appear to be affected in degraded/marginal reefs. This implies changes in mortality patterns (or recruitment) that result in relatively fewer small and more large colonies in populations. We predict that the short-term effects of global change, deterioration of local conditions, will not affect the occurrence of large coral colonies (in terms of absolute size, and possibly mean size) but will limit the abundance of small corals. Long-term global change will increasingly include a component of climate change and the effect on coral populations may become more diverse, although effects such as a decreasing calcium carbonate saturation state will also first affect the abundance of coral recruits. We hypothesize that over the next decade(s) coral populations will become increasingly skewed toward larger colonies.
3881540|The bioenergetic aspects of pentachlorophenol poisoning and exercise in fish are discussed. When cichlids are exposed to 0.2 ppm of pentachlorophenol, the intake of food was increased and energy losses were also increased. Growth was decreased. The cost of specific dynamic action was higher and the cost of exercise was increased above the cost of similar exercise in nonpoisoned controls. In salmon swimming to exhaustion at 52 cm/sec fatty acids 18:1, 16:0, and 16:1, and at 59 cm/sec fatty acids 22:6, 18:2, and 20:4 suffered the greatest depletion. At 52 and 59 cm/sec, respectively, average exhaustion times were 1141 and 398 minutes; the equivalents of distance traveled were 26.0 and 12.7 miles; the loss in lipids, 54 and 10 mg; and the average weight losses, 830 and 480 mg per salmon. Total caloric losses calculated from the data on lipid and weight losses were approximately 1118 and 566 calories. Calculated from the data of Brett (1964) on
3881458| Electron microscope examination of myosin-extracted psoas muscle of the rabbit reveals a number of thin filaments, about 25  in diameter, bridging the gap between the ends of the actins and the remaining myosin of the M band. Extraction of actin from the region of the Z disc shows similar thin filaments near the Z disc. Myosin-extraction of several invertebrate muscles reveals a remaining network of thin filaments in the region of the A band. These thin filaments are probably elastic, and could contribute to the functioning of these muscles. 
3882044|In the Anthozoans Metridium sp. and Bunodosoma cavernata the testes are located in the secondary septa. The cysts of the testis are surrounded by mesoglea. Bounding the mesoglea on each side of the septa is the gastrodermis. The gastrodermal cells exhibit interesting flagellar specializations. Each cell has a flagellum which extends into the gastrovascular cavity and is surrounded by long microvillus-like extensions. It is suggested that these specializations may serve in a sensory capacity. The periphery of the testicular cysts contains the early spermatogenic stages, while spermatids and sperm are more centrally located. In both Metridium sp. and B. cavernata the early spermatids are connected by intercellular bridges. These spermatids exhibit early flagellar formation. The distal centrioles have two associated specializations, satellites and pericentriolar processes. During spermiogenesis there is a general polarization of the cytoplasm and several maturational events occur more or less simultaneously. Nuclear condensation begins, mitochondria aggregate and fuse, and lipid-like inclusions associate with this mitochondrial complex. Concave or "donut" shaped vesicles are noted in association with Golgi complexes. The sperm of both species contain electron dense nuclei, lack distinct acrosomes but have vesicles associated with the lateral sides of their heads between the nuclear envelopes and plasma membranes. In both sperm, lipid-like inclusions are associated with complex mitochondrial bodies. The sperm of Metridium exhibit an interesting membrane response when exposed to eggs. The plasma membrane along the side of the head of the sperm sends out long finger-like protrusions. The eggs of both Metridium sp. and B. cavernata exhibit cortical reactions. In Metridium the dehisced cortical substance appears to be lost to the environment, while in B. cavernata it forms a flocculent coat around the egg.
3884123|We have conducted three hatchery-scale experiments designed to examine the actions and interactions of cortisol and thyroid hormones in the development of a larval marine fish. Survival among controls varied significantly between the 3 replicate experiments. The threadfin (Polydactylus sexfilis) consistently responds to 1 hr posthatch immersion in a combination of triiodothyronine and cortisol (
3884319|Individual variability in endogenous hormones can confound the interpretation of effects of developmental exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals. In single-birth species, such as humans, there are many sources of variability in fetal sex hormone levels, such as birth order or race. In litter-bearing species a source of fetal variability in serum levels of estradiol and testosterone is the sex of adjacent fetuses due to fetus-to-fetus steroid transport (called the intrauterine position phenomenon or IUP). Distinct phenotypes of reproductive physiology and behavior are due to IUP in house mice and other litter-bearing animals. We review here the effects of background levels of sex steroids in fetuses due to IUP in an experiment in which pregnant mice were exposed to an environmentally relevant low dose of the estrogen-mimicking chemical, bisphenol A. Bisphenol A is the monomer used to make polycarbonate plastic products (such as baby bottles), the resin lining of food and beverage cans, dental sealants, and a host of other products. Fetal exposure via the mother to bisphenol A increased the rate of postnatal growth in males and females and also advanced the timing of puberty in females. However, the greatest response to bisphenol A occurred in males and females with the highest background levels of endogenous estradiol during fetal life due to their IUP, while fetuses with the lowest endogenous levels of estradiol showed no response to maternal bisphenol A treatment. This finding suggests that estrogen-mimicking chemicals interact with endogenous estrogen in altering the course of development.
3883313|Crustacean muscle fibers, like those of higher vertebrates, are diversified in physiology, morphology, and biochemical attributes. However, unlike motor units of mammals, those of crustaceans usually do not contain fibers of uniform type. Motor neuron activity acts as a unifying force for the motor units of mammalian muscles, but its role in determining properties of crustacean motor units is less well defined. In certain crustacean muscles, differential activity of sensory-motor systems is important for establishing muscle fiber properties during early development. In freshwater crayfish, neuromuscular junctions of a phasic motor neuron are altered physiologically and morphologically by chronic stimulation; the adapted junctions release less transmitter per impulse and are more fatigue-resistant than naive junctions. The muscle fibers may also adapt to chronic stimulation, but less dramatically and at a slower rate. The adaptive responses of the neuromuscular junction can be achieved through manipulation of sensory input and with little increase in motor impulse activity. This suggests that altered protein synthesis is triggered centrally by synaptic input to the motor neuron. In general, present evidence suggests that long-term adaptation of neuromuscular junctions and muscle fibers of crustaceans can occur in response to altered activity in the nervous system, in spite of the fact that certain muscle fiber properties appear to be genetically predetermined. Some aspects of matching between neuromuscular junction and muscle fiber appear to be determined in response to growth of the muscle fiber; other features are activity-dependent; and some may result from expression of inherent neuronal properties.
3882027|This paper is a discussion of some of the possible structural and functional modifications of the lung which represent adaptations in mammals living in the sea. Lung capacities of marine mammals seem to be larger than terrestrial mammals especially if they are compared on a lean weight basis. It is proposed that at least in some this represents an important increase in buoyancy which enables these mammals to rest at sea. The importance of the lung as an O
3884214| Echinoid larvae have been found previously to develop shorter arms as phytoplankton concentrations increase. In the present study, the skeletal dimensions of larvae of the sea urchins Lytechinus pictus and Strongylocentrotus purpuratus were measured after exposure to dissolved organic compounds in seawater. The presence of glucose or individual amino acids (at 1 or 2 M), a mixture of 16 different amino acids (100 nM each), or algal exudate resulted in larvae with shorter arms (by 12 to 88%), relative to larvae in seawater with no additions. Larvae exposed to mixtures of amino acids also had changes in the constituents of their internal free amino acid pools (as determined by HPLC). For another echinoid, Dendraster excentricus, amino acid transport (T, from 500 nM) by individual larvae (n = 47) scaled to arm length (L) as follows:
3884438|Comparisons between crustacean and insect cuticles are hampered by the paucity of cuticular protein sequences for the former. Sufficient complete sequences are available for insect cuticular proteins to allow recognition of conserved motifs and relationships among proteins that reflect the type of cuticle from which they have been extracted. All five sequences from an arachnid and two of 14 from crustaceans have a motif found in the largest group of insect cuticular proteins. Numerous insights have been gained from studying insect cuticular proteins and their genes. These insights have been summerized in hopes of encouraging interest in building on the foundations laid by Dorothy Skinner with the exoskeleton of Gecarcinus.
3881503|The most primitive way of hunting in Mygalomorph spiders seems to be the free roaming and catching of encountered prey (Theraphosidae). The trap-door spiders (Ctenizidae, Actinopodidae and Barychelidae) which are entirely sedentary, lie in wait behind the trap-door and leap at prey that happens to pass close to the door. Some species spin radial silk threads outside the door which function as stumbleor signal-lines, and some Australian species use grass blades and other litter in the same way. A further evolutionary step leads to species which do not build a trap-door but crown their burrow by a funnel-shaped web. The Dipluridae finally are real web-builders, which depend on a sheet-web to catch their prey. Generally they do not dig a burrow but hide in a small retreat from which a funnel-web leads to the net. With a few exceptions Ctenizidae are entirely nocturnal. Their rhythm of activity has been analyzed. The "Zeitgeber" is the daylight during the last half hour before sunset. Most trapdoor spiders never leave their burrow during their whole life. They need three to four years from hatching to become adults. Adult males die during or at the end of the restricted mating-season; they take no food when adult. Females, which undergo post-adult molts, can probably live for 15-20 years. Nemesia caementaria, like most other species, hunts during the whole night. The mean time of activity is about 8 1/2 hours, consisting of periods of lying in wait and periods of intermediate rests. The spiders make an average of three leaps per night to catch a prey, but only about 10% of all bounds are successful. A hungry animal, lurking in vain, shows unmotivated leaps. The effects of light, moisture, and temperature on hunting activity are analyzed. Ctenizidae hunt during autumn, winter, and spring but interrupt their activity in summer for an estivation which lasts usually two months. The females of some species capture the male after mating and eat him; others never attack him. This difference in behavior has repercussions on reproduction. Among certain species the young nymphs of the third instar refuse all food until they have made their own burrow and can hunt by themselves. The young of other species stay with the mother for one year and leave her at the fifth or sixth instar to make their own burrow. The young of Nemesia caementaria can remain in the burrow of the mother until they are almost adult, i.e., for two or three years, and feed on the prey the mother has caught. The behavior of Ctenizidae can be grouped. Some species lurk behind the closed or almost closed trap-door. Another group opens the trap-door and puts the pedipalpi and the two anterior pairs of legs radially out onto the rim of the burrow, while the cephalothorax is hidden behind the trap-door. A third group spins threads of silk radially about the entrance and uses them as signal-lines. A fourth group can come out and pursue the prey, then drags it to the trap-door and into the burrow. The nature of the prey depends on the biotope. The Ctenizidae feed almost exclusively on insects, mainly ants and beetles; in the laboratory crickets are accepted as prey. Ctenizidae have no tarsal organ. They have different types of trichobothria, transversal and longitudinal slit-organs, and lyriform organs. With these three kinds of sense-organs, the functions of which are not clearly understood, the trap-door spiders are able to perceive the approach of prey, to judge its distance from the trap-door, and to locate it in direction. They seem to have an organ of smell, since certain groups of insects are repulsive to them. Sight is not used for hunting.
3882453|For purposes of theoretical analysis, competition between distantly related taxa is interpreted as asymmetric competition. Several kinds of situations are examined: A predator competes with one of its prey species for a second resource; competitors utilize successive stages in the life cycles of prey; one predator facilitates the resource utilization of its competitor; competitors differ in their vulnerability to predation. Methods of signed digraphs (loop analysis) and statistics over time are used to predict the qualitative consequences of the different interaction patterns.
3884256|Acclimation is a common phenotypic response to environmental change. Acclimation is often thought to enhance performance and thus to be adaptive. This view has recently been formalized as the "Beneficial Acclimation Hypothesis" and predicts that individuals acclimated to one environment perform better in that environment than do individuals acclimated to a different environment. Although Beneficial Acclimation is appealing and widely supported, recent studies with E. coli and Drosophila have challenged its general validity. Although these challenges could be dismissed as mere exceptions, they encourage a re-evaluation of the adaptive significance of acclimation. Our philosophical approach differs from that of most previous studies of acclimation, in which the prediction derived from a Beneficial Acclimation perspective (e.g., heat tolerance is positively correlated with acclimation temperature) is tested against the null hypothesis ("single hypothesis approach"). Instead, we follow Huey and Berrigan (1996) in advocating a strong inference approach (sensu Platt, 1964), which recognizes that Beneficial Acclimation is actually one of a set of competing hypotheses that make different predictions as to how developmental temperature influences the thermal sensitivity of adults ("developmental acclimation"). Using this perspective, Huey and Berrigan proposed a factorial experimental design (3 developmental by 3 adult temperatures) designed to discriminate among all competing hypotheses. We now derive a formal statistical model (ANOVA with orthogonal polynomial contrasts) for this experimental design and use it to evaluate simultaneously the relative impact of each competing hypothesis. We then apply this model to several case studies (Drosophila, Volvox, Trichogramma), and we review also a recent study with E. coli. The influence of Beneficial Acclimation is supported (albeit often weakly) in most cases. Nevertheless, other hypotheses (especially the Optimal Developmental Temperature Hypothesis) often have a greater impact. Even so, however, Beneficial Acclimation usually predicts relative performance at extreme test temperatures. We conclude that, although rumors of its death are premature, Beneficial Acclimation cannot be viewed as the dominant expectation, at least with regard to developmental temperature acclimation. Moreover, our findings reinforce the view that a strong inference approach provides a more comprehensive portrait of complex biological responses than do single-hypothesis approaches.
3882616|Specific states of insects adapted to specific environmental conditions are often based on specific hormone levels. Extrinsic control of the activity of endocrine glands and of the breakdown mechanisms of hormones are at the base of these relations. This control is exerted by environmental tokens, such as photoperiod, food conditions, or population density. Some examples are given from adult diapause in the Colorado potato beetle, caste differentiation in the honey bee, and larval growth in Bupalus piniarius. The ecological aspects of juvenoid insect growth regulations are as important as the physiological aspects to determine their practical value. An example is given in the control of some leafrollers in apple culture, which is only feasible in isolated orchards.
3882434| Because tunas possess countercurrent vascular pathways serving the trunk musculature, metabolic heat is retained, and muscle temperatures can considerably exceed that of the surrounding water (+1 to +21C). And because tunas have this excess, it is reasonable to suppose they have some means of controlling its magnitude. Tunas must contend with two exigencies which can perturb body temperature: changes in water temperature and, in contrast to non-thermoconserving fish, changes in activity. Both can be met by adaptive change in excess muscle temperature. If this could be accomplished in the absence of changes in environmental temperature or activity level, this would constitute physiological thermoregulation. If excess muscle temperature cannot be altered sufficiently to acceptable levels, more favorable environmental temperatures must be sought or activity levels changed. We would consider this behavioral thermoregulation. High sustained swim speeds, characteristic of the continuously swimming tunas, require special consideration. Heat production is proportional to approximately the cube of swim speed. In order to maintain a slight temperature excess at basal swim speeds (1-2 lengths/sec), and yet not overheat during sustained high speed swimming (>4 lengths/sec), mechanisms are required to conserve heat under the former conditions and to dissipate it effectively under the latter. In this report, we review published observations other investigators have interpreted as physiological thermoregulation in tunas, describe recent findings in our laboratory, and suggest some possible thermoregulatory mechanisms. 
3884435|Crustacean muscle growth is associated with a hormonally mediated cyclical molt stage. The mechanisms by which fibre lengthening and hypertrophy occur in Crustaceans over the molt has been the subject of our and other researchers' investigations using histological, biochemical and molecular approaches. In this paper, we review our studies and present evidence for the different molecular mechanisms by which sarcomeric proteins are upregulated to achieve muscle sarcomere addition in lobsters during the molt. Synthesis of the sarcomeric proteins has been shown to increase during the premolt and postmolt phases in the leg and abdominal muscles coinciding with the addition of sarcomeres over ecdysis. This is in contrast to research on claw muscle demonstrating premolt atrophy. Our work and others' have investigated the factors which modulate this growth and turnover of muscle tissue in crustaceans. These changes in muscle turnover correspond with an elevated titre of circulating ecdysteroids and the role of these molting hormones in regulating sarcomeric mRNA and protein levels during cyclical muscle growth is discussed. Our results suggest that sarcomeric proteins may be controlled via both transcriptional and translational mechanisms during the molt interval and these findings are discussed in relation to previous research investigating muscle growth in Crustacea.
3883463|Pinnipeds and seabirds feed at sea, but are tied to shore to rear their young. Such a fundamental life history constraint should lead to convergent adaptations in foraging and reproductive ecology. However, intrinsic differences in mammalian and avian reproductive biology may limit the potential for convergence. In this paper I examine both reproductive and foraging energetics of pinnipeds and seabirds. This is done in an attempt to identify traits that might be considered convergent adaptations to life in the marine environment and to show how divergent life history patterns are optimal for different reasons. From this analysis we find that seabirds invest a greater total amount of energy and protein into the offspring than pinnipeds, but this comes at the cost of making more trips to sea. Whereas pinnipeds forage in a manner more consistent with the predictions of central place foraging theory and exhibit a greater ability to compensate to the shortened breeding season typical of high latitude environments.
3883688|The broad phyletic distribution of bimodal breathing among the fishes, the diversity of this group's aerial-respiratory specializations, and the numerous ways that bimodality has permeated the natural history of many species provide a broad perspective on the evolution and biological significance of bimodal breathing. The long term evolutionary view of bimodal breathing emphasizes its importance in the evolutionary transition to terrestriality; a key role in this process was played by the fishes which were the first air-breathing vertebrates. On the other hand, in most extant fishes bimodality has not led to terrestriality. Rather, auxiliary air breathing enables a species to remain in or to exploit an aquatic habitat from which it would otherwise be excluded.
3883135|Like most American naturalists born during the first half of the nineteenth century, Ferdinand Vandeveer Hayden (1829-1887) was fascinated with all living creatures from boyhood, and, like many others, he enriched his early proclivities by studying medicine. He worked in Cleveland under J. P. Kirtland and then in Albany, where he came under the tutelage of James Hall, of the Geological Survey of New York. Hall sent him on his first collecting trip in the summer of 1853. Showing the independence for which he became famous, Hayden broke with Hall, however, and with the encouragement of S. F. Baird, and partial sponsorship from the Smithsonian Institution, he spent the remainder of the 1850s on a series of exploring and collecting expeditions to the Upper Missouri River. During the 1860s and 1870s he gained renown as a geologist, in particular as director of the Survey of the Territories, but he never lost his broader interests in natural history. Both his writings and the unique collections he himself made illustrate his catholic curiosity. More important to natural history were the voluminous publications he sponsored through his Survey, which stimulated specialized research on an encyclopedic range of subjects.
3882308|ACTH and corticosterone exert opposite effects on the approach and imprinting behavior of newly hatched ducklings. Wild mallard and domesticated Pekin ducklings differ in the early posthatch period in both plasma corticosterone levels and approach/avoidance behaviors. Injection of Pekin duckling embryos with pituitary-adrenocortical hormones alters both later adrenal function and certain aspects of posthatch behavior. These birds have behavioral and hormonal characteristics which resemble those of wild mallards. The hypothesis that behavioral differences in wild and domesticated ducklings result from a higher level of pituitary adrenal function in the wild embryo is explored. Although adrenocortical function changes during domestication in many species, evidence that the hormonal changes mediate the concomitant changes in approach and avoidance behavior remains inconclusive. Factors which cause adrenal function and early behaviors to differ in wild and domesticated genotypes must be sought in the gene action during embryonic development. Since imprinting behavior is modulated by pituitary-adrenal hormones, any factor which affects post-hatch adrenal function may potentially affect imprinting. Later behavior development in the adult is strongly dependent on neonatal experiences; and, therefore, hormonal modulation of early imprinting behavior may constitute an important determinant of adult social behavior.
3881979|Polyandry in which one female forms either simultaneous or sequential pair bonds with more than one male is a rare vertebrate mateship system. Prior to 1972 only two cases were known with certainty among birds. All other reports of polyandry were based on inadequate information. Recently, polyandry has been demonstrated in several additional species. Surprisingly, they all belong to the avian order Charadriiformes. Comparisons of the existing polyandrous systems suggest that they can be arranged in a sequence that leads through a series of relatively minor differences from monogamy to simultaneous polyandry. Polyandrous species differ from species with other mateship systems in the following ways: females large, females more aggressive, egg or clutch size reduced, production of multiple clutches. Except in some sequential systems, the small, subordinate males perform all incubation behavior and provide all parental care for the chicks. In the Charadriiformes, polyandry has evolved in conjunction with sex role reversal and with assumption of incubation and parental behavior by the male. It is not clear why role reversal and parental behavior are related. The simplest forms of polyandry are in high-latitude birds, but the best developed forms are found in tropical species.
3882846|Rapid health changes in the U.S. and other industrialized nations of the world during the twentieth century are being roughly paralleled in the developing nations, some decades later. These changes include the reduction of communicable diseases, a striking decrease in infant mortality and lower death rates through the age-span, and the emergence and decline of the "modern" epidemics such as coronary heart disease. Increase in life expectancy at birth and at age 65 is one immediate and already measurable impact of these trends. Making several assumptions about the future health of mankind, such as no devastating virus disease epidemics and no further nuclear warfare, one can project three consequences of the health trends described: (1) an almost vertical age-structure of the population, rather than the previous and present pyramidal shape; (2) greater social and individual attention to maintaining health, beyond combatting major diseases; and (3) gradual dissolution of the barriers to association among the peoples of the world.
3882058|A model is proposed for regulation and regeneration of the head end of hydra in terms of positional information, which involves two gradients. One is a diffusible substance made at the head end, which may be regarded as a positional signal. The other is a more stable cellular parameter which is the positional value. The rule for head end formation is that the concentration of the diffusible substance falls a threshold amount below the positional value. This model, for which some computer simulation is provided, can account for head end formation in a wide variety of grafts. Evidence for a diffusable signal is provided by experiments in which the time/distance relationships for head inhibition by a grafted head are determined. Changes in positional value during regulation have been assayed and are much slower away from the boundary. Polarity is interpreted in terms of the interaction between the two gradients. The biochemical basis of the gradients is not known, but an approach to the problem has been made by treating hydra with a variety of chemical agents.
3881182|Three behavior patterns in sea anemones are analyzed in relation to the receptors, effectors, and co-ordinating systems required for their perfomance: 1) Calliactis responding to molluscan "shell-factor." 2) Stomphia swimming to starfish and to electrical stimulation. 3) Stomphia transferring to shells of its commensal Modiolus modiolus. These complex purposive acts are triggered and controlled by the excitation of chemoreceptors. Co-ordinating nervous components have not been identified. These specific responses offer possibilities for tests on learning for which unequivocal evidence does not exist in coelenterates.
3884398| Over the past twelve years, we have studied heat shock proteins in two tropical species, a half dozen desert species and a number of hemiclones of viviparous fishes in the genus Poeciliopsis. Heat shock protein (Hsp) isoform patterns were determined using high resolution two-dimensional polyacrylamide gels. Two families of Hsps were studied in detail, the nucleocytoplasmic 70 kilodalton Hsp70 family and the 30 kilodalton Hsp30 family related to -crystallin. The temperature dependence of Hsp accumulation was investigated using both intact fish and cultured cells. When the threshold temperatures were mapped onto thermal preference profiles, it was apparent that the Hsp70 threshold (33C) was closely linked to the most frequently selected temperatures and the Hsp30 threshold (37C) was closely linked to high temperatures that fish rarely selected, indicating that fish deploy these two molecular chaperones differently. One tropical species P. gracilis is a genetic reservoir for most of the Hsp70 isoforms of the desert species. Acquired resistance to 41C was strongly correlated with Hsp70 abundance for gracilis that contained Hsp70 isoform 3 whereas fish lacking this isoform showed similar levels of acquired thermotolerance which did not correlate with Hsp70 abundance, suggesting multiple, compensating mechanisms of acquired resistance. Isoform 3 was degraded in cultured cells from a desert species during several hours of recovery at normal temperature following heat shock whereas two other Hsp70 isoforms were stable. The implications of this property of isoform 3 are discussed. 
3881893|Most data in the broad field of protozoan ecology, even if one restricts the subject to consideration of free-living species, are scattered through the literature and are generally of an unsophisticated nature. Review articles are few in number and/or out of date. In view of their high adaptability, their ubiquitousness, their numerousness, and their short generation time, it is perhaps surprising that protozoan forms have not been subjected to more study, both intensive and extensive in kind. The recognition in recent years of the possible role(s) played by the Protozoa in problems of pollution has caused renewed interest in many of these microorganisms. The inherent difficulties of proper taxonomic identification of the species under study and of more refined methods for carrying out desirable laboratory experimentation can be overcome, but time, motivation, and technical innovativeness are required. Because protozoan species are the ideal organisms to be investigated in many environmental situations, the field of protozoan ecology should develop significantly in the years ahead.
3882357|Animals live in environments where physical, chemical and biological parameters are continually changing. If homeostasis is to be maintained, animals must adapt. The respiratory complex (and specifically hemoglobins) is perhaps the best system to use to study adaptation to environmental stress because it exists at the "organism-environment interface." Fish are particularly useful in such studies since they respond directly to such variables as temperature, oxygen, pH, and salinity. Maintenance of respiratory homeostasis is achieved by a host of molecular, cellular and physiological mechanisms. The linkage between these molecular interactions, the animals and the physicochemical environment I have termed "Molecular Ecology." In the following paper I will consider some of these relationships.
3883029|I discuss selected philosophies of science in terms of the role of rationalism in science and the reality status of the products of scientific reasoning. A model is then presented in which I argue that creativity in science involves the mental manipulation of images which are later compared to the shared empirical experience of the scientific community. The assimilation of a scientific concept involves a re-creation of the concept through a similar manipulation of images and empirical experience. The process of recreation can distort the original concept. The result of this process of creation and recreation is neither an objective discovery of truth nor a subjective invention of truth but an interactive reality composed of the inquiring human mind and an objectively unknowable nature. Since the model or myth of science we accept influences many aspects of the science-society interaction, the model I present here as well as models presented by others ought to be carefully evaluated through the study of the history of science.
3881506|Sensory events presumably guide the orb-weaver in the sequence of placing radii. However, at a given stage of construction, several sectors of the web may be equivalent in the sense that they possess features capable of eliciting radius-building. Observation of the natural progress of construction cannot reveal these characteristics. Some delineation of the problem may be obtained by compelling the spider to identify equivalent sectors. This procedure was followed for Araneus diadematus by selectively destroying threads, in effect repeatedly forcing the spider into the same web-array. The "candidate" sectors-those regions which are placed and replaced by the spider-are sufficiently described by the size of their central angles in early stages of radius-building, but not in later stages. Angles of relatively large size are left open in the upper half of the web. Sensory guidance in construction of radii may depend upon response to a complex array of forces in the web.
3883690|New data on resting metabolism, aerobic capacity, respiratory morphology and bimodal breathing capacities of four caecilian species were combined with previously known data on caecilian and amphibian biology to discern differing or unifying themes of gas exchange within the Gymnophiona and among the Amphibia. Discoveries include 1) a uniform resting metabolism among caecilians that is distinctly lower than that of anurans and urodeles, 2) an aerobic capacity following activity that rivals or exceeds that of other amphibians, and 3) despite previous suggestions to the contrary, a substantial contribution of the skin to respiratory gas exchange, apparently sufficient to sustain the low resting metabolism. In contrast, pulmonary gas transport appears to dominate during metabolic recovery from exercise, which is comparatively fast. The contributing roles of the skin and lungs to this extreme scope of respiratory needs in caecilians are further discussed in light of the structural nature of and circulatory supply to each respiratory bed, and the respiratory properties of caecilian blood.
3883268|Cancer takes many forms and has many causes. But it is possible to unite these many forms and causes with a single hypothesis: that cancer may be a malady of genes, that abnormalities of genes usually lie at the heart of the disease. Recent research has uncovered evidence that this hypothesis may be correct. Many human tumors contain genetic damage that can account for cancerous growth. The damage affects genes that are normally vital to normal growth and development, but that have run amok in cancer cells. The prevention and treatment of cancer has until now been based on trial and error. The identification and characterization of damaged genes in human tumors points the way to new and more rational strategies for the diagnosis, prognosis and therapy of cancer.
3881858|The carnivorous marine mollusc Pleurobranchaea californica exhibits two forms of behavioral plasticity: behavioral choice and associative learning. Behavioral choice is the selection of one behavioral act in preference to another, as dictated by a behavioral hierarchy. In Pleurobranchaea, feeding behavior occupies a relatively dominant position in the behavioral hierarchy, but feeding is hormonally suppressed during egg-laying. Associative learning has been demonstrated in Pleurobranchaea by means of classical and avoidance conditioning of the feeding behavior. As a step toward understanding the neural substrates of choice and learning, we have studied the neurophysiological organization of the feeding system. The feeding rhythm can be driven in the isolated nervous system by tonic electrical stimulation of certain peripheral nerves. Using this preparation, we have shown that feeding is accomplished by a network of identified neurons distributed in the brain and buccal ganglion. This network includes: (i) motoneurons in the brain and buccal ganglion; (ii) ascending interneurons that originate in the buccal ganglion, furnish excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials to feeding motoneurons, and send coordinating information to the brain; and (iii) descending interneurons that originate in the brain and are believed to exercise a "command" function in the feeding network. It is speculated that the putative feeding command interneurons play a crucial role in mediating behavioral hierarchies and associative learning.
3881868|Additional evidence has accumulated over the past 20 years regarding the significance of the anuran mating call and regarding reinforcement of this premating isolating mechanism when hybridization occurs in zones of sympatry. No two sympatric species have the same call. That the mating call is a homospecific mate attractant has been demonstrated in five major anuran families. Discrimination against hybrid calls versus homospecific calls has been demonstrated in Bufo and Hyla. Principal examples of presumed reinforcement continue to be in Gastrophryne, Acris, and the Australian Hyla ewingi group. Reinforcement may be the basis for striking differentiation of some populations of Scaphiopus bombifrons. Sympatric species pairs of anurans show greater differentiation in call than do allopatric pairs in the same group. One hybridizing situation in Bufo appears to have changed over 30 years to discrete populations without intermediate calls. Effective call differences can evolve without sympatry, and there are sympatric situations in which no reinforcement is evident.
3883298| Standard metabolic rates are principally determined by relatively few factors: temperature, mass, and phylogenetic affinities. 1) Temperature. Body temperature has pervasive effects on biological processes through the influence of temperature on the activity of metabolically important enzymes: metabolic rates double or triple when body temperature increases 10C. The absolute levels of metabolism that any temperature establishes may be subject to acclimatory or evolutionary change by alteration of enzyme composition or structure. In endotherms, the effects of this basic thermal dependence may be overcome by the physiological regulation of body temperature, but such regulation is very energetically expensive. 2) Body mass. Metabolic rate scales interspecifically with body
3882455|Competition among distantly related plants for pollinators and among distantly related animals for pollen and nectar plays a potentially important role in the organization of ecological communities and the coevolution of plant-pollinator relationships. Plants which rely on animals to disperse their pollen potentially compete for pollinators by processes similar to interference and exploitative competition. Coexisting plant species may evolve to avoid or reduce such competition by character displacement in floral morphology and/or phenology. One important difference between competition for pollinators and most other kinds of competition is that pollinator resources are not used up and made absolutely unavailable to competitors. Consequently, plant species can potentially overlap completely in their utilization of pollinators. The disadvantages of competing apparently are sometimes outweighed by the advantages of sharing pollinators, because distantly related plant species frequently show evolutionary convergence in floral morphology, blooming time and nectar rewards to utilize the same pollinators. Distantly related animal taxa may compete for floral nectar and pollen by both interference and exploitation. The mechanisms of such competition depend primarily on the energetic costs and benefits of foraging and aggression. Exploitative competition is very important because nectar feeders of small body size and low energy requirements can forage economically and reduce nectar availability to levels that will not support larger animals. Thus small nectarivores often can exclude larger competitors from flowers to which both taxa have equal access. Plants may evolve to influence the outcome of competition among animal visitors and favor species that provide the best pollination services. Thus flowers specialized for pollination by large animals often show morphological or phenological specializations which make rewards unavailable to smaller animals. Interference is adaptive only when the benefits of exclusive use of a resource outweigh the costs of defending it. Because distantly related kinds of flower visitors often differ in body size and energetic requirements, interference competition among them is probably rare although it is often important among closely related nectarivores. The community level consequences of competition in the ecology and evolution of plant-pollinator associations are still poorly understood. Competition among distantly related pollinators for plant floral rewards appears to play a major role, but competition among plants for pollinator services may be only a weak force. Although the basic interaction between plant and pollinator usually is a mutualistic one, certain species of both plants and animals parasitize this interaction and compete with the mutualists for limited resources. Thus some animals rob nectar and pollen and compete with legitimate pollinators without providing pollination services. Similarly, some plants offer no floral rewards but obtain pollinator services by mimicing rewarding flowers of other species. The effects of these kinds of interactions on the organization of communities of plants and pollinators provide a fertile area for future research.
3883108| In this report I discuss ventilatory and circulatory adjustments that provide for increased O
3881873| Amphibian vitellogenin is a sex-limited protein found in the serum of normal females but not that of males. Its appearance can be induced in males, females, and hypophysectomized animals by estrogens, particularly estradiol-17. The natural source of estradiol-17 is the ovary, and ovarian synthesis is markedly stimulated by gonadotropin(s). The pituitary is the natural source of gonadotropin(s), and hypophysectomy invariably leads to ovarian regression. Pituitary secretion in turn appears to depend primarily upon food supply rather than other environmental factors. The liver is the site of vitellogenin synthesis, and its induction by estrogen may involve both transcriptional and translational control mechanisms. Estrogen induction of unprimed liver (in which no vitellogenin synthesis occurs) may involve a cell differentiation or division phenomenon and has not yet been achieved in vitro. Estrogen induction of primed liver (in which a basal level of vitellogenin synthesis takes place) appears to be primarily a modulation phenomenon and can be duplicated to some extent in vitro. The secretion of vitellogenin by liver parenchymal cell is as yet poorly understood. Available evidence indicates that synthesis, phosphorylation, and lipid addition are closely linked events, and that approximately 2 hr are required for the newly synthesized peptide chain to be secreted from the liver. Serum vitellogenin is sequestered by the ovary, and specifically by the vitellogenic oocyte, by a micropinocytotic process. The uptake of vitellogenin is highly selective, is stimulated by gonadotropin(s), and may involve attachment to receptor sites on the oocyte membrane. Once incorporated into the oocyte, vitellogenin is converted within yolk platelets into the yolk proteins lipovitellin and phosvitin, for which it seems to be the sole source. The conversion process appears to involve a proteolytic cleavage of the vitellogenin peptides into those that make up lipovitellin and phosvitin. 
4620133|Winter is energetically-demanding; thermoregulatory demands increase when food availability usually decreases. Physiological and behavioral adaptations, including termination of breeding, have evolved among nontropical animals to cope with winter energy shortages. Presumably, selection for mechanisms that permit physiological and behavioral anticipation of seasonal ambient changes have led to current seasonal breeding patterns for many populations. Energetically-challenging winter conditions can directly induce death via hypothermia, starvation, or shock; surviving these demanding conditions likely evokes significant stress responses. The stress of coping with energetically-demanding conditions may increase adrenocortical steroid levels to the extent that immune function is compromised. Individuals would enjoy a survival advantage if seasonally-recurring stressors could be anticipated and countered by shunting energy reserves to bolster immune function. The primary environmental cue that permits physiological anticipation of season is daily photoperiod, a cue that is mediated by melatonin. However, other environmental factors, such as low food availability and ambient temperatures, may interact with photoperiod to affect immune function and disease processes. Laboratory studies of seasonal changes in mammalian immune function consistently report that immune function is enhanced in short day lengths. Prolonged melatonin treatment mimics short days, and also enhances immune function in rodents. In sum, melatonin may be part of an integrative system to coordinate reproductive, immunologic, and other physiological processes to cope successfully with energetic stressors during winter. Social factors influence immune function and changes in social interactions may also contribute to seasonal changes in immune function. The mechanisms by which social factors are transduced into immune responses are largely unspecified. In order to understand the optimization of immune function it is necessary to understand the interaction of factors, on both mechanistic and functional levels, that affect immunity.
3882844|The author congratulates the Education Committee of the American Society of Biologists for undertaking the Science as a Way of Knowing project. The project objective, to improve first-year, college-level biology courses, is excellent, and how to handle food and man in the courses is an important issue needing attention. The author recognizes that course content should vary among institutions because their programs serve widely divergent clientele. Suggestions are made concerning topics which the author believes generally should be given greater attention. Hunger and famine were recognized as being critical problems in the world, and students should learn more about them. Science is humankind's great hope, and through it the problems the world faces are solvable. Instructors are encouraged to take a positive approach and demonstrate what science can do. Hunger and famine are largely the result of misguided national and international policies and not the result of our not knowing how to meet the food needs of all the world's people. The challenge is as much to apply what we know as it is to increase our stock of knowledge. This calls for greater emphasis on problem solving. Teachers are encouraged to view food in its broadest context and call attention to the variations in the systems utilized to produce and distribute it. Attention should be given to environmental impacts, efficiency, risk, and managerial requirements for the various systems. Global food needs in relation to the World's carrying capacity are discussed and information provided on the causes of hunger and famine. Vital issues in food and hunger are discussed.
3883086|"Spemann's" lecture treats experiments on the separation of the first two cells of a frog, or sea urchin, or salamander embryo; the induction of a lens in a frog embryo by an optic vesicle (primordium of the eye); and the primary organizer that is a dynamic center, establishing the basic organization of the embryo and inducing the nervous system and sense organs. "Spemann" goes beyond science in speaking poetically of the beauty and order in the universe, and to illustrate how a good scholar should work he uses a lovely metaphor of piecing together the fragments of a broken vase. "Spemann" concludes with a stirring plea for academic freedom.
3881544|The larger mammals, in spite of a wide diversity in diet, differ comparatively little in total mineral or ash content of the whole body. Because of the quantity required, calcium and phosphorus are the most commonly deficient elements. Tetany caused by a deficiency of magnesium is a problem in many areas. Deficiencies in trace elements are frequently the most dramatic in terms of the problems presented and the rapid response to minute increases in intake. The interrelationships, both direct and indirect, have caused nutritionists to realize that, in spite of many advances, there are many unanswered questions about the requirements and functions of the mineral elements in the larger mammals. The bulk of research has been with domestic species, but there is every reason to believe that wild herbivores are equally susceptible to deficiencies in these important nutrients.
4620151|Prostaglandins and related eicosanoids are oxygenated metabolites of C20 polyunsaturated fatty acids. These compounds have been detected in species representing all major animal phyla. The significance of eicosanoids lies in two broad areas of animal biology. In one, eicosanoids are involved in regulation of many cellular events. In the other, eicosanoids facilitate certain ecological interactions. Eicosanoids are known best in the narrow context of their clinical significance in human medicine. In this essay we suggest a new, broader paradigm for understanding the meaning of eicosanoids. Under this paradigm, called the biological paradigm, we note eicosanoids were recruited into roles as biolog signal moieties long before the origins of the Metazoa. During the ensuing evolutionary diversification of animals, eicosanoids have been used in a vast diversity of biological roles, some of which occur only in invertebrates. We think this diversity endows eicosanoids with unusual explanatory power in apprehending biological phenomena. In this review, we recount the literature on eicosanoids in protozoans and procaryotes, then provide a detailed review of the roles of eicosanoids in invertebrate immunity. We draw upon recent work in parasitology to outline an ecological role of eicosanoids in host-parasite relationships. It appears to us that eicosanoids exert profound effects at the cellular, organismal and ecological levels of biological organization. We suggest that continued inquiry into the biological significance of eicosanoids will yield important new information on invertebrates.
4620153|Many bioassays have shown that cuticular hydrocarbons are used in the recognition systems of both solitary and social insects. The function of insect recognition systems is to enable an insect to recognize, and possibly discriminate, its own species, sex, or kin from that of other insects. The primary function of cuticular hydrocarbons is to protect the insects from desiccation. Hydrocarbons can be removed from insect cuticles and characterized with gas chromatography/ mass spectrometry. Studies using such analytical techniques have revealed that insect hydrocarbon compositions are species-specific, sex-specific and, in social insects, colony- and caste-specific. Furthermore, recognition bioassays have confirmed that certain components of the cuticle of some insect species are sex attractants as well as aphrodisiacs or sex inhibitors. Other bioassays have shown that hydrocarbons are important in facilitating colony structure in social insects. In addition, the hydrocarbons of some parasitic insects appear to mimic those of their host species. Thus, hydrocarbons are proving to be very important in the everyday activities of many insect species.
3882254|A behavior inventory and ethogram for display behavior, an atlas of the principal forebrain nuclei and fiber tracts, and microtechniques for stereotaxic surgery were developed in conjunction with a study of forebrain involvement in the display behavior of Anolis carolinensis. In a behavior inventory of 100 units consisting of states and events, forty-seven were observed exclusively or frequently in social situations. An analysis of the effects of forebrain lesions on two stereotyped displays indicated involvement of the striatal area of the basal forebrain in species-typical "challenge" displays that are characteristic of territorial encounters between adult conspecifics. "Assertive" displays associated with elevated behavioral arousal were not significantly affected. Lesions confined to the dorsal ventricular ridge resulted in no significant deficits in either display type.
3882410|Data are presented for oxygen consumption, water loss during incubation, water vapor conductance of the shell, and pore number of avian eggs and the way in which these values relate not only to egg mass but also to incubation time. It is proposed that all these functions are proportional to the product of egg mass and rate of development where the latter is defined as the inverse of incubation time. These interrelationships account at the end of incubation for similar O
3882421|Recording semi-isolated insect heartbeat at one time was an art only to be attempted by the most patient of research workers. Thanks to modern advances in biomedical instrumentation, insect heartbeat measurement by impedance conversion and contact thermography allows not only heartbeat recordings, but recording of accessory pulsatile organs and diaphragm movements. The characteristic heartbeat patterns as recorded from adult insects vary enormously from very regular in orthopteroids to highly irregular in Diptera. Pupal stages in holometabolous insects are characterized by a heartbeat which appears to have little or no nervous influence and is punctuated by cessation for periods up to several hours in some insects. The controversy over nervous and/or hormonal control of insect heartbeat has never been completely resolved. There is now a good deal of evidence for nervous control of the heartbeat of Dipteran adults, Lepidopteran adults, Orthopteran nymphs and adults, Dictyopteran nymphs and adults, and Hymenopteran adults. The evidence of hormonal control of heartbeat remains inferential, and is based mostly on the responses of semi-isolated heart preparations. One of the most important events in recent years in this field has been Brian Brown's elucidation of Proctolin in cooperation with Alvin Starratt in Canada. Proctolin is a suspected neurohormone or neurohumor of the proctodeum which may also be used to regulate heartbeat in insects.
3882716|The production of high-frequency vocalizations during sexual and agonistic interactions is widespread among rodents. The ubiquity of these signals suggests that they play important roles as social communications in rodent reproduction and population regulation. Furthermore, the consistent association of "ultrasound" production with hormone-dependent sexual and agonistic behaviors suggests that hormones help to coordinate this form of communication with other behavioral and physiological preparations for reproduction. Experiments testing this hypothesis have shown clearly that ultrasound rates depend on gonadal hormones. In addition, the ability of animals to elicit ultrasounds from conspecifics, and their inclination to respond to conspecific ultrasounds, both seem to depend on pituitary or gonadal hormones. This variety of types of hormonal effects on ultrasonic communication increases the extent to which these signals can be integrated with stimuli of other modalities in hormone-dependent chains of communications controlling reproductive success.
3882108|Many kinds of sharks are dangerous and apparently unpredictable predators whose behavior is virtually unknown. This is because they are difficult both to maintain in captivity and to observe in the field. However, the purpose of this paper is to review the behavioral information on sharks and, more importantly, to suggest approaches which will accelerate progress in understanding the activities of these animals. Shark behavior has been investigated within the methodological frameworks of both comparative psychology and ethology. Thus the underlying philosophies of these disciplines are briefly discussed. Six approaches for investigating the activities of sharks are presented. Approach I involved intuitive studies drawing upon natural history notes and fisheries statistics, and is typified by Springer (1967). This work set the stage for future quantitative research. Approach II is also intuitive. Here, as typified by Klausewitz (1962), inferences about behavior and ecology are drawn from morphologic and taxonomic considerations. Results appear to be useful in only the broadest of applications. Approach III, an ethological approach we term "structure of behavior," rests upon direct observation of behavior. The basic rationale underlying this technique, including examples of field and laboratory studies with sharks, is given. While we are at a beginning stage in the ethology of sharks, this approach appears to hold great promise. Approach IV, the study of activity rhythms in sharks, is reviewed. Little is known about such rhythms, which represent short-term temporal activity. Practically nothing is known about long-term activity, i.e., behavioral ontogeny. In Approach V psychological studies of learning are reviewed with emphasis on habituation, operant and classical conditioning in sharks. It is concluded that learning probably plays an important role in the lives of sharks and that they are clearly not the stupid, blindly swimming creatures of folklore. In Approach VI studies of sensory physiology using behavioral techniques are briefly discussed. Results led to the conclusion that sharks are well adapted to detect and respond appropriately to a wide variety of environmental stimuli. Though the difficulties are real and many, the paper ends on an optimistic note, and it is felt that continued effort will unquestionably lead to a significant increase in our understanding of these fascinating animals.
3882457|The following evidence suggests that birds and lizards compete for their arthropod prey on islands in Lake Gatun, Panama: (1) there is extensive overlap between the diets of a representative bird and lizard, (2) at least one insectivorous lizard, Anolis limifrons, appears to be food-limited, (3) birds appear to have a major impact on arthropod abundances, (4) avian abundance is negatively correlated with the physiological condition and, thus, with the fecundity of female A. limifrons, (5) bird and lizard population densities are negatively correlated. Lake Gatun was formed in 1914. In the intervening years, a great many bird species have been lost from the smaller islands, but very few lizard populations have gone extinct. Ninety-six percent of the between-site variation in avian abundances is accounted for by the number of bird species present at a site. Sites with depauperate avifaunas are characterized by low avian abundances because the species present do not experience ecological release, and resources which are utilized by birds on species-rich sites are not exploited by birds on species-poor sites. Thus, avian abundances are controlled by factors extrinsic to the bird-lizard interaction, and lizards opportunistically increase their abundances at sites with low avian abundances.
3881877|Comparative electrophoretic studies of male and female hemolymph in Crustacea have led to the discovery of a lipoglycoprotein fraction present in females and absent from males. The female-specific protein fraction also contains a pigment which has been identified in a small number of species and appears to be a carotenoid. Further observations indicated that the presence of this fraction is coincident with the presence of maturing ovocytes in the ovary. The major protein component of the vitellus is also a lipoglycocarotenoprotein complex. Comparative analyses have shown that the female-specific protein fraction present in hemolymph and the major protein component of the vitellus are electrophoretically and immunochemically identical. Moreover, in the Amphipod Orchestia gammarella both components appear to have the same molecular weight, estimated as approximately 3 10
3883683|The physicochemical properties of the environment, water, air, and more or less humid soils, are extremely different and impose anatomical and physiological adaptations. Generally water breathers exchange through gills and skin; in the air breathers cutaneous respiration is generally small or negligible, and gas exchanges take place in lungs or in tracheae. The main difference between water and air as to O
3883285|Regulation of thyroid, adrenocortical and other hormones secreted by the major endocrine glands in mammals is widely attributed primarily to feedback control relationships with the pituitary, hypothalamus or both, with hepatobiliary and intestinal mechanisms having no more than a passive or excretory role. I present another view of enterohepatic components in thyroid endocrine function, suggesting a functional and more pervasive role for the intestine, in a more complex hierarchical system controlling thyroid hormone levels, effects and economy in the rat, and possibly in other mammals. A central factor is the existence of enterohepatic cycling of these hormones, or their reabsorption from intestinal pools to portal and then systemic blood. This process affects their dynamic behavior throughout the organism, not only hormone economy, because bidirectional transport of hormone between blood and intestine (including large pools in luminal contents) renders all or part of the gut internal to the system regulating thyroid hormones. We review the evidence for and possible significance of this hypothesis, covering, specific aspects of hormone level control in the rat, including the deiodination, conjugation and other metabolic pathways, particularly in liver and intestine, and the fecal and urinary excretory (sink) and hormone production (source) pathways. The modulators of enterohepatic subsystem regulation of thyroid hormones are postulated to involve the combined effects of hormone conjugation and degradation processes in liver and their subsequent secretion in bile, coupled with the bacterial deconjugation, the reabsorption and certain hormone storage mechanisms of the intestine.
3883005|Every individual living organism on earth develops according to the specifications of its individualized and unique DNA that is encoded as its genotype. The genotype consists of many genes and is established at the time of the individual's birth or separation from its parent. Although offspring resemble parents, they are rarely if ever genetically identical to them. This result is a function of both the pattern of inheritance and the organization imposed by the genetic system embodied in the chromosomes. Genes are not just loose in the nucleus: they are organized into linear arrays on chromosomes. In the diploid, cross-fertilizing genetic system, the parents contribute about equally to the offspring's genotype through the haploid nuclei of their gametes. In most diploids, vast amounts of genetic variability are produced by the process of genetic recombination. This alone assures the genetic uniqueness of every individual of the new generation. The ultimate source of the variability is the process of gene mutation but the great storage capacity of the diploid system enhances recombinational variability. The powerful sources of recombination are: synapsis and crossing-over, processes that serve to scramble the genes. Independent assortment at meiosis provides unique gametes; this latter effect is enhanced by high chromosome numbers. Since two parents are involved in the formation of the individual, still another level of recombination is achieved at fertilization. Patterns of genetic systems vary greatly from species to species: man, mouse, maize and melanogaster are considered. In a significant number of cases, chromosome number reductions, balanced chromosomal aberrations and polyploidy are present and serve to restrict recombination potential. Even greater restrictions are imposed by the evolution, in natural populations, of patterns of inheritance that partially or even completely by-pass recombination. Thus, total dependence on vegetative reproduction, loss of meiosis, self-fertilization or parthenogenesis are examples. In organisms that have discarded the attributes that assure recombination, the formation of both new species and new adaptations is impaired. This emphasizes the key importance of the mode of inheritance for activating processes that adjust the genes of living things to their environments. Future studies of patterns of inheritance in relation to the evolution of life on earth are needed.
3884091|The expansion of zebra mussel distribution into inland waterways of North America portends significant abiotic and biotic changes mediated either directly or indirectly by Dreissena. Dreissena fouls a wide array of submerged substrates including rock surfaces, macrophytes, native molluscs, canal and dock walls, and watercraft and motor out-drives. Fouling of water intake pipes and associated installations can severely impair water delivery to hydroelectric, municipal and industrial users, necessitating proactive or reactive control measures. Mussels increase water clarity by removing suspended clay, silt, bacteria, phytoplankton, and small zooplankton. Clear water phases associated with Dreissena grazing may exceed in magnitude and duration those generated by zooplankton grazing. Enhanced water clarity increases light transmittance and growth of benthic plants. Some benthic invertebrates (e.g., unionid molluscs) are adversely affected by Dreissena, whereas others, including amphipod crustaceans, exploit structure associated with or wastes generated by zebra mussels. Dreissena is exploited by a host of predators, most notably waterfowl, fish and crayfish. Waterfowl predators that consume contaminated Dreissena have elevated concentrations of organic pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyl compounds. Invasion of shallow lakes and ponds by Dreissena may divert production and biomass from pelagic to benthic foodwebs, shifting ecosystems to an alternative state.
4620194|The eye is an extraordinary organ in terms of its development and evolution. In cave animals, the eye is sometimes reduced or eliminated as a consequence of adaptation to life in perpetual darkness. We have used the characid teleost Astyanax mexicanus as a model system to investigate the mechanisms of eye degeneration during the evolution of a cave vertebrate. Eyed surface populations of Astyanax entered caves during the Pleistocene, and their descendants lost their eyes and pigmentation. Astyanax populations exhibiting various degrees of eye regression have been reported in 29 Mexican caves. Surface populations with characteristics of the ancestral stock still exist in the vicinity of these caves. Thus, Astyanax represents one of the few instances in which the ancestral (surface fish) and the derived (cavefish) developmental modes are extant and available for comparative studies. The cavefish embryo develops an optic primordium consisting of a lens vesicle and optic cup but the rudimentary eye arrests in development and degenerates. Here we report that eye degeneration is accompanied by extensive apoptosis and downregulation of the Pax-6 gene in the developing lens. The results suggest that alterations in lens development are important factors in eye regression during cavefish evolution.
3881346|A general summary of the current status of the control of crustacean pigmentary effectors is followed by a detailed description of recent experiments with the chromatophores of fiddler crabs. Under appropriate experimental conditions eyestalkless fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, can exhibit an overt daily rhythm of melanin dispersion. Otherwise, the melanin of eyestalkless crabs remains maximally concentrated. Electrophoretic analysis revealed three peaks of melanin-dispersing activity for sinus glands of Uca pugilator, two for the supraesophageal ganglia, one for the circumesophageal connectives, and one for blood. What appeared to be the same electro-negative substance was found in every electrophorogram regardless of whether one, two, or three peaks were present. In addition, a melanin-concentrating substance was found after electrophoresis of circumesophageal connectives. The morphology of post-commissural organs from two species of fiddler crabs is described also. Extracts of post-commissural organs from Uca pugilator were chromatophorotropically active. The extracts were most effective in concentrating red pigment but could also disperse the red and black pigments. Post-commissural organs of crabs had not been assayed previously on any system. Finally, the role that post-commissural organs might have in regulating chromatophores of fiddler crabs during different portions of the daily rhythm of color change is discussed.
3883270|These essays are part of the sixth yearly presentation of an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists. The purpose is to provide background materials for those who teach the first-year biology courses in colleges and universities. The Science as a Way of Knowing project emphasizes the conceptual framework of the biological sciences, shows how scientific information is obtained and validated, and relates science to human concerns. The topic for consideration this year is Cell and Molecular Biology.
3883510|Living organisms exist as a complex set of levels of organization arranged in a pattern of strong ordering with none of these levels being more important than others for a full understanding of life. Central to biological strong ordering is the organismal level. Individual organisms are of special interest to biologists because they are relevant to all biological processes regardless of the operational level of the process. This is especially true for investigations of the morphological-physiological properties of organisms. For such studies, living organisms must be considered as complex machines with all of the sophisticated integration and multifarious interactions of component parts typical of complex systems. Understanding of the properties of any individual feature in an organism depends as much, or possibly even more, on an appreciation of its connections and interactions with other features of that organism than on an understanding of its intrinsic attributes. Learning the connectivity skills, including the modes of thinking, needed to comprehend the integration of diverse components of any complex system requires a different training than that needed to determine the detailed attributes of individual parts; both are necessary, however, to achieve proper advances in biological knowledge. Case studies of several vertebrate features will be used to illustrate types of interactions which exist between structural/functional attributes, and how their recognition can lead to new and interesting questions. This "feeling for the organism" may be the major factor separating those biologists who are able to make important discoveries from those who will only provide the subsequent, less exciting details of normal science.
3882559|My aim is to give a partial evaluation or critique of the state of population genetics theory. A decent theory must include the following components: the development of concepts of fitness that have demonstrated epistemic correlations, life tables, mating, fecundity, finite (even if large) niche size, and, of course, Mendelism and mutation. It must in the end also include varying environment and competition between species. The extent to which the desiderata are met is discussed. The big lacunae in the whole theory appear to be the inadequate treatment of fitness and the ignoring of niche capacity. Some theorems that are given as fundamental must be questioned and even discarded. Integration of ideas of simple Mendelism, quantitative genetic variation, and ecology is the big task ahead. It is critical that more complete theory be developed.
3881926|The central mechanisms of release calling and mating calling in the Northern leopard frog (Rana pipiens pipiens) and the green tree frog (Hyla cinerea) are discussed. The region of the ventral magnocellular preoptic nucleus is essential for mating calling. This area probably contains androgen receptors that project to, and activate, more posterior calling mechanisms. The region of the main sensory nucleus V is involved, in a manner not yet clearly understood, in calling. Perhaps this area serves as a sensory correlation center that receives and analyzes a variety of sensory inputs, determines what type of call constitutes an appropriate response, and then excites the calling circuits at more posterior levels. The region of the hypoglossal and vagus motor nuclei is essential for release calling. This area probably serves as a motor coordination center that organizes the motor patterns of calling.
3884533|Nectar-feeding vertebrates respond to variation in nectar sugar content by modulating volumetric intake. In some nectar feeding animals, the intake response to sugar concentration can be accurately predicted from simple mathematical models that rely on knowledge of gut morphology, in vitro rates of sugar digestion, and daily energy expenditures. Because most of the floral nectars consumed by vertebrates are dilute, these animals ingest large amounts of water while feeding. The water turnover rates of hummingbirds feeding on dilute nectar are more similar to those of amphibious and aquatic organisms than to those of terrestrial vertebrates. Dilute nectars can pose osmoregulatory challenges for nectarivores. Nectarivorous birds exhibit renal traits that are well suited to dispose of large water loads and that appear inadequate to produce concentrated urine. Nectar-feeding birds prefer concentrated over dilute sugar solutions. However, the concentration difference that they can discriminate is smaller at low than at high concentration. We hypothesize that this pattern is a consequence of the functional form of intake responses that often results in decelerating sugar intakes with increasing sugar concentration. The diminishing returns in floral attractivity that may result from increased nectar concentration may be one of the reasons why the nectars of hummingbird pollinated flowers are dilute in spite of the preference of birds for higher concentrations. The intake responses of nectar-feeding birds capture the integration of a behavioral response with the physiological processes that shape it. Because the behavior of nectar-feeding birds can have consequences for the plants that they visit, the intake response may also have coevolutionary effects.
3884333|Our genotype is so similar to those of the African apes, and our last common ancestor with them so recent, that it seems impossible that human and non-human cognition should differ qualitatively. But the outputs of human cognition are unique in their limitless creativity and adaptability. Exaption resolves the apparent paradox. Assume that the power to create symbols emerges from stimulus-stimulus linkages and is latent in many animals, and that the structural side of language emerges from the argument structures inherent in the social calculus associated with reciprocal altruism. These adaptations confer the potential for language. However, creating complex messages requires uniquely long-lasting coherence of neural signals, which depends in turn on the large quantities of neurons unique to Homo. The only difference between human and non-human minds is that we can sustain longer and more complex trains of thought. All else (emotions, rational processes, even consciousness) could be exactly the same.
3884121|Lampreys are one of just a few fishes which have a true (first or first type) of metamorphosis in their life cycle. In the sea lamprey (Petromyzon marinus), spontaneous metamorphosis is initiated when the size (length and weight), condition factor, and lipid stores reach appropriate levels and coincide with the post-winter rise in water temperature. The serum levels of the thyroid hormones, thyroxine ( T
3882806|The occurrence of terrestrial nemertines on widely separated oceanic islands is described: there are three groups of species (in Australia, New Zealand and the Indopacific islands) and three separate species on Atlantic islands. Parallel evolution from separate marine ancestors is indicated. The evolutionary relationship between different species is established on secure morphological grounds, with particular reference to the genus Pantinonemertes which comprises marine, semi-terrestrial and fully terrestrial species. The distribution of terrestrial nemertines is discussed. Most species are extremely localised but a few have become widely dispersed, notably Argonemertes dendyi but also Geonemertes pelaensis and to a lesser extent Leptonemertes chalicophora. At least two of these widespread species are hermaphrodite.
3882136|Adipose tissue plays a critical role in mammalian life history strategies, serving as an organ for the storage of food and energy, as a source of heat and water and as thermal insulation. The food and energy storage roles are especially important in allowing the animals to survive food shortages and stresses associated with competition for mates, territorial defense, gestation and lactation, and to accomplish migrations. The composition, cellularity and anatomical site of adipose depots in a mammal can influence both the amount of fat stored and its availability and usefulness in any given situation. The fatty acids and complex lipids in adipose tissue, blood vessels, nerves and brain change in response to ambient temperature and the low body temperatures during hibernation. Early nutrition may influence the number of fat cells developed by a mammal, and thus affect its ability to survive adversity. Desert species develop localized depots which will not interfere with temperature regulation, while animals in cold environments use their extensive superficial fat layers as insulation.
3884274|A number of hypotheses have been suggested for the origin of birds and feathers. Although distributions of functional complexes have frequently been used to test phylogenetic hypotheses, analysis of the origin of feathers remains hampered by the incomplete fossil record of these unmineralized structures. It is also complicated by approaches that confuse the origins of birds, feathers, and flight without first demonstrating that these relate to the same historical event. Functional speculation regarding the origin of feathers usually focuses on three possible alternatives: (1) flight; (2) thermal insulation; or (3) display. Recent fossil finds of Late Cretaceous feathered dinosaurs in China have demonstrated that feathers appear to have originated in taxa that retained a significant number of primitive nonavian features. Current evidence strongly suggests that birds are theropod dinosaurs, and that the most primitive known feathers are found on non-flying animals. This further suggests that feathers did not evolve as flight structures. Thermoregulatory, display, and biomechanical support functions remain possible explanations for the origin of feathers. As the earliest function of feathers was probably not for aerial locomotion, it may be speculated that the transitional animals represented by the Chinese fossils possessed skin with the tensile properties of reptiles and combined it with the apomorphic characteristics of feathers.
3884191|We evaluated the effects of maternal environment on offspring size and composition in three species of poeciliid fishes. We chose food availability as the environmental factor for study. Mature females were assigned to either high or low food for an interval of time, then randomly reassigned to high or low food, with the restriction that there be equal numbers in each of four treatments: high-high, high-low, low-high, and low-low food availability. The three species chosen for study differ in the pattern of maternal provisioning. Poecilia reticulata and Priapichthys festae mothers provide all resources necessary for development as yolk, prior to fertilization. In contrast, Heterandria formosa mothers continue to provision the young throughout development. These species also differ in whether or not they have superfetation, or the ability to carry multiple broods of young in different stages of development. P. reticulata does not have superfetation while the other two species do. We were interested in whether the pattern of maternal provisioning or superfetation influenced the maternal effect. The two lecithotrophic species responded to low food by producing larger young with greater fat reserves. H. formosa, the matrotrophic species, responded to low food by producing smaller young. We propose that the production of large young in the face of low food availability might represent adaptive plasticity; matrotrophy might represent a constraint that prevents such an adaptive response. Superfetation had no impact on this maternal effect.
3881536| Acquisition of energy is a prime objective of the search for nutrition. The energy budget of a population or trophic level comprises the sum of energy gains and losses by each individual organism. Since these energy exchanges are governed by the same thermodynamic principles that govern purely physical transfers, the animal energy budget can be developed according to the Thermodynamic Laws. The following points are discussed in this paper: (1) Energetics at the organismic or population level can be completely described by equations based on the algebraic statement of the First Law of Thermodynamics (E = Q + W). (2) Care must be used in the definition of terms such as enthalpy, entropy, and free energy. The latter two, particularly, have been misunderstood and misused in the ecological literature. Analogies between bound heat (TS) and the respiratory heat loss (R) are misleading and logically unsound. (3) The possible advantage of using changes of free energy in ecological energetics is outweighed by the relative convenience and accuracy of methods for measuring changes in enthalpy. (4) There are theoretical errors in the use of respiratory gaseous exchange as an indirect estimate of metabolic heat loss by growing (as opposed to fasting) organisms. 
3883582|Energetic characteristics and functional roles define two main types of anaerobic pathways in the animal kingdom: high efficiency/low rates of energy production pathways geared to anoxia survival (aspartate-succinate and glucose-succinate pathways), and low efficiency/high rates of energy production pathways geared to maintaining or increasing metabolic activity (multiple opine pathways and lactate pathway). The aspartate-succinate and opine pathways require both amino acids and carbohydrate as substrates, whereas the glucose-succinate and lactate pathways are dependent on carbohydrate only. Phylogenetic, functional and chemical considerations indicate an evolutionary progression from amino acid-linked to carbohydrate-based anaerobic pathways. The tauropine and strombine pathways are possibly the most ancient opine pathways so far discovered, and the octopine pathways the most advanced. The roles of the aspartate-succinate and opine pathways may originally have been not too dissimilar. A hierarchy of "rates of energy production pathways" of phosphagen > lactate > octopine > other opine pathways is proposed, which defines much of their phylogenetic selection and how they are used. The different properties of phosphocreatine compared to other phosphagens is indicated to have been a key factor in the emergence of vertebrates.
3881956|It has been suggested that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in mammals may participate in the control of blood pressure, regulation of aldosterone secretion, or in renal functions by influencing intrarenal hemodynamics, or possibly by directly altering renal tubular sodium reabsorption. Comparative studies have shown that this system is present among most vertebrates. Renal renin activity and juxtaglomerular cells (JGC), the possible site of formation and accumulation of renin, have not been found in the cyclostomes and elasmobranchs. They seem to have evolved in primitive bony fishes, being present in all living groups of actinopterygians and sarcopterygians. Both renin and JGC may also exist in a holocephalian, the ratfish, Hydrolagus colliei. The functions of the RAS are not yet defined in fishes. There is no clear evidence for sodium retaining function of the RAS in fishes. Fish angiotensins (angiotensin-like substances) have chemical properties that differ from those of mammals and other tetrapods. It is possible that they also serve quite different functions in fishes than in mammals.
3884000|The locomotion and orientation of free-swimming microorganisms have been widely studied for more than a century. With few exceptions, only the two-dimensional translational velocity of the organism in question is ever reported, yet a complete description of motion requires a three-dimensional description of both the translational and rotational velocities. Recent theoretical work, considering both the translational and rotational velocities, has demonstrated that a previously unrecognized orientation mechanism exists-helical klinotaxis. Efforts to test the predictions of this theory are described, concluding that helical klinotaxis is probably utilized by a diverse assemblage of free-swimming microorganisms.
3881335|Studies on the host-parasite relationship of the sheep stomach worm, Haemonchus contortus suggest that important antigens which are involved in the stimulation of immunologic resistance are released during growth and development of the parasite as it penetrates, molts, and matures in the host. These antigens seem to be released and made available to the host for only short periods of time and in some instances may be present for only a few minutes. Because nematodes do not undergo multiplication in host tissues and because the rate of acquisition of parasites and their subsequent development in the host is irregular, it is difficult regularly to elicit good levels of immunologic resistance by infection procedures which utilize normal or attenuated infective larvae. The recent development of techniques for in vitro maintenance and cultivation of various parasitic stages of the parasite provide a means for collecting antigens elaborated during growth and ecdysis. Results with these materials give hope that it might be feasible to induce an immune resistance response by vaccination which in some cases may be better than that resulting from natural infection.
3883651| The disastrous effects of the intense 1982-83 El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) bring new insight into the long-term development of eastern Pacific coral reefs. The 1982-83 ENSO sea surface warming event caused extensive reef coral bleaching (loss of symbiotic zooxanthellae), resulting in up to 70-95% coral mortality on reefs in Costa Rica, Panam, Colombia and Ecuador. In the Galpagos Islands (Ecuador), most coral reefs experienced >95% coral mortality. Also, several coral species experienced extreme reductions in population size, and local and regional extinctions. The El Nio event spawned secondary disturbances, such as increased predation and bioerosion, that continue to impact reef-building corals. The death of Pocillopora colonies with their crustacean guards eliminated coral barriers now allowing the corallivore Acanthaster planci access to formerly protected coral prey. Sea urchins and other organisms eroded disturbed corals at rates that exceed carbonate production, potentially resulting in the elimination of existing reef buildups. In other reef-building regions following extensive, catastrophic coral mortality, rapid recovery often occurs through the growth of surviving corals, recruitment of new corals from nearby source populations, and survival of consolidated reef surfaces. In the eastern Pacific, however, the return of upwelling conditions and the survival of coral predators and bioeroders hamper coral reef recovery by reducing recruitment success and eroding coral reef substrates. Thus, coral reef growth that occurs between disturbance events is not conserved. Repeated El Nio disturbances, which have occurred throughout the recent geologic history of the eastern Pacific, prevent coral communities from increasing in diversity and limit the development and persistence of significant reef features. The poor development of eastern Pacific coral reefs throughout Holocene and perhaps much of Pleistocene time may result from recurrent thermal disturbances of the intensity of the 1982-83 El Nio event. 
3884210|During sea urchin gastrulation, mesenchyme cells must migrate to the correct locations and attach to specific sites within the embryo. Primary mesenchyme cells (PMCs) aggregate into two major clusters in the ventrolateral region of the embryo and other PMCs form an elaborate pattern that presages the skeletal pattern of the larva. Numerous experiments, including alteration of dorsoventral differentiation of the ectoderm with NiCl
3883410|Comparative ethological studies of closely related species can place into clear perspective the functions of behavioral traits as species diverge and adapt to different environments. In this paper we contrast the reproductive behavior of species within two crustacean groups: the mantis shrimps (stomatopods) and the fiddler crabs (genus Uca). For the stomatopods, we identify probable selective relationships between features of species' ecology and their mating systems. Population density, the kind and availability of shelters in which these shrimps live, the intensity of predation and spawning cycles all play important roles in molding reproductive behavior in this group. Associations between the ecology and mating systems of fiddler crabs have been discussed recently elsewhere. Here we focus on a comparative analysis of sexual communication in these crabs. A study of competitive courtship signaling and mate choice in the fiddler crab Uca beebei has shown that certain male courtship signals are highly attractive probably because they exploit female sensory-response systems that have been molded by selection for escape from predators. Interspecific comparison of male courtship displays and the responses of females to these displays suggest that sensory exploitation may play an important role in the evolution of sexual signals in the genus. Comparative studies have advanced our understanding of how natural and sexual selection affect the reproductive behavior of both stomatopods and fiddler crabs.
3884261|Comparative biochemistry and physiology offer the advantage of specifically defining the functional parameters or traits that affect an organism's performance (e.g., amino acids that affect K
3883765|Viviparity first makes its evolutionary appearance within the craniate-vertebrate line among fishes. We estimate that it has independently evolved at least 42 times in five of the nine major groups of fishes. Viviparity is the dominant mode of reproduction among the cartilaginous sharks and rays, i.e., 55% of approximately 900 living species. It is less prevalent among the five major groups of bony fishes, i.e., 2-3% of an estimated 20,000 or more species. The evolution of viviparity from oviparity involves: 1) a shift from external to internal fertilization; 2) retention of embryos in the female reproductive system; 3) utilization of the ovary or oviduct as sites of gestation; 4) structural and functional modification of the embryo and the female reproductive system and; 5) modification of extant endocrine mechanisms controlling reproduction. Viviparity offers selective advantages to parents and offspring, such as: 1) enhanced survival of offspring; 2) compensation for low fecundity; 3) amplification of reproductive niches to reduce competition; 4) exploitation of pelagic niches; 5) colonization of new habitats; and 6) increased energetic efficiency in viviparous matrotrophes. Its principal disadvantages include: 1) reduced fecundity; 2) cost to the female; and 3) risk of brood loss through maternal death. Acquisition of viviparity establishes new maternal-embryonic relationships, namely: 1) trophic; 2) osmoregulatory and excretory; 3) respiratory; 4) endocrinological; and 5) immunological. In sharks, rays, and the coelacanth, gestation takes place in the oviduct, but in teleosts gestation occurs either in the ovarian follicle or ovarian lumen. The cystovarian teleostean ovary is hypothesized to function both as ovary and oviduct. Oviductal, ovarian lumenal, and follicular epithelial cells are the maternal sites of metabolic exchange. Metabolic exchange in embryos takes place across the epithelia of the general body surface and its derivatives or across the gut epithelium and its derivatives. Four patterns of piscine placentation have evolved, namely: 1) yolk sac; 2) follicular; 3) branchial; and 4) trophotaenial placentae. The pericardial amniochorion, the embryonic portion of the follicular placenta, occurs in poeciliids and several other teleostean groups. Developmentally, it is nearly identical to the anterior aminochorionic fold of tetrapod vertebrates. Trophotaeniae are external rosette or ribbon-like structures that have evolved in four orders of teleosts by heterochrony, i.e., accelerated outgrowth and differentiation of the embryonic hind gut. With the possible exception of the coelacanth, the yolk sac placenta occurs only in sharks. We estimate that it has independently evolved between 11 and 20 times. It displays considerable diversity. Evolution of the yolk sac placenta entails retention of the yolk sac and secondary differentiation of its distal portion for implantation and maternal tissue-embryonic tissue metabolic exchange and its proximal portion for oviductal fluid-embryonic tissue exchange. The yolk stalk lengthens, is modified into an umbilical stalk, and establishes a site of autotomy at the embryo-umbilical stalk junction. The lumenal wall of the oviduct becomes competent to function as a site of implantation.
3881705|Experiments are reviewed which have led to the conclusion that differentiation occurs during regeneration in Tubularia only if a bioelectric field of sufficient strength is maintained. The electrical polarity seems to determine the polarity of morphogenesis by controlling the movement of charged repressors. The repressors work in this totipotent system by preventing recipient regions from becoming what the donor regions are becoming. It appears that any level can become the most anterior structure not forming anterior to it. Thus by a series of repressions in totipotent material all levels of a hydranth are established.
3881943|At this time, it can be said that the available data obtained from amphibians and reptiles as regards the endocrine pancreas is consistent with the much more extensive data known for the metabolic effects of insulin and glucagon in mammals. There remain, however, many unexplored facets of the specific responses of the pancreas and the target tissues in lower animals.
3884485|Recent phylogenetic analyses of fossil and living crocodylians allow us to compare the taxonomic, geographic, and temporal distributions of morphological features, such as snout shapes. A few basic snout morphotypes-generalized, blunt, slender, deep, and excessively broad ("duck-faced")-occur multiple times in distantly-related lineages. Some clades-especially those found in the Northern Hemisphere or with minimum origination dates in the Cretaceous or lower Tertiary-are morphologically uniform, but geographically widespread; crocodylian faunas of the early Tertiary tend to be composite, with sympatric taxa being distantly related, and similar-looking taxa on different continents being close relatives. In contrast, crocodylian faunas of the later Tertiary tend to be more endemic, with local adaptive radiations occurring in Africa and Australia containing members of most basic snout shapes. Endemic radiations in Africa and Australia have largely been replaced by Crocodylus, which can be divided into subclades that may individually represent endemic adaptive radiations.
3881829|Data from hybridization permit assessment of relationships of the toads (genus Bufo) which occur on all continents except Australia and permit a crude estimate of the degree of genetic change with time. The evidence indicates that toads have been very conservative with respect to change. A major dichotomy into broad-skulled, warmth-adapted and narrow-skulled, cold-adapted types occurred in the New World 15 million or more years ago. The narrow-skulled toads have reached Africa at least twice. Hybridization between Eurasian and New World species shows that after separation for an estimated 10 million years some species remain genetically similar enough to produce viable F
3881459|An electron microscopic study of internal and surface-connected membrane systems of leg muscle of the crab shows that there are three kinds of surface-connected membrane systems in addition to an intracellular sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). One is a system of large infoldings of the sarcolemma referred to as clefts. These are longitudinally-oriented, flattened infoldings of both the plasma membrane and the fibrous sheath of the fiber, and were probably seen earlier with the light microscope. Extending into the fiber both from these clefts and from the free fiber surface are two systems of tubules of much smaller caliber, the Z tubules and the A tubules. The Z tubules are located, as their name indicates, near the Z lines of the myofibrils, and are thought to be attached to them mechanically. The A tubules are found in pairs, near the ends of each A band, and are closely bound to the SR in two-part structures called dyads. Local-activation experiments, like those done earlier by Huxley and Taylor, suggest that the A tubules are involved in excitation-contraction coupling; no such experimental suggestion of function exists for the Z tubules.
3883664|During the past three decades, considerable evidence has been gathered in attempts to understand more fully honey bee recruitment to food sources. Those efforts also apply directly to two long-standing and competing recruitment hypotheses: odor search vs. "dance language" communication. However, whereas most researchers have focused on individual interactions and behavior, the colony can also be viewed as a unit. A review of evidence from a colony perspective reveals that colony members range an average distance from their home base, whether while foraging on food sources, while collecting water, or while relocating as swarms. Those averages, based on the logarithm of the distance from the colony, vary with the type of resource exploited and size of the odor field. Such a mathematical correspondence between distances travelled from parent colonies may well agree with an odor-search recruitment model, but is hardly reconcilable with the "dance language" hypothesis.
3883120|In this review, we discuss current information about a cell-cell recognition protein present in chick embryo neural retina. This protein, retina cognin, has cell adhesion or aggregation promoting properties in vitro. We discuss five questions. First, what is retina cognin (R-cognin)? Second, what do we know about cognin in chick retina? We discuss its histological distribution in retina and how that distribution changes during embryonic and early post-hatching development. Third, where is cognin within cells? We review light microscopy evidence for its localization in plasma membranes of somas and neurites of selected retinal neurons as an intrinsic membrane protein. Fourth, how is cognin distributed in membranes? We summarize evidence that cognin might not be uniformly distributed over cell surfaces and that it might bind to specific proteins on the surfaces of other retina cells. From the available information, we ask what we can deduce about cognin's biological role in the neural retina.
3884442|Expression domains of developmental genes can indicate body part homologies between distantly related animals and give insights into interesting evolutionary questions. Two of the chief criteria for recognizing homologies are relative position with respect to surrounding body parts and special quality (for instance, a vertebrate testis, regardless of its location, is recognizable by its seminiferous cysts or tubules). When overall body plans of two animals are relatively similar, as for amphioxus versus vertebrates, body part homologies can be supported by developmental gene expression domains, which have properties of special quality and relative position. With expression patterns of AmphiNk2-1 and AmphiPax2/5/8, we reexamine the proposed homology between the amphioxus endostyle and the vertebrate thyroid gland, and a previously good homology is made better. When body plans of animals are disparate, body part homologies supported by molecular genetic data are less convincing, because the criterion of relative position of gene expression domains becomes uncertain. Thus, when expression of amphioxus AmphiBMP2/4 is used to compare the dorsoventral axis between amphioxus and other animals, a comparison between amphioxus and vertebrates is more convincing than comparison between amphioxus and other invertebrates with disparate body plans. In spite of this difficulty, the use of developmental genetic evidence comparing animals with disparate body plans is currently putting the big picture of evolution into new perspective. For example, some molecular geneticists are now suggesting that the last common ancestor of all bilaterian animals might have been more annelid-like than flatworm-like.
3884394| Encysted embryos of the primitive crustacean, Artemia franciscana, are among the most resistant of all animal life history stages to extremes of environmental stress. This resistance has likely been acquired during evolutionary adaptation to their harsh ecological setting. In the laboratory, for example, some of these embryos survive more than 6 years of continuous anoxia while fully hydrated and at room temperature, a phenomenal capability that can easily be related to their frequent encounters with anoxic conditions in nature. A small heat shock protein belonging to the -crystallin family of proteins, referred to as p26, appears to play a central role in the stress resistance of these embryos. Our evidence shows that this protein is an important component in their adaptive repertoire, and vital for the survival of Artemia in nature. 
3882605|The embryonic chick limb bud is a growing organ rudiment whose undifferentiated cells give rise to a precise spatial pattern of differentiated structures. The establishment of positional values of chick limb bud cells (pattern specification) and the response of limb bud cells with established positional values to experimental perturbations (pattern regulation) are the major topics considered in this paper. The results of recent experiments with developing chick limb buds analyzing pattern specification and pattern regulation are presented. These studies with the chick limb are described in light of the postulates of a model that was originally formulated from experiments performed on regenerating amphibian and insect appendages.
3883492|The historical zoogeography of eusuchian crocodilians has rarely been reviewed in any detail and yet is of increasing interest to students of crocodilian biology as large amounts of comparative information on a wide range of species come to hand. Previous interpretations of crocodilian zoogeography have been based on one or another of two assumptions-that the major continental land masses have remained more or less fixed in position, and that the eusuchians have had only very limited powers of dispersal across marine barriers. Both of these assumptions are inappropriate in light of our present knowledge of continental drift and crocodilian physiology. In this paper we attempt a reinterpretation of eusuchian zoogeography based on new information on their systematic relationships, physiological capacity for marine dispersal, and fossil history. We postulate that anatomical and physiological adaptations to a marine existence have played an important role in eusuchian history. We propose that Gavialis and Tomistoma, now restricted to fresh waters, may have been derived secondarily from ancestors adapted to salt water. In the case of Tomistoma, similarities in lingual gland and buccal cavity anatomy to the true crocodiles (Crocodylus and Osteolaemus) suggest that marine adaptations predated the divergence of tomistomine and crocodyline stocks. The buccal morphology of Gavialis suggests it also has a marine ancestry. Its systematic affinities are uncertain, lying perhaps with Tomistoma or, on other interpretations, with the Mesosuchia. In both cases, the fossil record is not inconsistent with this possibility. Palaeontological information now available is inadequate to reconstruct the evolutionary history of the Eusuchia in detail. However, saltwater adapted eusuchians are more common in the fossil record than is widely recognized and the likelihood of dispersal across marine "barriers" by non-alligatorid crocodilians cannot be ignored.
3881997|Steller sea lion pups were observed from birth through the eighth week of life. Data were collected on dyadic interactions among 19 marked animals. The results showed that among these precocious animals adult-like behavioral patterns are clearly evident by 2 weeks of age. In play bouts motor components of many adult motivational states occur in mixed sequence. Most of the motor components in play bouts resembled male agonistic behavior. By analyzing for the ratio of one behavioral pattern to another, play bouts were divisible into types, e.g., fighting bouts were clearly separable from boundary defense bouts. Age, sex, terrain, and the specific play partner were all determinants of the motor components used in an encounter. Sexual dimorphism was obvious and measurable, but no clear sign of a dominance hierarchy was found. The results are discussed in terms of the possible role that play behavior holds in establishing the relative stability or flexibility of behavior among adults.
3883288|In the chick embryo, the period of 10.0 to 13.0 days of incubation is critical in the maturation of the hypothalamic/adenohypophyseal or adenohypophyseal regulation of thyroid function; the establishment of thyroid regulation at this time is reflected in a marked increase in thyroid function. There has been general agreement that the "feed-forward" and the "feed-backward" loops of the adenohypophyseal-thyroid unit are established on or about day 11.5, but whether these events were the result of the establishment of pituitary-thyroid interactions alone or included hypothalamic regulation of the pituitary-thyroid unit has until quite recently remained problematical. Data presented in the present review indicate that beginning on or about day 11.5 the hypothalamus can and does regulate the pituitary-thyroid unit. Although the hypothalamus is essential for the maintenance of normal pituitary-thyroid function, the data strongly suggest that the immediate event which is responsible for the establishment of a functional hypothalamo-adenohypophyseal-thyroid axis in the developing chick embryo is a marked increase in adenohypophyseal thyrotrophs on day 11.5.
3882763| The enzymology of insect intestinal cell plasma membranes is a field of scientific research that is in the earliest stages of development. In this paper the few published studies specifically designed to isolate plasma membranes from insect intestinal cells and determine the enzymes associated with them are reviewed in light of both older studies that approached these problems less directly and recent results from our laboratory. In the past few years reliable methods have been developed for the isolation of specific portions of plasma membranes from the epithelial cells of the midguts of a few insect larvae. These membrane preparations have been assayed for a variety of enzyme activities. Alkaline phosphatase, leucine aminopeptidase and -glutamyl transpeptidase have shown promise as potential markers for the plasma membranes of insect larval midgut cells. However, only the latter enzyme currently stands unchallenged as a marker for the apical portion of the plasma membrane of insect midgut columnar epithelial cells. No enzymes can yet be considered to be even tentatively established as markers for the basal or lateral portions of insect intestinal cells. 
3884331|A monodimensional understanding of both the past and the present has often characterized the historical background provided for scientific disciplines. It scans the past for the antecedents of the current cutting edge. But establishing such genealogical connections is difficult, even on the level of terminology. For example, neither "animal" nor "consciousness" has ever been defined without contention. The main current (and past) problem with the term "animal" is taxonomic: does it include people or not? and if so, are people included in only their physical aspect or in some more encompassing sense? An examination of 18th and 19th-century taxonomical treatments of the great apes shows how convictions and uncertainties on these issues were expressed through classification. With regard to "consciousness" the main problem has been whether that term refers to something shared by humans and other species. An examination of 19th-century attempts to claim that non-primates like the dog resembled humans more closely than did apes shows that this issue too reflects scientific as well as lay discomfort at the awkward proximity of other primates. A final problem with establishing scientific genealogies is that they often assume past consensus among experts on issues where there was actually intense disagreement, complicated by the difficulty of deciding who the experts actually were two or three centuries ago. None of these problems has completely disappeared even now.
3881752|In nematodes, parthenogenesis, meiotic or more often mitotic with polyploidy, occurs in the orders Tylenchida and Rhabditida. It has evolved independently within the various families and even certain genera, replacing the usual amphimixis in some species and supplementing it in others with one or more parthenogenetic generations. Polyploidy, haploidy, abnormal spermatogenesis and absence of sperms have been cited as evidence of parthenogenesis in some adult cestodes and digenetic trematodes, especially dioecious species in those predominantly hermaphroditic groups. Evidence now favors interpretation of reproduction by germinal sacs in trematodes as diploid parthenogenesis which can be continued through an indefinite number of generations in some species by transplanting germinal sacs from infected to uninfected snails.
3883171|We examine three behavior-genetic mechanisms of vole population regulation. Each predicts an increase in aggressive behavior among individuals as density increases. The polymorphic behavior hypothesis predicts heritable changes in aggressive behavior among individuals; the sociobiological hypothesis predicts heightened aggression among nonrelatives; and the outbreeding hypothesis predicts an increase in heterozygosity-caused aggressiveness. In order to test these hypotheses, it is necessary to know relatedness, aggressive behavior levels, and genotypes of individuals, as well as demographic and reproductive parameters. Aggressive levels can be obtained during paired encounters; genotypes can be ascertained by electrophoresis; and relatedness can be determined using radionuclides or radiotelemetry, and electrophoresis. In this paper we discuss the hypotheses, data-gathering protocols, and the ways in which the data can be used to test the hypotheses.
3883788|There is widespread recognition of a recent coming together of developmental and evolutionary biology in the study of problems of mutual interest. Contemporary studies into the development and evolution of the head largely comprise two parallel approaches, or research strategies: the model systems approach and the comparative approach. The two strategies share the same general goal-greater understanding of cranial development and evolution-but typically emphasize different problems, ask different questions, and employ different methods, reflecting the contrasting backgrounds and biases of each group of investigators; there has been relatively little true synthesis. Each strategy is making important and valid contributions, but both have limitations. Resolution of many fundamental and long-standing problems in cranial development and evolution will require a combined approach that incorporates the technical and conceptual strengths of each discipline.
3882583| Filter-feeding invertebrates are exposed to a small but continuous source of potential foodstuffs in the form of dissolved free amino acids (DFAA). Studies with two genera of bivalve molluscs, Mytilus and Modiolus, indicate the existence of carrier-mediated transport processes for DFAA, and that these processes are capable of a net accumulation of substrate from external solution. The kinetics of DFAA transport in bivalve gill, the primary organ for uptake, reveal these processes to be well-adapted for the efficient utilization of substrate at the extremely low concentrations (approximately 1 M) characteristic of the water column: Michaelis constants for uptake are in the micromolar range, resulting in transport rates that are a significant fraction of the maximum capacity of the system. Comparison of potential rates of DFAA accumulation to rates of oxidative metabolism suggest that DFAA can serve as an important nutritional supplement to these animals. Future work should emphasize new analytical procedures, including the use of high performance liquid chromatography, to identify levels of DFAA in specific environments and rates of net DFAA uptake into organisms from these habitats. 
4620214|Our interpretation of the evolution of development, morphology, and diversity of multicellular animals hinges on a clear understanding of the phylogenetic relationships of metazoans. Currently, the field of metazoan phylogeny is in a state of flux, with new hypotheses of metazoan relationships emerging from analyses of 18S rDNA sequence data. Some of these analyses have been limited in the numbers of taxa analyzed, others, with numerous taxa analyzed, have not resolved deep level branching patterns, and all are hampered by properties of the 18S gene itself. Corroboration of the results from 18S rDNA analyses can come from additional molecular data sets, such as highly conserved nuclear coding genes, mitochondrial gene order, or gene duplication events. The enormous task of data accumulation for additional molecular data from many representative taxa can most efficiently be undertaken in a coordinated, collaborative effort among different lab groups. Ultimately, a combined analysis of several independ data sets will be possible and may provide a more stable, robust phylogeny for the Metazoa.
3883160|The foundations of American embryology and genetics were established by four former graduate students of Johns Hopkins University. Edmund Beecher Wilson ('81) and Thomas Hunt Morgan ('90) interacted over a thirty year period to provide the foundations of genetics, while Edwin Grant Conklin ('91) and Ross Granville Harrison ('94) focused their studies on embryonic determination. Together, they founded the Journal of Experimental Zoology and were influential in framing the shape of American experimental zoology for decades to come. This essay will attempt to outline the interactions between Wilson and Morgan leading up to the formation of the gene theory, and it will try to place this controversy in the context of a larger conflict among experimental biologists of the first two decades of this century-the conflict over whether biological processes are effected by molecules in solution or by fixed microscopic morphological structures.
3881911|Mechanisms of polar lobe formation in fertilized eggs of Ilyanassa obsoleta are discussed. Data are presented in the context of a model involving a contractile ring of microfilaments in the cortical cytoplasm of the vegetal hemisphere. The polar lobe neck diameter decreases at two distinct rates during formation of second, third, and fourth polar lobes. During the second, more rapid phase of lobe constriction, eggs contain a band of microfilaments arranged circumferentially in the cortical cytoplasm apposed to the plasma membrane at the base of the polar lobe constriction. These microfilaments disappear and lobe constrictions regress in cytochalasin B, but not in colchicine. Colchicine prevents eggs from beginning the second, more rapid phase of lobe constriction. Eggs require the presence of potassium ions but not sodium ions for normal polar lobe formation and cleavage. When eggs are placed in isotonic solutions of CaCl
3884250|Eggs and embryos of many aquatic organisms develop in the water column and can experience ultraviolet radiation with potentially deleterious effects. This is especially vexing for floating embryos that develop in the surface or neuston layer. Radiation damage can be a particular problem for these embryos since the cell division cycle during the cleavage period is quite short and often these cycles do not have mitotic checkpoints to insure faithful transmission of DNA to the daughter cells. This could result in cell division with unrepaired DNA in the blastomeres, which could impact embryogenesis and the transmission of the genome through the germ line. Described strategies to restrict radiation damage include mechanisms to limit oxidative damage and the use of sunscreens such as the mycosporines to curb radiation to sensitive targets. We describe a particularly ingenious use of sunscreens in the tunicate embryo, the use of extra-embryonic cells to shield the embryo from potentially harmful UV-A and UV-B radiation. We also raise questions regarding the nature of UV damage to embryos (is it DNA or also protein) and the characteristics of DNA repair in such embryos. It is likely that unique mechanisms are present in floating embryos that develop in this air-water interface to assure that cell and genomic integrity are maintained in this challenging environment.
3882081|Micromeres are isolated at the 16-cell stage from three species of Japanese sea urchins, Hemicentrotus pulcherrimus, Pseudocentrotus depressus, and Anthocidaris crassispina, and are cultured in sea water containing a small amount of horse serum. In all species used, isolated micromeres first divide unequally as they do in vivo. The pattern and number of the subsequent cleavages are also the same as in vivo, although they are not necessarily clear in all cases, since the border of the adjacent cells become invisible at each resting stage in some batches of embryos. After cleavage, passing through the stage when the contours of the individual cell are obscure, decendants of the isolated micromeres form cell aggregates similar to the group of primary mesenchyme cells in a blastula. Within such aggregates, a spicular rudiment appears which develops either into a triradiate spicule as in normal gastrulae or into a rod. The triradiate spicule grows into a three-dimensional skeleton which is very similar to the normal pluteus skeleton, not only in its final shape and size including species-specific characters but in its developmental course and crystallographic nature. The rod, on the other hand, develops into either a one-dimensional or two-dimensional skeleton. These skeletons probably correspond to a part of the complete skeleton.
3882258|When compared to lizards or snakes, signals related to warning and threat are not very important in land tortoises. Within social and sexual contexts, tactile and chemical signals seem more important than visual, and certainly than auditory ones. Color patterns are rarely, if ever, sexually discriminatory. Seasonal color differences are rare. In general, positional signals are rather limited, chiefly because of the shell. However, shell positional changes are an important part of the visual and tactile signal repertory of all land tortoises. Head movements are also important in several groups. Audible signals are poorly developed. They are largely concerned with courtship and their role is not understood. Chemical signals are pronounced, especially in displays related to sex identification, largely based on scents associated with the cloaca. Tactile displays are important particularly during courtship. They include biting and especially shell ramming by the male. The tail is used as a tactile organ during courtship of some species.
3882189|Much of the protein synthesis during early development in Ilyanassa results from the translation of oogenetic mRNA. We show that microtubule proteins are products of this translation, and that their synthesis is subject to translation level regulation. We also show that translation level regulation is involved in the function of the polar lobe by making comparisons of the electrophoretic patterns of synthesis of
3882215|Binding of hydrocortisone (HC) to cytoplasmic receptors and of the resulting receptor-hydrocortisone complex (R-HC) to nuclear acceptor sites has been studied in neural retina cells of the chick embryo, in which this hormone induces glutamine synthetase (GS). These studies were done in a cell-free system, as well as in intact retina tissue in culture. Optimal conditions, specificity, and the quantitative aspects of R-HC binding to nuclei in the cell-free system were determined. Isolated nuclei retained their binding specificity for R-HC prepared from retina cytosol; at saturation, the total number of nuclear acceptor sites for R-HC was estimated to be in the range of 1500 per nucleus. These sites were resistant to RNAse but sensitive to DNAse. When retina tissue was cultured in the presence of progressively higher doses (0-90 nM) of HC, increasing amounts of receptors were translocated from the cytoplasm to the nuclei. Following incubation of retina with 9-90 nM HC, the cytoplasm was almost completely depleted of receptors and the nuclei became saturated with R-HC. From the amount of R-HC bound to nuclei at saturation, the estimated total number of R-HC acceptor sites per nucleus was comparable to that derived from the cell-free system. Increases in the level of GS induction in the retina correlated well with amounts of R-HC complex bound by nuclei.
3882843|Demography, the study of human population dynamics, is a fundamental part of human ecology. The explosive growth of the human population, especially in the last century, is an underlying cause of the human predicament today and will continue to be for the foreseeable future. A treatment of human ecology in an introductory biology course should acquaint students with the basic concepts and terminology of demography, including a brief history of the human population, a description of the present demographic situation, and the prospects for the future, including the phenomenon of population momentum. The discussion should be cast in the context of the human environment and resource base, including consideration of the size and behavior of the human population relative to the carrying capacity of the planet for human life.
3883109|During prolonged experimental submergence, freshwater turtles become anoxic and develop a combined respiratory and non-respiratory acidosis. Anoxia and acidosis are known to depress cardiac function in turtles and other vertebrate species. In vitro studies of ventricular and atrial tissue of turtles indicate that increased extracellular Ca
3883716|It is likely that roughly one billion gallons of oil enters our oceans each year as a result of man's activities. Only 8% of this input is believed to derive from natural sources. At least 22% is intentionally released as a function of normal tanker "operational discharges," 12% enters from accidental tanker spills and another 36% from runoff and municipal and industrial wastes. Invertebrate populations and communities form the foundation for marine ecosystems and are continually subjected to stresses from both chronic and acute oil toxicity. The diversity of invertebrate taxa represented in the marine environment exhibit a wide range of responses to oil. Mortality is an obvious impact resulting from catastrophic spills or even chronic toxicity. Sublethal impacts on individuals are manifested by physiological, carcinogenic and cytogenetic effects. Impacts typically felt at the population level involve changes in abundance, age structure, population genetic structure, reproduction and reduced recruitment potential. Community level impacts are typified by modified interactions between competitors, predator/prey and symbionts. Most importantly, changes in community structure represented by altered trophic interactions tend to produce the most dramatic alterations to natural invertebrate assemblages. Invertebrate communities respond to severe chronic oil pollution and/or acute catastrophic oil pollution in much the same way. Initial massive mortality and lowered community diversity is followed by extreme fluctuations in populations of opportunistic mobile and sessile fauna (and flora). Oscillations in population numbers slowly dampen over time and diversity slowly increases to original levels. The time over which these events occur depends on the type of oil, the extent of the initial contamination, habitat type, weather conditions, latitude, the species assemblages represented and a myriad of other complex factors.
3884107|Typically, tests of risk-sensitive foraging involve observing a subject's choices of alternative prey types differing in some combination of mean and variance of expected foraging gain. Here, we consider the problem of risk-sensitive foraging when there is a single prey type. We observed worker bumble bees (Bombus occidentalis) foraging in an array of artificial 2-flower inflorescences. After visiting the bottom flower in an inflorescence and obtaining a reward of some size, the bee decides whether to visit the top flower or to move to a new inflorescence (a patch departure). Here, risk-sensitive behavior is expressed as the forager's choice of patch departure threshold (PDT) of reward obtained in the bottom flower. We measured the PDTs of bees whose colony energy stores (and therefore energy requirements) had been manipulated (Enhanced or Depleted). Simulations led us to predict that shortfall-minimizing bees should decrease their PDTs when their colony energy reserves were depleted, relative to when the reserves were enhanced. Bees did not use a strict patch departure threshold, but instead the probability of departure varied with nectar volume in the bottom flower. Colony energy stores did affect patch departure behavior, but this effect was confounded by the order in which manipulation of colony reserves was applied. Further, simulations of observed bee patch departure decisions did not produce behavior expected if the decisions were based on shortfall-minimization. We conclude that a bee's decision of when to leave an inflorescence is not predicted by a static shortfall-minimizing model. Our results also implicate an important interaction between learning and foraging requirements. We review risk-sensitivity in bees, and discuss why risk-sensitive foraging may be adaptive for bumble bees.
3882121|Diurnal, rhythmic variation of melatonin content in the pineal gland, blood serum, and brain have been found in chickens, with greater amounts present in all tissues during nighttime than during daytime. Similar daily rhythms appear to occur in the pineal gland and serum of rats and in the serum and urine of humans. It is proposed that these correlated fluctuations in melatonin levels are causally related, elevated pineal content resulting in increased melatonin content of the blood and increased accumulation by the brain. The brain of chickens, especially the hypothalamus, appears to accumulate melatonin and is probably a primary site of action of melatonin.
3883060|Ecological energetics provides a unifying focus for ecological studies. Heat energy budget analysis is used to predict the body temperatures of animals and their microclimatic requirements. Climate space diagrams, transient energy balance models and operative environmental temperature models predict daily and seasonal activity patterns, predator-prey interactions and energy requirements of vertebrate ectotherms. Food energy budget (resource allocation) models are used to investigate the life history processes of fish, amphibians and reptiles. Heat energy budgets and food energy budgets interact through their effects on body temperature and metabolism. Coupled heat, food and mass balance equations can serve as a unified energy budget model and are useful in determining limits on the energy available to an animal for growth and reproduction. Bioenergetic models have been successfully applied to some reptiles and fish. Complete energy budgets are now needed for other ectothermic vertebrates.
3884317|In the present paper, we are reviewing experimental evidence demonstrating that phagocytic cells, such as macrophages, may be used as a biomarker of immunotoxicity in wildlife studies. We will first present data obtained after exposure in vitro with selected chemicals showing the comparative sensitivity of phagocytic cells from different species. These results demonstrate that, at least for metals, each species produce a similar shaped dose-response curve, although considerate interspecies sensitivity is evident. These results also demonstrate the sensitivity of the phagocytic activity, suggesting indeed that this function could be used to monitor exposure to chemicals. The similar shaped dose-response curves imply that mechanisms of action may also be similar. Furthermore, based on the relative speices sensitivity, sentinel species could be selected for field monitoring. Such an approach may also be useful to establish correction factors required to extrapolate results between species. This sensitivity of the phagocytic activity of macrophages will be further under controlled conditions in laboratory animal models. Finally, the reliability of this approach will be demonstrated using case studies with wildlife species.
3882506|The interactions between sea urchin supermatozoa and ova during fertilization usually exhibit a high degree of species specificity. Under natural conditions and reasonable gamete concentrations, most interspecific inseminations fail to yield zygotes. Macromolecules on the external surfaces of the apposing gametes must surely be responsible for successful gamete recognition, adhesion and fusion. Species specific recognition between surface components of sperm and egg could occur during at least three events comprising the fertilization process. The first event is the interaction of the sperm plasma membrane with the egg jelly coat. This induces the sperm acrosome reaction resulting in the exocytosis of the "bindin"-containing acrosome granule and also the extrusion of the acrosome process from the anterior tip of the sperm. The second event is the adhesion of the bindin-coated acrosome process to glycoprotein "bindin receptors" on the external surface of the egg vitelline layer. The third event is the penetration of the vitelline layer and the fusion of sperm and egg plasma membranes. With the isolations of the component of egg jelly which induces the acrosome reaction, sperm bindin from the acrosome vesicle and the egg surface bindin receptor from the vitelline layer, there is hope of discovering the molecular basis of this most interesting intercellular interaction which results in the activation of embryonic development.
3882289|The endocrine activity of the nereid brain supports caudal regeneration in young worms and inhibits both the onset and progress of gametogenesis and metamorphosis. A single hormone is believed to influence these processes. There is also evidence that the nereid brain, like that of many other polychaetes, secretes a tropic hormone that is indispensable for normal vitellogenesis. It is not known if the inhibitory and tropic functions of the brain are caused by separate hormones. The cellular origin of this endocrine activity is unknown. Some cerebral neurosecretory cells have terminals located in the infracerebral complex on the ventral region of the brain. The infracerebral complex, which has some features of a neuroendocrine organ, also has epithelioid infracerebral cells, one type of which resembles cerebral neurosecretory cells. The infracerebral complex is undoubtedly hormonogenic but the functions and interactions of its various components are unknown. Evidence that cerebral neurosecretory cells of nereids produce neurohormones or control the activity of infracerebral cells is circumstantial. The neuroendocrine status of this neurosecretory system is uncertain in the absence of demonstrated interactions between nervous and non-nervous endocrine tissues.
3884194|We examine the variation in egg sizes of marine teleosts and evaluate the maternal contribution to this variability. At the species level, egg sizes in 309 North Atlantic fishes range from 0.3 to 18.0 mm diameter (median = 1.1), size at hatching varies directly with egg size, and large adult size is associated with large eggs but the relationship is weak. Within populations, egg sizes are distributed normally with a median coefficient of variation of 4% (n = 56 species). Egg size varied among females in all cases for which female-level data were found. Estimates of the variance components of egg size due to females were found for three species and, as a percentage of total variance, are 71% for capelin, Mallotus villosus, 46% for winter flounder, Pleuronectes americanus, and 35% for Atlantic cod, Gadus morhua. For cod, which spawn multiple egg batches per year, an additional batches-within-females component was estimated to be 26%. Size at hatching also differs among sibgroups and is generally directly related to egg size at the individual level. We modelled fish growth by allowing individuals to grow at exponential rates from a normal distribution of initial sizes. Comparing size variation in model fish to empirical evidence suggests that variation in initial sizes, propagated by growth, could account for a large fraction of the size variation observed months after hatching in natural populations. We view size variation in young marine fishes to be largely of maternal origin and environmentally modulated, which if true has special consequences for fisheries and aquaculture.
3882057|The decay, following basal disk removal, of the disk-mediated inhibition of disk formation in hydra is as slow as would be expected, were the inhibition mediated by a diffusing substance. When a hydra's size is changed, either by adding or by removing mass, the inhibition intensity changes in the manner expected if the vehicle of the inhibition is a substance diffusing from the disk and destroyed by all the cells of the body.
3883344|Mice were used as a model system to demonstrate the effects of increased loading on the trabecular bone in the developing proximal femur. A two-dimensional free body diagram revealed that because the femur is normally held in a horizontal position during support, functional loading resulted in a net posterior bending moment and a muscle generated axial compressive load that was 7.7 times the normal support weight for that limb. Experimental treatment consisted of four times normal gravity for 10 min, six times per day for 30 days in addition to unrestrained normal exercise. Unrestrained normal exercise served as the control. An animal whose foot was amputated by his mother shortly after birth was used as a less than normal load example for comparison with the hypergravity and control groups. All groups were treated for 30 days. Two areas of trabecular bone were examined: a proximal central webbing area that may be under predominantly tensile loading much of the time, and a more distal area near the third trochanter that presumably experiences bending stresses when the animal is exposed to normal activity or hypergravity. Results indicate that: 1) The central webbing area appears to have a similar mass of bone regardless of loading conditions; however, with increased loading the trabeculae become oriented in directions that approximate directions of presumed principal tensile stresses. 2) There is no genetically predetermined amount of bony tissue in the third trochanter area; when the limb is relatively unloaded no trabeculae are present, as the loading increases trabecular bone is formed. In the hypergravity group, trabeculae in the area of the third trochanter increased in length and complexity and became more centrally positioned in the lumen of the femur, a position that presumably would allow the femur to better resist bending moments. These results demonstrate that short duration, high intensity functional loading can stimulate growth of trabecular bone, and further, specific types of functional loading can be correlated with specific architectural changes.
3882374|The Mexican axolotl, a neotonous salamander, has found widespread use as an experimental animal for studies in embryology and physiology. The convenience with which the axolotl can be maintained as a laboratory animal and the high quality of the eggs it produces contribute to its popularity in laboratory research. A large array of mutant genes has been recognized in the axolotl. These genes affect one or another process during development of the organism, and have provided a basis for carrying out research in developmental genetics. Approximately three dozen mutant genes in the axolotl are known. These genes have been grouped into 5 different categories which reflect, for the most part, the developmental stage at which the mutant phenotype can first be recognized. One group of mutant genes, the autonomous cell-lethals, is discussed in detail. These genes share the common feature that homozygous embryos cannot be rescued by parabiosis with normal embryos. In addition, grafts of mutant tissue (e.g., gill or limb primorida) do not survive on normal hosts. These genes probably are responsible for metabolic or regulatory defects which affect all cells and tissues in the organism. The mutant phenotypes and potential usefulness of these genes are discussed in detail.
3882529|Nectar-feeding birds are among the smallest birds and the largest pollinators. Energetic costs of maintenance, temperature regulation, foraging and reproduction increase in direct proportion to body mass raised to fractional exponents, which may vary from 0.5 to 1.0; overall costs probably vary with an exponent of 0.75. Avian nectarivores acquire most of their energy from flower nectar; in so doing they compete with other nectar feeders and pollinate plants. Larger pollinators are more reliable and move pollen greater distances, but to attract them plants must secrete more nectar and protect it from utilization by smaller animals. Minimum body size of avian nectarivores (2g) appears to reflect both competition with insects and the limited capacity of the smallest birds to acquire and store energy relative to the demands of fasting, temperature regulation, and reproduction. Hummingbirds have attained significantly smaller size than other nectar feeding birds because lower metabolic rates and use of hypothermic torpor reduce their energy expenditure relative to income. Maximum body size of avian nectarivores (approximately 80g) apparently reflects the upper limit of plant energy expenditure for reliable, long distance pollination. Between these limits, size variation reflects divergence to reduce interspecific competition and coevolution with plants to promote specificity.
3882430|Body temperature distributions of ectotherms which are free to select any environmental temperature throughout a wide range usually are negatively skewed, that is, a wider range of selected temperature falls below the median than above it. This negative skewness can be understood as the consequence of the regulation of a temperature-dependent rate process whose rate, as an exponential function of temperature, is maintained within a normal curve of error. Analysis of frequency distributions of body temperature show that they can be characterized by the median and two additional parameters. One of these can be used to approximate the Q
3882329|The 22 kHz vocalization of male rats (R. norvegicus) occurs in a wide variety of social contexts. It is, for example, emitted during sexual and aggressive encounters. In this article, we put forth the idea that although the specific meaning of the signal varies from one social situation to another, the message is similar-the animal is in a refractory, withdrawn, or helpless state. To demonstrate that the signal produced in one behavioral context could function appropriately in another, we showed that a male rat, emitting the 22 kHz call because of just having copulated, is treated by an aggressive male as if he were submissive. To highlight the communality between the refractory states of the vocalizing animal in various social contexts, we demonstrated that a postejaculatory male (during the time that he would be calling) behaves in a fashion similar to that of an animal that is in a state of learned helplessness.
3883864|The symbiotic association between the Hawaiian sepiolid squid Euprymna scolopes and the marine luminous bacterium Vibrio fischeri is being developed as a model system for the study of animal-bacterial interactions during development. Changes in light organ morphology during embryogenesis foster successful infection of the light organ with the proper bacterial partner. These embryonic events of light organ morphogenesis include the elaboration of an epithelial surface with a complex ciliated, microvillous field. The squid host hatches without the bacterial symbionts, but acquires them within hours from the free-living population of the bacteria in the water column. Upon exposure to the proper symbionts, the host organ undergoes a series of morphogenetic changes, including loss of the ciliated, microvillous field. The light organ then goes on to mature into a morphological configuration that serves to promote the maintenance of a stable association with the bacteria and that correlates with the use of the bacterial bioluminescence in behavior of the host. This symbiosis is discussed in light of other cyclically transmitted animal-bacterial associations.
3881417|Behavioral patterns of inter-crab communications as shown in agonistic and sexual interactions are investigated in 26 genera within 9 aquatic and semi-terrestrial families of brachyurans. The investigation includes a review of literature and the author's observations. Species of the aquatic families, Dromiidae, Leucosiidae, Majidae, Parthenopidae, Cancridae, Portunidae, and Xanthidae, display agonistic activities mostly with more or less extended chelipeds. An encounter leads often to physical interactions, such as striking blows or grasping with chelae. Many of the semi-terrestrial ocypodids and grapsids, however, display with flexed chelipeds, showing the opponent the outer side of the chelae in a shield-like manner. Encounters usually follow a formalized set of patterns and only occasionally do they lead into a "wild fight". Concerning sexual activities in many aquatic forms, a male catches and holds or cages a female between its legs for several days during the mating period. In many semi-terrestrial grapsids and ocypodids, patterns of up-down display of chelipeds have been observed during agonistic encounters, as well as during initial stages of mating. In other forms a special display of chelipeds occurs in courtship. In agonistic and sexual activities of aquatic forms inter-crab communication seems to depend mainly on tactile and possibly chemical stimuli. In the semi-terrestrial forms that have been investigated, mechanisms of communication are based predominantly on optical information.
3882720|Social groups of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) living in outdoor environments exhibit a distinct seasonal mating pattern and female rhesus are observed to be sexually receptive for discrete periods averaging about 9 days duration. In the laboratory environment mating occurs throughout the year and, in the pair test, female rhesus are observed to be sexually receptive through all phases of a menstrual cycle, with a periovulatory peak in copulatory behavior. The apparent conflict between results from field and laboratory studies has been difficult to resolve because of methodological limitations inherent in each study environment. Studies conducted on social groups of rhesus monkeys housed in outdoor compounds, an environment in which the species typical seasonal mating pattern is preserved and which allows for concomitant measurement of behavioral and hormonal variables, provided information about the covariance between female sexual behavior and ovarian cycles. Female copulations were observed only in association with ovulatory cycles, and were limited to the follicular and peri-ovulatory phases of such cycles, demonstrating that copulatory behavior in female rhesus monkeys is strongly influenced by cyclic hormonal variables. The studies also revealed that females tend to conceive on the first ovulatory cycle of the season, that there was no synchrony of cycles among the females, and that the best predictor of the timing of ovulation in a particular female is reproductive outcome in the previous year.
3882821|According to the "classical" scheme of steroid hormone action, steroid hormones are bound to transport proteins, the hormones are taken up by the target tissue and there are bound to the cytoplasmic receptor. This hormone-receptor complex then migrates to the nucleus and alters genome activity. We tried to determine whether this scheme is also valid for crustaceans. There is no evidence for a specific ecdysteroid binding protein in the hemolymph of 3 crustacean species studied so far. As concerns the next step in this cascade of events, the uptake, we could demonstrate that besides diffusion a carrier-mediated transport of ecdysteroids into crayfish hypodermis is involved. Both cytoplasmic and nuclear ecdysteroid receptors were demonstrated by us in 4 different species, the receptors of crayfish being best characterized. The receptors are proteins of high affinity and steroid specificity. Their size is about 70-80,000 da and their isoelectric point is in the range of 5.7 to 5.9. Free SH groups, pH and ionic strength are important factors for the binding. Non-derivatized tritium labelled ecdysteroids can be covalently attached to the receptor by photoaffinity labelling. The usefulness of this method is demonstrated in this paper through investigation of steroid specificity, tissue distribution, affinity and size of the receptor with both conventional binding assays and after photoactivation. Ecdysteroid antibodies recognized the photochemically crosslinked hormone-receptor complex and were used as immunoabsorbents.
3883562|Understanding the changing morphology of an embryo presents special challenges. Analyses of neurulation in vertebrate embryos described here required observation from sectioned material and from time-lapse movies, modeling, computer simulation, and experiments. All these approaches were essential, and each approach helped guide the use of the others. Experiments have the special role of letting the embryo decide between our alternative hypotheses. In the newt embryo, induction and patterning events establish in the ectoderm boundaries between epidermis and neural plate, and between neural plate and the notoplate at its midline. The different domains of cells thus established-epidermis, neural plate and notoplate-develop different adhesive properties such that cell motility behavior along the notoplate boundary and along the spinal cord/epidermis boundary produces forceful intercalation of cells which lengthens the boundaries and distorts (lengthens) the neuroepithelium. Neural plate cells also attempt to crawl beneath the epidermis along their common boundary, raising neural folds and producing a rolling moment directed mediad that is largely responsible for neural tube formation. Both cell motility that leads to columnarization of neural plate cells and contraction of organized subapical microfilament bundles reduce the apical surface area of the neural plate cells and produce an apical tension that aids neural tube formation. Cell relocation reduces the width of the neural plate and increases its length, and the Poisson buckling forces resulting from this elongation of the plate also aid neural tube formation. The newt embryo accomplishes neurulation without growth, but bird and mammal embryos grow during neurulation. Understanding the organization of the products of growth in the amniote neural plate is critical in determining whether growth helps or hinders neurulation.
3884454|Evolution has been integrated with embryology during two great periods: the latter half of the 19th C as evolutionary morphology/embryology, and the latter third of the 20th C as evolutionary developmental biology. My mandate was to use the contributions of three embryologists/morphologists: Francis (Frank) Balfour (1851-1882), Walter Garstang (1868-1949) and Gavin de Beer (1899-1972) to discuss the foundations of evolutionary embryology in the UK from 1870 (when "every aspiring zoologist was an embryologist, and the one topic of professional conversation was evolution," Bateson, 1922, p. 56), through the 1920s ("ontogeny does not recapitulate phylogeny, it creates it," Garstang, 1922, p. 81) to the 1970s ("homology of phenotypes does not imply similarity in genotypes," de Beer, 1971, p. 15). Evolutionary embryology was driven by a comparative embryological approach that sought homology of adult structures in germ layers and ancestry in embryos, and sought to differentiate larval adaptations from retained ancestral characters. An initial emphasis on a phylogenetic mechanism (recapitulation) slowly gave way to more mechanistic approaches that included heterochrony and the integration of embryology with physiological genetics. Germ layers, homology, larval evolution, larval origins of the vertebrates, paedomorphosis and heterochrony underpinned the origins of evolutionary embryology, and so I discuss each of these topics.
3882736|Deterministic models are valuable for gaining insight into the mechanisms of population dynamics. However, they are not generally useful for the practical problem of estimating real populations. Herein we present a method for estimating the birth and death rates as well as the age structure for a population using only "aggregated" measurements such as total adult deaths and birthrates. The method applies to nonstationary populations with nonlinear birth and deathrates.
3883668|A generalized framework is presented which employs a demographic perspective (population vital rates, measures of population performance) of infaunal patch dynamics in order to understand population- and community-level successional processes in soft-sediment habitats. The model emphasizes the importance of demographic responses of component species following disturbance and how they vary as a function of the successional state within each patch. These characteristics provide a currency for assessing the effects of the disturbance on the overall population dynamics in a given habitat. Simple demographic simulations indicate the importance of seasonality in affecting the response of species to disturbance and the relative contributions of adult and larval colonization in affecting population dynamics. Further development of this demographic framework is presently constrained by a general lack of field data necessary to evaluate the demography of soft-sediment organisms.
3884365|The seasonally ice-covered regions of the Southern Ocean have distinctive ecological systems due to the growth of microalgae in sea ice. Although sea ice microalgal production is exceeded by phytoplankton production on an annual basis in most offshore regions of the Southern Ocean, blooms of sea ice algae differ considerably from the phytoplankton in terms of timing and distribution. Thus sea ice algae provide food resources for higher trophic level organisms in seasons and regions where water column biological production is low or negligible. A flux of biogenic material from sea ice to the water column and benthos follows ice melt, and some of the algal species are known to occur in ensuing phytoplankton blooms. A review of algal species in pack ice and offshore plankton showed that dominance is common for three species: Phaeocystis antarctica, Fragilariopsis cylindrus and Fragilariopsis curta. The degree to which dominance by these species is a product of successional processes in sea ice communities could be an important in determining their biogeochemical contribution to the Southern Ocean and their ability to seed blooms in marginal ice zones.
3881787|It has recently been demonstrated that activity of the bag cells, an identified group of neurosecretory neurons in Aplysia, releases a substance that causes egg laying. A cytologic analysis of the ovotestis, before and after administration of the bag cell extract, suggests that one function of the bag cell substance is to cause the small muscle cells that surround each follicle of the ovotestis to contract, thus expelling ripe oocytes from the ovotestis and beginning them on their journey through the oviduct.
3882504|Evidence is reviewed implicating a cell surface carbohydrate-binding protein (lectin) named pallidin as the mediator of intercellular adhesion in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. Three isolectin forms of pallidin have now been purified and characterized. Both lectin and receptor to which lectin can bind are present on the cell surface of adhesive amoebae. Since pallidin antagonists such as specific sugars, asialofetuin, or specific univalent antibody interfere with intercellular adhesion, cell-cell binding may be based on complementary interactions between pallidin and specific receptors on adjoining cells.
3882427| Aqueous extracts of molluscan ganglia have cardioexcitatory activity that is not attributable to the usual neurohumors: 5-hydroxytryptamine, acetylcholine or dopamine. Morphological, physiological and biochemical studies have suggested that this cardioexcitation is caused by a handful of unidentified neurohormones, mostly polypeptides. One of the active components of extracts of the pooled central ganglia of Macrocallista nimbosa (Bivalvia) has now been isolated, purified, characterized and synthesized. This substance, previously designated peak C, is a tetrapeptide amide: phenylalanyl-methionyl-arginyl-phenylalanine amide ( Phe- Met- Arg- Phe- NH
3881641|Ultracentrifugal and electrophoretic experiments are reported on the subunit composition of myosin from skeletal muscle of a benthic fish, Coryphaenoides species. Coryphaenoides myosin undergoes extensive association in concentrated KCl solutions at neutral pH, but sedimentation equilibrium experiments indicate the presence of a small fraction (3%) of monomeric myosin with molecular weight approximately 440,000. At pH 11, some of the aggregated myosin is dissociated, and monomeric myosin is itself dissociated into a heavy component (410,000 mol wt) and a light component (14,000 mol wt) that comprises 5-7% of the protein. The light alkali component of Coryphaenoides myosin yields a single predominant band on cellulose acetate electrophoresis and SDS-urea electrophoresis in 9% acrylamide gel. The stoichiometric evidence indicates that Coryphaenoides myosin contains two heavy chains (205,000 mol wt) and two light chains (14,000 mol wt) that are equivalent with respect to net electrostatic charge and molecular weight. Preparations of myosin obtained by direct extraction from muscle mince and by dissociation of actomyosin extracted from muscle mince also contain 5% of a 47,000 mol wt component (presumably actin), traces of 34-36,000 mol wt component, and about 5-7% of low molecular weight material (10,000-15,000) that probably represents contaminant protein, although the possibility of denatured myosin subunits cannot be excluded.
3882735|The application of optimal foraging theory to questions of predator behavior, and evidence bearing on the utility of this construct, are reviewed. Experimental tests of simple models predicting prey choice are examined with particular reference to the size-selection of prey by fish. Laboratory estimates of model parameters are then used to predict prey choice in the field and data from several field tests are presented which corroborate these predictions. When parameters are habitat specific this permits predictions of net return from foraging in different habitats and consequently predictions of habitat use and switching. Field data gathered to test these predictions demonstrate that fish feed in the richer habitats and switch habitats when the profitability of one drops below that of another. Examples are provided showing how these models can then be used to relate behavioral and morphological differences between species and questions at higher levels such as the nature of species interactions and community structure. It is suggested that this may be one of the more useful applications of optimal foraging theory. Finally, some of the criticisms of the theory and important questions requiring further study are discussed.
3881612|Conflicting results have been reported on the incidence of sex chromatin in avian cells. In this study, the sex chromatin frequencies are explored in the amniotic cells from two Leghorn varieties of domestic fowl, a species which is reported to possess an heterochromatic and late-replicating W sex chromosome. The incidence of sex chromatin was also examined in the amniotic epithelium of the Japanese quail throughout the incubation period. This species of quail possesses a W sex chromosome that is euchromatic at metaphase. When the sex chromatin frequencies in the domestic fowl were compared with the gonadal sex of the embryos, a nuclear sexual dimorphism was apparent with the high frequencies corresponding to embryos of the female sex. No such nuclear sexual dimorphism was found in the quail; both male and female embryos had approximately the same incidence of sex chromatin in their amniotic cells. These findings are interpreted in support of the idea that the cytological entity identified as sex chromatin in the domestic fowl represents the W sex chromosome in the interphase nucleus.
3881563|Several groups of early vertebrates had in the dermis a pore-canal system that was probably a primitive sensory system functioning to detect water displacements. The lateral-line sensory system, and possibly the inner ears, are believed to have been derived from the pore-canal system.
3882749|This study examines the possibility that the physical properties of pedal mucus limit the size and speed of gastropods. At small deformations hydrated pedal mucus is a viscoelastic solid. At large deformations the mucus yields and becomes a viscous liquid, the yield strength increasing as the rate of deformation increases. The mucus can 'heal' if left underformed, its strength increasing with time. When dehydrated the mucus strength and stiffness increase substantially. These properties can be used to calculate the maximum speed of crawling and the maximum size for gastropods. In all the cases examined the predicted maxima are near those observed in nature, and it seems likely that pedal mucus indeed places limits on gastropod structure and performance.
4620127|An organism's phenotype results from an interaction of environment and genotype. Sex steroids play a role in translating sexual genotype into phenotype. The focus of this research has been to extend the model of sex steroid hormone action in sexual differentiation to individual variation in reproductive phenotype. The hypothesis generated, called the relative plasticity hypothesis, has been tested in a species with alternative phenotypes, tree lizards (Urosaurus ornatus). Such species are useful models for tests of these ideas because variation is extreme and easily studied. These tests have shown that permanent differentiation of the territorial and nonterritorial phenotypes is accomplished by hormonal mechanisms operating during early development. These are similar to organizational actions of hormones classically described for sexual differentiation. A unique finding of this work is that the adrenal hormone progesterone regulates differentiation of the two male types. Furthermore, the nonterritorial male tree lizard appears to conditionally switch tactics between sedentary satellite and nomadic behavior. Nomadic behavior is triggered under stressful environmental conditions. Nonterritorial tree lizards show greater inhibition of reproductive hormones following stress than do territorial tree lizards, suggesting that a differential sensitivity of reproductive hormones to stress is the endocrine basis of conditional tactic switching in this morph. This mechanism is similar to the classical activational effects of hormones. Together, these findings indicate that individual variation in sexual phenotype is produced by mechanisms similar to sexual differentiation. Further refinement of the models and integration with some evolutionary ideas is explored.
3882641|Fate maps are totally lacking for hagfishes, rays, holocephals, dipnoi, holostei and mammals, and for all except two of the thirty or so orders of the huge teleost assemblage. Important errors have been found in earlier studies of the movements by closer control of marking techniques, but there are still major elements in the literature that remain unconfirmed. Recent studies on Salmo, Xenopus and chick suggest that a wider sampling of major vertebrate groups will uncover more unsuspected variations in this phase of embryology. Experimental results on the chondrostean sturgeon Acipenser are here compared and contrasted with those on Salmo and Xenopus. Though chondrostei and teleosts had a relatively recent common ancestry, the morphogenetic movements and fate map of Acipenser give no hint as to how the uniquely teleostean behavior could have arisen. Instead the experiments have shown in new elaborate detail how close the early development of Acipenser is to that of modern amphibia, closer to Xenopus than to Rana, closer to anura than to urodeles. The search for unity in the field of comparative morphogenetic movements is plagued by lack of breadth in the sample of vertebrates hitherto studied but also by a vocabulary too much loaded with ancient homological thinking. It is pointed out that when a group of movements, all called invagination-or all called epiboly, is studied closely it can be discovered that they may be doing quite different things, controlled by different environmental factors. General theory of this part of embryology requires the bringing together of the knowledge of cellular movements from in vitro and non-embryonic systems with the knowledge of the full variety of normal patterns of morphogenetic movements in the vertebrates. Before this can be accomplished, we will need a precise knowledge of what the cells are actually doing in all the sectors of these patterned movements, and in all the major patterns that the phylum has produced.
3884252|The exchange of water between a chelonian egg and its subterranean environment is influenced by numerous factors, the most important of which are (1) structure of the calcareous layer of the eggshell, (2) water potential and temperature in the nest, and (3) fraction of the eggshell that actually contacts soil in the nest cavity. Eggs with relatively porous shells tend to absorb large quantities of water from cool, moist environments and to lose large amounts of water to warm, dry ones. Net water-exchange by such eggs also tends to be more favorable (= positive) when soil contacts the entire eggshell than when a large fraction of the shell is exposed to air trapped inside the nest cavity. In contrast, eggs with relatively impermeable shells usually exchange only small amounts of water with their environment, regardless of the physical conditions that prevail inside the nest. The pattern of net water-exchange, together with size (and water content) of the freshly laid egg, determines the amount of water that is available to sustain the embryo. An embryo having access to a relatively large reserve of water will consume more of its yolk and grow to larger size before hatching than will an embryo having access to a smaller reserve of water. Large, well-hydrated hatchlings may survive better than small, dehydrated animals during the trek overland from nest to water. If so, a cooler, wetter nest will also be a better nest.
3881439|The morphological and behavioral development of three litters (1 male; two females; two males and two females) of coyotes reared in confinement is presented. The data include: patterns of behavior and associated morphological changes in ingestive, eliminative, contactual, and care-seeking processes; interactions among sibs and between adults and neonates; and the development of agonistic behavior in coyote pups.
3884061|Many winter-active temperate rodent species show seasonal, photoperiod-mediated changes in body mass that correlate with changes in food availability, gaining mass when food is abundant. The collared lemming (Dicrostonyx groenlandicus), an arctic species, also undergoes a seasonal transition in body mass, but one that is temporally out of phase with that observed in species from lower latitudes; whereas temperate species increase in mass when exposed to relatively long day lengths, collared lemmings do so under long but decreasing day lengths. This adaptation may be in response to the timing of peak above-ground biomass in the arctic. Validation of this hypothesis requires a more thorough examination of both collared lemmings and other arctic species. In the collared lemming, photoperiod-mediated changes in body mass are correlated with changes in serum concentrations of prolactin, thyroid hormones, corticosterone, and growth hormone, and pineal concentrations of melatonin. These observations are compared to those obtained with temperate small mammals, and possible cause-and-effect relationships between body mass and hormonal parameters are discussed.
3882678|The American Society of Zoologists as we know it today descended from two immediate progenitors, the American Morphological Society and the Western Branch of the American Society of Naturalists. The latter group was known during 1901 and 1902 as the Society of American Zoologists. The two organizations formed the American Society of Zoologists at the American Society of Naturalists' 1902 meeting in Washington, D.C. The American Society of Zoologists first formed with two Branches, the Eastern and the Central. These two Branches merged into a single Society after the 1913 meeting in Philadelphia.
3882597|Lateral grafting of tissue was used to compare the relative head-activation and head-inhibition potentials of different Hydra strains. A small piece of tissue taken from one polyp, when grafted to another polyp, induces fromation of a head structure when the relative head-activation potential of the donor tissue is sufficiently (i.e., more than some threshold value) higher than the relative head-inhibition potential of the recipient tissue. It was found that a multi-headed mutant strain (mh-1), which produces many extra heads along its body column, has significantly higher head-activation and significantly lower head-inhibition potentials than the standard wild-type strain. This suggests that these potentials play important roles in hydra morphogenesis, and that an imbalance between the two potentials is responsible for the developmental abnormality of mh-1. The significance of this finding is discussed in light of the "positional information" model proposed by Wolpert and his associates and the "lateral inhibition" model proposed by Gierer and Meinhardt.
3881915|Apical and basal bundles of microfilaments have been suggested as intracellular structures which might cause cellular contractions leading to bending movements during organogenesis. Microfilament bundles may have a different role in some organ primordia. The embryonic chick thyroid develops as an evagination of the pharyngeal floor at the level of the anterior attachment of the heart. The developing thyroid is confined to a pocked surrounded by the developing aortic arches, ventral aorta, and truncus arteriosus. Initiation of thyroid evagination is accompanied by the formation of grooves as two concentric rings in the basal surface of the placode near its margins. The cells surrounding the grooves contain longitudinally oriented bundles of microfilaments and microtubules. Other microfilament bundles are present at the cell apices and bases. The primordium almost doubles in volume during the period of evagination, but the area of pharyngeal floor that it occupies undergoes virtually no increase. A model is presented which describes the role of microfilament bundles during thyroid evagination as stabilizing cellular dimensions. The bending movements are thought to result from cell elongation, increase in cell numbers, and confinement of the thyroid to a limited space by the developing truncus arteriosus and its branches.
3882699|This paper presents a simple, geometric, largely intuitive introduction to the use of multivariate analysis for the study of biological form. Rather than presenting rigorous mathematical formulations of the theory and practice of statistics, the emphasis is on multivariate analysis as a descriptive, data-analytic approach which represents the quantitative version of classical comparative anatomy. One method-canonical variate analysis-is chosen for special attention because of its wide applicability to problems in which multidimensional data are used to compare differences between two, several, or many populations with proper regard for individual variation within the populations. The theory, practice, and utility of canonical variate analysis are presented by way of simple, bivariate examples. Particular attention is given to how the results of canonical variate analysis are affected by alterations in the within-group dispersion when the relationships among groups are held constant. Although the discussion focuses on canonical variate analysis, many statements transfer directly or with appropriate modification to the use of other multivariate procedures in comparative morphology.
3882290|The use of cell and organ culture for the study of insect neurosecretion is a relatively new methodology that is developing rapidly. Recent studies indicate that although it is possible to correlate the presence of stainable neurosecretory material and electron-dense neurosecretory granules with the presence of neurohormones in some systems, the actual release of the hormone can be detected only by bioassay. Bioassay systems for both tropic hormones and peptide metabolic hormones have been used to demonstrate the synthesis, storage, and release of neurohormones by cultured neuroendocrine organs. The experimental flexibility permitted by in vitro techniques is rapidly making it the method of choice in neuroendocrinological studies.
3883434| Animals are denser than either fresh water or sea water, and therefore tend to sink, unless they have adaptations that give buoyancy. Very small organisms sink slowly, reproduce rapidly and can be kept suspended by natural turbulence: individuals lost by sinking are replaced by reproduction. This is likely to be effective only for organisms of less than 150 m diameter. Larger animals will sink unless they swim or evolve buoyancy organs. Hovering is one of the options available to them, but the "hop and sink" technique used by some copepods is more economical than steady hovering. Another option is to use fins as hydrofoils, as sharks, tunnies and many squids do. This implies an energy cost because work has to be done against drag on the hydrofoils. Many animals are made buoyant by gas-filled floats, low-density organic compounds or body fluids of unusual ionic composition. Such buoyancy aids increase the energy cost of swimming at given speed because they increase the animal's bulk. Buoyancy aids are more economical than hydrofoils for animals that swim slowly but hydrofoils are more economical for those that swim fast. 
3882577|Interactions between parasitic birds and their hosts provide some of the best examples of recognition that has obvious and strong adaptive value. But these interactions also involve numerous failures of recognition that result in enormous losses in fitness. The failures are more significant than the successes because they are exceptions to basic evolutionary theory which predicts that organisms behave optimally. The egg recognition behavior of North American passerines separates species into two discrete groups. In "rejecter" species nearly all individuals are intolerant of nonmimetic parasitic eggs. In "accepters" nearly all individuals tolerate such eggs. Rejecters possess a true recognition of their own eggs, apparently learning this in an imprinting-like process. No adaptive explanation accounts for the lack of rejection in accepter species. Many of these species are victimized heavily by parasitic cowbirds and have eggs divergent from those of the cowbird. They readily accept clutches containing only cowbird eggs. But accepters do show egg recognition in some contexts. They abandon clutches whose total volume of eggs falls below a critical value; they eject and visually discriminate among eggs that are broken, thus showing that they are capable of the critical behaviors needed to reject parasitic eggs. Since most accepters occur in taxa that also contain rejecters, I propose that stochastic processes are largely responsible for their nonoptimal behavior. Even though many birds reject parasitic eggs, all or nearly all accept nonmimetic parasitic nestlings, a situation for which there is no reasonable optimality explanation. Although these recognition studies demonstrate the value of optimality reasoning because they are based on clearly defined predictions arising from the expectation of adaptiveness, they also demonstrate some general problems inherent in optimization models. It is argued here that while optimality reasoning is the best and most all-inclusive paradigm in biology, its value will be enhanced if its limitations are recognized. When warranted, conclusions of nonoptimality should be stressed and optimality itself should be tested and not employed only as an assumption used to formulate hypotheses.
3883548|Understanding mechanisms of learning and memory storage in the human brain will contribute to designing strategies for optimizing this functionality in both biological and electronic neural networks. Studies of memory-deficient patients have localized some of the critical brain areas for memory storage and established that different types of information can be stored in anatomically separate locations. Studies of cellular and biochemical events during associative learning in several molluscan neural networks have produced detailed hypotheses about the causative events leading to changes in synaptic function during learning. Use of recently developed preparations of mammalian CNS should allow direct tests of the generality of the molluscan mechanisms for synaptic plasticity during learning in the mammalian brain.
4620164| H V-ATPases are well known energizers of endomembranes; thus they play a key role in the acidification of vacuoles and vesicles. More recently it has become clear that they energize many plasma membranes as well. In epithelial cells H V-ATPases usually energize apical plasma membranes in the same sense that Na/K P-ATPases usually energize basolateral plasma membranes. Examples of four fundamental processes so energized will be reviewed-Na and Cl absorption by the frog skin, K secretion by the caterpillar midgut, fluid secretion by insect Malpighian tubules, and fluid absorption by insect ovarian follicle cells. It is likely that apical membranes of fresh water fish and other animals that live in media in which the concentration of Na is low, are also energized by H V-ATPases. 
3882284|To study the factors affecting tolerance induction in different subpopulations of lymphocytes at different stages of their maturation, a system involving the neonatal induction of tolerance to bovine serum albumin (BSA) in inbred rats was established. It was found that thymocytes readily became tolerant of BSA either in the presence or absence of the thymus itself, whereas peripheral thymus-derived (T) and bone marrow-derived (B) cells failed to become tolerant in the absence of the thymus. Adult normal rats could not be induced to become tolerant of BSA, though they did become partially tolerant of ovalbumin. The possibility that the thymus or some subpopulation of T cells has a suppressor function which wanes in adult life is suggested. Any such cell apparently is not well represented in either thymocyte or non-adherent peripheral blood lymphocyte populations.
3882498|Advantages of obligatory apomixis are modeled, and curculionid weevils are used as examples. It is suggested that the alleged twofold number of female offspring in relation to sexual parentals should not be exaggerated. Instead, specific circumstances facilitating the origin of especially heterotic genotypes capable of apomixis should be sought; crosses between differentiated (long-isolated) populations (preferably followed by a population flush) seem promising. Optimal strategies in temporally heterogeneous environments are studied, and situations favoring sexual reproduction both in fine-grained and coarse-gained environments seem common (apomicts are capable only for individual adaptability, but sexual populations may track even one-generation changes by evolving). In apomicts, diapause determination and other seasonal constraints need specific attention, as they may interfere with geographical dispersal, and only life-cycles of one or more years seem possible. In rich biotic communities, which evolve continuously, evolutionary rigidity of apomicts may lead to their extinction. This shows that the dichotomy between immediate and long-term advantages of apomixis needs revision; if the number of generations needed for competitive exclusion between asexual and sexual organisms is relatively high, the greater evolutionary potential of sexual populations must be considered (there are directional changes both in the physical and biotic environments). Apomixis then seems most advantageous in low-competitive, early succession habitats which are recurrent and change relatively slowly (increased colonization ability of apomicts is here advantageous). Also, apomixis may succeed in spatially coarse-grained environment in stable patches small enough to exclude high-competitive community at the site. Then reduced vagility (loss of flight) may facilitate the origin of apomixis.
3884070|Crayfish routinely encounter waters of reduced oxygen tension, resulting in a broad array of behavioral and physiological responses. Many animals when faced with this stress will simply remove themselves from the irritating environment through voluntary migration. When an animal, either by choice or through physical constraints remains in a hypoxic environment it must compensate for the reduction in O
3883459|The antarctic krill, Euphausia superba, is considered a success in the intensely seasonal environment of the Southern Ocean because of its abundance and central role as an important food item for many of the larger carnivores in the ecosystem. The behavioral and physiological characteristics that foster this success are: (1) the ability to find concentrations of food in several types of habitat and efficiently exploit whatever food is available; (2) the close correspondence of the life cycle with seasonal cycles of food availability; and (3) a combination of physiological mechanisms that enable krill to survive the long winter period of low food availability. We evaluated the relative importance of the following four major winter-over mechanisms that have been proposed for adult krill west of the Antarctic Peninsula. The three-fold reduction in metabolic rate is the most important winter-over mechanism for these adults, although lipid utilization and shrinkage also help satisfy energy requirements in the winter. Alternate food sources did not appear to contribute significantly as a winter energy source. However, the extent, predictability and complexity of the ice cover in a region during winter may have a great influence on the relative importance of these winter-over mechanisms for different populations. Ice cover in the waters west of the Antarctic Peninsula is unpredictable and smooth surfaced when it occurs, providing the krill with little refuge from predation. In multi-year pack ice of the Weddell Sea, however, ice cover is predictable and extensive, and there is a complex undersurface that provides hiding places. In this multi-year ice, adult krill have been observed under the ice feeding, whereas west of the Antarctic Peninsula most adult krill are in the water column in the winter and are not feeding. The balance between acquiring energy and avoiding predation may be different in these two regions in the winter because of differences in predictability and complexity of the ice cover.
3882059|The growth of stolons and the development of hydranths in thecate hydroids (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa) have several common features. In both the terminal zone shows rhythmic pulsations which accompany periodic advances and withdrawals of the tip. Behind the terminal zone is a longer region of coenosarc which shows vigorous contractions, and these produce flow of the contents of the gastrovascular cavity. These contractions are not directly related to the movement of the tips of pedicels and stolons, nor are they related to contractions within a developing hydranth. The growing regions are not pushed out from behind, but figuratively pull more proximal tissue along. The changes in shape must involve active changes within the cells. The terminal cells are not "typical" myoepithelial cells (with "muscle tails"). How they alter their shape is not yet known. Evidence from dissociation studies and from treatment with drugs indicates a critical stage in hydranth development before which tissues are indeterminate, after which a mosaic of the hydranth is established.
3883164|Investigations of the effects of crowding on social behavior has long been a major focus of the research on rodent populations conducted in the laboratory of John B. Calhoun, at the National Institute of Mental Health. In these studies, rats living under crowded conditions exhibited many behavioral abnormalities, including poor parental behavior, and excessive aggression. These behavior patterns are similar to those displayed by rats with neocortex damage except that the latter were tested under controlled, uncrowded conditions. An experiment was designed to examine the concomitant effects of forebrain lesions and population density upon a rat's capacity to cope with social complexity. The behaviors of rats with less than 50 percent of the normal neocortex, resulting from prenatal chemical treatment, were compared at two population densities to similar groups of normal rats. The micrencephalic rats were initially and generally less capable parents and were more aggressive than normals. In both types of rats, females in populations of eight bisexual pairs reared proportionally fewer of their offspring to weaning age than females in populations of four pairs. The overall reproductive success of normal rats at the higher population density was as poor as that of the micrencephalic rats at the lower population density. These results have been interpreted as showing that rats are sensitive to differences in population density even at relatively low absolute population sizes, and that increased population density interferes with the capacity of the neocortex to cope with environment complexity.
3883435|Marine life histories differ from terrestrial life histories because seawater is denser and more viscous than air, because desiccation is not a problem for organisms in water, and because food is abundant in suspension and solution. (1) Mating and competition for paternity in the sea often differs. Female gametes are often spawned freely. Passively dispersed spermatophores could in some cases provide single paternity to an entire clutch of offspring. Penises of sessile animals reach far for couplation. There are no pollinators. (2) In many clades of benthic marine animals, greater dispersal of offspring is associated with large adult size, and greater parental care of offspring and reduced planktonic larval periods are associated with small adult size. (3) Many benthic marine animals are colonies with modular construction, and these also commonly brood embryos and have short-lived larvae, in contrast to related solitary forms. (4) Unlike dispersal of terrestrial animals, larval dispersal of marine animals is often obligate with sexual reproduction and often includes a precompetent period during which larvae cannot settle at good sites. Unlike terrestrial seeds, marine larvae have no clear adaptations for dispersal, often grow during dispersal, and often leave bad sites. Feeding planktonic larvae are common among marine animals and rare among other aquatic animals, perhaps because of persistent aquatic routes between habitable sites for marine animals. Peculiarities in marine life histories may influence many aspects of evolution in the sea. Closely related sedentary marine animals can differ greatly in larval dispersal with consequences for recruitment to populations, genetic exchange between benthic populations, adaptation to local conditions, sex allocation, interaction with kin, speciation, and extinction.
4620169|The Discontinuous Gas-exchange Cycle or DGC is generally thought to have evolved primarily as a means of reducing respiratory water loss rates in tracheate arthropods. However, several lines of evidence suggest that this supposition is oversimplified. I suggest that the DGC originated as an adaptation to the hypoxic and hypercapnic environments characteristic of underground burrows, rather than primarily as an adaptation to reduce respiratory water loss rates. This suggestion is based on a consideration of trans-spiracular oxygen and carbon dioxide partial pressure gradients in such environments, and the concomitant importance of decoupling oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange. The occurrence and/or absence of the DGC in sundry arthropod taxa is discussed, and diverse phylogenetic and other arguments are advanced for the inferred distribution thereof.
3883569|The evolution of any complex morphology or physiological adaptation involves the historical transformation of numerous interacting components from an ancestral to a derived state. How such transformations occur are central to our understanding of how novel morphologies arise. The rapid explosion of technology in the field of molecular biology provides new tools that can be incorporated into studies examining the origin of novel phenotypes. Molecular biological techniques can now be used to probe how changes in gene expression result in pathways leading to novel or altered morphologies. The integration of molecular approaches into problems in organismal biology provides a promising new direction for the analysis of form and function. Interdisciplinary studies, combining the resolving power of molecular biology with the complex problems of organismal biology, will shed new light on whole animal function and evolution.
3882617|The initiation of a molting cycle in insects is neither a random nor a strictly periodic event. Insofar as molting can accomplish different things under different circumstances, such as a change in size or a change in form, it is reasonable to asume that the timing of a molt must be adapted to these functions. The onset of a metamorphic molt, in particular, must be precisely controlled because the onset of metamorphosis terminates the growth phase of a larva and establishes the body size of the adult insect. This aspect of the control of molting has received relatively little attention and our knowledge of specific physiological mechanisms for the control of molt initiation is restricted to three species: the blood-sucking bug, Rhodnius prolixus, the greater milkweed bug, Oncopeltus fasciatus, and the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta. The present review discusses the state of our knowledge about the factors that render these insects competent to molt and about the stimuli that serve as a direct trigger for molting.
3881886|This paper contains new data and maps concerning distribution of the burnsi and kandiyohi pigment pattern variants of the northern leopard frog, Rana pipiens.
3883267|We link classical observational developmental biology with modern techniques and concepts of cell biology, focusing on early development in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. In contrast to the first thirteen synchronous nuclear division cycles following fertilization of the egg, cell division in the fourteenth cycle partitions the embryo into mitotic domains. These are bilaterally symmetric clusters of cells, spatially and temporally patterned, invariantly, embryo-to-embryo. Cells in a given mitotic domain share the same mitotic schedule, different from that in neighboring domains. In addition, cells in at least some mitotic domains share distinct attributes such as special cell morphologies, spindle orientations, morphogenetic movement behaviors, and eventual differentiated tissue fates. We argue that a mitotic domain differentiates its control of the fundamental cell cycle process as a consequence of its having embarked on a developmental pathway different from that of neighboring domains. In embryos of flies with certain mutations at earlyacting genetic loci, perturbations of the normal pattern of mitotic domains forecast the final mutant phenotype. Mitotic domains are visible by non-invasive light microscopic observation of live developing embryos, or by staining fixed embryos with fluorescently labeled antibodies to microtubules-methods that will likely work well on embryos of phylogenetically diverse type. We document the methodological and phylogenetic generality of mitotic domains with micrographs of Calliphora (blow-fly) embryos; the homology to Drosophila is obvious. We present a theoretical framework for thinking about the process of embryonic cell determination as a gradual dynamical process and argue that, to learn most about determination, we should correlate the earliest perturbations we can inflict with the earliest phenotypic consequences we can assess: perturbations of the mitotic domain pattern serve this purpose perfectly.
3881180|The spine-convergence response of sea urchins and the papula (dermal branchia) retraction response of starfish persist after removal of the central nervous system, but are blocked by scratching through the skin. They are mediated therefore by diffuse superficial conduction systems capable of limited spread-to a few centimeters. The spine response does not bend around the ends of a cut, and therefore its conduction system is not a nerve net, though probably nervous. Every sensory site is connected to every effector site, within centimeters, but only by straight lines. This curious and unprecedented arrangement is not yet understood or anatomically based. Some plausible connectivities cannot be ruled out geometrically as being too extravagant. The response is not a chain reflex requiring spine movement or stretch on its far side. Facilitation of successive responses is not evident. The papula retraction response of starfish spreads around the ends of cuts. Its conducting system therefore acts like a true nerve net, the first such system to be demonstrated in echinoderms. It is capable of limited spread and, like the sea urchin spines, central reflexes are normally superimposed to mediate widespread coordination.
3881716|From a phylogenetic point of view, few organs of vertebrates have shown such a plasticity of form and presumed function as has the epiphyseal complex. From paired, probably sensory, evaginations through the skulls of primitive vertebrates, the single remnant remaining in the higher vertebrates has evolved into a densely cellular, vascular organ with presumably secretory functions. Too few studies are available from throughout the vertebrate series to allow conclusions as to function. Demonstrated effects on reproductive mechanisms, on phototaxis and pigment migration, on behavior, activity, and a variety of other mechanisms are too inconsistent among and between the various groups to permit generalizations other than the likelihood that the epiphyseal complex directly or indirectly is responsive to some manifestation of light or to its absence. Working backward from this assumption, it seems likely that underlying the activity of these complex structures will be a modulation of some basic, homeokinetic mechanism having much to do with the seasonal adjustment of the organism to its environment.
3882647|Viviparity in the vertebrate line first makes its evolutionary appearance among fishes. It has independently evolved in a number of divergent piscine lineages. The 54 families of extant fishes that bear living young include 40 families of chondrichthyans (sharks and rays), one montypic family of coelacanths (Latimeria), and 13 families of teleosts. There is fossil evidence for viviparity in holocephalans and chondrosteans. Viviparity predominates among sharks and rays (40 families, 99 genera, 420 species) but is less widespread among teleosts (13 families, 122 genera, 510 species). Following an historical introduction, the organization of the female reproductive system, sites of gestation, developmental sequences and superfetation are considered. The evolution of viviparity establishes specialized maternal-fetal relationships, viz., 1) developmental, 2) morphological, 3) trophic, 4) osmoregulatory, 5) respiratory, 6) endocrinological, and 7) immunological. While the latter four categories are briefly noted the major emphasis is on the trophic relationship and its morphological and developmental basis. First, a general overview is presented and then the maternal-fetal trophic relationships in each of the major groups of fishes are systematically reviewed. Pertinent anatomical, histological, ultrastructural, developmental, physiological, and biochemical studies are considered. Viviparous fishes are either lecithotrophic, i.e., exclusively yolk dependent, or matrotrophic, i.e., in receipt of a continuous supply of maternal nutrients during gestation. Nutrient transfer is accomplished by 1) oophagy and adelphophagy, 2) placental analogues, and 3) the yolk sac placenta. Placental analogues include: external epithelial absorptive surfaces, e.g., skin, fins, gills; trophonemata, modifications of the uterine epithelia for the secretion of histotrophe or "uterine milk"; branchial placentae, close apposition between gill epithelia and either uterine or overian epithelial villi; the yolk sac; pericardial amnion and chorion; follicular pseudoplacenta, close apposition between follicle cells and embryonic absorptive epithelia; hypertrophied gut; and trophotaeniae, external rosette or ribbon-like projections of the embryonic gut. Among chondrichthyans, the yolk sac placenta (840-1,050%), trophonematal secretion and embryonic absorbtion of histotrophe (1,680-4,900%) and oophagy and adelphophagy
4620217|The 18S rRNA database is continuously growing and new tree construction methods are being developed. The present study aims at assessing what effect the addition of recently determined animal 18S rRNA sequences and the use of a recently developed distance matrix calculation method have on the results of some previously published case studies on metazoan phylogeny. When re-assessing three case studies, part of their conclusions was confirmed on the basis of the present 18S rRNA data set: 1) the monophyly of Arthropoda; 2) the monophyly of the Vestimentifera-Pogonophora and their protostome character; 3) the doubt about the monophyletic origin of Echiura-Sipuncula and 4) the coelomate character of Nemertea. Yet, it is also demonstrated that some of the previous results are no longer warranted when updating the analyses: 1) the monophyly of both the Annelida and the Eutrochozoa; 2) the sister-group relationship of Echiura to Vestimentifera-Pogonophora and 3) the polyphyly of the Mesozoa and their close relationship to Myxozoa and Nematodes. In addition, some new very preliminary evidence is provided for: 1) a common ancestry of Platyhelminthes and Mesozoa and the monophyly of the latter group and 2) the monophyly of Clitellata, Hirudinida and Oligochaeta. Finally, doubt is casted on the monophyly of the Polychaeta and the polychaete orders Spionida, Phyllodocida, and Sabellidae. Of course, these hypotheses also need further testing.
3883265|Muscle can be thought of as an engine-an assembly of devices capable of performing useful work at the expense of degrading fuel. Among the devices the most distinctive is the transducer, wherein energy of one form (chemical) is converted into energy of another form (mechanical). The author contends that until recently muscle research has examined the auxiliary devices, and that only currently is the transducer under study.
3884356|Recent abundant studies report that in rodents starvation induces increased neuropeptide Y (NPY) mRNA expression and peptide secretion in the hypothalamus which reduces autonomic nervous activity and promotes food intake, and intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of NPY has potent orexigenic effects. Conversely, the effect of insulin in the central nervous system is to inhibit food intake and NPY biosynthesis and secretion. In mammals body fatness is regulated and insulin acts as one intake inhibitory signal related to fatness. In salmon (Oncorhynchus sp.) we have demonstrated a rise in NPY-like mRNA expression and a coincident decrease in plasma insulin levels during 2 to 3 weeks of starvation. Additionally, experimentally manipulating body fatness with high and low fat diets has demonstrated that body fatness affects food intake in teleost fishes, raising the possibility that NPY and insulin act to regulate their food intake. Therefore, we hypothesized that as in rodents, ICV treatment with NPY would stimulate food intake while ICV insulin would reduce food intake. Preliminary results suggest that ICV NPY administration does stimulate food intake in channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus), but central injection of insulin has no effect. Results of treatments with the sulfated octapeptide of cholecystokinin and the recombinant fragment of rat leptin 22-56 are also discussed.
3883513|In insects, heat production, and by inference passively generated body temperatures, can now be predicted given certain characteristics of flight, insulation and body size. The potential problem of overheating can then also be predicted. But the primary biological interests are in finding the solutions to problems. This review of discoveries of mechanisms of insect thermoregulation shows where attempts to extrapolate from generalities have had mixed results. Specific knowledge of the organisms had pointed to potential solutions that could then be explored. But specific solutions could only be predicted post hoc.
3882178|Cytochemical investigations on oocyte development, fertilization and early embryonic development have been reviewed. Inter- and intra-group variability in the succession of metabolic phases was considered with respect to selection pressures which in turn appeared to modulate phases. Quantitative investigations were particularly considered. In early development, attention was focused on changes in the chromosomal organization which might reflect on control of development. Some of the unusual forms of chromosomal organizations in early development were discussed. Cytochemical studies have not offered any insights into precocious differentiation, but they have added substantially to the understanding of chemical and organizational changes during oogenesis and early development.
3884565|Communication among members of a colony is a key feature of the success of eusocial insects. The same may be true in other forms of insect sociality. I suggest that substrate-borne vibrational communication is important in the success of group-living, herbivorous insects. I examine three challenges encountered by herbivorous insects: locating and remaining in a group of conspecifics; locating food resources; and avoiding predation. Studies of groups of immature treehoppers, sawflies and butterflies suggest that vibrational communication can be important in each of these contexts, enhancing the ability of these group-living herbivores to exploit the resources of their host plants.
3881999|Playful contact interaction within a captive family of six meerkats was observed using a rotating focal animal observation method over a 5-month period. Ten interaction patterns are described. The mother interacted playfully with her family members at a low rate while the father and young interacted together far more than with the mother. The parents sniffed all family members about equally, but all offspring sniffed the father far more than they sniffed the mother. Dyadic interaction sequences between the youngsters incorporated two patterns that infrequently occurred in father-young sequences. Eighteen-week profiles of biting and forelimb contact displayed large oscillations in rate for each animal, but there was little inter-individual concurrence in each pattern and little similarity in profiles between patterns. Playful interaction was depressed and fluctuations dampened following the birth of an ill-fated litter. Sniffing fluctuated over a smaller amplitude than either of the other two patterns. During the 5-month observation period, only the father and one youngster were consistent in their choice of recipients of forelimb contact; the other three youngsters altered the proportion of contact delivered to their companions. The youngsters did not exhibit significant changes in the body targets of biting over the time period of the study.
3883621|Both the "true" crabs (Brachyura) and hermit crabs (Anomura) include species that show numerous behavioral, morphological, and physiological specializations permitting terrestrial life. This paper examines respiratory and circulatory adaptations for air breathing in these land crabs. Respiratory specializations include modification of gas exchange structures for air breathing (gills and elaborated branchial chamber linings), ventilatory mechanisms permitting effective air pumping, an elevated hemolymph oxygen capacity, and a primarily
3883445|An overview of the field of biology of chemical mediation is presented, emphasizing that "classical" endocrinology is a major and still vital segment of the field. The "new" endocrinology recognizes the importance of autocrine and paracrine mechanisms, the indistinct boundary between hormones and growth factors, and the existence of chemical mediation between organisms of the same and different species (pheromones and allelochemics). All these phenomena involve the same basic language: a specific agent activates a specific receptor, resulting in an action. The continuing need for organismal (integrative) endocrinology in interpreting and evaluating the contributions of molecular endocrinology is illustrated by a consideration of transgenic fish (bearing additional growth hormone genes) and of the presence of hormones in eggs and their implication for developmental biology.
3882826|There is evidence in crustaceans that neuroendocrine centers, including the eyestalk, brain, thoracic ganglionic mass, and pericardial organ, produce factors that affect osmotic and ionic regulation. Understanding of the processes responsible for osmotic adjustment in the intact animal, such as regulation of permeability, active uptake of ions, and respiratory and cardiovascular alterations, has increased substantially in the past few years. However, interaction of neuroendocrine factors with the target tissues and systems is just beginning to be investigated. There is evidence that content of lipids and activity of enzymes are important in osmoregulation, and neuroendocrine effects on these metabolic processes are worthy of study. In addition, there are some crustaceans in which osmoregulatory ability varies developmentally. Further investigations of such animals is also necessary. Progress in our understanding of neuroendocrine influences on osmoregulation depends upon further purification of active factors from neuroendocrine centers and hemolymph, and upon development of appropriate assays on which to test them.
3882799|The major contribution of the Thomas Hunt Morgan School of Drosophila genetics was to establish, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the Mendelian factors are parts of chromosomes. That hypothesis was first stated, with great clarity, by Walter S. Sutton in 1903. The supporting data were few and most biologists, including Morgan, found the argument insufficient. In 1910 Morgan reversed his position when he began his analysis of the inheritance of sex-linked mutants in Drosophila.
3884416|The presence of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity is demonstrated in the tropical marine cnidarian Aiptasia pallida and in its symbiotic dinoflagellate algae, Symbiodinium bermudense. Enzyme activity was assayed by measuring the conversion of arginine to citrulline. Biochemical characterization of NOS from Aiptasia was characterized with respect to cellular localization, substrate and co-factor requirements, inhibitors, and kinetics. In response to acute temperature shock, anemones retracted their tentacles. Animals subjected to such stress had lower NOS activities than did controls. Treatment with NOS inhibitors caused tentacular retraction, while treatment with the NOS substrate L-arginine inhibited this response to stress, as did treatment with NO donors. These results provide a preliminary biochemical characterization of, and suggest a functional significance for, NOS activity in anthozoan-algal symbiotic assemblages.
3881496|Some of the finer details of the anatomical organization of the subesophageal ganglion of the spider, Poecilotheria sp. were studied in Palmgren silver-stained sections at the light microscopic level. The ganglionic mass is differentiated into a central fibrous core and a peripheral layered mass of cellular cortex. The neuropile is heterogeneous, consisting of both diffuse and glomerular types, and is considered the primary place for integration. The dorsal region is motor, and the ventral is sensory. The processes of motor cells and endings of sensory neurons are restricted mostly to a single ganglion. Each large motor neuron possesses a long stem-process, short and highly branched dendritic ramifications, and a smooth, unbranched axon. Larger interneurons are more diversified, and extend from one to several ganglia. These are of ascending or descending or even decussating types. Smaller interneurons are mostly restricted to one or a few ganglia. On the basis of this organization the probable synaptic junctions between neurons are discussed.
3882611|A mechanism is proposed for the activation of particular genes during interpretation of positional information and during sequential addition of new structures during outgrowth. The primary event is assumed to be an alternation between two states. The alternation of anterior-posterior-anterior compartments in insects or bone-joint-bone in the chicken wing is assumed to be a trace of this primary subdivision into two alternative states. Each (or each second) transition from one state to the other causes a switch from one structure-controlling gene to the next. This enables a counting of alternations on the DNA-level and a high resolution in the corresponding activation of control genes. The model explains the formation of compartments and segmental specification in perfect register. The elements of the bithorax gene complex become understandable assuming this mechanism. It is shown further that such a "compartmentalization" can be used for the reproducible generation of subpatterns for the finer subdivision of a developing embryo. By "cooperation of compartments," a cone-shaped morphogen distribution can be generated, accounting, e.g., for the circular arrangement of structures in the fate map of the leg disk of Drosophila. The most distal structures are formed at the intersection of compartments and distal transformation occurs whenever cells of all three or four major compartments are close to each other.
3882500|The influence of a co-evolved predator-prey interaction on the outcome of competition between sexual and asexual prey was examined by computer simulation. Intra-specific competition in both predator and prey populations is governed by relative success in the interspecific interaction. Predators key on a certain variable prey character under the control of ten independently assorting, diploid loci. Individual predators vary genetically in their ability to handle prey of the various states of this character. Predator fitness is proportional to the prey available to them. Prey fitness is inversely proportional to the frequency of predators to which they are susceptible. In addition, sexual prey of a given phenotype are assigned half the fitness of the corresponding asexual form, representing a "cost of meiosis." Mating is random and there is no facultative response allowed to changes in the phenotypic distribution of the interacting species. Three parameters are varied: (1) the maximum contribution of a phenotype to the next generation (fecundity limit), (2) population size, and (3) clonal diversity of the asexual prey form. Most realistic combinations of these variables favor sexual reproduction. According to the model, it is particularly unlikely that an asexual mutant could spread in an existing sexual population. However, the conditions found to favor asexuality are consistent with observations from nature where reduced recombination is relatively common. The model predicts asexual forms should persist in very large, low fecund populations, as in the prokaryotes, and where their phenotypic diversity is high, as near zones of recurrent hybridization. It is also consistent with the occurrence of parthenoforms in regions of reduced interspecific interaction where the assumptions of this model, and therefore the advantages to sex, are less likely to be realized.
3883367|The ability of adult molluscan neurons to exhibit neurite outgrowth and form synaptic connections after axotomy has been thoroughly investigated in recent years. More recently we have asked whether such remodeling of neuronal form and function can occur within the intact nervous system. In this essay, we describe our observations regarding the neurite outgrowth from an intact neuron (buccal neuron 5) in the pond snail Helisoma which occurs on exposing the animal to specific forms of stress. As a result of initial experiments, the possibility arose that this form of neurite outgrowth was associated with altered osmoregulation. This hypothesis was tested by placing Helisoma in environments of different osmolarity which have known consequences in terms of blood osmoregulation. When animals are placed in a hypertonic environment (20% seawater), neuron 5 exhibits the sprouting and retraction of a neurite similar to that seen after other forms of stress. This observation gave rise to the hypothesis that a blood-borne agent might be responsible for the induction of sprouting. Our chromatographic analysis of blood from Helisoma exposed to 20% seawater indicated that a rise and fall of blood acidic amino acids corresponded to the time course of neurite outgrowth. Recently we tested glutamate at physiological levels for possible neurotrophic actions and have observed that it can promote neurite outgrowth from axotomized neurons. We conclude that this classical transmitter can act in a neurotrophic fashion and discuss possible implications of our observations in terms of the form and function of neurons within the intact nervous system.
3882954|The information available concerning the evolution of endocrine regulation of three gastrointestinal functions in lower vertebrates-gastric acid secretion, gallbladder contraction, and pancreatic enzyme secretion-is reviewed. The actions of hormones of the cholecystokinin/gastrin family of peptides have been the most widely studied and are emphasized. It is concluded that regulation of pancreatic enzyme secretion is a primitive action of cholecystokinin and that the sensitivity of gallbladder muscle and gastric acid-secreting cells to these peptides evolved later, possibly in the ancestral lineage that led to the gnathostomes. The need for increased digestive efficiency to support the higher levels of activity made possible by the evolution of jaws is suggested as a strong selection pressure leading to this pattern of evolution of endocrine regulation of gastrointestinal function.
3883804|The detection of interaural time differences underlies azimuthal sound localization in the barn owl. Sensitivity to these time differences arises in the brainstem nucleus laminaris. Auditory information reaches the nucleus laminaris via bilateral projections from the cochlear nucleus magnocellularis. The magnocellular inputs to the nucleus laminaris act as delay lines to create maps of interaural time differences. These delay lines are tapped by postsynaptic coincidence detectors that encode interaural time differences. The entire circuit, from the auditory nerve to the nucleus magnocellularis to the nucleus laminaris, is specialized for the encoding and preservation of temporal information. A mathematical model of this circuit (Grun et al., 1990) provides useful predictions.
3884508|The avian neck is a complex, kinematically redundant system, which plays a role during inter alia food prehension and manipulation. Kinematical analysis shows that chickens (Gallus domesticus) move their vertebrae according to a geometric principle that maximizes angular rotation efficiency. The movement pattern shows simultaneous rotations in some joints, while not in the others. Anseriformes show a pattern of successive, rather than simultaneous rotations in the rostral part of the neck. A kinematical model indicates that the geometric principle produces an anseriform-like pattern only if a constraint on the movement of the caudal vertebrae is introduced. The strength of this constraint, required for a realistic simulation, is related to the amount of stretch in the long dorsal neck muscles (M. biventer and M. longus colli dorsalis), which have a different configuration in Anseriformes compared to the chicken. To investigate whether the difference in movement pattern is a result of differences in anatomy only, or also of differences in neuromotor patterns, the EMG-patterns of the neck muscles of the mallard and chicken during drinking and pecking were studied. Considerable overlap in the activity of antagonists is found in mallards, but not in chickens. Muscles in the rostral part of the neck are activated successively in mallards, but simultaneously in chickens. We conclude that the difference in movement patterning between chickens and Anseriformes, results from both a difference in the control system of the neck, and a difference in the anatomy. The anseriform pattern is found in water as well as on land, which suggests that neck movement in both environments is controlled by the same neuromotor patterns. The modifications in motor control system and anatomy of the Anseriformes may have evolved as an adaptation to aquatic feeding, since the anseriform pattern is energetically more beneficial in an aquatic environment than on land.
3883222| The ratio of aerial: aquatic
3881392|The outstanding recent advances in the analysis of differentiation are in concept and method. In this paper examples are provided to demonstrate that formulation of the problem of differentiation in terms of biosynthesis and its control poses questions in new and more manageable ways. As examples, reference will be made to: (1) the question of control of the sets of specialized properties by which we define a cell type; (2) propagability of differentiated states; (3) developmental bias in relation to intracellular events; and (4) the mechanisms of extrinsic control of differentiation. Particular attention, also, will be focused on the relationship of morphogenetic to biosynthetic events.
3882031|The effects of temperature on respiration in amphibians are primarily effects on gas exchange patterns and rate of oxygen consumption (
3883075|The pattern of social spacing in small mammals differs from that observed in many other vertebrates. Small mammals frequently have non-exclusive territories and tolerate a large amount of overlap with other conspecifics. The determinant factors of home range or territory size in small mammals are not known for most species. We carried out a study of the determinant factors of home range size in a model small mammal, the eastern chipmunk, Tamias striatus. The population was studied for five years. The effect of experimental perturbations on food supply and population density offered strong evidence that the mean home range size in the population was determined by resource abundance. Changes in population density had little or no measurable effect. We noted that even when mean home range size decreased significantly in response to an increase in available food, a great deal of variability in individual home range sizes remained. We hypothesized that this pattern of variation among individuals was also resource related; large home ranges would be located in areas of low resource density and small home ranges would be located in areas of high resource density. Our data to date do not offer support for this hypothesis; however our research has shown that the data needed to convincingly reject the null hypothesis are very complex. We discuss the evidence required to study patterns of individual variation, and how models of optimal territory size may be useful. Research that examines patterns of individual variation are few in number, yet studies of individual variation will ultimately provide the best insights on the dynamics of evolutionary ecology.
3884139|Non-indigenous species (NIS) are increasingly conspicuous in marine and estuarine habitats throughout the world, as the number, variety, and effects of these species continue to accrue. Most of these NIS invasions result from anthropogenic dispersal. Although the relative importance of different dispersal mechanisms varies both spatially and temporally, the global movement of ballast water by ships appears to be the largest single vector for NIS transfer today, and many recent invasions have resulted from this transfer. The rate of new invasions may have increased in recent decades, perhaps due to changes in ballast water transport. Estuaries have been especially common sites of invasions, accumulating from tens to hundreds of NIS per estuary that include most major taxonomic and trophic groups. We now know of approximately 400 NIS along the Pacific, Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the U.S., and hundreds of marine and estuarine NIS are reported from other regions of the world. Although available information about invasions is limited to a few regions and underestimates the actual number of NIS invasions, there are apparent differences in the frequency of NIS among sites. Mechanisms responsible for observed patterns among sites likely include variation in supply of NIS, and perhaps variation in properties of recipient or donor communities, but the role of these mechanisms has not been tested. Although our present knowledge about the extent, patterns and mechanisms of marine invasions is still in its infancy, it is clear that NIS are a significant force of change in marine and especially estuarine communities globally. Taxonomically diverse NIS are having significant effects on many, if not most, estuaries that fundamentally alter population, community, and ecosystems processes. The impacts of most NIS remain unknown, and the predictability of their direct and indirect effects remains uncertain. Nonetheless, based upon the documented extent of NIS invasions and scope of their effects, studies of marine communities that do not include NIS are increasingly incomplete.
3881720|The reproductive systems of mammals are anatomically and physiologically altered by the pineal gland. Characteristically, pineal removal accelerates gonadal growth in immature animals and causes a transient modest enlargement of the reproductive organs if the operations are done after adulthood is attained. Light deprivation renders the pineal strongly antigonadotropic. In addition, there are several conditions, e.g., androgen-sterilization and anosmia, which potentiate, probably indirectly, the gonad-inhibiting capability of the rat's pineal. The chronic administration of pineal extracts or pineal substances has effects opposite to pinealectomy, i.e., they restrict gonadal development or growth. The pineal is possibly important in adjusting the level of reproductive activity to seasonal changes in environmental conditions.
3882274|The capacity of adult newt (Triturus viridescens) spleen cells to secrete antibody at 4 C allows simultaneous visualization and quantification of non-secretory
3884361|Every spring for the past two decades, depletion of stratospheric ozone has caused increases in ultraviolet B radiation (UVB, 280-320 nm) reaching Antarctic terrestrial and aquatic habitats. Research efforts to evaluate the impact of this phenomenon have focused on phytoplankton under the assumption that ecosystem effects will most likely originate through reductions in primary productivity; however, phytoplankton do not represent the only significant component in ecosystem response to elevated UVB. Antarctic bacterioplankton are adversely affected by UVB exposure; and invertebrates and fish, particularly early developmental stages that reside in the plankton, are sensitive to UVB. There is little information available on UV responses of larger Antarctic marine animals (e.g., birds, seals and whales). Understanding the balance between direct biological damage and species-specific potentials for UV tolerance (protection and recovery) relative to trophic dynamics and biogeochemical cycling is a crucial factor in evaluating the overall impact of ozone depletion. After more than a decade of research, much information has been gathered about UV-photobiology in Antarctica; however, a definitive quantitative assessment of the effect of ozone depletion on the Antarctic ecosystem still eludes us. It is only obvious that ozone depletion has not had a catastrophic effect in the Antarctic region. The long-term consequences of possible subtle shifts in species composition and trophic interactions are still uncertain.
3883461|Cold adaptation encompasses all those aspects of an organism's physiology that allow it to live in polar regions. With the exception of the special case of the need to avoid freezing, it is therefore merely a specific example of the more general temperature compensation needed by all marine organisms. Temperature compensation is a form of homeostasis; the extent to which a given organism has achieved this can only be assessed in those processes which can be studied at the molecular level. Recent studies of polar organisms, primarily fish, have indicated that compensation is not always perfect. Studies of complex integrated processes such as growth or respiration do not necessarily give useful information concerning cold adaptation. Growth, for example, may show compensation at the molecular level but still be slow for other reasons (for example, resource limitation). Respiration is a particularly misleading indicator of temperature compensation, primarily because it represents the summation of many processes each of which may react differently to temperature. The use of respiration rate to assess temperature compensation should be abandoned forthwith.
3883997|Paired fin propulsion in fishes has classically been divided into two categories which represent biomechanical extremes in the use of appendages for propulsion: lift-based and drag-based mechanisms of thrust production. Theoretical models predict that fishes using drag-based propulsion should have wedge-shaped fins with relatively blunt distal edges, a fin beat cycle that is oriented along the anteroposterior (x) axis, feathering of the fin to reduce drag during the protraction phase, and maximal fin area during the retraction phase as the fin sweeps posteriorly perpendicular to the body. In this paper we use a three-dimensional analysis of pectoral fin propulsion in the largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides, to (1) evaluate the extent to which bass pectoral fin kinematics fit predictions of drag-based propulsion, and (2) demonstrate the complexity of fin movement when the traditional two-dimensional analysis is extended into three dimensions. We attached small markers to visualize the diaphanous distal fin edge, and we videotaped lateral and ventral views from which we could measure x, y, and z coordinates from the fin and body. We divided the fin into two triangular elements for which we calculated planar (three-dimensional) angles relative to each of three reference planes (XY, YZ, and XZ) during the fin beat cycle. We show how angles of attack based only on two-dimensional data may result in gross errors that severely compromise understanding of the mechanics and hydrodynamics of pectoral propulsion. Furthermore, three-dimensional analysis revealed that bass fin kinematics are much more complex than expected on a rowing model of drag-based propulsion, and that the pectoral fins may produce drag-based thrust even during protraction. Three-dimensional kinematics data are critical to understanding the hydrodynamics of aquatic animal propulsion. Such data are a necessary foundation for reconstructing patterns of movement, modeling (both theoretical and empirical), and for assessing the extent to which motion is under active control or a passive consequence of fluid resistance.
3882623|In Rhodnius, vitellogenesis is characterized by the appearance of large spaces between the cells of the follicular epithelium, a condition which is called patency. Patency is a response to juvenile hormone (JH) secreted by the corpus allatum. JH brings about an increase in patency by causing the follicle cells to shrink, an effect which may be mediated by
3883387|Acoustic signals often mediate the mating process and are under selection through the action of female choice. Acoustic signalling requires relatively large amounts of energy input, but metabolic energy is coupled to acoustic energy inefficiently. Although not necessarily a cause and effect relationship, females often prefer signals with more energy. Females may prefer more intense calls, more complicated calls, or calls produced at a greater repetition rate. I discuss various evolutionary changes that could increase acoustic energy received by the female and examine how these changes are influenced by other factors inherent to communication systems: signal radiation, species recognition, sexual selection, the physiology of the receptor system, and environmental bioacoustics. I conclude that these factors constrain the ability of the animal to maximize energy received by the female. I then consider how two hypotheses, the good genes hypothesis and the runaway sexual selection hypothesis, attempt to explain the evolution of female choice for signals with greater energy content.
3884284|Theropod (carnivorous) dinosaurs spanned a range from chicken-sized to elephant-sized animals. The primary mode of locomotion in these dinosaurs was fairly conservative: Theropods were erect, digitigrade, striding bipeds. Even so, during theropod evolution there were changes in the hip, tail, and hindlimb that undoubtedly affected the way these dinosaurs walked and ran, a trend that reached its extreme in the evolution of birds. Some derived non-avian theropods developed hindlimb proportions that suggest a greater degree of cursoriality than in more primitive groups. Despite this, fossilized trackways provide no evidence for changes in stride lengths of early as opposed to later non-avian theropods. However, these dinosaurs did take relatively longer strides-at least compared with footprint length-than bipedal ornithischian dinosaurs or ground birds. Judging from trackway evidence, non-avian theropods usually walked, and seldom used faster gaits. The largest theropods were probably not as fleet as their smaller relatives.
3884203|The endocrinology of reproductive aging in avian species has been described primarily in captive domestic birds, such as the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica), which show major changes in hormones and reproductive performance. To explore reproductive aging in longer-lived avian species, longitudinal studies are being conducted on the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) in which age-related changes in nesting patterns and clutch size have been monitored. However, little information is available relevant to endocrine status of breeding pairs of Common Terns. This review summarizes information pertinent to the breeding biology and endocrine status of the Common Tern during reproductive aging and compares these findings to data available from the Japanese quail. Fundamental mechanisms in the process of aging in avian species may become apparent in the comparison of these data and data from field species.
4620187| Despite the ubiquitous occurrence of cooperative associations between animals and bacteria, there is little understanding of how these interactions arose, how they evolved, and how they persist. Thus, an extensive database concerning the influence of bacteria on developmental pathways is not yet available. However, in much the same way that mutually beneficial liaisons are created between nations with vastly different histories and cultures, it is likely that highly refined developmental mechanisms exist in which a type of dtente is created to retain the integrity of the associations between the partners, both within and between generations. These developmental pathways would be responsible for insuring that a balance of cell growth is established and maintained among the community members, comprised of animal and microbial cells, such that neither form of pathogenesis, i.e., overgrowth (war) or aposymbiosis (isolation), ensues. This contribution examines aspects of how alliances with prokaryotes may have been integrated into the mechanisms and patterns of host animal developmental programs. 
3882488|By employing concepts such as "option" and "strategy" from game theory, this study derives an ecologically-oriented dendrogram of the probable evolutionary history and the present relationships of sea turtles. An "armored tank" strategy is seen as differentiating the first ancestral testudines from the stem reptiles and providing enduring advantages while simultaneously imposing basic restrictions on all later forms. A "flipper" strategy is postulated as basic to development of the sea turtle line, again imposing limitations while conferring selective advantage. Modern sea turtle species are grouped into three lineages representing strategies of habitat-type resource partitioning (a split-habitat, migratory pattern, a neritic residence pattern, and a pelagic residence pattern). Within the split-habitat, migratory group, further resource-partitioning by food-type separates the herbivorous Chelonia mydas populations from omnivorous Eretmochelys imbricata and the (apparently) carnivorous Chelonia depressa. Herbivory is seen as integral to the splithabitat, migratory strategy and C. mydas is considered the most "traditional" species, with the migratory habit secondarily lost in the other two. At the same time, the enhanced philopatry selected for by the migration strategy is viewed as responsible for the fact that C. mydas seems to have the most active race-formation of the three species. Further habitat-type partitioning in the neritic group, together with food-type partitioning, separates Caretta caretta from the two Lepidochelys species. L. kempi is represented as a consequence of Panamanian separation from L. olivacea following the last establishment of the isthmus as a land barrier. The third, pelagic residence, strategy is represented by Dermochelys coriacea, with little further differentiation of the line. The paper attempts to show that the evolution of sea turtles has been ecologically logical, that most conceivable niches for marine turtles are presently filled successfully, and that some predictions may be made with regard to gaps in our existing information.
3882440| Ectothermic vertebrates respond to the temperature of their habitat in a manner that is remarkably similar to their response to more traditional ecological resources such as food. We review the response to temperature primarily from literature on fishes in terms of ecological concepts related to niche theory and competition. The width of the fundamental thermal niche is about 4C when measured by a mean plus and minus one standard deviation of the distribution of temperature occupied in a laboratory gradient. Fish of temperate freshwater appear to fall into three thermal guilds along the temperature resource axis - cold, cool, and warm water fishes. Realized thermal niches are similar in central tendency to fundamental niches, but niche width appears to be more narrow for the realized niche in limited sample data. The success of interference competition for space with preferred temperature is tied to social dominance in a manner analogous to food competition. Thermal niche shifts in the face of interspecific competition for preferred temperature appear supported by one laboratory study. Exploitation competition in respect to temperature seems nebulous. If animals successfully compete for their thermal niche, growth and perhaps other measures of fitness are maximized. Cost/benefit models for thermal resources and food resources lead to similar predictions about resource use. We suggest that viewing temperature and other niche axes in the way ecologists have viewed food resources would be useful. 
3884538|Two groups of interneurons, Tr1 and DRI, have been identified in the escape swim circuit of the marine mollusc Tritonia diomedea that have important roles in behavioral initiation. DRI functions as a command neuron, receiving direct excitatory input from the afferent neurons, and in turn directly exciting the DSI neurons of the central pattern generator. DRI fires throughout the swim motor program, and activity in DRI is both necessary and sufficient for sensory input to elicit the swim motor program. Tr1 is an excitatory interneuron that fires briefly in response to sensory input and then remains silent during the motor program. Tr1 excites DRI with an excitatory connection that has fast and slow components and thus appears to have a role in converting brief afferent neuron activity to long-lasting firing in downstream circuit elements. These neurons complete the description of a continuous synaptic pathway from afferent to flexion neurons in the Tritonia swim circuit. Their identification should facilitate studies of motor program initiation, as well as of how various forms of experience, including simple forms of learning, act to influence neuronal decision-making processes.
3882727|We describe here a multidisciplinary investigation of the stimuli and mechanisms controlling reproduction in the green anole lizard, Anolis carolinensis. Both environmental and social stimuli that vary seasonally are used as proximate cues to reproduction. In order for these ecological factors to initiate breeding, they must be perceived and integrated in the central nervous system. External and internal stimuli converge upon the hypothalamus, the major neuroendocrine integrative area of the brain, which, in turn, directly regulates pituitary and autonomic function. In addition to their role in reproduction, the gonadal hormones are important throughout the life of the organism, acting both peripherally and centrally, to adapt the individual to its environment. Thus, the environment, behavior, and physiology interact in complex ways to synchronize the social and reproductive activities of individuals.
3882255|Based on my conceptual framework of anoline display behavior, I am suggesting the following evolutionary trends. Lateral presentation during display was probably promoted by monocular vision. Along with lateral presentation, postures evolved to increase lateral outline. These postures which magnified body size were probably of selective advantage within aggressive social contexts since larger animals tend to dominate smaller ones through bluff. Body movement evolved along with lateral orientation and size-enhancing postures. These movements would be most effective if they complemented lateral orientation. Effectors available for such movements were primarily pre-adapted for vertical motion. The patterns of movement generated were probably simple oscillatory bobbing movements by the head which were weakly stereotyped, interspecifically similar, appearing in many contexts, and having a weakly defined information content. Events having selective advantage for species recognition promoted stereotypy of bobbing behavior into species-unique displays; each species had its unique signature display which served in a manifold communicatory capacity. The signature display appeared in assertion, courtship, and challenge contexts. Its information content varied depending upon context and recipient of the display (e.g., male or female). Besides the stereotyped aspects of the display, certain features remained variable with potential information significance. Core variability (see text) promotes individual recognition and may be the origin of new unique display patterns as sibling species emerge. Display modifiers (see text) are variable display features shared by members of a population (many being shared interspecifically) that provide a graded appearance to display performance; modifiers can indicate level of arousal and facilitate interspecific communication. For some species display repertoire size seems to have evolved from a single display (signature display) to repertoires of multiple displays; these subsequent displays are generally restricted to aggressive interactions.
3882482|An adequate understanding of young sea turtle dispersal patterns is necessary for effective management of threatened or endangered species. Such patterns are poorly understood, and the term "lost year" has been adopted to emphasize this gap in sea turtle life history information. Tag returns from pen-reared yearling sea turtles indicate ocean current dispersal. Evidence indicates hatchlings would be similarly dispersed by ocean currents. Feeding studies with tank-held animals suggest that food resources are available in ocean currents for long-term sea turtle survival. Green turtle (Chelonia mydas) growth appears slow in nature.
3883390|Do ectothermal vertebrates routinely make full use of their locomotor capacities in nature? We address this question by asking whether reptiles ever sprint at maximum burst speeds and whether they often move at speeds near maximum aerobically sustainable levels. Relevant data are largely anecdotal but suggest that lizards (and perhaps other vertebrate ectotherms) do not routinely perform at maximal capacities. They appear to do so only in situations that have a critical impact on fitness. Nevertheless, active lizards do thermoregulate carefully such that they usually maintain the potential for performing at maximal capacity. We consider alternative, but not exclusive, explanations for why reptiles might maintain apparently "excessive" capacities and conclude with suggestions for new field and laboratory studies that would more rigorously address these issues.
3883701|Endosymbiosis is a phenomenon of central importance to the biology of many invertebrate animals. Parasitic, commensal and mutualistic endosymbioses are widely distributed among invertebrate taxa, and have arguably played a major role in the evolution of several invertebrate families, classes and phyla. Sometimes accounting for as much as 50% of invertebrate volume or biomass, endosymbionts can profoundly affect the ecology, physiology, development and behavior of invertebrate hosts. Endosymbiosis raises a number of questions that are worth the serious, sustained attention of a broad range of invertebrate biologists.
3882860|The process of gastrulation has often been compared with that of malignant invasion. In this paper, the terms "malignant" and "invasion" are defined and the characteristics of malignant cells are discussed. One of the best examples of invasion during gastrulation takes place during the formation of the endoderm in the chick, when the definitive endoblast invades the hypoblast. Experiments are described in which the hypoblast is invaded by a) definitive endoblast, b) other normal embryonic cells, and c) three types of human malignant cells. It was found that not only does the hypoblast react differently to normal and malignant cells, but that the cell interactions differ also according to the type of malignant cells. In particular, there are differences in the behaviour of the cells and in the amount of extracellular material laid down between the hypoblast and malignant cells. It is concluded that even within the limits of this experiment, chick gastrulation is not wholly analogous to malignant invasion.
3882848|Cultural "revolutions" are characterized by increased utilization of natural resources, resulting in increased carrying capacity for the human species. We are witnessing the Marine Revolution, which challenges us to develop unifying, ecosystem-based approaches to the science and use of the sea. Knowing (i.e., science) marine processes should form the fundamental basis for doing (i.e., conservation and management), within a global human ecological framework. The issues of human ecology are about the same by land or sea, but these subdivisions of Earth are fundamentally different. The sea must be understood in its own right, rather than be driven by terrestrially-derived models. For example, animal diversity is on a species level by land; marine diversity is at higher taxonomic levels and, if viewed functionally, is greater than the land's. This has important implications in the design of protected areas. Another example concerns the roles of large organisms in ocean processes; fishery ecology has been neglected, but a total ecosystem viewpoint is essential towards placing fisheries on a sustainable basis. New perspectives toward the sea are rapidly emerging. Satellites have the potential for revolutionizing oceanography. Ecotoxicology is in the process of addressing pollution on an ecosystem basis. A unified scientific perspective of "oceanology" is required to help meet problems of human ecology during the Marine Revolution.
3882077|In starfish a hormonal peptide, gonad-stimulating substance (GSS), which is released from nervous tissue, acts on the gonad to produce a maturation-inducing substance (MIS), an inducer of oocyte maturation and spawning. MIS is 1-methyladenine (1-MA). This substance acts on the surface of the oocyte. Cytoplasmic maturation as revealed by fertilizability is also induced by 1-MA. The amount of 1-MA can be determined very accurately with a bioassay method using isolated oocytes. In 1-MA formation, GSS seems to enhance the methylation of some compound which contains a purine nucleus at its N1 site. The methyl donor is probably S-adenosylmethionine. 1-Methylated precursor seems to be transformed to 1-methyl AMP and then hydrolyzed into 1-methyladenosine and phosphate by phosphomonoesterase. 1-Methyladenosine is finally split into 1-MA and ribose by 1-methyladenosine ribohydrolase. So-called spontaneous maturation of oocytes isolated in sea water is due to the action of 1-MA produced in follicle cells even in the absence of GSS. 1-MA is present in echinoid gonads and seems to act as MIS also in these animals. Disulfide-reducing agents such as dithiothreitol and 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanol induce starfish oocyte maturation. On the other hand, sulfhydryl reagents such as p-chloromercuribenzoate, iodoacetamide, and N-ethylmaleimide suppressed 1-MA-induced oocyte maturation. Since Concanavalin A acts on the follicle cells to produce 1-MA, the action of this substance seems to be quite similar to that of GSS.
3883832|Specific experiments on rattlesnake predatory behavior are described. Specimens of taxa bred in zoos are shown to behave qualitatively like wild-caught congeners, suggesting that the captive-bred animals have the skill necessary to hunt in natural habitats. Frequently, wild-caught conspecifics are unavailable for comparison with captive-raised individuals. Although this comparison is desirable, we must develop research strategies that can proceed without it. The qualitative analytical approach advocated here does this by relying heavily upon the natural history literature and on research with congeneric organisms to provide expectations (predictions) about the performance of captive-raised individuals. Advantages and disadvantages of this approach are discussed. We provide illustrations of its application to several predatory and antipredatory phenomena, and we list a variety of additional potential applications.
3884339|Animal consciousness has long been assumed to be a nonviable arena of investigation. At best, it was thought that any indications of such consciousness, should it exist, would not be interpretable by our species. Recent work in the field of language competencies with bonobos has laid this conception open to serious challenge. This paper reviews this work and the case it makes for our impending capacity to tap the consciousness of a uniquely enculturated group of bonobos who are capable of comprehending human speech and employing a lexical communication system.
3883544|Students in many elementary science courses are taught a little neurophysiology. This may be the only knowledge of working neurones and of the nervous system such students will encounter as their education progresses in social science and humanities. In teaching the spinal motoneurone as a model nerve cell and the frog myoneural junction as a model synapse we offer such students an overly simplistic and misleading view of functioning nerves. This picture leads to a stimulus-response or Pavlovian mechanistic view of behavior, even of human behavior. A better teaching method, beginning with a description of an endogenously active neurone is suggested. Such neurones are commonly encountered in all animals. In vertebrates endogenously active cells give rise to the electroencephalogram, a phenomenon clinically associated with a functioning central nervous system. Somewhat more elaborate views of synapses based on electron micrographs, patch clamping studies of channels and studies of calcium flux at endings is recommended even for elementary students. Nerve endings which contain and release more than one transmitter should be offered as a physiological example of how the brain works. Only thus can the flexible behavior of both the nerve cells and the organism they contain be understood. Development of nerve cells and their migration and possible destiny should be discussed, particularly for the student for whom this may be a last course in biological science. An appreciation of the process and timing of the development of the human nervous system may help such students in later life in making personal and political decisions about human reproduction.
3883085|This essay is part of the fourth yearly presentation of an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists. The purpose is to offer suggestions for improving the first-year biology courses in colleges and universities. We emphasize the conceptual framework of the biological sciences, show how scientific information is obtained and validated, and relate science to human concerns. The topic for consideration this year is Developmental Biology. This essay gives some of the background information-mainly classical experimental embryology. The speakers in the symposium will deal with more recent discoveries and insights.
3882015|Neuromuscular transmission has been studied in detail by various authors in neurogenic hearts of decapod and stomatopod crustaceans, horseshoe crabs, and spiders. In these hearts, bursts of impulses generated in the cardiac ganglion at regular intervals produce depolarizations of the muscle fibers. Each depolarization is associated with a heart contraction. The depolarization is composed of many excitatory junction potentials (ejp's), each produced by a single nerve impulse. There is no evidence in Homarus, Squilla, or Limulus hearts that single ejp's or composites of ejp's give rise to regenerative membrane responses; in these hearts, spontaneous depolarizations never overshoot the zero reference level. Overshooting occurs in certain crab and crayfish hearts, and it is possible that muscle fibers of these hearts produce regenerative membrane events. The muscle fibers of Limulus, Tachypleus and Homarus hearts are polyneuronally innervated. Pulse stimuli applied to nerve branches evoke ejp's that facilitate in hearts of Squilla and Homarus. In addition to facilitation in Homarus, there is also depression; at certain frequencies of stimulation both facilitation and depression can be observed. Experiments in tarantula, Limulus, and Homarus hearts show that L-glutamic acid mimics the natural transmitter substance.
3883570|Experimentation involves the manipulation of variables in vertebrate form-function systems. Two general experimental approaches are used most often in attempts at defining the relationship of form and function in animals: holding the form constant while varying the experimental regime, and the reverse. Either real or abstract forms and experimental regimes can be productive, though all variations have limitations. The place of such experiments in the understanding of the evolution of form-function is explored in a narrative tracing the change in our conception of function and evolution for the tetrapod ear over the past twenty years. Combining experimental functional anatomy and studies of structural evolution and phylogeny creates an environment of reciprocal illumination. The experimental determination of function illuminates details of structure otherwise not noticed-creating new characters or suggesting reinterpretations for those already known. Attempts to understand the evolution of structure and function in a clade can suggest experiments or key taxa for experimental study. This combined approach is relatively new and is being led by vertebrate morphologists.
3884073|Motor neurons of crayfishes can be broadly classed as "phasic" and "tonic" on the basis of their normal activity patterns, synaptic physiology, and morphology. Phasic motor neurons produce large excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) which fatigue rapidly with repetition; their synaptic terminals are slender, with few mitochondria, and their axons contain fewer and less metabolically active mitochondria than those of tonic motor neurons. Adaptive changes in all of these features take place in phasic motor neurons of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii when they become more active, and the neurons assume a more tonic phenotype. Axonal mitochondria become metabolically more productive, EPSPs are smaller and more fatigue-resistant, and synaptic terminals become more varicose, with larger mitochondria. Since maintained synaptic transmission is strongly dependent upon oxidative metabolism, the observed mitochondrial changes are thought to be involved in producing greater fatigue resistance. Normally occurring adaptive changes are seen in crayfish neurons during different seasons of the year. Thus, neuronal adaptation to different activity levels is one of several adaptive responses available in the nervous system which equip a species for changes in its environment.
3883144|Reproductive processes in the syllid polychaete Typosyllis prolifera take an annual, a lunar-monthly and a daily pattern. Natural light changes (the seasonal change in relative daylength, the cycle of moonlight, the daily light-dark cycle) seem to provide the principal environmental information for the synchronization of reproduction with the external cycles. Both relative solar daylength and the daily light-dark cycle probably act exogenously. Moonlight, in contrast, acts as an entraining zeitgeber to a circalunar clock. Hormones (at least two distinct factors) mediate between the controlling centers and the peripheral tissues involved in sexual development. The effects of daylength and, indirectly, moonlight upon sexual development are brought about through the intermediation of the endocrine system. The exogenous and endogenous mechanisms of reproductive timing in T. prolifera are compared with those recently reported in some other polychaete species.
3883462|Antarctica supported fossil ichthyofaunas during the Devonian, Jurassic, Cretaceous and Eocene/Oligocene. These faunas are not ancestral to each other, nor are they related to any component of the modern fauna. About one hundred species of notothenioids dominate a modern fauna of over 200 species of bottom fishes. This highly endemic perciform suborder is not represented in the fossil record of Antarctica. Notothenioids may have evolved in situ on the margins of the Antarctic continent while gradually adapting to cooling conditions during the Tertiary. Cladistic studies indicate that notothenioids are a monophyletic group, but a sister group has not been identified among perciform fishes. With relatively few non-notothenioid fishes in Antarctic waters, notothenioids fill ecological roles normally occupied by taxonomically diverse fishes in temperate waters. There are six notothenioid families: Bovichtidae, Nototheniidae, Harpagiferidae, Artedidraconidae, Bathydraconidae and Channichthyidae. Aspects of their biology are briefly considered with emphasis on the Nototheniidae, the most speciose family. Evolutionary diversification within this family allows recognition of species which are pelagic, cryopelagic, benthopelagic and benthic.
3882242|Using large samples from six localities in New Zealand, the population structure and longevity of the intertidal brachiopod Waltonia inconspicua Sowerby has been established. The population is one containing two modes. The first year group extends up to 3.0 mm shell length and together with the second year group constitutes the first mode of the length distribution histogram. Reproduction commences at approximately 10 mm length or during the fourth year and at this stage the second mode is formed by the overlap of year groups of mature animals. In Otago Harbour W. inconspicua was found to live up to eight years and occasionally survive for as long as 15 years. Growth is slow and unevenly distributed through life, being fastest during the first four years and decreasing after reproduction commences. Two years later, at approximately 15 mm shell length there is a further reduction in growth rate, and when the animal reaches 17 mm length it slows yet again and becomes very small in senescence. However, egg production at this stage is very high being greater than 18,000 per year. The rate and type of growth varies considerably between localities. Rough water conditions cause slower growth and more gibbous form, and phenotypic stunting appears to have occurred.
3881807|As an ecotone, the littoral environment is often complex and is generally rich in numbers and species of organisms. The disadvantages of the biotope in terms of exposure to physical factors of both the marine and terrestrial environments are patent, but the advantages are not so evident. The continual replenishment of food brought from the sea, particularly for detritus-feeding animals such as hermit crabs, coupled with the possibility and ability to establish microhabitats with microclimatic conditions may constitute the principal advantage. Escape from specialized predators may also be important. Hermit crabs have successfully exploited most intertidal environments. As members of the "benthic detritus-feeding guild" food is abundant, and by utilizing their shells in conjunction with movements within the littoral zone they have met successfully most of the rigors of the environment. The shell also provides some protection from predation, particularly from non-specialized predators. Indeed, the behavioral patterns associated with living in shells which permit the shell to serve as a microhabitat constitute the major adaptation enabling the hermit crabs to exploit the intertidal environment so successfully.
3884096|Unlike other freshwater bivalves that survive for months in deionized water, Dreissena polymorpha requires minimal concentrations of Na, K, Mg, and Cl in the bathing medium for long-term survival. Although ion transport rates are higher in D. polymorpha compared to other freshwater bivalves, they tend to have lower blood solute concentrations. D. polymorpha has an unusually "leaky" epithelium with a high paracellular permeability to solutes. Thus, even with high transport rates, it may not be possible for zebra mussels to retain higher blood solutes because of the extensive passive loss of ions. Under a hyperosmotic stress, D. polymorpha will rapidly osmoconform (about 12 hr) due primarily to the diffusion of solutes and partially to the osmotic loss of water. D. polymorpha is not capable of surviving an imbalance of Na/K in the external medium. In the absence of K the cells will tend to lose volume to achieve isosmotic balance with the blood, but the animals usually die within a few days. If D. polymorpha is exposed to excess K in the environment (1 mM), they will accumulate K in the blood. If the K enters the cells, cellular volume would expand due to increase in osmolyte concentration, yet, if K remains in the blood, there will be an electrochemical imbalance. In either case, the animal cannot survive much longer than a day. When Na and K are present in the medium in a balanced combination approximated by artificial seawater (ASW), D. polymorpha will survive an acute transfer to 100 mosm ASW indefinitely (months). Our preliminary studies have shown that D. polymorpha will tolerate step-wise acclimation to solutions >250 mosm provided the changes in salinity do not exceed 50-100 mosm. Freshwater bivalves, unlike the marine bivalves, have limited free amino acids in their body fluids and must rely on inorganic ions for osmotic regulation. The free amino acids serve as an important osmolyte buffer for volume regulation when an animal experiences an environment of changing salinity. The inability of Dreissena, and perhaps other freshwater bivalves, to tolerate hyperosmotically induced dehydration may be due, in part, to the inability to accumulate or retain sufficient intracellular K to facilitate regulatory volume adjustments.
3883266|The baker's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a single celled eucaryote that is gaining appeal for studies of fundamental processes in cellular and molecular biology. This article describes three examples of the use of yeast to study problems of importance to human medicine. Specifically, the enzymes involved in neuropeptide processing, the RAS oncogenes, and the regulation of cholesterol biosynthesis in humans are shown to have remarkable similarities to their equivalent processes in yeast. In several cases the yeast and human enzymes are functionally interchangeable, emphasizing the unity of basic principles in biology.
3881739|The basic structure of the vertebrate integument is briefly reviewed. The system is either scaled, non-scaled, or a mixture of the two. Scales are not appendages of the integument, but are patterned folds in which the dermal and/or epidermal components may be elaborated. An appendage is the product of specialized patterns of cell differentiation localized within the dermis and/or epidermis. Scales, and appendages (whether borne within scaled or non-scaled integuments), can only be correctly defined with reference to the chemical or molecular nature of the end-products of dermal and/or epidermal cell differentiation. Truly homologous integumentary structures probably do not exist above the class level in modern vertebrates. Anatomical, developmental, neurological, and paleontological data are presented in support of a model for the origin of mammalian hair. It is suggested that hairs arose from highly specialized sensory appendages of mechanoreceptor function which facilitated thermoregulatory behavioral activity in early synapsids. Specialization of cellular differentiation within these units led to the appearance of dermal papillae. A chance mutation led to subsequent multiplication of the originally sparsely, but spatially arranged papillae, causing the induction of a sufficient density of "sensory hairs" to constitute an insulatory body covering. The insulatory properties of this "protopelage" were the subject of subsequent selection, but the sensory function of mammalian hairs remains important.
3881780|Despite the overwhelming variety and abundance of invertebrate species, the contribution of invertebrate studies to our understanding of the behavioral and physiological bases of learning has been minimal. Although anthropocentric biases may be responsible for the inordinate number of studies performed with the usual laboratory animals, clearly a vigorous extension of the comparative approach in the behavioral sciences is demanded. Several features of the comparative approach are outlined and suggestions are made which minimize any of its inherent difficulties. A multi-level and polythetic approach is proposed which considers multiple characteristics supplemented by evidence obtained at other levels to establish a meaningful behavioral taxonomy. Controlled systematic variation may be used to analyze the functional relations of the performance of different species on the same behavioral task. Another strategy compares simplified and complex versions of the same system in order to assess the quantitative and qualitative relationships between complexity and capacity. The structure of many invertebrate species renders them ideally suited to such analysis. Data on habituation obtained in Limulus polyphemus employing such a paradigm is discussed. The relationships between electrophysiological habituation and levels of neural complexity are clearly demonstrated. Future contributions from this preparation as well as from other invertebrate species are also discussed.
4620118|Lampreys of the Class Agnathan are of particular importance in understanding endocrinological relationships since they represent one of the oldest lineages of extant vertebrates, which evolved over 550 million years ago. In this review, agnathans are considered to be paraphyletic in origin, with the modern agnathans classified into two groups, myxinoids (hagfish) and petromyzonids (lamprey). Recent paleontological analysis of modern groups suggests that the jawed vertebrates are more closely related to lampreys than either is to the hagfishes. It has been proposed that there have been two periods of gene duplication during the course of vertebrate evolution, one of which occurred close to the origin of the vertebrates. This paper will summarize the most recent information on the structure and function of newly identified hormones and genes of the brain (lamprey GnRH-I and -III, somatostatin-14; neuropeptide Y-related peptide and a lamprey tachykinin) and pituitary (ACTH, MSH-A, MSH-B, NHF-nasohypophysial factor, POM, and POC) in lampreys. In addition, these data provide further information for the prediction of gene duplication during the early development of vertebrates and increases our understanding of the molecular evolution and functional diversity of these hormones.
3883725|Problems of measuring invertebrate diversity in natural communities are discussed, together with the rationale of setting priorities for effective conservation of invertebrates. The "Crisis" in invertebrate conservation has scientific, logistic, and ethical dimensions. There is need to estimate these in conjunction with a range of values and educational imperatives to overcome public prejudice against invertebrates and to increase conservation funding for invertebrates. Values for selecting priority groups are discussed, and a suite of priority taxa defined to maximise the conservation value of the limited resources available.
3884334|There are three domains of experience that concern students of behavior: Domain 1. The domain of felt experience, the phenomenological domain. Domain 2. The domain of physiology, the real-time functioning of the brain. Domain 3. The domain of behavioral data, "intersubjectively verifiable" reports and judgments by experimental subjects. Consciousness has meanings in each of these domains. Domain 1 consciousness is beyond the reach of science as public knowledge. Empathy and plausible inference may tell us that our spouse, or our dog, is as conscious as we are. Science cannot. Research in Domains 2 and 3 permits us to infer similarities and differences between human and non-human psychology. Unfortunately, these will never permit us to know 'what it is like' to be another creature. An example from the study of motion perception illustrates the point that the fruitless attempt to answer this question can actually impede the objective study of behavioral processes we share with non-human animals.
3881887|This paper points out some deficiencies of bullfrogs now used in biological research. The need for obtaining stocks with information on geographical origin, age, nutrition, general health, and environmental conditions under which they were maintained or reared is paramount and can be obtained from commercial dealers. Growth rates and food utilization data with regard to bullfrog age and geographical origin are discussed in relation to the effects these characteristics may have on data interpretation in many research projects. The logic of utilizing only large bullfrogs in research is discussed. Motile sperm of males grown under laboratory conditions can be obtained in three months after metamorphosis, and in females, eggs approaching maturity are produced in six months after metamorphosis.
3881789| Electrophysiological activity is recorded from the ventral nerve mass of A. diadematus in response to direct vibration of the leg. Measurements taken under varied frequency and intensity conditions indicate that response maxima are in the region of 100 hertz with a threshold sensitivity less than 100 . The frequency response of the spiders leg does not correspond well to the frequency response of its web in a sound field. 
3882479|Tagging programs have revealed parts of the patterns of reproductive migration of some sea turtle populations, but much of the ecologic geography of the species remains unknown. The present paper takes stock of the advances and gaps in our knowledge of the group. Kemp's ridley and the Tortuguero green turtle population are used as sources of examples of these strong and weak areas. Possible causes of one-season nesting and its bearing on sea turtle demography are discussed. An apparent dichotomy in the "lost-year" ecology of the Tortuguero green turtles and Kemp's ridley is suggested. Some hatchlings of both evidently drift away in major currents, while others pass this stage circling in local eddies-Chelonia in the West Caribbean Gyre and Lepidochelys kempi within the Gulf of Mexico.
3881528|A generalized model of energy flow applicable both to individual populations and food chains is discussed. The basic ideas of energy flow and trophic levels are described, and it is emphasized that the concept of trophic level is not primarily applicable to individual species. The efficacy of rates of population energy flow as a measure of importance in community function is stressed, and the disadvantages associated with measures of density and biomass are pointed out. Finally, the historical development of energy-oriented thinking in ecology is traced in a series of ten steps dating from the late 19th century. The growing importance of systems analysis and the use of computer models to simulate ecological functions are recognized as major areas of emphasis during the next decade.
3884318| Current risk assessment techniques for almost all chemicals involve establishing a threshold dose, or the dose below which no adverse effects are seen. But threshold doses may not apply in situations where the chemical mimics the actions of an endogenous compound-such as a steroid hormone-that is important to development. In such cases, any exposure may exceed the threshold. Recent studies with the red-eared slider turtle have shown that exogenous estradiol-even when applied to eggshell in doses as low 0.4 ng-will affect sex development during embryogenesis. Considering that only 0.2% of the estradiol applied to the eggshell ends up in the embryo, it becomes apparent that even very low dosages of steroid hormones or their mimics can have profound biological effects. We tested this idea using eight compounds identified in the yolk of alligator eggs from Lake Apopka, Fla. Five of the compounds-the PCB mixture Aroclor 1242, trans-Nonachlor, cis-Nonachlor, p,p'-DDE, and chlordane-altered sex ratio outcomes when applied to eggshells during development. Aroclor 1242 produced the most powerful effects, shifting the ratio of females almost twofold, while chlordane had the greatest effect when combined with estradiol. Administration of all eight compounds together also increased the ratio of females to males. However, comparing the single-compound exposures at the same dosages indicate that these compounds behave differently in combination than they do singly, emphasizing the need for further studies using chemical mixtures reflecting proportions found in nature. The effect of chlordane and Aroclor 1242 on aromatase activity levels during embryogenesis in the brain and adrenal-kidney-gonad (AKG) complex was also examined. Chlordane, a suspected anti-androgen in this species, did not affect aromatase activity in either the brain or the AKG. However, Aroclor 1242 significantly altered aromatase activity levels in the red-eared slider turtle brain-but not in the AKG-during a crucial developmental period. After this crucial period, Aroclor 1242 caused an increase in aromatase activity in the AKG of embryos just prior to hatch. Additionally, hatchling males treated during embryogenesis with Aroclor 1242 and chlordane exhibited significantly lower testosterone levels than controls in response to follicle-stimulating hormone administration, while chlordane-treated females had significantly lower progesterone, testosterone, and 5-dihydrotestosterone levels relative to controls. These results are similar to those found in juvenile alligators from Lake Apopka. Males treated with Aroclor 1242 and trans-Nonachlor displayed an elevated estradiol response to FSH administration vs. control males. Taken together, these results suggest that EDCs exert effects during embryonic development that extend beyond birth. They also suggest that the alterations in sex steroid hormone levels observed in animals from contaminated areas may result from EDC-induced alterations in the neuroendocrine axis controlling gonadal sex steroid hormone production. 
3882194|Although marine waters are usually found to be supersaturated with respect to both calcite and aragonite, natural precipitation of these carbonate minerals is very restricted. This is apparently due to the occupancy and effective removal of lattice sites by random organic molecules present in natural seawater. Despite this, many marine organisms build external shells or skeletons of calcium carbonate, utilizing various ingenious methods to prevent seawater contamination at the growing shell margin. The periostracum, which apparently evolved as an aid to marginal calcification, has undergone numerous modifications serving important secondary functions in specialized groups.
3881517|The osseous tissues of modern bony fishes are usually classified as cellular or acellular bone. The latter lacks osteocytes; the former is restricted to individual families within the Clupeiformes and Scopeliformes. Many fishes can take up calcium actively from their environment and apparently can store considerable amounts of calcium in sites other than bone. The question as to the degree that fishes can or do utilize a closed-cycle, bone-body fluid continum is a subject of controversy; those fishes that have abandoned apatites must operate as an open-cycle system. Data from several laboratories have shown that hypophysectomy does affect calcium homeostasis, at least at the serum and kidney levels. There is no evidence that the observed alterations involve metabolism of bone. The idea that the ultimobranchial body has a parathyroid-like function is an attractive one, but the evidence in favor of this view is based entirely on histological grounds and is far from decisive. Studies using extracts of this gland, and purified mammalian parathyroid hormone, are needed.
3883094|There is a large natural loss of human embryos in early gestation. Most conceptual losses occur before pregnancy has been diagnosed in the woman. It is now acknowledged that chromosomal aberrations are the major etiologic agents responsible for spontaneous abortions. Fully 50 percent of naturally aborted embryos in the first trimester have an abnormal karyotype. Most of the chromosomal errors that have been identified in abortuses are only rarely seen in livebirths. Natural in utero selection is relentless in eliminating 99 percent of the chromosomally abnormal conceptuses through spontaneous abortion. The birth of affected offspring that escape nature's screening mechanism can be averted by the option of prenatal diagnosis. The thrust of prenatal diagnosis is to prevent the tragic impact of debilitating genetic disorders. But not all at-risk parents wish to avail themselves of prenatal diagnosis because they are unwilling to accept the choice of therapeutic abortion. Prevention of a genetic disorder before implantation would obviate the necessity of an abortion at a later stage of pregnancy. With this perspective, the correction of the basic genetic flaw by replacing the faulty gene with a functioning allele is an attractive alternative. Notwithstanding the imprecise technology that presently serves to caution against immediate application, gene therapy is a reasonable and natural extension of efforts to ameliorate the effects of severe inherited disorders.
3881123| The lepospondyls are urodele-like amphibians of the Paleozoic Era, some of which have been considered ancestral or closely related to reptiles or modern amphibians. Their origin is enigmatic, and the earliest occurrences reveal a long-established division into three contrasting orders: the serpentine astopods, the newt-like nectrideans and the deceptively reptilian microsaurs. The Subclasses Lepospondyli and Labyrinthodontia are not so disparate as to indicate a polyphyletic origin for the Amphibia. Which subclass gave rise to the present-day Lissamphibia is still disputed, but superficial similarities between lepospondyls and lissamphibians cannot mask the fundamental discrepancies in temporal range and morphology and (apparently) in life history as well. 
3882241|External structures on the erect parts of zooids of Aetea have been demonstrated to be brood chambers by observation of release, settlement and metamorphosis of larvae from the chambers. The ancestrula is smaller than, but very similar to succeeding zooids in the primary zone of astogenetic change, which do not show tubular connections. Sections through brood chambers and zooids show that part of the brood chamber wall may be slightly calcified. Brood chambers appear to be products of the external zooid wall and not diverticula derived from the tentacle sheath.
3881811|In many intertidal species, size-distributions vary with elevation of the beach. When this pattern is the result of behavior, it is appropriate to investigate its adaptive significance. In Olivella biplicata larger animals live higher on the shore and smaller ones lower. The inclusion of a bottom-swimming larval stage in the life history may enable new young to reach the lower shore, while settled snails segregate by size in response to light. These responses carry smaller animals to levels of the shore where physiological stresses lie within their range of tolerances. In moving higher on the shore, the larger snails, whose physiological tolerances are broader, exploit additional resources and reduce intraspecific competition. The size-class distribution also facilitates reproduction and augments a non-random mating pattern. Possible further values of the pattern of distribution are considered, e.g., a widened intertidal range may enable populations to survive violent fluctuations in the physical environment.
3882765|The paired salivary glands of female ixodid ticks are essential organs of osmoregulation. As the female feeds, the rate of salivary fluid secretion increases greatly enabling the tick to concentrate its bloodmeal by returning excess water and ions to the host via the salivary ducts. The glands are controlled by nerves and the neurotransmitter at the neuroeffector junction is dopamine. Cyclic AMP is a "second messenger" of the fluid secretory process. Specific endogenous salivary gland proteins are phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases which facilitate in some way the fluid secretory process. Fluid secretory capability and dopamine sensitive adenylate cyclase activity in glands of feeding females are dependent on weight of the feeding tick from which they are obtained. Conversely, cyclic AMP-dependent phosphodiesterase is inversely related to the magnitude of fluid secretory capability of the glands. Deletion of calcium or addition of verapamil to the bathing medium during experiments with isolated glands inhibits dopamine-stimulated fluid secretion. The precise role(s) of calcium in secretion is(are) unknown but it may help regulate cyclic AMP by regulating activator and inhibitor proteins of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase. The inhibitor modulators are at much higher concentrations in salivary glands of ticks in the rapid phase of feeding.
3883719|The nature of overfishing of marine invertebrates is complex, ranging from the perception of overfishing because of competition by user groups for a common property resource to extensive overfishing to near extinction because of poaching by either licensed or unlicensed fishers. As a group, marine invertebrates seem particularly resistant to overfishing, primarily because their relative immobility and scattered concentrations means refuge populations often exist. However, this distribution pattern also means a fishery is scattered over an often large geographical area with relatively small, frequent landings at any location. A minimum legal size regulation, enforceable anywhere before consumption, is the primary regulation applied by managers for many species to ensure against overfishing. Overfishing concerns arise primarily for those species where price is sufficiently high to encourage illegal fishing or where harvest by fishers is not easily monitored or controlled because of the nature of the fishing activity or because only part of the animal (e.g., the flesh) is harvested. Instances of overfishing by cause are discussed, and examples are presented to demonstrate how managers are dealing with or have dealt with different situations.
3883834|Pair formation is a prerequisite for reproduction in California condors and exploring the process has been central to the captive breeding program for this endangered species. Observations show that once birds reach sexual maturity they can form pairs within a matter of months; even birds who have lost or been separated from their mates will successfully bond with others. However, some adults who are housed together show little indication of pairing. When such birds are placed with other potential mates they frequently successfully pair and produce young, suggesting that individual differences play a role in pair formation. We recommend that adults who have not bonded within two years be housed with different potential mates. Condors raised together may or may not form pair bonds upon reaching sexual maturity; unfamiliar condors introduced at four years of age or older will form pair bonds. In the four cases where pairings have been successful the male initiates more intrapair interactions with aggressive behavior than does the female. Unpaired condors housed in groups do show courtship and the most dominant birds, usually males, are the most active in giving wings-out/head-down displays. Displays may be directed to males or females and may signal dominance and/or interest. Displays may be followed by mounts and one female may crowd in front of the bird to whom a male is displaying, increasing the chances that she will receive the display and be mounted. Displaying and the response to displaying birds may be mechanisms which influence mate selection.
3881707|Much circumstantial evidence points to a neurotrophic influence in amphibian limb regeneration. Although fine-structural observations of nerves in regenerating limbs have indicated the possibility that neurosecretory vesicles accumulate distally in these axons, there is no clear-cut demonstration available that these organelles are neurotropic. Evidence is accumulating that the neural influence in newt limb regeneration is transneuronal. There is also evidence that trophic substances other than those found in the nerve itself may be involved in the supporting limb regeneration. The characterization of the neurotrophic substance is considered a central task for students of regeneration in the future.
3883043|Human fathers are more involved in childcare than males of most other mammalian species. The authors describe several studies designed to determine how much time fathers spend with their children and how this compares with the extent of involvement by mothers. On average, fathers spend 25 to 35% as much time as mothers do in direct interaction with their children. Factors affecting the degree of paternal involvement are then described. These factors include: Motivation, skills, support, and institutional practices. Researchers have demonstrated that human fathers can be as competent as mothers, although lack of practice leads over time to lower levels of competence than evinced by mothers. Mothers and fathers behave differently in interaction with their children, with maternal-child interaction dominated by caretaking and father-child interaction characterized by play.
3882750|Most large, sessile organisms when exposed to rapid flows of air or water are markedly deformed as a consequence of their structural flexibility. Responses to air and water movement are similar, although both extreme and typical forces generated by water flows are greater, and erect organisms are commonly shorter in water than in air. A useful way of viewing data on the scaling of drag with flow speed is with a graph of speed-specific drag (drag divided by the square of speed) against speed. Since an ordinary solid body usually gives a horizontal line on such a plot, deviations from the ordinary are immediately evident. The slopes of the double logarithmic version of these graphs provide useful numerical comparisons. All of the cases considered here-trees, macroalgae, sea pens, etc.-give negative slopes at high flow rates, indicating that speed-specific drag drops with increasing flow. Such results may be taken as evidence that the flexible response commonly constitutes an adaptively useful reconfiguration as opposed to a mere incidental consequence of the material economy afforded by flexibility.
3882708|The controversy over whether functional data can contribute to phylogenetic inference has grown in recent years. Steps can be taken toward its resolution if the relevance of functional data is judged for each component of phylogenetic analysis. These components are (1) recognizing of basic taxa (species or supraspecific taxa), (2) formulating hypotheses of homology followed by character analysis, (3) evaluating character phylogeny, (4) formulating phylogenetic hypotheses, and (5) evaluating alternative phylogenetic hypotheses. It can be shown that functional data do not play a necessary or unique role in any of these components of phylogenetic analysis. Arguments to the contrary have failed to provide a rigorous, repeatable method to incorporate functional data; proponents of a functional approach to phylogenetic reconstruction rely too often on subjective, authoritarian argumentation. Students of functional evolutionary morphology frequently have failed to understand the kinds of information necessary to study or apply the causal process of adaptation via natural selection. This information, required by the very nature of the theory itself, includes knowing the pattern of heredity of the phenotypic characters being studied, relating intrapopulational phenotypic variability to variation in fitness, and knowing a sufficient amount about population structure to specify the components of natural selection. Studies within functional evolutionary morphology are not designed to satisfy these requirements. Functional evolutionary morphology uses the concepts of adaptation and natural selection axiomatically, and thus such studies contribute nothing to our understanding of the evolutionary process because hypotheses about that process are not being evaluated. This also suggests that, if functional evolutionary morphology wishes to engage in analyses of the evolutionary dynamics of the phenotype, a reorientation of its research strategy and goals will be necessary.
3884039|Prostaglandins and related eicosanoids are oxygenated metabolites of C20 polyunsaturated fatty acids. These compounds have been detected in many vertebrate and invertebrate species that represent all major phyla. The significance of eicosanoids relates to two broad areas of animal biology, one as mediators of crucial cellular events and another in mediation of certain ecological interactions. Eicosanoids exert physiological actions in reproduction, including release of egg-laying behavior in some insects, hatching in barnacles, egg-production in snails, spawning in bivalves, oocyte maturation in sea stars, and prevention of polyspermic fertilizations in sea urchin eggs. Eicosanoids are also involved in salt and water transport physiology (insects and bivalves), neurophysiology (mollusks) and cellular immune defenses (insects). I propose that some eicosanoid actions are fundamental to animal physiology. Eicosanoids also mediate certain host-parasite and predator-prey interactions. These include skin penetration by blood fluke larvae, blood feeding by ticks and predator avoidance by certain octocoral and nudibranchs. Research in eicosanoids yields insights that help explain details of physiological and ecological phenomena in vertebrates and invertebrates. Although we have seen considerable progress in our appreciation of eicosanoids in invertebrates, we are sorely lacking in our understanding of the biochemical mechanisms of eicosanoid actions in invertebrates. I suggest that research in this area will yield meaningful insights into the physiology and ecology of invertebrates.
3881972|Reptiles display a diversity of behavior that is reflective of their evolutionary heritage from fish and amphibians and their ancestral contribution to the diversity found in birds and mammals. Much of the behavior observed in reptiles seems specific to the ecological setting within which they live. As a result, a diversity of behavior is found in each of the groups of modern reptiles. Recent studies on the social behavior of lizards have proved them capable of a variety of behavioral postures, sequences, and sociality that exceeds that found in some mammals and birds. While many species of lizards are territorial, others are hierarchial and some have harems. For all those territorial species studied, crowding results in increased social interaction, increased aggression, and a switch to hierarchial behavior. While smell and sound may be important stimuli for social behavior in some reptiles, posture, actions, and especially color appear to be most important in diurnal lizards. Temperature and energy studies suggest that the large extinct dinosaurs probably fought considerably less than commonly portrayed in movies and stories, but were also probably much more brightly colored than commonly shown in reconstructions.
3884315|Often, as environmental endocrinologists, we observe animals in nature with the goal of describing their normal endocrinology. However, the contamination of virtually all natural habitats by chemicals of anthropogenic origins (e.g., PCBs, organochlorines, phytoestrogens, alkyphenols, heavy metals) that might alter endocrine conditions suggests we need to reevaluate many of our field studies with respect to points of reference or controls. The impaired response of the stress axis of feral brown trout, Salmo trutta, correlated with chronic exposure to heavy metals is examined as a case in point although the problems extend to other hypothalamic axes as well. Our studies emphasize that measurement of one static endocrine parameter to assess the health of any hypothalamus-pituitary axis (e.g., plasma cortisol levels to indicate stress) should not be used as a biomarker for field studies.
3883011|Exuberance over insights gained in the infant field of genetics early this century led scientists to extrapolate beyond their data to heredity of behavioral traits in people. One of the direct consequences was the incarceration of Americans and Canadians of Japanese ancestry during World War II as enemy aliens. Drawing on this personal experience of the misapplication of science, I describe the process of scientific indoctrination and blindness to the limitations of this way of knowing. This led to my attempt to demystify science through the electronic media. Only recently have I come to understand that two assumptions that impelled me to use television in the first place are wrong. The first was that with access to more information about science, the general public would be in a position of making better informed decisions on issues involving science and technology. The problem is that we are overwhelmed with information and most people lack the ability to distinguish meaningful "signal" (i.e., credible information) from background "noise" (i.e., garbage). We believe in phantoms created by the acceptance of anything because it exists as print or television programs. My second assumption had been that we need a mechanism to do an in-depth "cost/benefit" analysis of new technologies before they are actually made available. But history reveals that the benefits of new technologies are immediate and obvious while the costs are usually hidden and completely unpredictable. But in the rush to exploit new scientific insights we ignore the fact that science must look at nature in isolated bits and pieces. Knowledge gained in fragments does not yield an understanding of the greater context from which the pieces are taken. With each new discovery, we itch to apply it, forgetting how much we have yet to learn. Our attempts to manipulate nature are often illusions of control created by our ability to overpower nature by brute strength. In the area of genetic engineering, this could be truly disastrous.
3882925|The teaching of evolution in introductory biology courses is critically discussed and those aspects of molecular evolution believed to be important for inclusion in these courses are briefly reviewed. Consideration is given to the use of biochemical and molecular biological procedures for studies of phylogenetic relationships and genetic variability, "classical molecular evolution and molecular population genetics," as well as the evolutionary basis of molecular biological phenomena, "neoclassical molecular evolution." The major results of classical molecular evolution and molecular population genetics studies are summarized and their implications discussed. Particular consideration is given to the neutralist-selectionist controversy and the processes accounting for differences in rates of organismal and molecular evolution. The scope of neoclassical molecular evolution is outlined and two subjects within this realm considered in some detail: i) experimental studies of the evolution of new genes and functions, and ii) the existence, maintenance and evolutionary roles of parasitic ("selfish") DNA and infectious inheritance.
3884056|The paper discusses how birds by changing their responses to the critical daylength can adjust the time for the initiation of the gonadal growth to more northern latitudes. Some remarks are also given on how changes in an individual's sensitivity towards non-photoperiodic factors, such as, for example the temperature, play an important role in adapting the gonadal growth rate to the flexibility of the local environment. Special attention has been given studies on swans and great tits.
3882787|In Sarcopterygii (Latimeria, Neoceratodus, Protopterus, Lepidosiren) and Amiidae (Amia) collagen fibrils of the basal plate are packed in bundles whereas they remain isolated in Teleostei. The basal plate looks like plywood, a system of superimposed layers of parallel fibers or fibrils the directions of which rotate with a regular angle in two successive layers. The double twisted plywood is constituted of two imbricate systems, the odd and the even, where the rotation of the fibrillar directions is right-handed in Sarcopterygii and left-handed in Amiidae and numerous primitive Teleostei. The orthogonal plywood, with its two main orthogonal fibrillar directions, characterizes the evolved Teleostei and some more primitive ones. In most teleostean species, as in Amia and Protopterus, mineralization of the basal plate in elasmoid scales involves Mandl's corpuscles that mineralize without contact with a pre-existing calcified tissue; they grow and coalesce with the neighbouring ones and fuse to the mineralizing front. Their shape is directly influenced by the local arrangement of the collagenous fibrils. In two teleostean families (Osteoglossidae and Mormyridae) Mandl's corpuscles are completely lacking but spreading of mineralization in the basal plate has a peculiar aspect. Whatever that may be, the various characteristic organizations of the skeletal tissues or isopedine that constitute the basal plate of osteichthyan elasmoid scales, all are varieties of bone tissue that have undergone more or less important specialization linked to the general regression of dermal ossifications and to functional adaptations.
3882668|Cladistic analysis of mayflies suggests that dispersal was very asymmetrical after the new land connection between North and South America. Twenty-one genera apparently moved from South to North and Central America, but there is good evidence for only one North American genus moving into the south. Testable predictions are possible once the boreal (Laurasian) or austral (Gondwanian) designations are made. For example, Paracloeodes, a genus of austral origin, was predicted to be found in South America, and in North America in warm rivers north and east of its known distribution. These predictions have been confirmed. Other characteristics of tropical mayflies, such as length of larval period and emergence and mating patterns, may be used to predict habitats and characteristics of present North American genera. Merger events and consequent dispersal of organisms have profound influences on distributional patterns, and from such information, biologically useful generalities can be made.
3882323|Recent evidence indicates that myomorph rodent species use ultrasonic calls as communication signals. The range over which sound communication signals may travel and the ease with which they may be localized depends on their intensity and structure and the structure is made. It is concluded that rodent calls are mainly within the range 20 - 100 kHz and not longer than 300 msec, except for some rat calls which last up to 3 sec. Intensities may be as high as 103 dB SPL (at 10 cm) in pups and 86 dB SPL (at 5 - 30 cm) in adults. Bandwidths between 1 - 104 kHz are found. High frequency sounds are attenuated with distance more than lower frequency sounds, mainly by atmospheric attenuation, ground attenuation and scattering. These effects are not all linear so it is difficult to predict how far rodent sounds may travel without making measurements under the conditions in which sounds are known to be produced by rodents in the wild. It is shown that there is little attenuation due to scattering from vegetation in a wood inhabited by woodmice. But in grass or wheat where field voles may live, sounds above 20 kHz are rapidly attenuated. Attenuation may be much less in rodent runs and burrows and this is being studied by a new spark technique.
3882480|A captive colony of green sea turtles, Chelonia mydas, has been maintained and observed at a commercial sea turtle farm on Grand Cayman Island, B.W.I., since 1973. Observations of this breeding colony show that the mating and nesting behaviour of the captive green sea turtle is similar to that observed in wild populations. Evidence indicates that mating observed prior to a female's nesting in a given season determines the hatchability of that season's egg production. Annual per female egg production of the captive colony appears to be two to five times greater than that reported for wild colonies. Observations on the reproductive biology of green sea turtles hatched and raised under farm conditions suggests that the minimum age of sexual maturity is eight to nine years of age. The number of eggs per nest, the number of nests per season per female and hatch rate tend to increase with successive seasons nesting for these turtles reaching sexual maturity.
3883088| The animal-vegetal organization of the amphibian egg may originate from the axis of organelles and cytoskeletal elements established in the oocyte as it divides from the oogonium. Along this axis, cytoplasmic materials are localized during oogenesis: yolk platelets, for example, are translocated toward the vegetal pole, increasing their amount and size in that region. In the first cell cycle after fertilization, the egg cortex rotates 30 relative to the cytoplasmic core, modifying animal-vegetal organization. The direction of this rotation, biased by the point of sperm entry, defines the site of development of anatomical structures of the dorsal midline of the embryo. As its immediate effect, rotation activates the cytoplasm of a subregion of the vegetal hemisphere, causing cells cleaved from this subregion to be more effective than other vegetal parts in inducing marginal zone cells to initiate gastrulation movements. The most strongly induced part of the marginal zone begins gastrulation first (the dorsal lip of the blastopore) and proceeds through a series of cell interactions leading to its determination as the anterior dorsal mesoderm of the embryo. If these cell movements are inhibited in the gastrula stage, or if vegetal induction is inhibited in the blastula stage, or if cortical rotation is inhibited in the first cell cycle after fertilization, the embryo always fails to develop dorsal structures of the anterior end of its body axis; the more inhibition, the more posterior is the level of truncation, until a radial ventralized embryo develops, derived from the animal-vegetal organization of the oocyte. 
3883227|Behaviors to conserve water during intertidal exposure at the same time impair respiratory gas exchange, so that observed responses to emersion may reflect compromises between these incompatible needs. Behavioral isolation of the tissues from air results in the complete or partial reliance on anoxic energy metabolism, which is most reliably measured directly as heat dissipation. Combined direct calorimetry and indirect calorimetry (respirometry) enable the partitioning of total metabolic heat dissipation into its aerobic and anoxic components, which may vary according to physical and biological factors. The mussel Mytilus edulis is tolerant of anoxia and saves water and energy during aerial exposure in its rocky intertidal habitat by closing its shell valves and becoming largely anoxic. Like most suspension feeders in this habitat, its compensation for reduced feeding time involves energy conservation; there is little evidence for energy supplementation such as increases in feeding rate or absorption efficiency. Ammonia production continues during aerial exposure and is involved in acid-base balance in the hemolymph and mantle cavity fluid. Infaunal cockles (Cardium edule) and mussels (Geukensia demissa) gape their shell valves, remain largely aerobic and have high rates of heat dissipation during intertidal exposure, a response which appears related to the lower desiccation potential and exploitation of richer trophic resources in their soft-sediment habitats. The variable expansion of the symbiotic sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima reflects interaction among the responses to desiccation, irradiance and continued photosynthesis by its zooxanthellae during exposure to air.
3882700|An attempt is made to argue from discrete measurement of shape, through field representations of form, to analyses that encompass entire patterns. One method for achieving this last is the optical Fourier transformation. Examples of how it works on theoretical patterns are presented. Results of practical studies of actual radiographs of cancellous patterns in vertebral bodies of humans and apes are given. Architectural elements totally unsuspected from normal radiographic examinations are found. And it is shown that these have implications for our understanding of the nature of the relationship between bone architecture and stress bearing. The application more widely of such a method for the analysis of complex patterns is noted.
3882017|Miniature end-plate potentials were used in studying several aspects of the neuromuscular systems in the cockroach femur. The similar sizes and time courses of miniatures associated with fast and slow type excitatory axons suggest that they employ the same transmitter. There is other evidence also indicating that the essential difference between these two excitatory systems is in the number of packets of transmitter released per nerve impulse rather than different transmitter substances. From the shapes of miniatures it was suspected that typical muscle fibers might have a branching structure. This was confirmed by histological examination, intracellular stimulation, and intracellular dye injection. That inhibitory transmission is quantal is indicated by hyperpolarizing miniatures which occur at random time intervals. Inhibitory transmission can be made to fail and recover in a stepwise manner by manipulating the Ca/Mg ratio. In studies of toxins which affect transmitter release at vertebrate motor end-plates, botulinal toxin was found to be without effect at either excitatory or inhibitory junctions in cockroach muscle. However, black widow spider venom acted as it does in vertebrates, promoting massive release of transmitters and then permanent inactivation of the junctions.
3883113|The elongate body form of snakes and the wide diversity of habitats into which they have radiated have affected the form and function of the cardiovascular system. Heart position is strongly correlated with habitat. The heart is located 15-25% of the body length from the head in terrestrial and arboreal species, but 25-45% in totally aquatic species. Semi-aquatic and fossorial species are intermediate. The viperids are exceptional, with generally more posterior hearts but arboreal species have hearts closer to the head. An anterior heart is favored when snakes climb because it reduces the hydrostatic pressure of the blood column above the heart and tends to stabilize cephalic blood pressure. In water, where hydrostatic blood pressure is not a problem, a more centrally located heart is favored because the heart does less work perfusing the body. In terrestrial species, head-heart distance increases linearly with body length and the increased hydrostatic pressure is matched by higher resting arterial blood pressure in longer animals. Unlike mammals and birds, snakes have blood pressures that increase with body mass. The added stress on the ventricle wall in larger snakes is correlated with ventricles that are larger than predicted by other reptiles. Heart mass scales with body mass to the 0.95 power in snakes but only 0.77-0.91 in other reptiles that are not as subject to the hydrostatic effects of gravity. The spongy hearts of reptiles do not conform well to the Principle of Laplace.
3881900|An empirical relation relating specific growth rate in steady-state systems to nutrient status with respect to more than one nutrient simultaneously is proposed. Some ecological implications of the model are discussed, in particular with respect to the concept of luxury consumption and Liebig's law of minimum.
3882147|In Drosophila the female-specific yolk protein, or vitellogenin, is synthesized in the fat body. In D. melanogaster, vitellogenin, is first detected in the female hemolymph at the time of adult eclosion and in the ovaries 20 hours later, suggesting different regulatory mechanisms for the processes of synthesis and uptake. Transplantations of pupal or immature adult ovaries into D. melanogaster adult males induce vitellogenin synthesis, implicating an ovarian agent in the control of synthesis. Larval ovaries fail to stimulate synthesis. Female-sterile mutants with rudimentary or previtellogenic ovaries synthesize and accumulate large quantities of vitellogenin in the hemolymph, but not in the ovaries. Transplantation of these rudimentary ovaries into males induces vitellogenin synthesis, suggesting that the ovarian inducing agent does not originate from the germ cells. Treatment of the homozygous female-sterile mutants with juvenile hormone stimulates the uptake of vitellogenin by the ovary in some strains. This shows that juvenile hormone plays a role in vitellogenin uptake. The potential importance of Drosophila vitellogenesis for studies of gene regulation is discussed.
3882759|The general organization of arthropod epithelia is compared to that of vertebrates. It is suggested that although ciliated epithelia, stratified epithelia and in some cases continuous muscle sheaths do not occur in arthropods, they have certain analogous structures which carry out the same functions. For example, the arthropod cuticle is compared to the squamous layer of vertebrate stratified epithelia, and complex arthropod basement membranes are compared to the muscle and connective tissue sheaths of certain vertebrate epithelia. The cellular organization of transporting epithelial cells is then discussed, with particular reference to elaboration of plasma membranes, and similarities and differences between vertebrates and arthropods, and between insects and crustaceans are pointed out. Specializations peculiar to insect cells are described, including the insertion of mitochondria into apical membrane microvillia, and the presence along this membrane microvillia, and the presence along this membrane of small particles called portasomes believed to be involved in active transport. Finally, it is shown that in the midgut of the insect Manduca sexta, distinct ultrastructural changes accompany loss of potassium transport activity during a larval molt and in the prepupal stage. The ultrastructural changes which occur include a proliferation of the basement membrane and muscle tissue underlying the epithelium, and a change in the morphology of the potassium transporting goblet cells. Possible correlations between ultrastructural changes and loss of transport activity are discussed.
3882349|Recent studies clearly demonstrate the respiratory importance of the hemocyanins in each of the three animal phyla in which they occur. Despite their generally low oxygen affinity, hemocyanins can be highly oxygenated at the site of gas exchange with the medium, as well as deoxygenated at the tissues. The functional range of a hemocyanin oxygen transport system is severely limited, however, by environmental change. These systems function under incipient hypoxia due largely to responses of blood pH which are not fully understood; a normal Bohr shift is accompanied by a rise in blood pH and a reverse Bohr shift by a decrease in blood pH. In both instances blood oxygen affinity increases and its oxygenation state at the gill remains high, in spite of its lower Po
3882339|Electron microscopy up to the present time has made significant contributions toward a better understanding of the phylogeny and systematics of the flowering plants at the higher taxonomic levels in two areas, namely in the study of angiosperm sieve-element plastids and the study of pollen morphology. Sieve-element plastids are of three main kinds: S-plastids or starch-containing plastids, which contain starch grains only; P-plastids or protein-containing plastids, which contain protein inclusions (and may have starch grains as well); and N-plastids or null plastids, which lack both starch grains and protein inclusions. P-plastids in turn may be classified, according to the morphology of their protein inclusions, in a number of different types and subtypes whose taxonomic occurrence has great systematic significance. After classifying and providing a synoptical key to sieve-element plastids as well as summarizing their taxonomic distribution, I discuss my interpretation of their evolution. I conclude among other things that S-plastids are the basic, primitive kind of angiosperm sieve-element plastid from which the various types and subtypes of P-plastids have been derived. With regard to pollen morphology, I note that the main contribution of electron microscopy to angiosperm systematics and phylogeny has been in the study of the nature of the pollen wall itself, and more particularly in the detailed examination of pollen wall sculpturing, structure, and stratification, and that a major use of electron microscopy in the future will undoubtedly be to study fossil angiosperm pollen grains.
3883493|Recent crocodilians live primarily in freshwater habitats. However two species (Crocodylus acutus and C. porosus) are estuarine specialists; two others (C. niloticus and C. johnstoni) that are primarily found in fresh water, have estuarine populations. Routes of uptake of water and sodium include drinking, feeding and associated incidental drinking, and integumental and buccal diffusion. Routes of loss include faeces-cloacal fluid, lingual salt glands, integumental and buccal diffusion, and respiratory loss. The least understood route of salt and water exchange is that of the oral and buccal epithelia, which are much more permeable to water and sodium than the general integument. The freshwater alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) osmoregulates in a manner typical for an amphibious reptile. Body sodium turnover is low and the general integument is quite low in permeability to sodium. Water turnover is more rapid (in terms of molar exchange) but still relatively low for an aquatic reptile. Most water exchange occurs across the integument and buccal epithelia. The presence of lingual salt glands in freshwater crocodilians remains enigmatic, as does the failure of these exocrine glands in estuarine species to respond to saline loading. Secretion does occur after injection of the parasympathetic stimulant methacholine chloride. The "salt water crocodile" (C. porosus) possesses a suite of osmoregulatory adaptations similar to those found in other estuarine reptiles. Water and sodium balance are maintained primarily by an extremely low general permeability to sodium, by economies in water loss, and by excretion of excess sodium by the lingual salt glands. Further work is needed to examine newly hatched C. porosus, and the possibility of ontogenetic change in lingual gland function in C. acutus. The importance of incidental drinking of sea water during feeding (recently discovered in turtles) needs to be evaluated in crocodilians. The use of osmoregulatory data in interpretation of the evolutionary history of the genus Crocodylus needs to be viewed with caution. The hypothesis that all species of Crocodylus originated from the transoceanic migration of a saline-tolerant from may not be the most parsimonious explanation.
3882495|Our studies of sea anemones reveal that asexual reproduction can lead to the amplification of particularly successful genotypes. Populations of Haliplanella luciae studied to date are characterized by exclusively asexual reproduction and typically are dominated by one or a few clones. A field translocation experiment suggests that this population structure may result from differential mortality among colonizing clones, most of which are not preadapted to local conditions. Asexual reproduction by survivors leads to extensive multiplication of one or a few genotypes. Metridium senile reproduces sexually and asexually, and we offer evidence that there is significantly less vegetative proliferation, but larger individual body size, in areas of low tidal current velocity than in areas of moderate to high velocities. This may indicate that small individuals (produced asexually) are at a particular feeding disadvantage in slowly moving water, leading to an emphasis on maintaining individual body size at the expense of asexual reproduction. Individuals heterozygous for a phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI) locus appear to be more successful than homozygotes in maximizing body size, independent of current regime, and in maintaining large clone biomass in low velocity habitat. Members of heterozygote clones are significantly more dispersed, some clonemates being separated by 9 meters or more, and are overrepresented in the low velocity habitat. Selection against (small) homozygotes, active choice of habitat, and passive, differential dispersal of larvae and adult anemones may all contribute to this pattern.
3881703|This article evaluates historically some of the factors other than the new "cell biology" that have influenced embryologists to think in terms of cells rather than supracellular agencies. Evidence of Spemann's emphasis on organizers as supracellular phenomena is presented, but it is pointed out that Spemann raised some cellular questions that were by-passed at the time. Vogt and others who studied morphogenetic movements in the 1920's also considered these as supracellular processes, although Vogt previously (1913) had studied the movements of individual amphibian embryonic cells isolated in vitro. It is pointed out that the number of investigators who studied isolated cells in vitro before the development of tissue culture was considerable, including Remak (1855), Stricker (1864), and His (1899), among others. Holtfreter observed the actions of isolated cells from 1931 on, in part, at first, because the cells isolated themselves from cell groups in vitro. His studies of explants, in the 1930's, 1940's, and 1950's, emphasized that supracellular phenomena must be explained in terms of cell properties, including membrane properties. In addition, the dramatic results of his experiments demonstrating affinity drew attention to cells as organized individuals, just as Spemann's experiments had done earlier to demonstrate the integrative qualities of embryos-as-wholes.
3881696|Penetration of shell by the muricid gastropod, Urosalpinx cinerea follyensis, is accomplished by successive alternating periods of radular rasping and chemical activity by the accessory boring organ (ABO). This paper reports on the histology of the ventral secretory disc of the ABO in relation to the functional state of the organ. The secretory disc is composed of tall columnar epithelial cells which are arranged in groups and only form a continuum over the ABO surface at their distalmost end. The interstitial spaces between the epithelial cell groups contain muscles and capillaries and also form the link between the distally open capillaries and the sinus of the ABO stalk. Abundant nerve fibers are found interstitially as well as in close relationship to the epithelium. The epithelial cells possess cytological features characteristic of secretory cells. The increased differentiation especially of the Golgi complex during periods of active boring indicates that the cells elaborate a product which plays a role in the chemical dissolution of the shell of prey. The cells also appear capable of regulating secretory overproduction and of storing glycogen during inactive periods for subsequent use.
3881727|Patterns of cell differentiation in the general body epidermis of vertebrates vary from class to class and within certain classes. In fish, a multiplicity of non-keratinized differentiated cells are found over the body. Their presence is readily explained on the basis of each arising from a distinctive precursor in the germinal layer. In amphibians and mammals all cells form alpha keratin. In birds and some reptiles, beta keratin is found over some parts of the body and alpha keratin is found elsewhere. These regional differences are probably based on certain specific dermal influences. In the epidermis of squamate reptiles, the fate of cells that have left the germinal layer alternates between synthesis of beta or alpha keratin in a manner unique among the vertebrates. There is evidence to suggest that feedback loops within the epidermis coupled to specific patterns of cell behavior in the germinal layer are important in regulating the remarkable switch in protein synthetic pathways.
3883475|Current conservation research focuses on diminishing species diversity, minimal viable populations, and on the successive demise of habitats and populations that leads species to extinction. In this paper we utilize the monarch butterfly's remarkable migration and overwintering biology as a paradigm of a new conservation theme: endangered phenomenon. An endangered phenomenon is a spectacular aspect of the life history of an animal or plant species involving a large number of individuals that is threatened with impoverishment or demise; the species per se need not be in peril, rather, the phenomenon it exhibits is at stake. We envision the near future with increasing numbers of species reduced in range and so constrained in numbers that they can no longer exhibit these characteristic spectacles.
3883670|Parasitism among aquatic invertebrates is common, if not ubiquitous, and can be pathological to hosts. However, host evolution in response to parasitism has received little attention, particularly for marine invertebrates. Drawing on the rich literature demonstrating prey adaptations to predators, I develop analogous predictions for the ways in which host life histories may be molded by their parasites. Such adaptations are expected when the effects of parasites are severe and when the probability of infection is high. Predicted life history changes include the evolution of semelparity, reduced age at first reproduction and reduced size at first reproduction. Using Recent and fossil populations of two bivalves species in the genus Transennella, I show that the incidence of trematode parasites may explain a trend of reduced size through time and contribute to the maintenance of sexual dimorphism for size.
3882590|Marine invertebrates absorb amino acids directly across their external body surfaces. This absorption process occurs via carrier-mediated transport systems which, recent evidence suggests, may be sodium-dependent. Steady-state amino acid gradients are maintained at levels excedding
3883885|The accurate perception of change requires a period of continuous observation. For species conservation, change has often not been anticipated, so such periods of observation are generally not available. We instead usually have to deal with the imperfect recollections of individual investigators. We argue here that it may be possible to do better than this by making use of old field notes or museum collections. In some cases, these sources can provide accurate descriptions of at least some aspects of past community structure. Our first example is for freshwater streams from Trinidad. One of us (JE) has studied these streams for 19 years and available data include repeated visual censuses of fish communities. These censuses contain at least a qualitative index of change in the fish communities accompanying anthropogenic changes in the habitat. Our second example includes three types of data gleaned from collections made in Costa Rican streams during the 1960s and 1970s, and housed at the University of Costa Rica. We show how these collections can be used to describe species abundance and diversity for entire watersheds, yield detailed descriptions of the composition of the community at individual collecting sites, and reveal much about the life histories and ecology of resident species. All of these descriptions can be used as a frame of reference for evaluating what present communities are like in the same areas, and hence for evaluating how these communities have changed. We argue that similar quantitative descriptions are available for many fish communities throughout the world, and for some other groups of organisms.
3883203| The mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus (L.), an estuarine cyprinodontiform teleost, is used extensively and increasingly as a bioassay organism in toxicological investigations and as an indicator of marine water quality owing, in part, to its wide geographic range, abundance throughout most of that range, and adaptability to laboratory conditions. Available data are summarized for acute toxicities to mummichog adults of 118 contaminants at 22  2 salinity, 19.5  0.5C, pH 7.8  0.2, and dissolved oxygen >4.0 mg/liter. Organochlorine insecticides were the most toxic chemicals tested under these conditions; approximate concentrations of 15 organochlorine pesticide compounds fatal to 50% in 96 hr ranged between 0.0001 mg/liter and 0.1 mg/liter. Comparable data for other groups of chemicals were: 11 organophosphorus insecticides, 0.001 and 100.0 mg/liter; 30 trace metals and metalloids, 0.01 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; 34 synthetic detergents, 1.0 and 1,000.0 mg/liter; 10 chemical oil dispersants, 1.0 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; 13 oil-dispersant mixtures, 100.0 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; 3 household soaps, 100.0 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; and 2 crude oils, 1,000.0 and >10,000.0 mg/liter. Parameters currently used to evaluate sublethal effects of pollutants in mummichogs include bioaccumulation, histopathology, growth and early development, teratology, liver enzymes, blood chemistry, fin regeneration, organ weight, and behavior; these are illustrated with appropriate examples. There is a need for more pertinent variables to assess toxicant-induced stress in mummichogs. 
3882586|Cnidarians posses polytrophic feeding capacities including: 1) endocytosis of particulate food, 2) absorption of dissolved organic material, 3) utilization of assimilates from zooxanthellae. Heteroxenia fuscescens seems to be specialized to fuel metabolism only by epidermal uptake of organic compounds and by material originating from the cytosymbionts. Therefore, these soft corals are appropriate organisms to study the contribution of both substrates to nutrition quantitatively. By the uptake of only 12 amino acids and glucose, experimentally determined, approximately 80% of the energy demand can be covered, the contribution of algal products not included. Autoradiographic studies show that absorption occurs through epidermal membranes and that compounds are transported through the mesogloea in both directions at low rate. Furthermore, adaptations can be shown which intensify absorption of organic compounds and which reduce the loss of energy-rich substances from the coelenteron. For example, material originating from zooxanthellae which would wash out into the sea due to the polyfunctionality of the coelenteron, is partly retained by pharyngial tissue and the epidermis. Thus the loss of useful compounds is reduced.
3882187|A review of RNA synthesis patterns in molluscs points to two conclusions. First, there is no common pattern which could be characteristic of "mosaic" development. Second, among bivalves the pattern of gene expression in early development is the same as in sea urchin embryos. DNA-like RNA predominates during cleavage, including a prominent, short-lived species (about 9S) which enters light polysomes. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) synthesis cannot be detected prior to gastrulation. New gene transcripts appear and are required for development beyond gastrulation. Among gastropods, there is variation regarding the need for embryonic gene expression for gastrulation and subsequent differentiation, and the time of onset of rRNA synthesis. The synthesis of poly(A) + RNA has been demonstrated in snail veligers. The principle limiting factor in rRNA synthesis during cleavage of molluscan and other embryos is probably the length of interphase. The time of activation of rRNA synthesis beyond this stage may be influenced by the magnitude of the rRNA stockpile. The oocytes of two species of clam with similar requirements for rRNA and with equal time available for oogenesis differ in the degree of amplification of the rRNA cistrons, suggesting that they may also differ in the redundancy or rate of transcription of those cistrons.
4620192|New information about molecular mechanisms of development can be combined with existing knowledge about embryology, anatomy and paleontology to allow for an increased understanding of evolutionary biology. The tetrapod limb is appropriate for such an approach since much is known about both its structural variation and development. To this end we are investigating molecular regulatory mechanisms in urodele limb development and regeneration. Urodeles have unique patterns of limb development compared to other tetrapods. In addition they are able to regenerate their limbs as adults, thus providing the opportunity to conduct comparative studies of the molecular mechanisms involved in development and regeneration in an identical genetic background. We have investigated the role of several homeobox-containing genes in the control of growth and pattern formation during limb development and regeneration, and have found that although there can be considerable variation in the ways in which expression of these genes is regulated in time and space, their expression patterns relative to morphological landmarks is conserved. These results suggest that the function of these genes is a deeply conserved feature of all tetrapods, and may be the molecular manifestation of the homology between different limb types. These conserved similarities are overlaid with changes in the time at which genes are expressed and the sequence in which structures differentiate. It is these latter features that are most likely responsible for the wide variety of morphologies observed among tetrapod limbs.
3881692|The marine gastropod, Siphonaria pectinata, has an active part in the complex formation of secondary solution features characteristic of outcroppings of beach rock in south Florida. Analyses were made of the distribution, anatomy, and feeding activity of this snail. The results show that these molluscs are concentrated in areas of maximum algal growth. While grazing they rasp substrata presoftened by algae so that new rock surfaces are continually exposed to biochemical erosion.
4620211|What can the comparative study of gene expression patterns during development contribute to the study of phylogeny? I discuss the basic properties of gene networks that function in development, using information gleaned from developmental model systems. Using examples from the analysis of anteroposterior, dorsoventral and proximodistal axis formation, I outline how the gene networks that pattern these three axes of development are linked in evolution. Finally, I discuss the types of analyses necessary to further our understanding of how gene networks function in regulating the evolution of morphology.
3883121|In embryonic chick neural retina the carbohydrate-binding protein ligatin has been shown to interact with peripheral glycoproteins whose oligosaccharides contain phosphodiester-linked terminal glucose residues. These glycoproteins have been implicated as being important to intercellular adhesion since exogenously added ligatin will bind to intact retinal cells and inhibit their adhesivity. The glycoproteins bearing this modification have been partially characterized by incubating retinal cell homogenates with
3882101|Although many sharks have a rather general vertebrate body plan, they display a number of specializations for feeding that belie the notion that they are "primitive." These specializations include a battery of highly developed exteroceptive systems such as vision, olfaction, acoustico-lateralis sense and electroreception; and a cranial morphology that has been molded into a number of functionally adaptive forms. These forms result in grasping, sucking, crushing, gouging, cutting and filtering systems of feeding. With relatively few exceptions elasmobranch feeding mechanisms share such features as subterminal or inferior mouths, a dynamic tooth replacement system, hyostylic jaw suspension and a kinetic, protractile upper jaw. The importance of each of these components is discussed. The evolution of the high diversity of mechanical feeding systems in such a small group of vertebrates has probably been facilitated by the morphological simplicity of the basic feeding mechanism. This radiation was accomplished by modifications in jaw length, the length and supporting angle of the hyomandibula, the size of the gape, dentition and changes in the relative size of the cranial musculature. The evolutionary pattern of shark feeding mechanisms is complex, there being several examples of both parallelism and convergence. A long-jawed, grasping form (similar to, but not identical with Chlamydoselachus) is here considered primitive. From a subsequent benthic sucking and grasping ancestor, similar in many respects to some living batoids, radiated crushing, ray-like forms; cutting, squaloid forms; and gouging, lamniform and carcharhiniform types. From the latter developed sucking and grasping, or crushing forms such as modern orectolobiforms, triakids and heterodontiform sharks. From several levels (primary crushing, secondary crushing and gouging) there emerged filter-feeding forms represented today by mobulids, rhiniodontids and cetorhinids.
3882628|Two compounds which possess anti-juvenile hormone activity in insects have been isolated and identified from the plant Ageratum houstonianum. These compounds, called precocenes, have been shown to inhibit the development of the insect corpus allatum (CA) and/or destroy the CA in sensitive species. The action of the precocenes can be seen to affect only those CA which are actively synthesizing and secreting the juvenile hormone. Structure-optimization studies of the precocenes reveal that the 3,4-double bond must be present and unsubstituted for biological activity to occur. In vitro studies reveal that the precocenes are very probably converted into reactive epoxides which undergo facile reaction with nucleophiles since histological examination of precocene-inactivated CAs indicate a direct cytotoxic action of the precocenes on the parenchymal cells of the CA. The most likely mode of action would appear to involve the alkylastion of macromolecular cellular elements by a reactive epoxide or similar activated precocene intermediate.
3883824|The isolation and small size of oceanic islands make them attractive models for studies of diversification; the sensitivity of their biota makes them important subjects for studies of extinction. I explore the origin of island biotas through dispersal and in situ diversification, and examine the fate of these biotas since human contact. Island biotas start out depauperate and disharmonic, facilitating the survival of relict taxa and stimulating adaptive radiations. The often highly restricted range and small population size of insular species, together with their limited diversity of defenses, make island biotas particularly vulnerable to extinction, largely through habitat loss or interactions with introduced species.
3883941|Many microchiropteran bats can reduce their metabolic rate three orders of magnitude during heterothermic torpor. This extraordinary range provides a unique insight into the adaptability of mammalian ventilatory control and function. To enable powered flight, bats have developed the highest capacity gas exchange system among mammals. However, starving during winter may account for the greatest mortality among bats that hibernate, thus imposing a strong selective pressure to decrease metabolic cost during torpor. This high capacity gas exchange system must therefore operate efficiently at very reduced rates, despite conflicting mechanical constraints imposed by an enormous functional overhead. The bat surmounts this dilemma by adjusting its control strategy to breathe intermittently during torpor. This allows instantaneous breathing rates and tidal volumes near predicted optimal levels. In addition, a passive oxygen influx coupled with a high acidotic tolerance facilitates longer intervals between the breathing bouts. The acidotic tolerance supports the endurance of these apneas because the passive efflux of carbon dioxide does not match the rate of oxygen influx. The acidotic tolerance further helps by allowing carbon dioxide to enrich the alveolar gas during apnea to levels above that of a nonacidotic, continuous pattern of breathing. Thus, the bat's carbon dioxide load can be cleared in fewer breaths when breathing resumes. By efficiently controlling a high capacity gas exchange system to meet the minuscule demands during torpor, the bat demonstrates how physiological control strategies can adapt to overcome limitations imposed by conflicting selection pressures.
3882809|Nemertines are traditionally viewed as acoelomates with blood vascular systems and a specialized cavity housing an eversible proboscis, or, as coelomates with modified coelomic cavities forming the rhynchocoel, lateral vessels and gonadal sacs. Comparative ultrastructural data such as cell polarity, the occurrence of podocytes and mesodermal cells with rudimentary cilia for proboscis, rhynchocoel, lateral and dorsal vessels, and gonadal linings are consistent with their interpretation as modified coelomic cavities as found, analogously, in the higher leeches. These and additional data regarding musculature, connective tissue, glia-like cells and gametes for 13 species affirm that nemertines are intermediate between full-blown coelomate and acoelomate grades of organization. A comparison of ultrastructural details, however, indicates that their acoelomate attributes evolved secondarily from a more typical coelomate condition.
3882387| A naturally-occurring genetic mutation, designated c for "cardiac lethal" in axolotls, Ambystoma mexicanum, is proving to be a useful model for studying myofibrillogenesis in differentiating heart cells. In this paper I describe morphological, biochemical and immunofluorescence studies which compare the contractile proteins in normal and mutant hearts. In addition, morphological studies on anterior endoderm, an important heart inductor tissue in salamanders, are reviewed. Detailed electron microscopic studies show that normal heart myocytes contain numerous well-organized myofibrils. Although mutant heart cells contain a few myosin and actin filaments, there are no organized myofibrils. Instead, amorphous proteinaceous collections are prominent in the peripheral cytoplasm of the cell where myofibrils would be expected to first form. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis shows that actin is present in almost normal amounts in mutant hearts, myosin heavy chain is reduced and tropomyosin is virtually absent. Immunofluorescence studies reveal that myosin, -actinin and tropomyosin are located prominently in the organized myofibrils of normal heart cells. In mutant hearts myosin is localized almost exclusively in the amorphous collections at the cell peripheries, -actinin also is distributed mainly in the peripheral cell cytoplasm. There is almost no staining for tropomyosin. Heavy meromyosin (HMM) binding experiments demonstrate that the actin in mutant heart cells is contained within the amorphous collections in a non-filamentous state and the addition of HMM causes its polymerization into filaments. In view of these findings, we undertook studies to determine whether there might be a causal relationship between the absence of tropomyosin in mutants and the failure of actin to form into filaments. Our results indeed show that addition of tropomyosin to glycerinated mutant hearts or homogenates of mutant hearts causes the amorphous actin to form into filaments. Thus, this single gene mutation results in mutant heart cells having reduced, but significant, amounts of myosin and actin, even though non-filamentous, and substantial amounts of -actinin. There is almost no tropomyosin. It is implied that the drastic reduction of tropomyosin in mutant cells is somehow related to the failure of normal myofilament formation, which in turn would seem to be an essential step in the normal organization of myofibrils. 
3882967|The cardioexcitatory neuropeptide FMRFamide was first identified from a clam, but has now been demonstrated in several other molluscs. It is probably present throughout the molluscan phylum though co-existing with related peptides in some species. For example, I report here the finding of the peptide phenylalanyl-leucyl-arginyl-phenylalanine amide (FLRFamide) in the mesogastropod Pomacea paludosa where it accounts for 10-20% of the total FMRFamide-like activity. This peptide may be a minor component of the FMRFamide-like activity in other species as well. The pulmonate snails have several, closely-related, heptapeptide analogs of FLRFamide that are unique to them, such as pyroglutamyl-aspartyl-prolyl-phenylalanyl-leucyl-arginyl-phenylalanine amide (pQDPFLRFamide) which was isolated from Helix aspersa. Two additional pulmonate heptapeptides that have been isolated probably differ from pQDPFLRFamide only in their N-terminal amino acid residues. The heptapeptides account for most of the FMRFamide-like activity in the species in which they occur. Though the tetrapeptides FMRFamide and FLRFamide have virtually identical activities on various molluscan tissues, the heptapeptides have activity that is distinct from the tetrapeptides on some pulmonate muscles. I have attempted to explain the evolution of this diversity of peptide structure and function found in the modern pulmonates by postulating a gene duplication in the gastropod line leading to them.
3882682|Certain species of compound ascidians have an ability to distinguish self colonies from non-self colonies within the same species. This ability, called colony specificity, is manifested by the fusibility between colonies. The fusibility among colonies of Japanese Botryllus is genetically controlled by a series of multiple alleles at a single locus. The fusibility is determined by a factor(s) in blood, so that the fusibility can be altered by the exchange of blood. It is suggested that rejection, called "nonfusion" reaction, may occur from the interaction between blood cells and blood humoral factor(s).
3881781|Two groups of 15 larvae were trained to go consistently to one side of a T-maze, using escape from light as a reinforcer for correct performance. Two yoked control groups received non-response contingent reinforcement on trials when individuals in the experimental groups were reinforced. A third control group received non-response contingent reinforcement on every trial, and a fourth control group was left untrained. After metamorphosis, one experimental group was trained to turn in the same direction as in original learning (relearning), while the other experimental group was trained to turn in the opposite direction (reversal learning). All the control groups were also trained as adults. In the experimental groups, relearning occurred significantly faster, and reversal learning occurred significantly slower than learning in any of the control conditions. These findings are interpreted as providing evidence of retention of learning through metamorphosis.
3883568|Marine invertebrate larvae are well known for their distinctive body shapes and elaborate patterns of ciliation. In this study I take a physically based approach to investigate the functional consequences of variations in body shape and patterns of ciliation. With experimental models I demonstrate that shape as well as surface area contributes to drag of larval forms. Based on flow fields around larvae tethered in still water and flowing water I argue that drag, which acts as a partial tether, may influence how water is processed and food is captured by cilia. With mechanical models of cilia I show that placement of cilia on the surfaces can influence the effectiveness with which water is moved and the steepness of the velocity gradient through the ciliary layer. These models indicate that placement of cilia on ridges, at extreme anterior ends, and at extreme posterior ends of larval bodies increases the volume of water moved per ciliary stroke relative to placement of cilia on a flat surface. A comparative survey of 46 larval forms indicates that distributions of body shape and patterns of ciliation reflect functional requirements of swimming and feeding by larvae. The experimental and comparative approaches together suggest functional constraints on the evolution of larval forms which may lead to convergence in patterns of ciliation and conservation of larval forms within taxa.
3881754|Parthenogenesis is discussed according to type (arrhenotoky, thelytoky, deuterotoky, artificial parthenogenesis, gynogenesis) and presence in various acarine taxa. Evidence for parthenogenesis is based on rearing and/or cytological studies. Arrhenotoky occurs in Mesostigmata, Prostigmata and Astigmata and usually does not occur sporadically throughout these taxa; when present it operates in many closely related species as the major type of reproduction in certain genera, subfamilies or families. Thelytoky is present in Mesostigmata, Metastigmata, Prostigmata, Astigmata and Cryptostigmata, but in no case is the major mode of reproduction in higher taxa, i.e. subfamilies, families. Its sporadic occurrence may or may not be accompanied by polyploidy. Deuterotoky occurs in one acarine group (Listrophoridae) and artificial parthenogenesis is possible in ticks (Metastigmata). Gynogenesis is present in several species of haplo-diploid Mesostigmata (some Dermanyssidae, Phytoseiidae), although it is usually considered in connection with thelytoky. Current studies of the effects of ploidy level on morphological variation indicate greater character variability in diploid females than in haploid males. In some species of ticks thelytoky is expressed differentially even on an intraspecific level. One geographic strain of a species may have the ability to reproduce thelytokously, but if mated produces males and females.
3883247|Knowledge of arthropod immune mechanisms has been based to a large extent on studies of non-medically important arthropod-microbial interactions. Investigations involving arthropods and their immune responses against helminth and protozoan parasites they transmit to vertebrate hosts are relatively limited. Data available strongly suggest that effective responses against these parasites are hemocyte mediated reactions, with blood cells involved in parasite recognition and effector mechanisms. It also is apparent that parasites are very successful in evading immune destruction in compatible arthropod-parasite associations by avoiding immune detection and/or by actively inhibiting the immune processes. However, an understanding of immune evasion mechanisms operating on behalf of the parasite is dependent on a more thorough understanding of parasite recognition, signal transduction, and effector mechanisms involved in arthropod immunity. Limited data are available on hemocyte recognition events, and nothing is known about the transduction processes whereby cells convert extracellular signals to intracellular messages that activate effector mechanisms. Any significant progress in these important areas of research will be limited until successful in vitro hemocyte cultures are developed. Convincing data are available from a variety of arthropod-parasite systems that phenol oxidases play a major role in effector mechanisms of the immune response. However, critical biochemical studies are needed to clarify their substrate specificities and the uniqueness of these enzymes. It is essential that we identify specific substrates involved in effector mechanisms, and their potential storage forms, if we are to begin to understand immune processes in arthropods. The sensitivity of HPLC with electrochemical detection provides a valuable tool for these investigations. The next several years should prove exciting in regard to our understanding of molecular/biochemical processes of arthropod immunity.
3882879|Fairly recent anatomical methods have made possible the mapping of neurobehavioral systems involving two types of reproductive hormones, gonadal steroids and the peptide luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH). Brain sites of steroid uptake are detected using autoradiography; LHRH is localized in cells and fibers using immunocytochemical procedures. Both hormone types are known to strongly influence sex behavior and it can reasonably be assumed that these effects are mediated in large part via systems identified using the anatomical procedures. Analysis of the comparative anatomy of these systems should therefore provide information useful in the construction of models concerning the evolution of neurohormonal control of reproductive behavior. The results of such a study are reported. Sex steroid and LHRH systems in cyclostomes, teleosts, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals are considered in detail. A synthesis of this information has led to the following ideas. Androgenic control of male reproductive systems has evolved in a number of nonhomologous motor systems controlling male reproductive behavior. Sex steroid and LHRH systems may interact at several different levels of the neuraxis but the most obvious overlap of the systems occurs in the septal and POA areas. The latter especially is a fairly constant and perhaps primitive feature. LHRH secretion into the systemic circulation was most likely the earliest means for LHRH modulation of both pituitary function and neural systems controlling reproductive behavior. Pathways for more direct delivery of LHRH to pituitary cells and brain nuclei probably developed in the early gnathostomes. The terminal nerve appears to be a rather conservative LHRH-containing pathway connecting olfactory systems with septal-preoptic nuclei. A function in pheromonal control of sex behavior is suggested. The general distribution of steroid concentrating cells and LHRH pathways in tetrapods seems to be rather constant. Absence of the systems in neocortical areas and their homologs is conspicuous.
3883509|We define an organismic biologist as one whose research is focused primarily on a single organism, or group of related organisms, and who investigates virtually the whole of nature as lived by that organism. We contrast an organismic biologist with a problem-oriented biologist, that is one who uses an organism, or a group of organisms, in order to investigate a particular question. In our view, the consummate organismic biologist has an outlook that allows her or him to conduct research on organisms with an open eye, to follow the cues offered by the organism, and to switch and learn new disciplines when the challenge to understanding the particular organism leads the investigator in those directions. We provide examples of the organismic approach of Abraham Trembley working in the eighteenth century and of the senior author working in the twentieth century. Both focused their investigations mostly on the freshwater hydra. While studying hydra, Trembley demonstrated that: (a) complete animals can regenerate from small, cut pieces of those animals; (b) animals can reproduce asexually by budding; (c) tissue sections from two different animals of the same species can be grafted to each other; (d) the materials oozing out of the edges of cut tissue have properties that fit the definition of protoplasm as described by Dujardin one hundred years later; (e) living tissues can be stained, and those stained tissues can be used in experiments; and (f) "eyeless" animals can exhibit a behavioral response to light. Some of the topics investigated in hydra by the senior author and his students are: (a) behavioral responses to the peptide reduced glutathione and to tryosine; (b) mechanism of activation of the receptor to glutathione; (c) migration of nematocytes; (d) algal-animal endosymbiosis; (e) an unusual disulfide-linked collagen of nematocyst capsules; (f) components and action of nematocyst venom; (g) intracellular digestion of radioactive protein; (h) composition of and role in cellular adhesion of the mesoglea; and, (k) a developmental mutant and role of nerve cells in promoting budding. We conclude with a proposal for one way to train future organismic biologists at the graduate and post graduate levels. This proposal grew out of our perception of the need to provide environments that nurture scientists who, by studying organisms, will find and define new experimental systems for the next waves of biological discovery yet to come when the specialists begin to investigate even more intensively the interactions between cells, tissues, organisms, and communities. Specifically, we propose that on the campuses of several major universities having a broad range of graduate programs, there be established year-round Institutes for Organismic Marine Biology focused on the investigation of organisms not previously amenable to systematic experimentation. We believe that if America's biology is to remain vibrant and innovative, organismic biology should be an integral component in any long term planning for research and training in the biological sciences.
3883758|Operative and standard operative temperatures ( T
3881963|While evidence is currently lacking for the agnatha and elasmobranchs, the release of pituitary gonadotropin by the teleost pituitary appears to be under stimulatory control by the hypothalamus. Gonadotropin has to date only been purified from teleost pituitary glands. Bioassay and biochemical data suggest that the teleost pituitary gland elaborates only one gonadotropin; however, there is some conflicting histological data on this point. Salmon gonadotropin has a molecular weight of approximately 29,000 at neutral pH and approximately 13,000 at low pH or after treatment with 8M urea or 1M propionic acid. Radioimmunossays have recently been developed for carp and salmon gonadotropin. Immunological techniques have also been used to identify pituitary gonadotrops. Pharmacological treatment of fish with methallibure has permitted inhibition of gonadal development while treatment with clomiphene citrate has stimulated ovulation. The role of corticosteroids and other steroid hormones in ovulation is still not fully elucidated. It is possible that the control of ovulation may differ between species. Experiments are described which aim to enhance natural stocks of pink salmon by endocrine manipulation of sexual development in the male.
3883448|Parker's theory of the origin of the nervous system is discussed along with later interpretations. Attention today has shifted from the cellular to the molecular level, and it has become clear that many of the molecules and mechanisms thought of as typically neuronal have homologs or counterparts in non-nervous cells and unicellular organisms. This applies to signalling chemicals, receptors, second messenger systems and ion channels, and also to the production of electrical events. Parker's view of sponges as a group lacking nerves but possessing independent effectors is still acceptable, but some sponges (and also higher animals) employ non-nervous signalling pathways to coordinate their effectors. Thus, nerves are not always necessary for coordinated behavior. Cnidarians like hydra have seemingly simple, two-dimensional nervous systems with little or no centralization, but even such systems can be surprisingly complex, and the more advanced cnidarians show neurophysiological specializations as sophisticated as those of many higher invertebrates. Examples of ingenious cnidarian solutions to behavioral problems are given. No existing animals have "elementary" nervous systems if that term implies the existence of crude or inefficient functional adaptations.
3881438|Observations on the behavioral development of a male timber wolf, hand-reared from the age of four weeks, have been continued for a period of three years. Data include the following: (1) Adjustment to human companionship has been successful even after sexual maturity. (2) Behavior towards strange persons and objects is cautious. (3) The animal remains more independent and aloof to persons than similarly reared dogs. (4) Interaction with dogs, including males and young puppies, is marked by gregariousness and lack of aggression. (5) Small domestic species have been attacked occasionally, the response depending largely upon the behavior of these animals. (6) Large species are avoided, chased, or ignored. (7) Numerous motor patterns, postures, and communicative signals are closely similar to siblings and other wolves and contrast with dog companions. (8) Sharp behavioral changes occurred at eight and 12 weeks, the former initiating aggressive tendencies, the latter extreme avoidance in the presence of new objects. Restlessness, then calming, followed in later months, and slight seasonal fluctuations have been noted. (9) Rudiments of many adult motor patterns occurred at an early age, e.g., small prey-pounces and pelvic thrusts seen by eight weeks. (10) Vocalizations include a wide repertoire of howls, squeaks, growls, and barks.
3882582|It is now possible to provide direct evidence for net removal of significant amounts of specific amino acids from naturally occurring dissolved organic material by a marine invertebrate. This demonstration serves to focus attention and invite reconsideration of the large body of less direct evidence supporting the general occurrence of this capacity among soft-bodied marine invertebrates.
3882561|Phagocytosis and related phenomena represent integral features of inflammation in all metazoans. Reviewed herein are the results of studies directed at understanding the role(s) of lysosomal enzymes synthesized and released from circulating hemocytes, especially granulocytes, of gastropods and bivalves as a result of challenge with exogenous, nonself materials. From what is known, most of the mechanisms underlying this inflammation-associated process parallel those of mammalian macrophages; however, immunoglobulins and most probably components of complement are not involved. The required energy for phagocytosis in molluscs appears to be derived from glycolysis alone. Furthermore, nitroblue tetrazolium reduction and the
3881570|The acoustic portions of the mammalian ear display greater morphological diversity in peripheral than in central portions. In many mammals the pinna is of negligible auditory significance. The tympano-ossicular system of all mammals sensitive to air-borne sounds must transform air vibrations to fluid vibrations in the inner ear by matching the acoustical impedances. Within the cochlea the energy of the fluid vibrations is transduced into nerve impulses. In highly specialized mammals the morphology of these transformer and transducer mechanisms is adapted for the reception of extreme frequencies. Echolocating bats and whales possess different, but effective, specializations for the reception of ultrasonic frequencies. Moles and kangaroo rats, on the other hand, have specialized ear structures for the reception of low frequencies.
3884088|Since the discovery of the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, in the Great Lakes in 1988 comparisons have been made with mussel populations in Europe and the former Soviet Union. These comparisons include: Population dynamics, growth and mortality rates, ecological tolerances and requirements, dispersal rates and patterns, and ecological impacts. North American studies, mostly on the zebra mussel and a few on a second introduced species, the quagga mussel, Dreissena bugensis, have revealed some similarities and some differences. To date it appears that North American populations of zebra mussels are similar to European populations in their basic biological characteristics, population growth and mortality rates, and dispersal mechanisms and rates. Relative to European populations differences have been demonstrated for: (1) individual growth rates; (2) life spans; (3) calcium and pH tolerances and requirements; (4) potential distribution limits; and (5) population densities of veligers and adults. In addition, studies on the occurrence of the two dreissenid species in the Great Lakes are showing differences in their modes of life, depth distributions, and growth rates. As both species spread throughout North America, comparisons between species and waterbodies will enhance our ability to more effectively control these troublesome species.
3882426| The postsynaptic actions of neurohumors on molluscan muscle may be exerted through control of force as well as by means of excitation and inhibition. The control of force may appear as potentiation of the response to excitation, as increased inotropism in spontaneous contractions, or as an increase in tonus. We have directed our attention to the alterations of force induced in aplysiid ventricles by applied postulated neurohumors. The results are interpreted in terms of the known effects of neurohumors on resting potential and action potentials of molluscan hearts. We recorded compound membrane potentials of aplysiid ventricles extracellularly, using a single sucrose gap apparatus together with a force-displacement transducer to measure force in contractions or contracture. Aplysia californica ventricle has a membrane potential of -52.5  9.4 mV. Ventricles of Aplysia dactylomela or Aplysia californica are depolarized by increased concentrations of external potassium ion, with an accompanying contracture. After incubation in calcium-free medium, KC1 contracture-force is directly dependent on calcium ion concentration. A depolarization of 8.3  2.14 mV in potassium-free medium is blocked by substitution of lithium for sodium in the medium, suggesting an electrogenic sodium pump. There is a sustained depolarization in low chloride medium, which suggests a significant chloride contribution to the resting potential. Ventricles of Dolabella auricularia or Aplysia dactylomela are depolarized by acetylcholine (ACh). Threshold for depolarization is lower than threshold for contracture-force. The ventricle of A. dactylomela is depolarized by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) with threshold at 10
3882782|The brain of Helisoma duryi contains several neurodendocrine centres. Factor(s) present in the cerebral ganglia are thought to be involved in normal shell growth while neurosecretory substances present in the visceral ganglion are involved in the repair of damaged shell. In Lymnaea stagnalis a growth hormone is produced by the cerebral ganglion which stimulates periostracum formation and the calcification of the inner shell layer. The second effect is thought to occur through the action of a mantle edge calcium binding protein. In Helisoma, mantle collar is able to produce the periostracum in vitro. The presence of brain from a fast growing donor increases the amount of periostracum produced by a mantle collar from a slow growing animal. This effect is further enhanced by the removal of the lateral lobes. The periostracum produced by fast growing animals has a higher glycine content than that produced by slow growing snails. The presence of dorsal epithelial tissue enhances the incorporation of calcium into periostracum formed in vitro. These findings suggest that a single factor is present in the brain of fast growing Helisoma which modulates shell formation rates in vivo and periostracum formation in vitro.
3882718|Evidence in support of and contrary to the hypothesis that rhesus monkeys possess a sexual pheromonal system is presented and discussed. New evidence demonstrates that solicitations of females given estradiol are more attractive to males in part because the females allow males to mount much more frequently only when the females have initiated the sexual interaction. In addition, evidence is presented which demonstrates that an odorous control substance stimulates sexual activity just as well as the purported "active component" of vaginal secretions under restricted conditions of evaluation. Finally, preliminary evidence suggests the possibility that odorous products from the vagina, unrelated to short-chain aliphatic acids, present qualitatively distinct cues to the male during the periovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle. However, only sexually experienced males, and not young adult "virginal" males nor adult isosexually-reared males, selectively attended to midcycle vaginal products when these were placed on environmental surfaces. It is concluded that male rhesus monkeys may utilize odorous cues from the female during sexual interactions, but these cues are neither necessary nor sufficient for the coordination of fertile matings. Furthermore, olfactory communication in this species does not fit the accepted definition of pheromone: the odors are not specific for one species; the behavior elicited is not specific to sexual arousal; and volatile materials other than vaginal products can stimulate sexual activity.
3883040|Extensive parental care is well developed in several genera of New World primates (genera Callicebus, Aotus, Callimico, Callithrix, Cebuella, Leontopithecus, Saguinus) including most of the indirect and direct paternal care behaviors described by Kleiman and Malcolm (1981). Paternal care is correlated with a monogamous (and perhaps polyandrous) mating system and a small group size. Additionally, in genera (e.g., Callithrix) which have a higher reproductive rate and tolerate a larger group size, subadult and juvenile offspring of the breeding pair and perhaps unrelated individuals may contribute substantially to the rearing of infants. Both within and across genera, there is considerable variability in the type, quantity, and distribution of care provided by the mother, father, and other individuals in the family group. The purpose of this presentation is to examine the basis of this variability and to evaluate the degree to which we can make statements about the evolution of paternal care in this primate radiation. There are few field studies of those species of monogamous New World primates which exhibit extensive paternal care. Thus, it is currently impossible to correlate the observed variability in paternal care with ecological factors. Also, the taxonomy of the New World primates is in flux which makes phylogenetic interpretation difficult (Rosenberg, 1981). As a result, the following discussion will be based mainly on results from captive studies, and will be concerned with defining those factors that create variability in observed levels of paternal care, both within and across genera.
3884384|Constraint theory has suffered from its many and varying definitions and from repeated confusion with the action of selection. Constraints are difficult to isolate, more difficult to quantify, and their consequences may be simulated by the action of agents such as stabilizing selection. This paper presents an alternative method of constraint analysis using a simple one-dimensional measurement. A total of 29 skeletal elements from 15 species representing 11 orders of mammals were measured for length and normalized for body mass, after which means, standard deviations, and variances were generated. A coefficient of variation analysis was performed to normalize for mean element length. The axial skeleton was found to be less variable than the appendicular. The appendicular demonstrated a trend where the more distal elements were the most variable, and variation decreased with more proximal positions. The three most variable of the 29 elements were finger V, toe V, and metacarpal V. In summary, the axial skeleton was found to be more conservative in the lengths of its elements, the more distal appendicular elements were less constrained than proximal ones and these constraints were probably the results of genetic, developmental, and mechanical factors. It is also proposed that stabilizing selection played some role in maintaining the curb on length variance in these structures, based on mechanical performance. The results of this study are intended to promote discussion of alternative methods of constraint analysis.
3882405|Sea birds with long incubation periods are identified, together with the features of their incubation physiology which distinguish them from birds in general. Most sea birds with prolonged incubation are members of the order Procellariiformes. The majority of Pelecaniformes and Charadriiformes with long incubation periods are tropical species. The total amount of water lost from the egg during incubation is a similar fraction of the initial egg weight in sea birds with prolonged incubation as in other birds. The oxygen consumption of the newly hatched chick is similarly related to the chick weight, regardless of the duration of incubation. Within the constraints imposed by these similarities, sea birds with prolonged incubation display a number of adaptations. The daily rate of water loss from the egg, the water vapor conductance of the egg shell, and the total functional pore area of the egg are all relatively low in sea birds with prolonged incubation. The eggs of sea birds with long incubation times are large in relation to the size of the adult bird; in the two species that have been studied, the high energy content of the egg is paralleled by the greater total amount of oxygen consumed during incubation. However, the growth of the embryo is relatively slow in at least one sea bird with a long incubation time, so that prolonged incubation probably entails a comparatively high allocation of energy resources to maintenance requirements. In some species with prolonged incubation, the interval between pipping and hatching is also long and it appears to be a period of great physiological importance. Ecologically, prolonged incubation is associated with either pelagic feeding habits or a tropical environment; both factors may be related to food supply.
3883531|Recent research has shown that neuromodulators play important roles in shaping simple behaviors. They act at many different sites within the animal in a coordinated fashion, modulating the motor circuits in the central nervous system, altering motoneuron excitability, and modulating muscle response to motoneuron input. Within the central circuits that co-ordinate simple movements, neuromodulators play a dramatic sculpting role, changing the cells that participate in the circuit, altering their intrinsic properties, and affecting the strength of synaptic interactions that form the "wiring diagram" of the circuit. As a result, they are able to shape a family of related circuits out of a single anatomically identified network, each driving a unique variant on the basic motor theme. Examples of these actions from the Crustacea are described in this paper, focussing on the modulation of posture in the lobster, and on modulation of rhythmic motor programs for stomach movements in the stomatogastric ganglion of lobsters and crabs.
3883198|For the past 20 years, our laboratory has been involved in studying the endocrine control of calcium balance in the killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus. We have surveyed almost all endocrine systems and discovered two main ones directly involved in plasma calcium regulation. They are the pituitary gland and the corpuscles of Stannius. When fish adapted to low-calcium seawater were hypophysectomized, hypocalcemia and tetany were observed. When fish adapted to high-calcium seawater were Stanniectomized, hypercalcemia was seen. In both cases, other electrolytes were unaffected and replacement therapy corrected the plasma calcium changes. We have tried to characterize the active principles in both glands. We discovered that prolactin is hyperacalcemic. The pituitary gland also seems to contain a second hypercalcemic factor which may be located in the PAS-positive pars intermedia cells. For the Stannius corpuscle factors, we developed a bioassay and named the active substance(s) hypocalcin. In collaboration with Dr. Hirofumi Sokabe at Jichi Medical School, Japan, we showed that the Stannius corpuscles also contain a renin-like substance capable of generating a hypocalcemic angiotensin-like substance. The exact chemical nature of the hypocalcemic substance is being investigated. Calcium balance in the whole fish was also studied with 47-calcium. These studies were carried out in collaboration with Dr. Nicole Mayer-Gostan at Villefranche-sur-Mer, France. We discovered that killifish depend on the environment rather than bone as a calcium reservoir. Hormones may be involved in the exchanges with the environment.
3884109|Risk-sensitive foraging may occur whenever feeding success has non-linear effects on fitness. Models of sensitivity to variation in amount of food obtained have concentrated on foraging in order to survive even though feeding during growth, migration, or reproduction can have strong and non-linear effects on fitness. I illustrate how risk-sensitive foraging for reproduction could differ from risk-sensitive foraging for survival using two simple models. Each model assumes that organisms must accumulate some threshold amount of resources before they can reproduce. In the first model, additional resources above the threshold lead to increased reproductive success. Here variance in feeding success can be advantageous even when the mean gain would allow organisms to reproduce. In the second model, early breeding is superior to late breeding because recruitment rate declines over time. Here a symmetrical distribution in foraging rates results in a skewed distribution of breeding times. Despite this, variance in feeding success may be advantageous even when the seasonal decline in recruitment is linear. The advantage of risk is much larger if foragers can switch freely between feeding options. These two models are united by "the bankruptcy effect" because all failures to reproduce carry the same consequences. These simple models suggest that risk-prone foraging may be likely when factors other than survival are important for fitness. Finally, I advocate using a mix of modelling techniques, note the implicitly risk-sensitive nature of stochastic dynamic programming, and speculate on potential connections between risk-sensitive foraging and theories of life histories in variable environments.
3882565|The least understood aspects of the cellular immune reactions of arthropods are the earliest events: the initial recognition of foreignness, and the resulting changes in hemocyte behavior and morphology. There are indications that the recognition of a surface as foreign is based primarily upon its electrostatic charge, but more specific criteria may be utilized in some situations. Phagocytes are capable of recognizing foreignness without the intervention of soluble opsonins but, in some arthropods, there is in vitro evidence that opsonins can increase the efficiency of phagocytosis. It has been hypothesized, on the basis of ultrastructural evidence that encapsulation, a multicellular immune response, is induced when labile hemocytes rupture upon encountering a foreign object. The released products may promote the formation of a sheath of ameboid hemocytes around the object. This hypothesis is now supported by the results of experiments performed on an in vitro encapsulation system. This system may prove useful in the purification of encapsulation-promoting factors; in determining the mechanism of their release from hemocytes; and in investigating the possibility that the various cellular immune reactions of arthropods have a common underlying mechanism.
3881745|Productive research with three amphibian orders has yielded numerous insights into the phylogeny of lymphoid systems, immunoglobulin production and structure, and transplantation alloantigens and the immune responses they elicit. In this review of amphibian transplantation biology, evolutionary significance has been placed on the differential survival rates of first- and second-set grafts in normal and immunosuppressed urodeles, apodans, and anurans. In the absence of a major histo-compatibility complex, apodans and urodeles typically reject skin allografts and xenografts chronically; median survival times range from 30 to 55 days. Many organs (heart, gonads, pituitaries, eyes) transplanted across the weaker histocompatibility barriers in salamanders survive for longer than a year. Two Diemictylus subspecies, however, reject skin grafts (but not heart grafts) somewhat more vigorously in a subacute fashion. Primitive anurans such as Xenopus also reject skin grafts in this fashion. Only representatives of the phylogenetically advanced Ranidae respond to skin and other organ allografts in an acute fashion comparable to the mammalian response elicited by strong histocompatibility antigens.
3883700|Recent years have seen an upsurge of interest in the study of ultraviolet vision in vertebrates. The presence of retinal photopigments that allow for ultraviolet vision appear to be relatively common among birds and fishes, and there is evidence that such pigments are to be found in some species from each of the following classes: amphibians, reptiles, and mammals. Following a review of the distribution and nature of ultraviolet vision in vertebrates the issue of the utility of this capacity is discussed.
3882669|There are some 36 families that are wholly freshwater or with representative species in freshwater. There are virtually no phylogenetic analyses for these families. Zoogeographic analyses of freshwater molluscan faunas are hindered by a lack of significant systematic studies of these faunas. Such studies are essential if one hopes to develop hypotheses about phylogeny or biogeography. It is clear from a phylogenetic analysis of the Pomatiopsidae that phylogenetic, vicariance, dispersal, and ecological factors all have significant effects on the patterns of distribution of this family. At one stage in history vicariance may be a dominant factor while during another stage of history, dispersal may be a dominant factor. At every stage, ecological considerations are necessary to understand the phenotypes seen and the spatial relationships among taxa. In examining the distribution patterns of dominant freshwater families with regard to their biological, ecological, and overall phylogenetic relationships it is evident that ecology plays a major role along with dispersal and vicariance. Clearly a synthesis is needed in biogeographical studies that incorporates vicariance dispersal, ecology, and geology-paleontology.
4620146|Pulmonary surfactant is a mixture of phospholipids (including disaturated phospholipids), cholesterol and proteins lining the air-liquid interface within the lung. Surfactant acts to reduce surface tension, thereby increasing lung compliance and also preventing edema. The saccular lungs, or other gas-holding structures, of nonmammals have 7-70% more
3882698|Computer simulation is a valuable tool to help solve some problems of morphogenesis. An embryo is shaped by the behavior of its cells, but in an embryo it is often impossible to sort out which cell behaviors are active in morphogenesis because attempts to isolate one cell behavior may affect others. Computer simulation of a model of morphogenesis provides independent evidence that putative driving forces can produce a change of form. The development of a computer simulated model requires that assumptions and steps in reasoning be stated explicitly. This process brings added rigor to analysis of the biological system, improved observations of the embryo itself, and suggestions for new experiments. An interplay develops between the two systems, the actual and the simulated, in which hypotheses and experimental results from each system can be used to modify the perceptions of the other. A successful simulation can be used to simulate experiments that may not be possible on the embryo. Specific examples of how computer modeling helped analyze the shaping of the newt neural plate are discussed, as well as the prospects of extending the models to analysis of neural tube formation.
3884163|The general process of neuromodulation in the skeletal muscles of various insects is accomplished via several different structural forms. In addition to motor axons, which may contain a modulatory substance as a co-transmitter, a second class of axons is found in close association with insect skeletal muscles. These axons typically contain dense cored vesicles. Some come directly into contact with the sarcolemma, but do not form a typical neuromuscular junction. Others have finely distributed branches within the muscle but only directly contact glial cells of the motor nerve branches. Immunocytochemistry has shown that these nerve types contain one or more of several potential transmitters: glutamate, octopamine, serotonin, leucokinin, proctolin, or insulin. While some of these substances are known to modulate muscle fiber contractile abilities directly, or to affect the mechanisms of neuromuscular transmission, others can be hypothesized to be involved in development, respiration, and other undiscovered functions.
3883349|This essay is in two parts. The first describes functional studies of the shoulder in modern vertebrates that led to the formulation of the hypotheses that motor patterns of homologous muscles have been maintained during the evolution of the tetrapod shoulder, and that a primitive organization of the neural control components has persisted in derived groups. The second part of this essay focuses upon a longstanding question in vertebrate evolution: what neuromuscular and musculoskeletal changes in the tetrapod shoulder accompanied the evolution of flight in birds? The lack of empirical data on shoulder function in extant birds limited our insight into this question, and prompted our initiation of experimental studies. Preliminary kinematics of the furcula and humerus of European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) flying in a wind tunnel, as revealed by high speed cineradiography, are presented. The two halves of the furcula, which contact the coracoids dorsally, are bent laterally during downstroke and medially during upstroke by as much as 60% of the intrafurcular resting distance. High speed film and electromyographic studies of free-flying pigeons (Columba livia) reveal that the supracoracoideus muscle is strongly activated during wing elevation and, as predicted from studies of Varanus and Didelphis, an additional activation burst occurs at mid-downstroke in 48% of the recordings.
3881518|Parathyroid glands of amphibians develop from the pharyngeal pouches and are located adjacent to the external jugular vein and hypoglossal nerve. They are composed of whorls of compact epithelial cells covered by a vascular capsule of connective tissue. Possibly two cell types are present: (a) peripheral clear cells, which are implicated in elaboration of hormone and contain secretory granules, and (b) dense reserve cells. During winter, the parathyroids undergo degeneration, characterized by morphological details which vary with the species; this is followed by regeneration in the spring. Parathyroidectomy may cause hyperexcitability, but rarely does tetanic death occur. Parathyroidectomized amphibians, like mammals, become hypocalcemic and hyperphosphatemic. In contrast to higher vertebrates, however, parathyroprivic anurans show an elevated urine phosphorus, which is presently interpreted as a reflection of the increased plasma load due to absence of a hormonally-induced, soft-tissue accumulation of phosphate. Further, parathyroidectomized frogs are hypercalciuric, possibly because of the lack of hormone-mediated mesonephric reabsorption. In both mammals and amphibians, treatment with exogenous parathormone induces hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, and hypophosphatemia. The absence of change in the urine phosphorus content of hormone-treated frogs, associated with its decline in plasma, may be a consequence of metabolic variations based upon the heterothermic nature of the Amphibia.
3884484|Phenotypes manifest a balance between the inherited tendency to remain the same (phenotypic stability) and the tendency to change in response to current environmental conditions (adaptation). This paper explores the role of functional integration and functional trade-offs in generating phenotypic stability by limiting the responses of individual characters to environmental selection. Evolutionarily stable configurations (ESCs) are systems of functionally interacting characters within which characters are "judged" by their contribution to system-level functionality. This "internal" component of selection differs from traditional "external" selection in that it travels with the organism wherever it goes and is maintained across a wide range of environments. External selection, in contrast, is by definition environment-dependent. The temporal and geographic constancy of internal selection therefore acts to maintain phenotypic stability even as environments change. Functional trade-offs occur when one character participates in more than one function, but can only be optimized for one. Participation of certain ("keystone") characters in a trade-off potentially causes stabilization of an entire system owing to a cascade of functional dependencies on that character. Phylogenetic character analysis is an essential part of elucidating these processes, but patterns cannot be used as prima facie evidence of particular processes.
3882579|This paper reviews song recognition in two congeneric species of sparrow-the swamp sparrow (Melospiza georgiana) and song sparrow (Melospiza melodia). Data from psychophysical studies of hearing, tutoring experiments with young birds, and field playback studies with adult birds are considered together in order to gain insight into the mechanisms of species recognition through song development. In aggregate, the evidence suggests a multi-stage process of song development consisting of an early perceptual preference for learning conspecific song, a sensorimotor phase of song development during which vocal output matches an auditory memory as if through trial and error, and a final phase of full song which functions in territorial defense and mate attraction.
3881803|Compensatory changes in the level of activity of intertidal organisms may occur in response to the thermal conditions which prevail in the habitat. These involve an increase in the activity of those animals subjected to low temperatures and a corresponding suppression of activity in those animals subjected to high temperatures so that organisms with a wide geographical range, or living over a range of shore levels, have comparable rates of activity. However, the rate of activity varies markedly with short-term fluctuations in temperature, as does the rate of respiration of active animals. Recent evidence suggests that the rate of respiration of quiescent animals is relatively independent of temperature over the normal environmental range, and thus the metabolism is well-suited to an environment where rapid fluctuations in temperature occur. Further, the extent of the thermal range over which metabolism is relatively independent of temperature is modifiable according to season and storage-temperature. Similar changes occur in the respiration of cell-free homogenates of certain intertidal organisms. Acclimation in such organisms involves not only a modification in the level of the active and standard rates of metabolism but also an alteration in the form of the rate/temperature curve such that the range of temperature-independent metabolism is appropriate to the thermal conditions prevailing in the habitat.
3882761|The epithelial cells involved in the movement of ions and water form a major subset of all epithelial cell types. Both the form and the functions of cell junctions present in these cells are essentially the same as those found elsewhere. Gap junctions are believed to regulate intercellular communication; desmosomes and hemidesmosomes provide mechanical anchorage to other cells and the extracellular matrix; septate junctions play roles in providing cell to cell anchorage, and perhaps in sealing the lateral surfaces of adjacent cells together to prevent paracellular fluid and solute movement; tight junctions (of limited distribution in insects) are seals between adjacent cells. They form a barrier to the paracellular movement of solutes and water. Examination of the junctions in salivary glands and midgut provide insight into the roles of these junctions in the development and function of ion transport systems. In Manduca sexta (Johannsen) the cells of the salivary gland are joined by pleated septate and gap junctions. Individual salivary cells have numerous folds and canaliculi. The walls of the canaliculi consist of extensively folded plasma membrane in intimate association with mitochondria. Gap junctions connect adjacent parts of the same cell across membrane folds, effectively shortening diffusion distances in the cells. Hemidesmosomes are present in the walls of developing canaliculi. They are attached to pore filaments that occupy the lumen of the developing canaliculi. The hemidesmosomes and pore filaments may have a morphogenetic role as they disappear after the canaliculi are formed. In Manduca sexta the midgut cells are joined by gap and septate junctions. These junctions differ in morphology from their counterparts in the salivary gland; physiological studies show the goblet cells are not coupled to neighboring tall columnar cells. We have shown the gap junctions joining them are typical of non-coupling junctions. Preliminary studies suggest that the gap junctions change form when the cells are coupled.
3881483|This paper reviews the results of research on the agonistic behavior of wild and tame strains of house mice (Mus musculus) and the Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus) and covers papers that have appeared since an earlier review (Scott and Fredericson, 1951). Various methods for observing, measuring, and eliciting fighting are described and their appropriate uses discussed. Measures of latency and frequency are more satisfactory than arbitrary rating scales. Situations involving competition over food present complex motivational problems. The basic agonistic behavior patterns (ethograms) of rats and mice are compared. Differences appear in the lack of playful fighting and weaning threats in mice, the dual "boxing" posture of rats, and the unique "tail rattling" in mice. Both species are alike in their inability to form complex dominance hierarchies in which fighting is reduced to threat and avoidance. As a general theory, each species has evolved behavior patterns and physiological mechanisms of behavior which are adaptively related to its own social organization and population dynamics. Mice and rats have evolved along different lines both from each other and other species of mammals.
3883741|The central question of macroevolution concerns the evolution of major morphological innovations (and major taxonomic groups). It is a matter of scale rather than simply rate of evolution or hierarchical level of mechanism. Through the history of microevolutionary theory there is a constant counterpoint of macroevolutionary questioning: are current versions of microevolution sufficient to explain the data concerning origins of major novelties? Thus, Simpson proposed the term "megaevolution" and "quantum evolution." Mayr partially separated micro- and gradual aspects by proposing "genetic revolution" as a mechanism for rapid change. Evolutionary theory in general suffers because different concepts have incompatible frames of reference. Key innovation and correlated progression are concepts that approach the problem in terms of evolutionary morphology. They have in common with quantum evolution and genetic revolution features such as threshold effect, preadaptation and smooth transition due to change in function and environment. One aspect of paleontology and morphology, however, is to show that some morphologies can only exist in binary states, with no intermediates. This leads us to look away from selection on graded series of phenotypes to development (developmental cascade/threshold models) for new levels of explanation.
3884162|Comparison of morphological and physiological phenotypes of representative crustacean motor neurons, and selected motor neurons of Drosophila larval abdominal muscles, shows several features in common. Crustacean motor nerve terminals, and those of Drosophila, possess numerous small synapses with well-defined active zones. In crustaceans, neurons that are more tonically active have markedly varicose terminals; synapses and mitochondria are selectively localized in the varicosities. Phasic motor axons have filiform terminals, sometimes with small varicosities; mitochondrial content is less than for tonic axons, and synapses are distributed along the terminals. Tonic axons generate small excitatory potentials which facilitate strongly at higher frequencies, and which are resistant to depression. The phasic neurons generate large excitatory potentials which exhibit relatively little frequency facilitation, and depress rapidly. In Drosophila, counterparts of crustacean phasic and tonic motor neurons have been found, but the differentiation is less pronounced. It is inferred that cellular factors regulating the number of participating synapses and the probability of quantal release are similar in crustaceans and Drosophila, and that advantage can be taken of this in future to develop experiments addressing the regulation of synaptic plasticity.
4620132|Except in ducks and geese (Anseriforms), aggressive or forced copulation in birds is rare. The rarity of forced copulation in birds theoretically is due to morphological and physiological mechanisms of female resistance that place fertilization most often under female control. Traits theoretically associated with resistance by females include: digestive epithelium lining the section of the cloaca receiving sperm and powerful cloacal musculature used to eject contents, including waste material and sperm. These traits suggest that the Immediate Fertilization Enhancement Hypothesis may be an inadequate ultimate explanation for forced copulation when it occurs. Ideas in Heinroth (1911) and Brownmiller (1975) suggested an alternative, the CODE Hypothesis, which says that aggressive copulation creates a dangerous environment for females. This, in turn, fosters male mating advantage via social monogamy, because selection sometimes favors females who trade sexual and social access for protection from male aggression. Thus, theoretically, "trades" of protection for copulation favor the evolution of social monogamy even in species with little or no paternal care. Individual males may accrue selective advantages through direct benefits, kin-selected benefits, or reciprocal altruism. The CODE hypothesis for social monogamy predicts variation in extrapair paternity from preferred mates, variation in male reproductive success, and variation among females' post-insemination resistance mechanisms as functions of variation among females' vulnerabilities (ecological and intrinsic) to aggressive copulation. Observers will base intraspecific tests on variation among females in their vulnerabilities to male aggression against them.
3882786|The organic matrix is thought to play an important role in controlling crystal growth during the formation of skeletal hard parts. The structural organization of the matrix macromolecular constituents can provide a key to understanding the nature of the control processes. Although the data are limited, both vertebrate and invertebrate organic matrices appear to be organized according to the same "basic motif," namely a core of relatively hydrophobic structural macromolecules (usually proteins) and surface layers of acidic proteins and polysaccharides. Analyses of the latter from different invertebrate phyla using reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography, reveal that the same two classes of macromolecules are present in each of the three cases studied, emphasizing the fundamental importance of these components in crystal growth. Substantial information, at the molecular level, on the conformations and orientations of matrix constituents in relation to the mineral crystal lattice, is available only for mollusk shells, and to some extent on vertebrate tooth enamel. In these cases the major matrix constituents are aligned with one or more mineral crystallographic axes. These observations suggest that the matrix performs active, specific roles in crystal growth. Although it is still premature to assess the importance of various basic crystal growth mechanisms, the data available do not preclude the possibility that epitaxial crystal growth is an important factor.
3882899|Previous studies indicate a tight correlation of predatory modes, morphology, and activity physiology in snakes. Active foragers like the coachwhip (Masticophis flagellum) exhibit great stamina and high rates of aerobiosis and anaerobiosis during intense exercise. The western rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis), a sit-and-wait predator, is capable of bouts of intense activity for limited periods of time before exhaustion. During maximal activity the rattlesnake has moderate powers of anaerobiosis and limited powers of aerobiosis. Superior blood buffering capacity in the coachwhip seems at least partially responsible for its stamina. New evidence presented here indicates that low endurance in the rattlesnake may be associated with exercise-related bone dissolution, resulting in hypercalcemia. Such hypercalcemia may function to further debilitate the already poorly developed blood buffering capacity of the rattlesnake.
3883846|The purpose of this paper is to describe our studies focused on the mechanisms by which hypothalamic neurons process multiple signals and produce an integrated response. We illustrate our research strategy by reviewing our work on two separate neural systems: the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). We have focused on different peptidergic subpopulations within these nuclei to address two issues. In the PVN, we concentrate on the population of neurons containing thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). These neurons are inhibited by thyroid hormones, but activated by cold exposure. Using a molecular approach, we have demonstrated that these conflicting signals simultaneously act on the same population of TRH neurons. This system will continue to be a productive model to study the mechanisms by which neurons process multiple signals. In the SCN, we concentrate on the population of neurons containing vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI) and gastrin releasing peptide (GRP). We have demonstrated that injection of all three peptides into the SCN of hamsters mimics the phase-delaying effects of light on circadian wheel running behavior. In addition, the genes encoding these peptides exhibit different 24-hour profiles of changes in neurons of the SCN. These data support the hypothesis that one mechanism by which these neurons produce an integrated response is by changing the concentration ratio of co-released peptides.
4620149|A diet that has high levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids enhances mammalian torpor. Polyunsaturated fatty acids are not synthesized by mammals, but are incorporated into both membrane and storage lipids when they occur in the diet. Polyunsaturated fatty acids also undergo autoxidation more readily than other fatty acids, thereby producing highly toxic lipid peroxides. Lipid peroxidation increases during torpor. Natural selec in mammalian hibernators should thus have favored the evolution of dietary preferences that maximize hibernation ability while simultaneously minimizing the degree of lipid peroxidation during torpor. This hypothesis was tested in laboratory experiments and field studies involving golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis). We found that the intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids is restricted during the fall and autoxidation in tissues occurs mostly during the later phases of hibernation.
3884518|In the mammalian kidney renal medullary cells use organic osmolytes such as sorbitol, myo-inositol, glycerophosphorylcholine, betaine, and taurine to adjust their intracellular osmolarity (and thereby their volume) to rapid and drastic changes in extracellular osmolarity. Using an immortalized cell line derived from rabbit thick ascending limb of Henle's loop (TALH cells) and primary cultures of rat inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD cells) the membrane transport systems activated during exposure to hypotonicity were investigated. In TALH cells an increase in sorbitol permeability of the (luminal) plasma membrane occurs by activation of a channel-like transporter involving a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. A similar system seems to operate in IMCD cells. In addition, the latter cells possess a swelling-activated anion channel that is also permeable for taurine and myo-inositol and inhibited by "anion channel" blockers, such as NPPB and DIDS. The sorbitol permeability of the plasma membrane appears to be furthermore regulated by a transient insertion of active transporters into the basolateral cell surface by a membrane recycling mechanism.
3883507|The functional boundaries of organisms may not be exclusive or discrete. The genomes of organisms include not only stable genes which replicate faithfully at each division but also transposable elements (jumping genes) and viruses which allow both dynamic variability within a genome and interspecific genetic interactions. All organisms (with the exception of specially maintained laboratory organisms) are in association with other organisms. In close heterospecific associations (symbioses) there are selective advantages for mechanisms which enable organisms to coordinate their activities. In very close, efficient symbioses, mechanisms to share the genetic control of essential, mutually used structures, may have evolved via the activities of movable genetic elements (e.g., transposable elements). Interactions across species boundaries will include examples on the genetic level, cellular level, and organismal level.
3881429|Observations of wolves on Isle Royale are reported for 1961-66, with interpretations including the earlier 3-year period described by Mech (1966). On this 210-square-mile island the fully protected wolf population varied from approximately 22 to 28 in midwinter. The major and minor foods were moose and beaver, respectively. The main pack varied in number between 11 and 22 with about three breeding pairs believed present. The population remained relatively stable; mating occurred every winter; and adult mortality appeared to be low. High mortality among pups seemed to be the point of population control. Socio-economic factors may have controlled the size of the large pack. Availability of food during the period of parturition and rearing probably was critical to survival of young. Recruitment of young appeared to take place in years of high production of moose calves. Numbers in the large pack probably were curtailed through the progressive exclusion of aged and socially subordinate individuals. Under harassment these animals separated and became pack-following scavengers, then probably true loners ranging outside the area used by the pack. Smaller aggregations of two or three non-breeders were seen each winter, as were the loners, some of which appeared thin and weak. The only known breeding outside the big pack was in a group of five present in the winter of 1965. This group was probably a family unit which separated from the main pack. A year later the male had disappeared, and remains of a pup, probably theirs, were found. In the winter of 1966 the alpha male of the large pack became lame and apparently was killed. This background appears favorable for further changes in social organization.
3883114|Anatomical evidence for the existence of a depressor nerve in reptiles was first reported 100 years ago. Electrical stimulation of the central end of the cut nerve, however, did not produce an unequivocal fall in heart rate and blood pressure, so it was thought not to function as a depressor nerve. This remained the state of knowledge for fifty years when Marco Fedele performed a superb anatomical and physiological study of the depressor nerves of turtles and lizards. He demonstrated that there were two depressor nerves from each vagus; the superior nerve originated from the jugular ganglion or superior laryngeal nerve in turtles and from the superior laryngeal nerve or vagus in lizards; the inferior nerve originated from the nodose ganglion or slightly caudad of this ganglion. The nerves were shown to terminate in the proximal truncus arteriosus. Unlike the earlier workers, Fedele obtained a clear depressor effect on stimulating the depressor nerves. In more recent times baroreflexes have been demonstrated in response to hemorrhage and body tilting in reptiles, with snakes receiving particular attention. The evidence indicates that aquatic snakes are less effective at maintaining blood pressure than terrestrial and arboreal forms. The sensitivity (gain) of the baroreceptor-heart rate reflex, when it is expressed as a percentage change in heart rate per unit pressure change, is approximately the same in reptiles, amphibians, and mammals. In addition, the ultrastructural appearance of the baroreceptors of lizards is similar to that of mammals. A quantitative assessment of the ability of reptiles to correct disturbances in blood pressure has not yet been made, but techniques for obtaining this information are now available.
3881410| Lipid is the predominant organic reserve of many crustaceans and is important in the metabolism of many of these animals. Ingested lipid is digested by gastric lipase and apparently absorbed into depot-lipid as -monoglycerides. The variation in the content and composition of the depot-lipid is a function of both the external environment and internal control systems. Evidence suggests that lipids from marine organisms contain more long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids than does the lipid of fresh water organisms which in turn have a high proportion of C
3882469|The American Society of Zoologists takes its origins from several preceding organizations, especially the American Society of Naturalists and the American Morphological Society. Leaders of these parent groups were prominent among the founders of the American Society of Zoologists. The development of our present Society from its predecessors, and the roles played by our early leaders are briefly described in this paper.
3881708|The salamander limb regenerate develops from a mesenchymatous bud of cells called the blastema. This review briefly considers the local origin and major features of blastemal cells and then discusses their role in the histogenesis of the regenerate. The capacity of blastemal cells to form the various cell types of the regenerate is first considered in general terms, with the discussion focusing on three major alternatives: blastemal cells form (a) cartilage only, (b) connective tissues only, or (c) essentially all internal tissues of the regenerate. The differentiative properties of blastemal cells originating from known cell types are then considered in detail. Cartilage is of particular interest in this regard, because it has been utilized as a pure cell type. Results from the study of mixed tissues, including muscle and connective tissue of the fin, are also presented. Information gained from the study of known cell types participating in regeneration is discussed in terms of the mechanisms responsible for the stability of cellular differentiation and in terms of the flow of cells from stump tissues into the regenerate.
3882177|The echiuroid marine worm Urechis caupo is uniquely suited for the study of oogenesis. A relatively large quantity of oocytes at various developmental stages can be obtained and subjected to coordinated cytochemical and biochemical analysis. Oocytes at the cluster, early diplotene, mid-diplotene, and diffuse diplotene or lampbrush stages are active in the synthesis and accumulation of ribosomal RNA, several proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and also, perhaps, yolk constituents. Only cortical granule formation, which occurs during later stages of oogenesis, appears to be stage specific. Ribosomal RNA genes are also transcribed in the nucleolus of the mature oocytes or unfertilized eggs. However, the rate of production in these eggs appears to be regulated at the level of maturation of rRNA precursor molecules.
3882283|To determine at what time in development the genetic capacity to make an antibody of a given specificity is present, we have looked for antigen binding cells (ABC) to a panel of five randomly selected and independently bound antigens during fetal life in the mouse, rabbit, chicken, and sheep. ABC are present for each of the five antigens in approximately equal frequencies at the very beginning of immune development, preceding the appearance of theta antigen and the ability to make a humoral antibody response. ABC in the thymus decline from an initially high level (1%) to adult levels during fetal life. The ABC are all positive for surface immunoglobulin, and antigen binding can be inhibited with rabbit anti-mouse mu chain serum. We conclude that most receptor specificities can be made without a need for somatic diversification.
3881543| The annual cycle of the White-throated Sparrow, Zonotrichia albicollis, is reviewed with brief references to facets of nutritional and energetic importance (1) illustrating the life of a small bird in a varying environment, and (2) showing that certain annual events in field populations can be compared with similar manifestations in caged individuals. Data from captives are employed in discussions of energetic variations related to (1) food, the source of nutritive input, (2) fat, the major form of caloric storage in birds, and (3) caloric expenditure. Metabolizable energy is partitioned by phase of the annual cycle into existence energy, including the costs of thermoregulation, and productive energy, including expenditures for nocturnal activity (Zugunruhe) and molt. Costs of vernal migration in field birds are compared with costs of nocturnal activity in captives to show that energetic estimates in each situation are compatible. This conclusion is supported by a metabolic estimate made for field birds that is within 6% of the estimated metabolism of captives under similar conditions. Data and statistics from seven additional species of buntings are used to examine several bioenergetic principles for homoiotherms. (1) Minimal metabolism measured by energy balance methods is proportional to the 0.7 power of body weight but is higher than standard or resting metabolism measured by gaseous methods. (2) Metabolized energy is inversely related to ambient temperature below 25C, the estimated ad libitum critical temperature. (3) Heat production and loss are proportionately higher in summer-acclimatized birds below the ad libitum critical temperature due to reduced insulation. Two summary plots, relating temperature, metabolizable energy, and body weight are given. Directions for future research in the study of avian nutrition are suggested. 
3881529|"Primary production" refers to energy fixed by plants. The total amount of energy fixed is usually called "gross production." A certain fraction of gross production is used in respiration by the plants; the remainder appears as new biomass or "net primary production." Thus for a single plant or a community of green plants: Net Primary Production = Gross Production - Respiration (of Autotrophs) Similar relationships occur in ecosystems except that the organic matter and respiration of heterotrophs must be included. The increase in total organic matter is "net ecosystem production"; respiration is the total respiration of the green plants (autotrophs) and the animal community and decay organisms (heterotrophs). Gross production is of course identical to that of the plant community. Thus for an ecosystem: Net Ecosystem Production = Gross Production - Respiration (of Autotrophs and Heterotrophs) Study of these attributes of terrestrial ecosystems is difficult, both because of the complex interrelations of the processes involved, and because of the problems of working with systems as large as whole forests. Three approaches are in use: (1) Harvest techniques measure weight increase (and caloric equivalent and chemical composition) of net production. A refinement of this approach based on "dimension analysis" has made possible important recent advances in the study of forests. Other techniques approach gross production and respiration through measurement of exchange of gases, especially CO
3883841|Songbirds show dramatic seasonal changes in their propensity to exhibit an endocrine response to environmental stimuli that regulate the timing of reproduction. There is a clear cycle in their ability to respond to changes in photoperiod but less is known about seasonal variation in their sensitivity to supplementary factors that augment the photo-induction of gonadal growth and fine tune the final onset of breeding. Such factors include behavioral interactions with a mate and the availability of a nest site. In birds, seasonal variations in the neural processing of photoperiod are mediated by substantial modifications in the availability of hypothalamic Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone (GnRH). There is also evidence that the activity of certain monoamines, such as norepinephrine and serotonin, changes in discrete parts of the hypothalamus as a function of the bird's photoperiodic condition. However, it is not known whether the response to supplementary factors involves similar changes. In this paper, I review what is known about how the avian central nervous system might integrate initial predictive information, such as photoperiod, and supplementary cues such as behavioral interactions. Photoperiodic information is perceived by an encephalic photoreceptor while supplementary stimuli are perceived by the visual and auditory systems. Both types of information seem to converge on the GnRH system of neurons in the preoptic area and the septum that regulate pituitary function. This suggests that future studies should concentrate on the connectivity of these GnRH positive cells to other parts of the central nervous system and on the regulation of GnRH activity in these cells by endogenous and exogenous factors.
3883456|The prolonged periods of continuous darkness and light in polar regions have resulted in a unique seasonal partitioning of primary and heterotrophic production. In McMurdo Sound for example, the biomass, size distribution and production by phytoplankton and bacterioplankton undergo distinct seasonal cycles. The seasonal pattern of primary production appeared to be regulated by light whereas the three order of magnitude change in phytoplankton biomass during mid- to late December was largely controlled by the advection of planktonic algae from the Ross Sea into McMurdo Sound. The size distribution of phytoplankton was highly seasonal; nano- and picoplankton were dominant from August through November while netplankton were more abundant in December and January. Seasonal variations of bacterial biomass and production were smaller than those of phytoplankton. During the late austral winter and spring, bacterial biomass and production exceeded those of phytoplankton. This implies that during this period, organic material from allochthonous sources sustained bacterial growth. During the late spring and summer, however, the pattern was reversed and autochthonous primary production was sufficient to support concurrent bacterioplankton production. The apparent temporal disequilibrium in autochthonous bacterioplankton and phytoplankton production was maintained by the seasonal input of allochthonous organic material into McMurdo Sound. The facts that a) bacteria were both abundant and highly active, b) bacterivory was common among many of the endemic protozoa and some planktonic metazoa and c) these bacterivores consumed >95% of the bacterial production strongly suggest that bacteria are a crucial component in the transfer of energy and material to metazoans in polar regions.
3881849|Although the cellular substrates of behavioral coordination are uncertain in the hydroid Tubularia, much is known about the strategies of behavioral control. The picture which emerges is that of an animal with diffusely distributed sites capable of initiating spontaneous activity, regional coordination of potential pacemaker loci to form pacemaker systems, and a loose hierarchical organization of pacemaker systems. At least one pacemaker system shows a short term increase in excitability and a longer duration depression of excitability following firing. The short-term excitability increase gives a tendency to fire in bursts, the long-term depression acts as an intrinsic inhibitory feedback to terminate bursts and to control output frequency. All the known interactions between pacemaker systems are excitatory. Exogenous stimuli can excite a conducting system which inhibits most of the pacemaker systems, and one pacemaker system specifically inhibits one set of muscles.
3883821|This paper offers a sweeping but very superficial review of the marine biology of polar seas. The marine systems in the Arctic and Antarctic have in common polar positions and cold temperatures, otherwise they are strikingly different. The Arctic has broad shallow continental shelves with seasonally fluctuating physical conditions and a massive fresh water impact in the northern coastal zones. However, it has a low seasonality of pack ice and little vertical mixing. In contrast, the Antarctic has over twice the oceanic surface area, deep narrow shelves, and, except for ice cover, a relatively stable physical environment with very little terrestrial input. The Antarctic has great pack ice seasonality and much vertical mixing. Primary productivity in the polar areas tends to be strongly pulsed with the zooplankton lagging behind; however there are many exceptions to such generalizations. Most recent research has focused on specific patterns and processes resulting in biological hot spots such as predictable leads in the ice, polynyas, oceanographic fronts, areas of intense mixing, and the marginal ice zone. This review attempts to weave these recent oceanographic studies into the geological history of each habitat in an effort to develop a holistic understanding of the biological processes.
3883600|Results from our field studies of the satin bowerbird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus) suggest that females choose males as mates based on their level of infection with the ectoparasite (Myrsidea ptilonorhynchi: Menoponidae). We evaluated predictions from three hypotheses for why this pattern of choice might evolve. The bright male and correlated infection models both suggest that females choose parasite free males because these males are more likely to sire parasite resistant offspring. The bright male hypothesis suggests that females are able to gauge infection based on plumage brightness. The correlated infection hypothesis claims that females assess resistance to endoparasites through a correlated effect on ectoparasites. In the parasite avoidance model female choice is shaped by the proximate benefits of avoiding infection. Six predictions from these models were tested using information on patterns of infection in satin bowerbirds. Of these models the parasite avoidance model was best supported by the available data.
3883837|Except for lions and cheetahs, members of family Felidae exhibit spatially and temporally dispersed social systems. However, this solitary existence does not preclude possession of a rich repertoire of communication signals. While patterns of communication have been examined in a number of the larger cats (e.g., lions, cheetahs, tigers), those of the smaller cats (<20 kg) remain virtually unstudied. The purpose of this study was to examine behavior in the smaller members of the Family Felidae to determine the level of behavioral uniformity within the family and to ascertain whether systematic behavioral observations could be used as an effective bioassay to monitor reproduction. A comparative examination of the occurrence and rate of scent marking, social behavior (especially behaviors associated with copulation), and other reproductive parameters was made in 20 species of captive, small felids. In general, small felids exhibited remarkable uniformity in their behavioral repertoire, both with respect to scent-marking and social behaviors. While the frequency of social behaviors differed among species, their appearance and general order of occurrence was similar. This was especially apparent with regard to the copulatory sequence. Detectable behavioral changes occurred in association with reproduction, supporting the concept of using systematic behavioral observations as a viable, non-invasive assay for monitoring reproductive activity. Reproductively active felids scent marked more frequently than reproductively inactive cats. However, no single scent-marking behavior was a good indicator of reproductive activity. Rather, the relative change in rates of behaviors over time was a better indicator of reproduction. As with scent-marking behaviors, a change in the relative rates of some social behaviors was the most reliable indicator of reproductive activity. Comparative behavioral data also show promise for understanding the phylogenetic relationships of three proposed lineages within the family Felidae (Panthera, ocelot, and domestic cat).
3881628| The principal oceanographic features of the Galpagos region are reviewed. The oceanographic conditions that obtained during the period of study are described. The study area is characterized by surface temperatures near 20C and a sharp thermocline at a depth of 40 m. The temperature below 1000 m is less than 5C. An episode of upwelling occurred during the period of study. The upwelled water was displaced by water characteristic of that found north of the Equatorial Front. The approximate position of the Equatorial Front during the study period was 00 15 S latitude. 
3882071|Radiochromatographic studies of
3882244|Scanning electron microscope and light microscope studies of the body wall in cyclostome stenolaemate ectoprocts show that this wall has a distinctive microarchitecture. The microstructures consist of a linear series of longitudinal canals in the central region. Adjoining regions on either side have laminae of overlapping calcareous tablets. In some cyclostomes at certain stages of growth, laminae may show a less orderly meshwork pattern near the canals. The laminate layers of calcareous tablets are enclosed in an organic matrix and are penetrated by tubuli which pass from the inner part of the body wall to the canals and also link the canals. The canals with organic and mineralized matrices open into pores in the body wall. This elaborate meshwork and canal and pore system provide the framework for growth and resorption of the body wall and facilitate transport of cellular materials from one zooid to another in a colony. Calcification at the distal part of a colony seems to proceed in a series of stages around sites of calcification. The pattern of the body wall of the cyclostome ectoproct does not parallel a molluscan pattern of skeletal growth as previously proposed. The hypothesis of a hypostegal coelom in some cyclostome ectoprocts is rejected.
3883082|Field studies have shown that animals often abandon territorial defense when food is abundant, but the causes of this behavior are controversial. Sometimes the cessation of defense is attributed to the food supply being so abundant that monopolization of the resource gains the defender nothing, even though defense would be energetically feasible. Other studies show that when the food supply is rich, such large numbers of competitors are attracted that defense is overwhelmed. Knowledge of the amount of food available relative to the numbers of consumers in the region can resolve the controversy. When food is limited throughout a region, a localized rich foraging area will attract competitors. Defense of such an area therefore may yield a large increase in net benefit to the defender, depending on whether or not so many competitors recruit that defense is too costly. However, when a localized foraging area is rich but food is also superabundant throughout the region, intruders may not recruit even if the area is undefended. Therefore the benefits of defense, if it were to occur, would be low. Field studies of nectar-feeding birds show that defense continued on rich foraging areas when floral nectar was limited to the population regionally, and resulted in enhanced food availability relative to that in undefended areas. However, under conditions of artificially rich food supplies (sugar-water feeders) and extremely limited food regionally, defense was sometimes overwhelmed by competitors. Cessation of defense on locally rich foraging areas also occurred when nectar was regionally superabundant. Therefore, both proposed causes of cessation of defense occurred in these systems and were easily distinguished by examining the degree to which food was limited in the surrounding region relative to localized foraging areas. I show that animals potentially can assess whether or not food supply is limited in the surrounding region by sampling and comparing standing crops in defended and undefended situations.
3882944|In all vertebrates gonadal secretions, through their actions on the central nervous system (CNS), control sex and sex-related behaviors and also regulate production of gonadotropin. Recently, major advances have been made in characterizing the molecular events which underlie these processes. Discussed in this paper are the nature and source of androgens and estrogens; their sites of action within the CNS as determined by steroid implant and autoradiographic studies; some manifestations of brain-steroid interactions, both "triggering" and "organizational"; evidence supporting a conventional genomic mechanism versus alternative modes of action; the critical role of androgen metabolizing enzymes in regulating the quality and quantity of active hormone in close proximity to targets; and some determinants of steroid access to the CNS. Information from non-mammalian vertebrates is reviewed in relation to the major body of knowledge derived from common laboratory species. The intent of this paper is to provide a biological perspective and to stimulate interest in the use of unconventional animal models for future studies.
3883723|The freshwater bivalves (Mollusca: Order Unionoida) are classified in six families and about 165 genera worldwide. Worldwide rate of extinction of freshwater bivalves is poorly understood at this time. The North American freshwater fauna north of Mexico is represented by 297 taxa in two families. There are 19 taxa presumed extinct, 44 species listed or proposed as federally endangered, and there are another 69 species that may be endangered. A number of these endangered species are functionally extinct (individuals of a species surviving but not reproducing). Extinction of North American unionoid bivalves can be traced to impoundment and inundation of riffle habitat in major rivers such as the Ohio, Tennessee and Cumberland and Mobile Bay Basin. Damming resulted in the local loss of the bivalves' host fish. This loss of the obligate host fish, coupled with increased siltation, and various types of industrial and domestic pollution have resulted in the rapid decline in the unionoid bivalve fauna in North America. Freshwater communities in Europe have experienced numerous problems, some local unionoid populations have been extirpated, but no unionoid species are extinct. Three taxa from Israel are now reported as extinct. Other nations such as China that have problems with soil erosion and industrial pollution or have numerous dams on some of the rivers (e.g., South America: Rio Parana) are probably experiencing problems of local extirpation if not the extinction of their endemic freshwater bivalve fauna.
3883260|This paper concerns the mechanism of mitosis. I briefly review the history of mitosis research, emphasizing the role of microscopic observation. The polymerization and depolymerization of microtubules play central roles in both the assembly of the spindle, and in the way it moves chromosomes. I describe recent advances in understanding the dynamic behavior of individual microtubules, and of microtubules attached to kinetochores. The kinetochore is able to hold on to microtubule ends while allowing them to grow and shrink, reactions that can be studied both in living cells and in the test tube. Experiments in which microtubules in living cells are marked and then followed allow us to relate these individual dynamic processes to the overall mechanism of chromosome movement. I end the review by speculating about biochemical mechanisms for producing force on chromosomes in anaphase, and for balancing chromosomes in the center of the metaphase spindle.
3884515|Organic osmolytes are small solutes used by cells of numerous water-stressed organisms and tissues to maintain cell volume. All known osmolytes are amino acids and derivatives, polyols and sugars, methylamines, and urea; unlike salt ions, most are "compatible," i.e., do not perturb macromolecules. In addition, some stabilize macromolecules and are "counteracting" towards perturbants, e.g., methylamines can stabilize proteins and ligand binding against perturbations by urea in elasmobranchs and mammalian kidney, and (our latest findings) high hydrostatic pressure in deep-sea animals. Methylamines appear to coordinate water molecules tightly, resulting in osmolyte exclusion from hydration layers of peptide backbones. This makes unfolded protein conformations entropically unfavorable (work of Timasheff, Galinski, Bolen and coworkers). These properties have led to proposed uses in biotechnology, agriculture and medicine, including improved biochemical methods, in vitro rescue of misfolded proteins in cystic fibrosis and prion diseases (work of Welch and others), and plants engineered for drought and salt tolerance. These properties also explain some but not all of the considerable variation in osmolyte composition among species with different metabolisms and habitats, and among and within mammalian tissues in development.
3884382|One of the most prominent characteristics of early vertebrates is the elongate caudal fin bearing fin rays. The caudal fin represents a fundamental design feature of vertebrates that predates the origin of jaws and is found in both agnathans and gnathostomes. The caudal fin also represents the most posterior region of the vertebrate axis and is the location where fluid, accelerated by movement of the body anteriorly, is shed into the surrounding medium. Despite the extensive fossil record of the caudal fin, the use of caudal characters for systematic studies, and the importance of tail function for understanding locomotor dynamics in fishes, few experimental studies have been undertaken of caudal fin function. In this paper I review two experimental approaches which promise to provide new insights into the function and evolution of the caudal fin: three-dimensional kinematic analysis, and quantitative flow measurements in the wake of freely-swimming fishes using digital particle image velocimetry (DPIV). These methods are then applied to the function of the caudal fin during steady swimming in fishes with heterocercal and homocercal morphologies: chondrichthyians (leopard sharks) and ray-fined fishes (sturgeon and bluegill sunfish). The caudal fin of leopard sharks functions in a manner consistent with the classical model of heterocercal tail function in which the caudal surface moves at an acute angle to the horizontal plane, and hence is expected to generate lift forces and torques which must be counteracted anteriorly by the body and pectoral fins. An alternative model in which the shark tail produces a reactive force that acts through the center of mass is not supported. The sturgeon heterocercal tail is extremely flexible and the upper tail lobe trails the lower during the fin beat cycle. The sturgeon tail does not function according to the classical model of the heterocercal tail, and is hypothesized to generate reactive forces oriented near the center of mass of the body which is tilted at an angle to the flow during steady locomotion. Functional analysis of the homocercal tail of bluegill shows that the dorsal and ventral lobes do not function symmetrically as expected. Rather, the dorsal lobe undergoes greater lateral excursions and moves at higher velocities than the ventral lobe. The surface of the dorsal lobe also achieves a significantly acute angle to the horizontal plane suggesting that the homocercal tail of bluegill generates lift during steady swimming. These movements are actively generated by the hypochordal longitudinalis muscle within the tail. This result, combined with DPIV flow visualization data, suggest a new hypothesis for the function of the homocercal tail: the homocercal tail generates tilted and linked vortex rings with a central jet inclined posteroventrally, producing an anterodorsal reactive force on the body which generates lift and torque in the manner expected of a heterocercal tail. These results show that the application of new techniques to the study of caudal fin function in fishes reveals a previously unknown diversity of homocercal and heterocercal tail function, and that morphological characterizations of caudal fins do not accurately reflect in vivo function.
3881678|Biological attack of carbonate-cemented sandstones and mudstones (Cretaceous and Eocene ages) and semi-consolidated calcareous muds (Holocene age) were studied near La Jolla, southern California. Rocks were collected from the intertidal zone to a depth of 40 m using SCUBA. The deeper samples came from Scripps and La Jolla submarine canyons. In order to learn of the borers and their preferred substrata, we studied the borers in situ as well as in aquaria, examined their borings with x-ray radiography, and analyzed the bored rocks by petrographic techniques. In preferred substrata a sequence of boring activities resulted in over half of the initial rock volume being excavated to depths of 10 cm. The major initial borers were bivalves (pholads, Lithophaga), which made straight smooth-walled holes up to 10 cm deep and at all angles to the rock surfaces. When abandoned, these holes were modified by other borers, and interconnected by smooth or roughhewn sinuous passageways 1 to 15 mm in diameter. The passageways were concentrated along bedding planes and in selected layers of rock, meeting at common points to form galleries. Many crustaceans and worms occupied the passageways, and several kinds of scrapings and/or etchings characterized the walls. Species accomplishing this have not yet been determined. A variety of borings 1 to 5 mm in diameter have single or multiple openings into the larger passageways. Rates of biological erosion of the rock were obtained from the depth of penetration of the borers and estimated length of life spans in years. Yearly attrition is estimated to range from 2 to 10 mm in some localities. Physical and chemical submarine weathering of these rocks alone seldom penetrates more than one cm from the exposed surface. Because biological penetration is much greater, it is an important factor in shaping the seabed. Borers attack fine-grained rocks more intensely than those that are coarse-grained, perhaps accounting for the dearth of mudstones on the seabed near La Jolla, except for the steep and more rapidly eroding walls of the submarine canyons. Most rocks presently exposed on the relatively flat upper continental shelf (10 to 30 m) appear to be remnants of highly indurated sandstone strata, less susceptible to biological attack.
3884188|Viviparous reproduction in fishes provides opportunities for maternal phenotypic modifications to influence offspring phenotype following fertilization. Various physiological adaptations associated with the maintenance and control of prenatal embryonic development may provide the means by which postnatal phenotype is impacted by maternal phenotype. It is widely recognized that postzygotic maternal influences may be mediated through the maternal-embryonic trophic relationship in matrotrophic species. I propose that 1) postzygotic maternal influences in viviparous fishes may also be mediated through immunological, respiratory, osmoregulatory/excretory, endocrinological, and thermoregulatory aspects of the maternal-embryonic relationship, and 2) any modification of embryonic and/or postnatal physiology through influence of the maternal physiological state should be regarded as a maternal effect that has potential ecological and evolutionary significance. This approach should help to identify trends and provide a framework, for comparing the evolution of adaptations for viviparity and their ecological impact across the vertebrate classes as well as to facilitate identification of selective factors contributing to evolution of various forms of viviparous reproduction.
4620201| To investigate the capacity of the myomeric muscles to actively change the stiffness of the body during bending, mid-caudal sections (spanning two to three intervertebral joints) of intact, freshly-killed American eels, Anguilla rostrata, were dynamically bent (3 Hz, 4% maximal muscle strain) using the whole-body workloop technique. Following unstimulated cycles, the left- and right-sides of the musculature were alternately stimulated at supra-maximal voltages and at eight different phases relative to the strain cycle of the muscle. The body's flexural stiffness (Nm) increased maximally by a factor of three relative to that when the muscles were unstimulated. The net external work (J kg) needed to bend the body decreased maximally by a factor of seven relative to that when the muscles were unstimulated. Both of these mechanical features varied sinusoidally with changes in the phase of the stimulus. Stimulus phase of caudal muscle in live swimming eels, taken from other studies, leads to the prediction that the caudal muscles increase body stiffness and produce net positive mechanical work simultaneously during steady forward swimming. The association of increased body stiffness and net positive muscle work, and the occurrence of maximal net muscle power output at a stimulus phase of 325 (as the muscle segment lengthens), suggests that net positive power is produced, in part, using an elastic strain energy mechanism. 
3882040|This paper comments on the induction of gametogenesis, on microscopical and electronmicroscopical aspects of spermatogenesis and oogenesis and on fertilization in the genus Hydra. Spermiogenesis does not present any peculiarities. The ripe sperm contains no detectable acrosome. Egg-formation involves phagocytosis of entire oogonia by growing oocytes. Several oocytes merge to a single oocyte, in which one nucleus becomes the germinal vesicle. The egg shell is formed only when the egg is fertilized. Various factors such as the synchronization of gametogenesis, the length of sexual periods, continuous release of sperm and the long life span of sperm are considered to guarantee the fertilization of the eggs.
3882608|The final level of development in the vertebrate nervous system concerns the patterning, or modelling, of the connections of the postmitotic neurons at target tissues. The growth of target tissue and the sprouting of newly-arrived axons is followed by a regulated distribution of the sprouts, and often the development of specific contacts (synapses). Usually there are more sprouts than can be accommodated; the result is competition for target sites and regression of unsuccessful endings, leading to the characteristic pattern of connections. Studies particularly of the reinnervation of denervated skin in salamanders and rats have revealed a number of conditions and processes that influence competition. Spatial and temporal constraints restrict the sprouting of certain nerves but not others. Substances conveyed to nerve terminals by fast axoplasmic transport can "neutralize" sprouting influences believed to derive from target tissues, and can "mask" target features that nerves recognize; other substances are needed for sprouting to occur at all. Increased impulse activity in certain nerves accelerates their sprouting. Intriguingly, regenerating nerves will recapture targets from sprouted endings. Most of the identified conditions and processes occur in the adult animal; they could therefore provide a basis for remodelling of neuronal connections. Remodelling occurs when the characteristic early hyperinnervation of target tissues converts after birth to the adult pattern; in cutaneous "touch domes" targets are eliminated in addition to endings. Perhaps remodelling plays a role in the development of behaviour even in mature animals.
3882532|The value of examining hummingbird foraging behavior in complex laboratory environments is discussed relative to decision theory and experimental components analysis, and an experimental system is described. The system provides control of metabolic, behavioral, and environmental variables, and allows automatic recording and efficient analysis of behavior. Specific research applications of the system are discussed, including studies of adjustment of food intake to changes in food concentration, discrimination and choice among food sources, and spatial memory organization.
3882902|Analysis of 1,063 stomach contents from 39 species of sea snakes indicates that about one-third of the shallow, warm, marine, Indo-Australian fish families are preyed upon by sea snakes. Families of eels and gobies are taken by the greatest numbers of snake species. Most species of sea snakes feed on fish families whose members are relatively sedentary, dwelling along the bottom, within burrows or reef crevices. With one exception, a fish egg-eating specialization found uniquely in the Aipysurus-Emydocephalus lineage, the dietary habits of sea snakes cannot be categorized according to the snakes' three phylogenetic lineages. Eels, mullet-like, rabbitfish-like and goby-like fish forms are taken by all three lineages. Two or three snake species are generalists, and numerous ones specialize on eels, goby-like fish or catfish. There are differences among sea snake species in the relationship between snake neck girth and the maximum diameter of the prey; in the relationships of both snake gape measurements and fang length, to the type of prey taken; and in the relationship of snake shape and body proportions to the prey selected. Several modes of feeding have been observed among sea snakes: feeding in nooks and crannies in the bottom or in reefs, cruising near the bottom, and feeding in drift lines. Analysis of percent digestion of stomach contents and projections backward to the times of prey capture provides evidence for feeding periodicity. The greatest amount of diet overlap is for two species of sea snakes which do not both occur at the same locality. Where species do co-occur, diet overlap index values are lower. The numbers of species present as well as their relative abundances vary among localities as does the relative importance of generalists, eel-eaters, egg-eaters and other specialized feeders.
3882098|Historical views of head segmentation are reviewed. The concensus is that the head is segmented essentially in terms of myomeres, and that other organs have responded in varying degrees to this. From the various lines of reasoning a model of the primitive vertebrate is generated. This model denies the tunicate origin of the vertebrates-rather it identifies amphioxus as most like the ancestral vertebrate. The vertebrate head is made up of a preoral segment plus four other segments. Because of sclerotomites, the head extends through five and a half segments. The nasal organs and eyes are preoral structures while the ear is located between segments three and four. The occipital portion of the head skeleton is formed from the posterior half of the fifth segment and the anterior half of the sixth; it is vertebra-like in structure. This "segment" is much altered as a result of the multiplication of the visceral pouches and is often viewed as the fusion product of several segments. Thus the idea of correspondence between somite and visceral segments posterior to the second branchial arch is rejected. In some fishes, additional vertebrae are added to the posterior part of the cranium and this can be observed in development. The bony cranium of the vertebrate appears to partially reflect segmentation; its components suggest a vertebra-like developmental influence in operation. Study of the shark head has contributed much to our knowledge of this area.
3882363|Biological adaptation is a property of phenotypic features of organisms relative to selection demands of the environment. Adaptive features are ones having properties of form and function which permit the organism to maintain successfully the synerg between a biological role of that feature and a stated selection force. The degree of goodness of the adaptation can be measured by means of the amount of energy needed to maintain the synerg with less energy indicating better adaptation. Adaptation does not apply to a close fit between different features or between the form and function of a feature or to the mutual interactions between features of a structural network. The state of being adapted is independent of the process of becoming adapted as adaptations need not evolve under the control of selection forces to which they are now adapted. Selection is here considered as the demands placed on the organism by the environment with which the organism must cope to continue surviving as an individual. Adapted features have been judged using three methods-the comparative, the correlative and the synthetic-of which only the last is valid. The synthetic method requires study of the forms and functions of the feature in the laboratory and of the biological roles of the feature and the selection demands of the environment in the field. It is suggested that the best approach for the study of adaptations is a team effort with constant feedback between the laboratory and field phases of study. It is urged that attention be given to the development of an ecological morphology to supplement functional morphology and provide the necessary foundation for proper elucidation of biological adaptations.
3884418| Photoreceptors undergoing target selection in the optic lobe of Drosophila express a nitric oxide sensitive soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC). At the same time, cells in the target region of the optic lobe express nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Pharmacological inhibition of NOS, NO or sGC leads to disruption of the retinal projection pattern in vitro, and the extension of individual retinal axons beyond their appropriate targets. The disruptive effects of NOS inhibition in vitro are prevented by adding a cGMP analog. Mutations in the sGC alpha subunit gene, Gc1, reduce sGC expression and attenuate NO-sensitive retinal cGMP production in the visual system. Although the retinal projection pattern is undisturbed in Gc1 mutants, they lack positive phototaxis as adults, suggesting inappropriate connections exist between the photoreceptors and optic lobe interneurons in these flies. Preliminary results show that heat-shock expression of wild-type Gc1 during metamorphosis can restore positive phototaxis in severe Gc1 mutants. These in vivo results support the in vitro findings that NOS and sGC activity are required to promote the appropriate retinal innervation of the optic lobe. 
3883167|Central to most models of population regulation is the idea that the degree of intraspecific competition is in some way proportional to the availability of limiting resources. Although laboratory research has demonstrated a number of proximate mechanisms by which behavior might affect population growth, little is known about the resources that are actually limiting population density in the field or about how animals might compete for them. Long-term field studies reveal that the white-footed mouse, Peromyscus leucopus, exhibits two types of pronounced changes in density: intra-annual (seasonal) and inter-annual. The former seem to be due ultimately to climate and the lack of winter breeding, but populations often decline sharply in late summer in the midst of plentiful food; fall recruitment of new animals is density-dependent and usually poor. Differences in peak densities from one year to the next as high as 13-fold have been recorded. Weather, shelter, and food are possible ultimate limiting resources. Food has received the most attention, but supplemental feeding experiments have yielded mixed results. A review of the social behavior of this polygnous species suggests that each sex is limited by different combinations of factors. Females may defend a food source and nest sites; males may search actively for females at low adult densities, covering large areas, and defend access to females at high adult densities. Additional long-term field studies are needed, both to provide direction to laboratory research on proximate mechanisms and to provide the data base for understanding the role of weather, food, and shelter as ultimate limiting factors. Enough short-term studies have been published to permit comparisons across habitats and through time which will give a better perspective on climate and habitat variables. Field experiments are necessary to demonstrate the operation of proximate behavioral, physiological, and genetic mechanisms of population regulation in natural populations.
3883633|Two topics on decapod larval biology are discussed: retention and recruitment of decapod larvae to the parental population and the ecological role of decapod larvae in the water column. Most decapods have retained a planktonic larval phase which is generally interpreted as a mechanism for increased dispersal. Evidence of restricted gene flow and biological/physical interaction research have suggested that larvae can be retained and recruited to the parental population via mesoscale processes. To fully understand recruitment processes improved estimates of mortality rates for planktonic larval stages will be required. Recent evidence suggests that mortality rates are not constant over the complete larval developmental period but decrease with time. During some seasons meroplankton including decapod larvae can constitute more than 50% of the plankton biomass. The quantity of energy transferred into the water column can be significant. Their role in planktonic ecology may be significant and additional research is required.
3883284| Evidence in support of the hypothesis that T
3882252|While the analysis of displays and communication in reptiles has accelerated during the past decade, much of the information has been anecdotal and gathered without focus. There are exceptions. In a few studies releasers and releasing mechanisms were analyzed. However, to date our understanding of the communication repertoire of even the best studied reptile, the lizard Anolis carolinensis is fragmentary. In a few other studies the quantitative nature of variation of particular display movements or acts has been elucidated but there are many more acts for all species whose quantitative and qualitative variations are unknown. Only a very few investigators have postulated adaptive reasons for observed patterns of variation between populations or species. There are no good tests of these hypotheses. Both broad comparative studies that rigorously measure environmental variables and in-depth studies on single populations are badly needed to relieve this deficiency. Despite the lack of good data, recent techniques, some from studies with objectives entirely different from that of studying behavior, are likely to further our knowledge significantly. The projection image technique will enable the rigorous dissection of the signal value of various visually oriented acts. For the study of adaptive significance of display variation within a lizard population is presented an in-depth empirical approach that utilizes demographic analysis, behavioral observation and field experimentation.
3883764|For the past 25 years we have used a comparative strategy designed to identify and describe the endocrine parameters of the oviparous-vivparous transition and subsequent gradual reduction in hepatic yolk protein precursor (vitellogenin) synthesis associated with placental viviparity. Our approach has been to study vertebrate groups in which both oviparous and viviparous modes are common (reptiles, elasmobranchs). We have provided evidence for the control of follicular (granulosa/theca) and luteal steroidogenesis, and the cellular basis of gonadal steroid hormone action on the key target tissues (oviduct, liver). Our results, some of which are summarized below, have led us to suggest that ovarian progesterone (follicular or luteal in origin) has a dual role in the evolution of viviparity: 1. To inhibit myometrial contractions, thus providing a primary condition for egg retention and viviparity. 2. To inhibit estrogen-induced hepatic vitellogenin synthesis as part of both normal oviparous cycles and as a concomitant of placental evolution.
3883021|Comparative Immunology includes an evolutionary approach to immunity revealing the immune system as widespread and necessary for survival. Although many immunology textbooks and courses are often oriented solely toward medicine or allied professions, comparative immunology is a unique beginning for advanced undergraduate students of biology, zoology, and immunology. A more biologic approach to immune competence causes mammalian immunologists to view comparative immunology as an introduction to numerous ectothermic vertebrates and invertebrates. Such exotic animals are sources of meaningful facts important for anyone viewing significant breakthroughs in immunology in phylogenetic perspective. Animals preserve their unique individuality by distinguishing between self and non-self to protect against infection and possible extinction. The earliest beginnings of immune reactions are best exemplified among the invertebrates by recognition, phagocytosis, graft rejection accompanied by specificity and weak memory, and the induction of agglutinins and lectins. Although vertebrates share these same responses, the main differences include more extensive evidence of specificity and memory and the unique capacity to synthesize immunoglobulins. Acknowledging the problem of recognition as the common basis for the immune response, certain members of the Ig superfamily, notably Thy-1 and 
3884521|Drought and salinity stress are the major causes of historic and modern agricultural productivity losses throughout the world. Both drought and salinity result in osmotic stress that may lead to inhibition of growth. Salinity causes additional ion toxicity effects mainly through perturbations in protein and membrane structure. In contrast to animals, which rely on Na
3883646|Disturbances have played major roles in shaping community structure in Great Barrier Reef coral communities in the period 1980-90. Major causes of coral death have been a coral bleaching episode in 1982, predation by crown of thorn starfish Acanthaster planci, and cyclone damage. A series of 30 permanent photo-transects was established on six reefs on the Great Barrier Reef in 1979-80. This is a very small sample, but nearly all transects were affected by one or other of these disturbances early in the decade. The changes are summarised as transitions among five stages identified in a model incorporating "normal" and "abnormal" patch dynamics of coral communities. The major disturbances of bleaching, crown of thorns and cyclones tend to cause high coral mortality over large areas, but nevertheless it was surprising that such a large proportion of photo-transects was affected. By the end of the decade, none of the damaged transects had "recovered," in terms of percentage coral cover or numbers of new colonies. Photo-transects and visual surveys showed sites deeper than 3 m had particularly poor recovery. Hydrodynamic models predict considerable patchiness in larval availability, an essential precursor for coral recolonization.
3882638|Tubular structure of the teleost testis can be divided into two basic types distinguished from each other by the distribution of spermatogonia. In most teleosts, spermatogonia occur along the length of the tubules, but in atheriniform fishes they are confined to the terminus of the tubule. Variations in these testis-types are discussed particularly in light of modifications leading to the production of spermatozeugmata or spermatophores. Teleost boundary cells are located immediately outside of the tubule basement membrane. Previous reports homologizing "lobule boundary cells" with Leydig or Sertoli cells are in error. Leydig cells have been described for species of teleosts wherein they have previously been thought to be absent and are a typical component of the interstitium. Sperm morphology reflects mode of reproduction. Nuclear elongation, coupled with possible elongation of the sperm midpiece, is characteristic of most species wherein fertilization is internal. Teleost sperm lack an acrosome.
3882948|Some aspects of prolactin and growth hormone biology in fishes and amphibians are considered, including the nature of the secretory cells, the regulation of their activity, the chemistry of the hormones, and their physiological activity in relation to hydromineral metabolism and to growth and development. Inasmuch as most of the information is derived from only a small number of teleost and amphibian species, a broad evolutionary biology is difficult to derive without information from other fish groups especially, and a survey must be confined largely to a comparative biology of some representative higher bony fishes with some representative anurans and urodeles.
3881674|All publications dealing with fungi described from marine calcareous substrates are discussed in this survey of the literature. Original investigations of fungi from lime tubes of teredinids are included. Wood-inhabiting marine fungi, especially in warm waters, grow within calcareous linings of teredinid burrows. Fruiting structures of the Ascomycetes, Halosphaeria quadricornuta and Remispora salina, and the Deuteromycete, Periconia prolifica, form cavities in the tube linings, making them brittle and soft. Representatives of Cirrenalia and Humicola sporulate on the surface of calcareous linings. The fungus, Pharcidia balani, sometimes referred to as a lichen, decomposes shells of barnacles and molluscs. Another Ascomycete, Lulworthia kniepii, parasitizes calcareous algae, probably living on the middle lamellae, not on the calcified cell walls.
3884254|Salt marshes and similar tide-dominated habitats present an unusual challenge for reproduction of resident aquatic organisms. Strong currents, siltation and hypoxia can potentially contribute to reproductive failure through mortality of the eggs or flushing of the eggs and larvae from the habitat. Fundulus heteroclitus, a small brackish water killifish, is a common resident of tidal marshes along the east coast of North America from Newfoundland to Florida. The reproductive strategy of this and related species is based on aerial incubation of eggs in the high intertidal zone. The eggs are resistant to desiccation and, when fully developed, hatch on immersion. Copulatory behavior and anatomy of accessory reproductive structures are adapted to placement of eggs in protected incubation sites. The gonads of both males and females mature rhythmically with an endogenous circasemilunar period, which is synchronized with the "spring" tides of new and full moons. Spawning occurs on high tides. Embryos develop in 9-15 days, and usually hatch on the succeeding spring tide series. Reproductive cyclicity in F. heteroclitus and related fishes ensures that spawning fish will have access to the high intertidal zone, thereby permitting aerial incubation of eggs.
3881885|The long held view that leopard frogs (Rana pipiens complex) are a single widely distributed species is not correct. Five sibling species are currently recognizable. These findings have important implications on the use of leopard frogs in experimental research.
3882588|Foraminifera are a ubiquitous and sometimes numerically important component of benthic communities. This paper discusses the role of free amino acids in the nutrition of Notodendrodes antarctikos, a large arborescent foraminifer from an oligotrophic embayment of the Ross Sea, Antarctica. The effects of temperature and substrate concentrations suggest a carrier mediated transport system which facilitates the accumulation of a wide variety of free amino acids at concentrations found in the interstitial waters of its sedimentary habitat. Involvement of isotopically labeled amino acids in the metabolism of this organism is discussed.
3884463|Evolutionary developmental biology is inevitably a comparative subject. However, the taxonomic level at which comparisons can be made varies widely, and this greatly affects the kind of information that can be gained from the comparison. Broadly speaking, high-level comparisons (e.g., between phyla) are more informative about phylogenetic pattern and homology, while low-level comparisons (e.g., between congeneric species) are more informative about evolutionary mechanisms, including speciation. However, so far evolutionary developmental biology has had a relatively minor input into the traditional territory of population genetics, namely comparisons within species-both within and between geographic populations. Yet this area is crucial, as all evolutionary novelties ultimately arise from intraspecific variation. Here, I address this issue, focusing on the question of how early in development novelties arise. To shed light on this question, I discuss two examples of developmental polymorphism within species involving two of the main body axes: anteroposterior segmentation in centipedes and left-right asymmetry (chirality) in gastropods.
3883406|The central problem in the history of animal behavior has been the inability to perceive the phenotype as the result of an interaction between genome and environment, despite the considerable lip service paid to the interaction. In North America the comparative study of animal behavior was overshadowed by the growth of an experimental psychology that produced the general-process view of learning, holding that the mechanisms underlying learning are much the same in all species. That made evolution irrelevant. During the same period ethology emerged in Europe as the study of naturally occurring behavior in an evolutionary context. Because evolution is fundamental to ethology, the genetic basis of behavior was a central precept. Ethology and psychology collided after World War II. After a vigorous exchange on the issues, a synthesis by Robert Hinde materialized, one that advanced the study of behavior and produced a sophisticated understanding of nature and nurture. A few decades later sociobiology appeared and was immediately assailed for making what were seen as unwarranted extensions from animal to human behavior, and for emphasizing genetic control of behavior. Much of the debate that ensued was distractingly political and threw little light on the scientific merits of the issues although it moderated the stance of sociobiologists; on the other hand, the politically inspired debates may have harmed the field of animal behavior.
3883158|The Johns Hopkins University offered the first modern, American, research-oriented program in biology when it opened in 1876. The program included both physiological and morphological work, so that students could choose either for their advanced degrees. Physiologists studied with Henry Newell Martin, morphologists with William Keith Brooks. Yet students took courses in both areas, and the unique exposure to two lines of research and to two very different sorts of teachers made the Johns Hopkins program exceptional. This paper outlines the dual character of biology at Hopkins, and the particular contributions of both Martin and Brooks. It also argues that the impact of that unique dual offering on four of the more famous students, E. B. Wilson, T. H. Morgan, E. G. Conklin, and R. G. Harrison, strongly influenced the successful and progressive program of research that each chose.
3883320|When peripheral nerves are cut, the axotomized nerves and denervated muscles undergo atrophic changes which are reversed only when functional connections are remade in the periphery. The restored interaction completely reverses the effects of axotomy and denervation and leads to rematching of the size of the motoneuron, muscle unit force, speed and histochemical properties, according to the size principle. Differences in unit force and fatigue characteristics between motor unit types are not fully restored in reinnervated muscles but do not obscure size relationships between the motoneurons and their muscle units. Although intact motoneurons will supply increased numbers of muscle fibers after partial nerve injuries, regenerating axons appear to be limited in their ability to enlarge their muscle units. Increased motor unit force in reinnervated slow motor units is accounted for primarily by an increase in fiber diameter; fast motor units do not increase their mean force output. As a result of the rematching of muscle unit properties with the size of the motoneurons that reinnervate them, motor unit properties are appropriate for fine control of movement after complete or partial nerve injuries. However, regenerating axons do not reinnervate their original muscle fibers and unless the fibers are injured close to the muscles, they often fail to reinnervate their original muscles. The mismatching of motor pools with inappropriate target muscles is probably the main factor responsible for poor recovery of motor function after complete nerve injuries.
3883062|Reptilian eggs previously categorized with respect to the flexibility of eggshells appear to fall into two groups: endohydric eggs are those that are invested, by the female parent at the time of oviposition, with all of the water necessary to complete embryogenesis; and ectohydric eggs which need to absorb water from the nest medium to complete embryogenesis. Eggs of the Galapagos land iguana are unusual among most lepidosaurians by having very permeable parchment shells, but containing a large albumen (apparently serving as a reservoir of water for the embryo). It appears that the eggs of Galapagos land iguanas can exploit an endohydric habit without the rigid, impermeable shell seen in other endohydric eggs. This ability appears to be mediated by two factors: eggs of Galapagos land iguanas are laid in dry soils which are essentially impermeable to water, and the very large eggs of land iguanas have a relatively small surface area to volume ration which results in a relatively small exchange of water across the eggshell. It appears too that the water relations of Galapagos land iguana eggs will effect the energetics of both the contained embryo and the subsequent hatchling. Without adequate water, land iguana eggs will produce hatchlings that are both smaller and possess less fat to sustain the juvenile during the first year of life.
3881462|A review of the literature on the structural, physiological, and pharmacological properties of insect neuromuscular systems (excluding those concerned with flight) is presented. The membrane properties of insect muscle fibers are discussed in relation to the varied ionic environment of insect muscle. Attention is given to recent developments in insect neuromuscular pharmacology and speculative comments on the identities and properties of the chemical mediators at excitatory and inhibitory nerve-muscle synapses are made. Finally, the functional significances of inhibitory and excitatory axons innervating insect skeletal muscles are discussed in the light of new information obtained from studies of free-walking locust preparations.
3884397|Evidence indicates that small heat-shock proteins (Hsps) are involved in stress tolerance, but the specific cell components or functions that small Hsps protect or repair are mostly unidentified. We recently showed that the chloroplast small Hsps of higher plants (1) are produced in response to many environmental stresses (e.g., heat, oxidative, and high-light stress); and (2) protect (but do not repair) photosynthetic electron transport in vitro during stress, specifically by interacting with the oxygen-evolving-complex proteins of Photosystem II (PSII) within the thylakoid lumen. However, in vivo evidence of the importance of these Hsps to photosynthetic stress tolerance is lacking. Here we report positive relationships between chloroplast small Hsp production and PSII thermotolerance in (1) a heat-tolerant genotype of Agrostis palustris (bentgrass) and a heat sensitive genotype which lacks one or more chloroplast small Hsps produced by the tolerant genotype; (2) ecotypes of Chenopodium album (lambs quarters) from the northern vs. southern U.S. (New York vs. Georgia); and (3) nine Lycopersicon (tomato) cultivars/species differing in heat tolerance. These in vivo results are consistent with our previous in vitro observations and indicate that genetic variation in production of the chloroplast small Hsp is an important determinant of photosynthetic and, thereby, whole-plant thermotolerance. Recently, we showed that the mitochondrial small Hsp of plants protects respiratory (specifically Complex I) electron transport in vitro during heat stress, and here we present evidence for previously unidentified small Hsps in mitochondria of mammal (rat) cells which also protect Complex I during heat stress. These results suggest that the mitochondrial small Hsps, like the small chloroplast Hsps, are general stress proteins that contribute significantly to cell and organismal stress tolerance.
3882912|A number of superficially similar evolutionary phenomena are often lumped together as "alternative reproductive behaviors (ARBs)." Several authors have previously organized the broad array of reproductive alternatives by their relation to ESS theory. Because such an organizing scheme begs the question of how much ESS models can contribute to our understanding of ARBs, I suggest a different scheme-devoid of ESS connotations-which classifies alternatives according to whether they represent genetic differences between individuals (genotypic versus phenotypic alternatives), whether the alternatives can be expected to manifest equal or unequal fitnesses (isogignous versus allogignous alternatives), and whether individuals may switch back and forth between alternatives (reversible versus irreversible alternatives). I point out that plausible selective regimes other than frequency-dependence can maintain genotypic alternatives, and that explanations for the maintenance of phenotypic alternatives usually can be examined only theoretically. I also urge more rigor in the field-testing of ESS models, review criteria which putative ESSs should meet, and suggest a statistical approach for evaluating evidence with regard to equality of fitnesses of reproductive alternatives.
3883626|Comparison of the circulating steroids in the blood of crabs lacking neurosecretory eyestalk centers and crabs with those centers intact (but lacking several walking legs) has revealed differences in vivo that can be attributed to eyestalk factors. It is concluded that eyestalk factors (including the putative molt-inhibiting hormone, MIH): 1) exert control in vivo over production of 25-deoxyecdysone by the crab Y-organ, 2) control cyclic steroid production throughout anecdysis and parts of proecdysis and 3) are not solely responsible for the increased steroid production that occurs during late proecdysis. Using the data presented here and previously published data, a simple feedback model for the control of Y-organ activity is proposed. The model suggests that the Y-organs of the crab Uca pugilator are modestly active during anecdysis but become further activated during late proecdysis. The increased activation requires more than eyestalk removal and may involve additional extra-eyestalk factors.
3882166|With the exception of the agnathan fishes, a prolactin cell has been identified in all vertebrates in which it has been sought. This review examines the structure of the prolactin-producing pituitary cell in non-mammalian vertebrates, the manner in which it responds to natural and artificial stimuli, and its control by neural and humoral factors. Fundamental similarities and differences are described in an attempt to understand better its method of operation. Given our present state of knowledge, there is, among all the apparent diversity, a similarity in the basic structure and morphological response of this cell in teleosts, amphibians, reptiles, and birds. One can identify and speak with relative certainty about a specific adenohypophysial cell called a "prolactin cell." More profound differences may be found at the level of control mechanisms, chemistry of the hormone(s), and the nature of receptivity and response of target tissues. It appears that although there are basic similarities in the design of the prolactin cell, the systems that control its activities may differ and the similar products produced by the cell may be used toward different ends.
3881974|The social systems of New World species of jays are compared behaviorally and ecologically. Two lines leading to sociality are identified, one connecting the pair-in-territory system with the colonial system and a second connecting the pair-in-territory system with the communal system. Ecological factors in the evolution of communal breeding and its associated altruistic behavior are considered mainly in the genus Aphelocoma, but other birds are treated briefly. Three principal origins of communality and altruism in birds are identified: from colonies, from a surplus of males, and by retention of young in the family, the latter being of greatest importance. The theory proposed for the evolution of communal breeding and altruism emphasizes three main processes: 1) K-selection, (2) kin selection, and (3) kin-group selection in the same chronological order.
3882073|As a continuation of studies of the regenerative capacities of the scyphistoma of Cassiopea, a series of experiments was undertaken in which (i) regenerating fragments were cultured in the presence of various antimetabolites and (ii) Feulgen-stained nuclei from control animals and regenerating fragments were measured by scanning, integrating microspectrophotometry. The results of the antimetabolite experiments were complex and variable but nonetheless suggested that normal regeneration of functional heads from fragments requires the synthesis of DNA, RNA, and protein. Regardless of the type of antimetabolite, the most frequently observed morphological effect was prolonged or arrested development. None of the antimetabolities produced characteristic or unique abnormalities, although variation was observed in the ability of the inhibited fragments to recover from the various antimetabolites. Microspectrophotometric measurements of Feulgen-stained nuclei from control animals revealed that approximately 25% of the nuclei contained more than the diploid amount of DNA and thus were in either the S or G
3882199|Nine active neurohypophysial peptides have been identified among the vertebrates. Arginine-vasotocin appears to be the most primitive. It occurs in cyclostomes and among representative species from all major branches of vertebrate phylogeny. The eight other neurohypophysial principles are presumed to have evolved from arginine-vasotocin after one or more reduplications of the primitive arginine-vasotocin gene. Arginine-vasotocin cannot be detected in the adult mammalian neurohypophysis but it has been found in the pineal and subcommissural organs of adult mammals. Arginine-vasotocin may be released into the cerebrospinal fluid and influence functions mediated by hypothalamic hypophysiotropic factors. The primitive functions of arginine-vasotocin are not clear. They may relate to cardiovascular regulation since vascular responses to arginine-vasotocin can be demonstrated in species representing all major branches of vertebrate evolution.
3881871|Character displacement involving a single, diallelic locus in each of two competing species is investigated via computer simulation. The niche, as the sum of the utilization efficiencies of the population for combinations of environmental variables, is distinguished from the resource peak, which is a set of combinations of environmental variables actually present at exploitable frequencies in the environment. The two populations compete for a single resource peak made up of five subunits. Each genotype in each species has an optimum peak subunit, but survives in all of them. The intermediate subunit is optimal for a genotype in each species. Movement is restricted between subunits, which are thus treated here as microhabitats. The simulation covers a geographical range with each species occurring alone where its birth rate is high, with the birth rate declining as the range of the other species is approached; sympatry occurs in a region of intermediate birth rates for both species. The character displacement involves characters determined by the genotypes at the competition locus. The shape of the resource peak has a profund effect on the form taken by character displacement. A "steep" peak (one with the intermediate subunit much more frequent than the rest) results in a sharp step in the morphoclines, with two stable equilibrium points at the point of equal birth rates. A "bimodal" peak (one with equally frequent subunits, each optimum for a genotype for one species only) leads to a gradual change. Other peak types also have characteristic effects, showing that ecological inferences can be drawn from the form taken by character displacement.
3882836|Patterns of stress were analyzed in the mandibular symphysis of Macaca fascicularis using rosette strain gages. During jaw opening, the mandibular symphysis is bent due to medial transverse bending of the mandibular corpora. Levels of stress and strain are relatively low at this time, and the source of this stress is the medially-directed component of force from the lateral pterygoid muscles. During the power stroke of mastication, the symphysis is maximally stressed. At this time the symphysis experiences dorsoventral shear and bending due to lateral transverse bending of the mandibular corpora, i.e., "wishboning." The dorsoventral shear is due to the vertical component of the balancing-side adductor muscle force; the "wishboning" is due to the laterally-directed components of the bite and jaw adductor muscle forces. Unlike dorsoventral shear, "wishboning" results in considerable levels of stress and strain, particularly along the most lingual aspect of the symphysis. The most effective way to counter this stress is to increase the thickness of the symphysis in the labio-lingual direction. The stress analysis and an allometric analysis of mandibular dimensions in female cercopithecine (Old World) monkeys indicates that allometric changes in the symphysis are readily understood if the mandible is modelled as a curved beam. With increasing body size, symphyseal thickness in cercopithecines must increase in a positively allometric fashion so as to prevent the occurrence of dangerously high levels of stress along the most lingual aspect of the symphysis. This is because increasing body size is associated with three factors that have important consequences within the context of the biomechanics of curved beams: (1) jaw length is positively allometric to body size, (2) mandibular-arch width is negatively allometric to body size, and (3) there is a tendency to use relatively greater amounts of balancing-side jaw muscle force with increased body size because of dietary changes and allometric constraints on total jaw muscle force.
3881679| Shells of the sea scallop, Placopecten magellanicus Gmelin from Newfoundland waters were examined for borers by direct stereomicroscopic and X-ray radiographic means. Young shells are first attacked by the boring sponge, Cliona vastifica, and the spionid polychaetes, Polydora websteri and Polydora concharum. The former settles almost exclusively on the lower valve, but as it grows it often spreads to the upper valve via the hinge region. The spionids settle on the upper valve or occasionally on the periphery of the lower valve. Older shells are bored by the cirratulid polychaete, Dodecaceria concharum, which usually settles in empty Polydora burrows and enlarges them as they grow. The bivalve, Hiatella arctica, settles in Cliona holes. The burrows formed by the borers can be recognized on the radiographs. However, the identity of the present inhabitant cannot be predicted with accuracy because the original borer is often replaced by nestlers. The rate of growth was documented by making sequential radiographs at monthly intervals from May to October 1968. Rate of growth in all forms appears to be temperature-dependent. The water temperature increased from 1C in May up to 18C in August. Polydora concharum and P. websteri grew more rapidly from July to October than in May and June, while Cliona and Dodecaceria only grew during the months of July to October. 
3881809|The physiological and morphological responses of various littoral algal species to the stresses imposed upon the adults and sporelings by a number of interrelated factors in different latitudes are discussed in so far as there is experimental evidence that they delimit the vertical range of a species. The upper limits of algal zones in the eulittoral region are primarily determined by the resistance of the species to loss of water during mid-day exposure, by the effects of desiccation upon metabolism, by the ability to adjust their osmoregulatory processes during the periods of exposure to the rapid changes of salinity, and by the degree of tolerance to diurnal and seasonal changes of air temperatures. Low intensity of light reduces the metabolic efficiency and affects the resistance to desiccation and to variations in temperature and salinity. The lower limits of the eulittoral algal zones are primarily controlled by the intensity of light, by the competition with algae and invertebrates for space and light, and by grazing animals. The primary factors controlling the upper limits of the sublittoral algae are the depth of the wave base; the ability to utilize the submarine illumination as affected by turbidity and wave action in the layers of surface water; and the resistance to hydrostatic pressure. The lower limits of the sublittoral algae and both the upper and lower limits of the elittoral algal zones are controlled by the illumination and its effect upon the compensation-depth, the hydrostatic pressure, and the availability of nutrients.
3882673|The geographical distribution of animals is affected by both historical and present-day ecological factors. It is of great interest to distinguish between their effects. Unfortunately, both major classes of factors can yield similar biogeographic patterns, making it difficult to know which factor is more important. In addition, it is very important to examine all of the consequences of a particular hypothesis, as well as alternatives. Two examples age given: the Pleistocene forest refuge hypothesis and vicariance biogeography. The refuge hypothesis yields three predictions, but only one is upheld-concordance of centers of diversity; the distribution of positions and widths of contact zones is inconsistent with the hypothesis. The two alternative hypotheses, current ecology and current peripheral isolation, yield predictions which are upheld. The major prediction of vicariance biogeography, that concordant cladograms should indicate common vicariant sequences among the lineages, is rejected. Concordant cladograms can only result from common patterns of shared selection regimes and thus do not reflect vicariant patterns. More work needs to be done in distinguishing historical from ecological factors in species distributions.
3884504|Aquatic feeding strikes on agile prey in snake-necked turtles involve fast neck extension, bucco-pharyngo-oesophageal expansion, and head retraction. The ultimate, rectilinear acceleration of the head towards the prey requires complex vertebral rotations, that vary widely from strike to strike. This poses complex motor control issues for the numerous intrinsic neck-muscles, which are the sole neck extensors. Mathematical modelling reveals that extensor activity might be superfluous for this phase of the strike. The ultimate acceleration of the head at the end of the strike always coincides with forceful oropharyngeal expansion. The momentum of the induced flow of water is sufficient to pull the head (and the neck) straight towards the prey. This buccal expansion proceeds identically to that observed in primary aquatic feeders: a rostro-caudal expansion sequence characterized by an optimal timing of the functional components supporting the expansion wave. Yet distinct structural solutions, both at the skeletal, and muscular level, are involved. This points towards prominent hydrodynamic constraints. Head and neck are retracted by extrinsic neck muscles. Given the high number of degrees of freedom, this musculo-skeletal system is obviously under-determined, which compromises control. We propose that erroneous folding of the neck (i.e., diverging from the highly persistent retracted configuration) might be avoided through the presence of a subtle click system at the level of the joint between cervical vertebrae 5 and 6.
3884556|The early life cycle of brachyuran crabs has a planktonic dispersal stage consisting of a variable number of zoeal larvae followed by the molt to the megalopa stage. Megalopae undergo horizontal transport to the settlement site where they settle out of the water column and metamorphose to the first crab (juvenile) stage. This review provides an overview of recent laboratory studies of cues that shorten or lengthen the time to metamorphosis (TTM) of the megalopa stage. Megalopae cannot delay metamorphosis indefinitely and have a temporal threshold beyond which metamorphosis occurs without habitat cues. The TTM can be shortened about 15-25% upon exposure to acceleration cues, which include chemical cues and odors from adult substrate, aquatic vegetation, biofilms, conspecifics, estuarine water, humic acids, related crab species, and potential prey. Cues shown to delay metamorphosis include ammonium, hypoxia, predator odor and extreme temperature and salinity conditions. There is no evidence that structural mimics of natural substrate affect TTM.
3883857|A life cycle alternating between a microscopic larva (mm-sized) and macroscopic adult (cm-sized) occurs commonly among invertebrates. The pattern of occurrence of such a biphasic life cycle among lower metazoans like the Porifera and Cnidaria, as well as ultrastructure of larva and adults of many invertebrates, suggests that the earliest phases of metazoan evolution also had such a cycle. Only the dispersive larvae in the original metazoans could be characterized as "small and mobile" if we follow this model to its logical conclusion; the adults, by contrast, evolved into larger-bodied organisms to maximize reproduction and were non-motile filter feeders for the most part. The biphasic life cycle arose early in evolution, then, shortly after the first multicellular organisms evolved as clones of flagellated cells linked together by interactions through ECM; selective pressures acting independently on the two phases of the life cycle led to the origin of the different metazoan tissue types-epithelial, connective, nervous, and muscle tissues. For the Bilateria, this suggests that extant acoelomate and pseudocoelomate forms evolved through progenesis of larvae and juveniles in a manner like that known for the radiation of the interstitial annelids. A better understanding of larval biology and of mechanisms for heterochrony is crucial for hypotheses of metazoan evolution.
3884534|Almost forty years ago, Ehrlich and Raven (1964) hypothesized that the great diversity of plants and the herbivores that feed on them arose from a process of coevolution. Plants do possess an amazing diversity of traits that are easily imagined as having arisen from an antagonistic interaction between plants and herbivores. Two basic assumptions lie at the root of most theories of coevolution between plants and their herbivores. First, herbivores are agents of natural selection on plant resistance traits. Second, plants incur a significant fitness cost for possessing these resistance traits. An ecological genetic approach can provide rigorous evidence for these coevolutionary assumptions. In this paper, I present new experimental work on the subject of costs of resistance and review and discuss my own previous work bearing directly on these questions. Using both field experiments on natural populations of the mouse-ear cress (Arabidopsis thaliana) and laboratory experiments using genetically modified plants, I demonstrate that herbivores are exerting selection on both a chemical and physical resistance trait and that there are significant fitness costs to possessing these two traits. These results provide direct confirmation that our current models of the evolution of plant defenses are appropriate.
3882499|Most parthenogenetic animal taxa which have been investigated electrophoretically, cytologically, or with tissue grafting techniques are clonally diverse. I have examined data on multiclonal parthenogenetic populations using ecological diversity measures to elucidate patterns of clonal coexistence. Analysis of a discrete population cage experiment on clones of Drosophila mercatorum revealed monotonic decay of clonal diversity and evenness; however, in a continuous generation cage, clonal diversity appeared to stabilize. Clonal diversity and evenness fluctuated widely over time in several multiclonal populations of Daphnia magna although no clonal extinction was observed. There were few spatial trends in clonal diversity and evenness within parthenogenetic taxa. It is suggested that the degree of clonal differentiation, determined by the mode of clonal origin, is important in determining whether or not selection occurs among sympatric clones
3883412|This essay completes Science as a Way of Knowing, an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists and eleven cosponsoring organizations. It is also the third part of my attempt to produce a "Conceptual Framework for Biology." The discussion of Evolution continues and is followed by Classification, Ecology, Geographic Distribution, Biology and Human Welfare, and the Nature of Science. The intended audience is those who teach the first-year biology courses in colleges and universities as well as biology teachers in the precollege grades.
3882927|This essay is part of an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists that will make proposals for improving the first-year biology course in the universities. The detailed suggestions emphasize the importance of the conceptual framework of the biological sciences. The topic for this year is Evolutionary Biology and it is developed largely by the hypothetico-deductive method emphasizing that science, in addition to its store of information, is a way of knowing. Other topics will be considered in future years in the ongoing project.
3881386|Certain supracellular aspects of embryonic differentiation, illustrated by studies of young chick blastoderms, are discussed. Specifically, the following principles and guidelines seem to be involved in early development of the chick: egg organization, relative movement, differential growth, regulation, restriction of regulative capacities, synonomy of regulation and growth, gradients and fields, developmental centers, dominance, integration, environmental control, and induction.
3884149|The regulation of food intake is a complex process involving both a central feeding drive and a peripheral satiety system. The endogenous kappa opioid dynorphin, is an important central stimulator of feeding. Opiates are involved in feeding regulation of a variety of species including amoeba, molluscs, mammals and birds. Opioids appear to regulate a variety of behaviors necessary to allow the animal to successfully obtain food. Some species lack an opioid feeding system. Cholecystokinin (CCK) is the prototypic satiety agent which decreases feeding in multiple species from molluscs to humans. CCK also enhances memory and thus may play a role in allowing the animal to remember the details of a successful hunt. Alterations in the photoperiod can alter the response to satiety peptides raising the possibility that these peptides may play a role in pre-hibernation anorexia. Other important neurotransmitters involved in generating the feeding drive are neuropeptide Y and nitric oxide. Studies across species suggest that the central feeding command system is the basic feeding system, which with the organism's development of the need for satiety periods is held in check by the introduction of a variety of peripheral satiety systems.
4620167| The anterior (ileum) and posterior (rectum) segments of the locust hindgut constitute the reabsorptive regions of the excretory system, which conserves or eliminates body water and solutes as required for osmotic homeostasis. Hindgut transport mechanisms in the desert locust have previously been well described but the neuropeptide hormones that may naturally control these processes are only now being identified. Ion Transport Peptide (ITP) has been isolated from locust corpus cardiacum (CC) and its full sequence of 72 amino acids deduced from its cDNA. Native ITP has the same actions as crude CC extracts in stimulating Cl, Na, K, and fluid absorption and inhibiting H secretion (i.e., influencing pH regulation). The deduced amino acid sequence of ITP was confirmed by showing biological activity of expressed and synthetic forms of this peptide. ITP has high sequence homology with a large family of crustacean hormones that include hyperglycaemic (CHH) and moult-inhibiting hormones (MIH) and is the first member reported outside crustaceans. 
3881369| Recent advances in biochemical techniques have resulted in considerable progress in the comparative qualitative analysis of non-mammalian vertebrate steroids. The literature surveyed herein suggests that a number of C21, C19, and C18 steroids occur throughout the subphylum, although there may be important qualitative differences even among closely related forms. The potential importance, from a phylogenetic or a physiological standpoint, of new steroids recently characterized in fishes cannot be evaluated at present. Three widely used techniques-tissue extraction or incubation without added precursors, tissue incubation with exogenous steroid substrates, and the histochemical visualization of 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases-are discussed, and their application to the study of steroidogenic tissues is illustrated. The adrenocortical homologue (interrenal), the ovary, and the testis appear to function as sources of steroid hormones in those vertebrates which have been examined. However, the existence of additional steroidogenic tissues, or of tissues which may modify the steroid composition of the body fluids in other ways, is also suggested. 
3884443|Living members of Phylum Chordata are divided into three groups: the Urochordata, the Cephalochordata (amphioxus) and the Craniata (vertebrates). These animals are united by a common body plan, a key component of which is the development of a neural tube dorsal to a notochord. Studying the genetics and embryology of these animals allows evolutionary comparison to be made between the mechanisms controlling the development of homologous body parts in different taxa. This paper focuses specifically on the evolution of dorsoventral pattern in the neural tube. In vertebrate embryos external inductive signals, originating from the notochord and the dorsal ectoderm, initiate a program of cell differentiation that subdivides the neural tube into a stereotyped pattern of neurons and glia. To understand the evolution of this pattern I have been characterising amphioxus members of the gene families involved, including genes from the HNF-3, Msx, Hh, Gli and Netrin families. Coupled with similar analyses of urochordate development, analysis of these genes shows that the signalling functions of the notochord and lateral ectoderm seem to predate vertebrate origins, and have not increased in complexity in vertebrates despite duplication of the gene families involved. Conversely, expansion of gene families downstream of these signals has increased the complexity of gene expression and function in vertebrate embryos. These data therefore provide an indication of how gene duplication and divergence may have provided the raw material for the evolution of the complex pattern of cell types that develops in the vertebrate neural tube.
3883489|The phylogenetic position of the Ganges Gharial (Gavalis gangeticus) among the living Crocodilia is reconsidered in the light of new biochemical and morphological data. The anatomical data suggest a sister group relationship between Gavialis and all other living crocodilians. In contrast the biochemical evidence indicates a sister group relationship between Gavialis and the false gavial, Tomistoma schlegelii, and the rest of the living Crocodilia. The new morphological data from the dissections of the caudal musculature clearly favor the phylogenetic relationship for Gavialis as proposed by the comparative anatomists. In this regard the findings of this study are concordant with those concerning the skull construction of the living crocodilians.
3882268| The cyclostomes, hagfishes and lamprey, represent modern agnathans, the most primitive vertebrates. They are therefore of special interest from the phylogenetic view point with regard to proliferative activities of epithelial and of lympho-hematopoietic tissues. The animals, kept in aquaria at 15 C, were given 1.0 Ci of
3881923|Intact, developing chick embryos (stages 9+ to 14) incorporate sugars from sugar nucleotides in patterns which vary according to the sugar nucleotide used, the area of the embryo, and the age of the embryo. Radioautographs of the notochord-somite-lateral plate mesoderm vicinity, the optic vesicle-skin ectoderm junction, and the area vasculosa are presented. It is possible that these patterns represent localized cell surface glycosyltransferase-glycosyl acceptor complexes. However, other possibilities have not been ruled out. The potential role of enzyme-substrate complexes in intercellular interactions is discussed.
3882381|The region of the prospective eye vesicle of the F1 generation from parents known to be heterozygous for the gene e, which produces eyeless embryos in the homozygous condition was grafted under the epidermis of host embryos. Donor and host embryos were randomly selected at the stage of fusion of the neural folds to form pairs. Donor and receptor embryos were operated at their right side only so that the left side could serve to identify the phenotype of each operated embryo. The experimental results obtained in the four classes of donor-receptor combinations, can be described as follows: 1) The prospective eye vesicle of phenotypically wild type donors, grafted under the flank epidermis of receptor embryos of the same type, developed pigmented retina at a rate of over 90%, and a lens was found in this combination in about one third of the cases. 2) Surprisingly, the prospective optic vesicle from eyeless embryos, grafted to normal hosts, also developed pigmented retina at a frequency which was not statistically different from that obtained with prospective optic vesicles from wild type embryos. The developing optic cups from eyeless embryos also induced a lens in some cases. In the class of experiments in which optic vesicles from wild type embryos were grafted under flank epidermis of eyeless hosts, significantly fewer grafts developed pigmented retina as compared to wild type controls. Prospective optic vesicles grafted from eyeless embryos under epidermis of eyeless hosts, in one case, produced pigmented retina. In a complementary set of experiments, epidermis from the flank was grafted upon the prospective eye region of host embryos. The result of the four classes of experiments corroborated the previous results: Wild type epidermis may cure the eyeless situation, whereas epidermis from eyeless embryos suppresses eye formation in the wild type host.
3883549|The abundance and great diversity of life on coral reef ecosystems provides many good opportunities for studying the evolution and specializations of neurophysiological systems and behavior. Crucial stages in the evolution of nervous systems appear to have occurred in the Precambrian, as revealed in Ediacaran fossils and their closest living relatives. By the Ordovician, when Chazy "reefs" exemplify some of the earliest complex animal communities fixed in one place, more elaborate neurological mechanisms for orientation, predation, and escape reactions are indicated. With the evolution of fish, the behavioral richness of reef communities became further enhanced. Elaborate specializations of feeding, defensive, aggressive, signaling, schooling, and reproductive behaviors are common in fish. Several examples of behavioral studies on reef organisms are used to illustrate research methodologies and the types of conclusions which may be drawn. These examples include: (1) analysis of symbiotic behavior of an invertebrate and a vertebrate-sea anemone and clownfish; (2) signaling behavior of a fish-the sailfish blenny; and (3) a combined electrophysiological and behavioral analysis of orientation and feeding/attack behavior-sharks. An almost endless number of possibilities for similar analysis makes the organisms of coral reefs especially useful, and challenging, for teaching purposes as well as further research.
3881841|Hormonal effects on selected indicators of neural activity are reviewed with reference to neuroendocrine mechanisms. The nature of brain recordings and their advantages and disadvantages in neuroendocrine applications are discussed. The problems of localization of neuroendocrine mechanisms in place and time are presented, with indications of which processes may be best suited to neurophysiological analysis.
3883136|The beginnings of professional natural history in Seattle date from 1879. In this year a group of young men who were completely untrained in the sciences formed the Young Naturalists' Society. The society quickly grew to eventually become a major institution for natural history investigations in the Puget Sound area at the end of the nineteenth century. The activities of the Young Naturalists included collecting a large and impressive cabinet, exchanging specimens with naturalists throughout the United States, organizing expeditions for marine investigations, and providing educational opportunities for the public through lectures, public exhibits, newspaper reports, and summer Chautauqua. As the society became more professional in its work, it developed strong ties to the University of Washington. In fact, by the mid-1890s it was difficult to separate the natural history work sponsored by the University from the studies under the aegis of the Young Naturalists. Eventually the society disbanded and became absorbed by the various natural science departments of the University and by the Washington State Museum. The importance of the Young Naturalists' was through its critical role in providing the foundation for the development of a professional natural history community in Seattle.
3883743|The tempo and mode of morphological evolution are influenced by several factors, among which evolutionary transformations in developmental processes are likely to be important. Comparing the embryos of extant species in an explicit phylogenetic framework allows the estimation of minimum average rates of evolution in quantitative developmental parameters. It also allows delineation of the maximum time that complex qualitative transformations in developmental mechanism take to evolve. This paper analyzes rates of quantitative and qualitative developmental evolution using examples drawn primarily from echinoderms. The results demonstrate that rates of developmental evolution can be comparable to rates of morphological evolution. There is no indication that rates of evolution in development are lower for earlier stages, contrary to the prediction of "tree" models of epigenetic interactions. In particular, rates of evolution in oogenesis can exceed rates of evolution in adult body size. Rates of developmental evolution can vary by up to two orders of magnitude within a clade. Whether such large scale variation in evolutionary rates of developmental processes is a general phenomenon can only be answered by further study.
3882726|The ability of different sex hormones to activate social signals can provide important clues to the biochemical mechanisms underlying these signals. A pattern of hormone specificity in which testosterone (T) and estradiol (E), but not dihydrotestosterone (DHT), are effective suggests that conversion (aromatization) of T to E in the brain may be involved or required; a pattern in which T and DHT, but not E, are effective suggests that conversion of T to DHT may be involved. The hormone specificity of social signals in diverse species of vertebrates is reviewed. Aromatization seems to be of widespread behavioral significance in mammals and birds. A role for conversion of T to DHT is suggested for some signals. Aromatization of T may also be important for the activation of adult female behavior in mammals and lizards, and for the early organization of behavior in mammals and birds. Patterns of hormone specificity differ both across species for a given social signal, and within a given species when different signals are compared. An attempt is made to integrate these findings by relating patterns of hormone specificity to hormone levels, steroid receptor and enzyme concentrations and distributions, signal function and dimorphism, and phylogenetic status.
3882359|Cenozoic reptiles are characterized by physiological, morphological, and ecological systems with low energy requirements compared to those of mammals. Ectothermy and low resting rates of metabolism are the primary physiological adaptations of reptiles that produce low energy demand. Adjustments of the oxygen-transport system to different thermoregulatory characteristics among reptiles may be reflected in blood viscosity, oxygen capacity, oxygen affinity, and the temperature sensitivity of oxygenation. Other adaptations reduce the energy cost of oxygen transport. Reptiles have low hematocrits and large, widely spaced capillaries that contribute to a low fluid resistance in the vascular system, but also limit the oxygen-transport capacity. The low oxygen affinity characteristic of the blood of most reptiles appears to facilitate diffusion of oxygen to the tissues, overcoming the intrinsic limitations imposed by the morphological specializations of the cardiovascular system. The low blood oxygen affinity permits virtually all of the oxygen carried by the blood to be delivered to the tissues during periods of stress. It may also help to maintain a relatively high arterial Po
3883219|Many physical factors vary widely and rapidly in residual water bodies left on the shore by the receding tide. Whereas variations of temperature and salinity depend on climatic conditions, the changes of oxygen and carbon dioxide are mainly governed by biological activities. Typically, such waters become hypoxic-hypercapnic at night and hyperoxic-hypocapnic during the day at low tide. According to findings in single-factor laboratory experiments, all these variables can potentially disturb acid-base balance in tidepool animals. However, the whole response of the organism to the complex natural situation can hardly be predicted and must be approached in the field or in simulated environments. Measurements on crabs Carcinus maenas acclimated to an artificial tidepool show only moderate hemolymph acid-base changes, due mainly to counteracting influences of the concerted variations of water oxygen and carbon dioxide. The pH-temperature slope for these crabs was -0.016 pH
3883010|During the twentieth century, geneticists have dramatically changed their assessments of the biological and social consequences of human race differences and race crossing. In the first quarter of the century, most geneticists thought that human races differed hereditarily by important mental as well as physical differences and that wide race crosses were biologically and socially harmful. The period from 1925 to the outbreak of World War II saw no change in geneticists' views on hereditary mental differences between human races, but a shift to agnosticism on the issue of wide race crosses. By the early 1950s, geneticists generally argued that wide race crosses were at worst biologically harmless, but still held to earlier beliefs about hereditary mental differences between races. The final period from 1951 to the present has witnessed the shift to agnosticism on the issue of hereditary mental differences between races. The changes in geneticists' assessments of race differences and race crossing were caused by increased understanding of the complex relationship between genes and environment and by cultural changes.
3883598|Coevolution between parasites and host is a sufficient although not necessary condition for the evolution of secondary sexual characteristics. I review evidence supporting the role of parasites in the maintenance of lek behavior in Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). Males bearing avian malaria (Plasmodium pediocetii) or lice (Lagopoecus gibsoni or Goniodes centrocerci) have significantly lower reproductive success than noninfected males. Malaria-infected males attend leks significantly less frequently and lek attendance is highly correlated with male reproductive success. In addition, males with malaria secured copulations later in the breeding season with hens that were younger, in poorer condition, and less successful than mates of malaria-free males. Lice create hematomas on the air sacs of males which females can detect to avoid lousy males. Results of our field studies are reinforced by experiments; captive males given antibiotics to reduce parasite loads are chosen more often by females in arena trials. Our results lend empirical support for Hamilton and Zuk's (1982) interpretation of the Red Queen's hypothesis, although many unknowns remain in our understanding of the interaction between parasites and Sage Grouse.
3882249|Comparisons of life-cycles of entoprocts, ectoprocts and phoronids indicate that the ectoprocts probably have evolved from entoproct-like ancestors, whereas the phoronids are of a quite different type. A review of our knowledge of structure and development of the three groups lends support to this idea. The Entoprocta and Ectoprocta should accordingly be united into the phylum Bryozoa, which is related to the Annelida and Mollusca. The Phoronida are probably more related to the deuterostomes.
3881371|In recent years the field of invertebrate endocrinology has witnessed considerable progress in certain areas while little or no advancement has been made in others. The great majority of work continues to be done with insects. In this brief review attention is focused primarily on three areas of insect endocrinology: intermediary metabolism, osmoregulation, and growth and development. Some comments are made about the intimacy of the neural and endocrine systems of invertebrates. The apparent production of hormones throughout the nervous system of arthropods is noted, and evidence is cited that direct delivery of neurosecretory hormones to target organs may be common.
3883142|In order for photoperiodic phenomena to be expressed by any animal, the organism must possess some sort of photoreceptor. This may be in the form of an eye or an extraocular receptor, and the invertebrate phyla illustrate fantastic diversity in design of either receptor type. While all the major invertebrate phyla possess photoreceptor organs of one type or another, the best-studied groups are those with highly complex eyes. These include the crustaceans, the molluscs, and some polychaete annelids. Many species in these groups possess eyes having extreme sensitivity, good spatial resolution, and in some cases multiple spectral channels. In a few taxa, the eyes are known to provide input to circadian oscillators, which suggests that they may also be employed for measurement of photoperiod. Extraocular photoreceptors include dermal and ganglionic sense organs, which also feed into circadian systems in numerous invertebrates, from cnidarians to molluscs and arthropods.
3884048|In their intraspecific communication females of the grasshopper Chorthippus biguttulus are able to detect minute gaps in songs. Males of this species can lateralize sound with less than 1 dB difference between the two ears. Behavioral experiments suggested that separate pathways exist for song recognition and sound localization. As for the neurophysiological basis, auditory receptors respond tonically and necessarily carry all information explaining behavioral performances in their spiking responses. However, for pattern recognition as well as for coding of directional information, it seems necessary for the animal to evaluate a whole set of parallel receptor fibres to achieve the precision observed in behavior. The information of receptors converges onto thoracic neurons which drive neurons ascending to the brain. Some of these ascending neurons exhibit dramatic response differences either for various temporal patterns or for sound from different directions and therefore may represent pathways specialized for song recognition or for sound localization.
3884041|Neighboring males in rhythmically calling insects and anurans often chorus in a synchronizing or alternating fashion. Neuroethological investigations of chorusing species reveal that their rhythms are maintained by pacemakers and that a basic interactive algorithm, common to many species, yields the collective synchrony or alternation observed. Traditionally, synchrony has been viewed as a cooperative event. However, recent evidence suggests that a collective synchronous display can also be an incidental outcome of signal "jamming" activities between neighboring males competing to attract females. This arises when female phonotaxis is influenced by a precedence effect in which the first of two or more closely synchronized calls is preferred. Under such circumstances, males are selected to adopt a timing mechanism averting following calls. If males happen to call at comparable rates, the adopted mechanism can yield synchrony as a by-product. Alternation, too, may be produced by a similar mechanism and also represent an epiphenomenon. That alternation, as opposed to synchrony, results may be a mere artefact of the species' solo calling rate, but perceptual constraints may select specifically for alternation in some species.
3883102|Combining injection techniques with ultrastructural observations, and relating these findings to the more traditional physiological and morphological studies have shed new light on the excretory mechanisms underlying the processes of ultrafiltration, secretion and reabsorption in some bivalve molluscs. These basic processes are further elucidated by comparing normal excretory tissues with those in bivalves that have been subjected to stress by pollutants in either the natural environment or under laboratory experimentation. The process of ultrafiltration is size and charge dependent and occurs at the filtration barrier at the base of the podocytes in the pericardial gland. Primary urine may be modified by secretion (primarily from the kidney cells but also from the podocytes), reabsorbtion in the kidney, and by the addition of hemocytes passing from blood spaces through the epithelium into the lumen of the kidney. Numerous concrements (granules, concretions and membranes) that result from lysosomal activities in the podocytes, kidney cells and hemocytes along with the fluid are excreted into the mantle cavity.
3882132|Many of the significant events that occur in the life of an animal are regulated by hormones. Because lipids are the principal energy reserve, it is axiomatic that the regulation of fat synthesis and mobilization would be closely interrelated with the regulation of physiological and behavioral events. The circadian rhythms of prolactin and the corticosteroid hormones have important roles in regulating daily and seasonal changes in body fat stores and in organizing the total animal so that metabolism, reproduction, and behavior are fully integrated.
3882697|The role of development in constraining the directionality and patterns of morphological evolution is examined. The nature of morphological variation and appearance of morphological novelties is determined by the epigenetic properties of the organism. Consideration of these properties has profound implications for current theories of morphological evolution. Developmental constraints impose severe limitations on the gradualistic action of directional selection. Evolution is viewed as the result of differential survival of morphological novelties. However, the production of morphological novelties by developmental programs is not random. This non-randomness in morphologically expressed genetic mutations-an epigenetic property-can result in phyletic trends, parallelisms and convergences.
3883172|This paper offers a conceptual scheme dealing with the way environmental factors influence reproduction in muroid rodents. The combination of small size, short life span, and the fact that most environments are relatively unpredictable for short-lived animals, suggests that opportunism must be a key element in the reproductive strategies of most of these animals. Flexibility is assured by the use of dynamically changing multiple reproductive strategies within populations, simultaneous multiple cueing in individuals, modification of an individual's responses to these cues by earlier experiences, and the use or lack of use of predictors of different kinds.
3882335|Electron microscopy of dividing green algal cells has demonstrated that there are two quite separate phyletic lines in the Ulotrichales and Chaetophorales, groups that are considered classically to have provided the progenitors of the green land plants. These groups are distinguished by whether their mitotic spindle is "open" or "closed," and whether their cytokinetic apparatus at telophase contains a persistent interzonal spindle in which the microtubules are oriented perpendicular to the plane of cytokinesis (including the phragmoplast), or a "phycoplast," in which the microtubules are coplanar with the plane of cytokinesis. The majority of genera of these two groups are related and have the closed spindle and phycoplast, and so they are allied with the Volvocales, Chlorococcales, and the Oedogoniales. A few genera from each group have the open spindle and the persistent interzonal telophase spindle or the phragmoplast (the derivative of the persistent spindle), as do the Conjugales (Zygnematales) and the Charales. That these latter plants are related phyletically to the land plants is clearly demonstrated by the structure of their motile cells (where formed): these are intrinsically asymmetric and possess a single band of cytoskeletal microtubules, just as do the sperm cells of bryophytes, ferns, cycads, and the gymnosperm tree, Gingko. In contrast, the motile cells of genera which have the phycoplast are derived from a much more symmetrical (Chlamydomonad) cell-type with 2-4 bands of cytoskeletal microtubules emanating from 2-4 basal bodies.
3884488|Across major phylogenetic comparisons, the evolution of Hox clusters generally parallels the evolution of axial complexity. Sponges lack a fixed primary body axis and regional axial differentiation. Correspondingly, sponges appear to lack a Hox cluster. Bilaterian animals are characterized, at least primitively, by the presence of an anterior-posterior axis. In many bilaterians, the anterior-posterior axis is finely subdivided into morphologically distinct regions; e.g., consider the many distinct vertebrae of the human vertebral column or the many distinct body segments of the fruitfly. This axial complexity is encoded in part, by the genes of the Hox cluster. Bilaterians possess from seven to upwards of forty Hox genes which sort into four monophyletic classes (anterior, group-3, central, and posterior). Cnidarians (e.g., sea anemones) display an intermediate stage of axial complexity. Unlike sponges, they possess a fixed primary body axis, known as the oral-aboral axis, with a distinct head, body column, and foot. However, the primary axis of cnidarians lacks the degree of axial differentiation found in vertebrates or insects. Cnidarians possess distinct anterior and posterior Hox genes. Cnidarians appear to lack group-3 or central Hox genes. Southern mapping experiments in the sea anemone, Nematostella indicate linkage between an anterior Hox gene, an even-skipped ortholog, and a posterior Hox gene. The linkage of eve to a Hox gene, a condition previously described in a coral, is found in vertebrates but apparently absent in insects. Cnidarians hold the potential to reveal important intermediate stages in the evolution of Hox clusters and axial complexity.
3882688|Ascidian sperm are simplified by omission of the midpiece and proximal centriole with the single mitochondrion located next to the nucleus in the head. Small acro-some-like vesicles appear in some species but their distribution is unclear. Sperm structure correlates well with the location of fertilization; members of the orders Phlebobranchiata and Stolidobranchiata with external fertilization have sperm with short heads and long tails, while sperm from the exclusively internally fertilizing Aplousobranchiata have relatively longer heads and shorter tails. The mitochondrion swells when the sperm contacts the chorion, then translocates along the tail as it enters the chorion to be discarded when the tail disappears inside. Structural changes also occur in the anterior sperm head that have been interpreted as an acrosome reaction. Proteolytic enzymes are involved in penetration of the chorion. The mitochondrial transformation is under control of intracellular pH and Ca
3882919|Yearling male bullfrogs often attempt to intercept and mate with females attracted to older, larger males (male parasitism) instead of defending a territory and attracting their own mates. Mating behaviors like male parasitism are thought to occur only when individuals suffer some strong disadvantage in using the behaviors that are more typical of their species. In this paper, I consider the relative benefits and costs of territoriality vs. male parasitism for yearling males. Yearlings employing male parasitism are only occasionally successful at mating, and in years of reduced male-male competition, they produce significantly fewer young than territorial males of their age. Yearling males that vary in the degree to which they employ territorial behaviors instead of male parasitism do not differ measurably in growth rate or chances of mortality; however, indirect information suggests that territoriality should entail a greater chance of mortality. A computer simulation based solely on observed demographic parameters predicts that yearling males should be territorial whenever they can compete as effectively as two-year-old males. This condition appears to provide little restriction on the breeding tactics of yearling males; however, data on male-male aggressive encounters show that the size differences between one-year-old and two-year-old males are usually sufficient to preclude yearling males from competing successfully. Thus, the observed behavioral plasticity of yearling males may be best interpreted as a means of adjusting their behavioral tactics to levels of male-male competition that can vary within and between breeding seasons.
4620147|The major lipids that have a direct role in buoyancy of marine fish are wax esters, squalene, and alkyldiacylglycerols. Wax esters are stored extracellularly in certain fishes, such as the orange roughy (Hoplostethus atlanticus), and therefore buoyancy appears to be their sole function. Some myctophid fishes have wax-invested swimbladders, where the non-compressible wax esters may aid in diurnal vertical migration, by replacing compressible swimbladder gases. Squalene is metabolically inert in the livers of certain sharks, and therefore probably has buoyancy as its only function. Alkyldiacylglycerols (DAGE) are abundant components of liver oil of certain deep sea sharks and holocephalans, where they may have an important role in buoyancy. Triacylglycerols and cholesterol are lipids that have an indirect role in buoyancy of marine fish. Many fishes in the ocean have oil-filled bones (mostly triacylglycerols). Although this oil aids buoyancy, its major function is as an energy storage lipid which can be utilized during starvation. Cholesterol, which is found in high amounts in the lipid-rich membranes of the swimbladder of deep sea fishes, may aid buoyancy by combining with oxygen gas in the swimbladder membranes to facilitate gas secretion in fish at great depths in the ocean. Further research is needed to understand the physical state of lipids, such as wax esters at deep sea temperatures and pressures, and more evidence is needed to clarify the role of cholesterol-rich membranes in swimbladders of deep sea fishes.
3883496|Crocodylus porosus is a mound-nesting crocodilian in which incubation temperature influences the rate of embryonic development, the probability that embryos will survive to hatching, post-hatching growth rates and the probability of hatchlings surviving to 2 yr of age. Similar responses have been described in Alligator mississippiensis (Joanen et al., 1987) and C. niloticus (Hutton, 1987), and they reflect a suite of "non-sexual" effects of incubation temperature. Temperature-dependent sex determination allocates sex on the basis of these "non-sexual" effects. In C. porosus, it results in maleness being assigned to embryos with high probabilities of surviving and good potential for post-hatching growth. Within the limits of survival, effects of the moisture environment on embryological development rate and hatchling fitness seem minor relative to those of the temperature environment. Reptilian orders have either obligate oviparity (chelonians, crocodilians and rhynchocephalians) or facultative oviparity (squamates), depending on the extent of embryonic development within the oviducts. The distinction is equally one between embryos which are buffered from thermal effects within a female's body (facultative oviparity) and those that are not (obligate oviparity). Facultative oviparity and internal thermal buffering may be the primitive condition within the Class Reptilia, and the "shell-less" eggs of extant squamates may reflect the original amniote egg. Obligate oviparity, which also exists in birds, appears to have been a specialized development, and is a blind end in the evolution of viviparity among vertebrates. The significance of thermal buffering being lost in obligate oviparous reptiles remains unclear.
3883620|Extracellular and intracellular acid-base balance is necessary for the maintenance of normal metabolic processes. The primary source of acid is metabolically produced CO
3884473| The Y-organs of crustaceans secrete ecdysteroids (molting hormones) and are regulated (negatively) by a neurosecretory peptide, molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH). Signaling path(s) in Y-organs were explored that connect MIH receptors ultimately with suppression of receptor number for the uptake of cholesterol (ecdysteroid precursor) and of gene expression of steroidogenic enzymes. Experiments were conducted in vitro with Y-organs of crabs (Cancer antennarius, Menippe mercenaria) and crayfishes (Orconectes sp.). It was confirmed in all species that steroidogenesis occurs in the absence of external calcium
3884537|After opisthobranch molluscs dislodge from the substrate during onset of swimming, the ensuing flexion or undulatory motions are usually not well oriented with respect to predators, prey or suitable substrate. Swimming motions are effective in launching animals off the substrate and elevating them into the water column where they are primarily transported passively by ambient waves and tidal currents. Both active swimming and passive transport on ambient currents may provide escape from predators, search for food and mates, and dispersal to new and potentially adaptive locations. However, loss of contact with the substrate and launching into the water column may also bring a high cost in terms of exposure to diverse risks. I illustrate several forms of opisthobranch swimming and describe their mechanisms and roles. In addition, adaptations of some opisthobranchs to reduce the risks of exposure to predators during swimming are suggested. These adaptations include small size, transparency or inconspicuous color to reduce predation while swimming, and neurobehavioral mechanisms of rheotaxis and geomagnetic sensitivity.
3882661|The brain of actinopterygian fishes can be subdivided into five principal parts, rhombencephalon, cerebellum, mesencephalon, diencephalon and telencephalon, each of which contains a number of separate morphological entities: nuclei, areas or zones. Analysis of the origin and termination of the cranial nerves and their components reveals that many of the morphological entities distinguished in the actinopterygian brain can be interpreted in terms of elementary sensory and motor functions. Experimental anatomical and physiological studies on the fiber connections of the entities thus defined have led to a functional interpretation of many other parts of the brain. Thus, the central circuitry related to such sensory functions as hydrodynamic pressoreception, electroreception, vision, gustation and olfaction are well-known, and the same holds true for the motor systems related to feeding and locomotion. However, there are still many regions in the actinopterygian brain the functional significance of which is poorly understood, and it should be emphasized that most of our knowledge on the organization of the brain of this group rests merely on observations in teleosts. One of the most interesting aspects of actinopterygian neurobiology is that the telencephalon in this group develops in a way which differs fundamentally from that found in all other craniates, and that the telencephalon shows a marked progressive differentiation in the series: polypterids-chondrosteans-halecomorphs-teleosts.
3881959|This article reviews the development of knowledge of physiological and morphological color change in fishes. Emphasis is placed on research in the last three years. Although direct evidence may not be available at present, an attempt is made to show a unifying theme. It is apparent that those circumstances that lead to pigment dispersion as a physiological color change also favor the development of a dark morphological color and vice versa for pigment aggregation. There is ample evidence that control of color change in fishes ranges from fully nervous to fully hormonal. It may be that both neural and endocrine agents exert their effects upon the melanophore by causing changes in the amount of cyclic AMP in the cell. Rhythmic color change, which appears to be a special instance of physiological color change is discussed, but no conclusions are drawn. A tentative scheme for the unification of physiological and morphological color change is advanced with the note that direct evidence is not currently available to support all of it.
3883972|Mitochondrial ATP production is influenced by many factors, including the adenylate status of the cell, the supply of reducing equivalents to the electron transport chain, the supply of oxygen to cytochrome oxidase, and the demand for ATP to do cellular work. Hydrogen sulfide, which is naturally produced in marine sediments, is a poison of aerobic ATP production mainly because it inhibits cytochrome oxidase in the electron transport chain. However, most animals from high sulfide environments exhibit aerobic respiration, and may avoid sulfide poisoning with detoxification reactions that may be useful sources of energy. Sulfide stimulates ADP phosphorylation in mitochondria isolated from gills of Solemya reidi, a sulfide-oxidizing symbiont-harboring bivalve, and a P/O ratio near unity indicates that electrons from sulfide enter the electron transport chain at the level of cytochrome c. Current investigations into the effects of sulfide on oxygen consumption rate, ATP level, cytochrome reduction state and ciliary beat frequency of symbiont-free gills of the mussels Geukensia demissa and Mytilus edulis indicate that animals from high sulfide environments may gain sufficient energy from sulfide oxidation to support cellular work.
3881653|Some birds can fly for more than 1000 kilometers without feeding. Are these distances compatible with the fuel reserves and the power requirements that flying birds are thought to have? The fuel for flight is primarily fat, which can make up 50% of the total body mass of a bird prior to a long distance flight. As the bird uses up fuel during the flight and becomes lighter, the power requirements of flight probably decrease. However, a constant power requirement can be assumed throughout the flight without introducing serious errors into the estimate of maximum flight distance at a given flight speed. Various methods that have been used to estimate the power requirements of flight are reviewed. Estimates based on indirect calorimetry indicate that the maximum flight distances of birds, when a given proportion of body mass is used as fuel, are directly proportional to body mass raised to the 0.227 power. Calculated values of range suggest that birds have small margins of safety in long, over-water flights unless they are aided by winds or vertical air currents.
3883499|The reproductive cycle of the American alligator, Alligator mississippiensis, was studied using blood and tissue samples from wild alligators, and blood samples drawn from a captive breeding stock at the Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge in Louisiana. Generally the cycle commences in March as air and water temperatures increase. By early April the seminiferous tubules are full of actively dividing spermatocytes and maturing spermatids. Testis mass is greatest at this time and plasma testosterone is at a peak (>50 ng/ml), but mature spermatozoa do not appear until late April and mid May when mating takes place. Plasma testosterone levels decline rapidly in June after spermiation, and are low to nondetectable in July and August when the testes are fully regressed. A second small peak in testosterone occurs in September without any obvious changes in testicular histology. In the female a similar temperature dependent initiation of the ovarian cycle occurs in late March. Plasma estradiol levels reach a peak (>600 pg/ml) in mid April, and ovarian follicles increase from 5 mm to 45 mm in diameter at ovulation in May. Plasma testosterone is also high in preovulatory females (ca. 1.5 ng/ml). Plasma progesterone shows a periovulatory surge to levels as high as 16 ng/ml, but declines rapidly during the 3 1/2 wk between ovulation and oviposition. During egg incubation (66 days) when the female remains close to the nest, ovarian steroids remain undetectable.
3883118|Two models are presented for mechanisms leading to the formation of layers during the development of the chick neural retina. The first proposes that the different cells possess intrinsic characteristics that allow them to self sort into specific patterns. The second suggests that the cells migrate, or are moved, along a substrate which guides them into specific locations. Supporting evidence is presented for both hypotheses, suggesting that the overall process is highly complex, using elements of each mechanism.
3882828|In order to account for the known phenomena of the crustacean molt cycle, at least six factors must be postulated: a molting hormone (20-OH-ecdysone), a molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH), an anecdysial limb autotomy factor, a proecdysial limb-autotomy factor, a limb growth-inhibiting factor and an exuviation factor. Only the molting hormone and its derivatives have been chemically well defined. The various factors interact in complex ways to maintain not only a coordinated proecdysial period in preparation for exuviation but also a proecdysial period with the flexibility to respond to such interim hazards as the loss of partially regenerated limbs.
3884561|Bioseismic studies have previously documented the use of seismic stimuli as a method of communication in arthropods and small mammals. Seismic signals are used to communicate intraspecifically in many capacities such as mate finding, spacing, warning, resource assessing, and in group cohesion. Seismic signals are also used in interspecific mutualism and as a deterrent to predators. Although bioseismics is a significant mode of communication that is well documented for relatively small vertebrates, the potential for seismic communication has been all but ignored in large mammals. In this paper, we describe two modes of producing seismic waves with the potential for long distance transmission: 1) locomotion by animals causing percussion on the ground and 2) acoustic, seismic-evoking sounds that couple with the ground. We present recordings of several mammals, including lions, rhinoceroses, and elephants, showing that they generate similar acoustic and seismic vibrations. These large animals that produce high amplitude vocalizations are the most likely to produce seismic vibrations that propagate long distances. The elephant seems to be the most likely candidate to engage in long distance seismic communication due to its size and its high amplitude, low frequency, relatively monotonic vocalizations that propagate in the ground and have the potential to travel long distances. We review particular anatomical features of the elephant that would facilitate the detection of seismic waves. We also assess low frequency sounds in the environment such as thunder and the likelihood of seismic transmission. In addition, we present the potential role of seismic stimuli in human communication as well as the impact of modern anthropogenic effects on the seismic environment.
3882184|In the first polar lobe of the egg of Bithynia tentaculata there is a cup-shaped mass of small vesicles rich in RNA, called the vegetal body. It is passed to the CD blastomere with the polar lobe and then its contents are distributed to C and D. When the polar lobe is removed, embryos form neither mesentoblast nor mesoderm bands. They fail to establish bilateral symmetry or to form eyes, foot, operculum and shell. AB half embryos develop only the structures found in lobeless embryos, while CD halves develop lobe-dependent adult structures such as eyes, foot and shell. AD- and BC-2/4-embryos develop similarly and both have lobe-dependent structures. Three-quarter embryos develop as in other molluscs except that ABD (-C) develops poorly and ABC (-D) develops all lobe-dependent structures. Thus, all evidence available indicates that C receives cytoplasm usually restricted to D in molluscs and therefore has the capacity to exert a similar morphogenetic influence on development.
3883383|Spread-winged behavior is observed in a variety of avian species, and a number of different functions have been ascribed to it. Anhingas and Double-crested Cormorants, representing closely allied avian families, share a spread-winged behavior that is superficially identical. This paper examines the behavior and energetics of these two species to determine whether the primary function of this behavior is wing drying or the supplementation of metabolism. Double-crested Cormorants and Anhingas differ both in the frequency and the contexts in which spread-winged behavior is displayed: Double-crested Cormorants display the behavior sparingly and without relation to ambient temperature or solar radiant intensity, whereas Anhingas exhibit the behavior often, particularly when ambient temperatures are low and solar radiant intensity is high. Similarly Double-crested Cormorants show no significant reduction in metabolic rate at ambient temperatures below thermoneutrality when provided with incident simulated solar radiation, whereas Anhingas significantly reduce their rates of metabolism when exposed to ambient temperatures below thermoneutrality in the presence of incident simulated insolation. Despite the apparent similarities between these two species taxonomically, ecologically, and behaviorally, spread-winged behavior has quite different functions and energetic/ecological consequences for Anhingas as opposed to Double-crested Cormorants. This example illustrates the risks of generalizing from superficialities and of relying on inference and speculation as opposed to data.
3884420|The basic elements of the NO/cGMP signaling pathway have been identified in the nervous systems of animals from nearly all of the major phyla. In crustaceans, the NO/cGMP pathway is associated with certain fundamental neuronal processes, including sensory integration and the organization and production of motor behavior. Here I review the evidence for NO synthesis and action in crustacean neural networks, with an emphasis on the rhythmic motor circuits of the crab stomatogastric ganglion (STG). In the STG, NO appears to be released as an orthograde transmitter from descending projection neurons. NO's receptor, a cytopasmic isoform of guanylate cyclase (sGC), is expressed in a subset of the cells that participate in the gastric mill and pyloric central pattern generating networks. In spontaneously-active, in vitro preparations of the STG, pharmacological inhibitors of the NO/cGMP pathway cause the two rhythmic motor patterns to collapse into a single conjoint rhythm. Parallel motor output is restored when the ganglion is returned to normal saline. Although precise mechanisms have yet to be determined, these data suggest that NO and cGMP play an important role in the functional organization of STG networks. The STG, as well as other crustacean models, provides a promising context for studying the physiological and behavioral aspects of NO-mediated signaling in the nervous system.
3882146|There are three processes in the development of Drosophila which may be studied independently but which are a manifestation of interdependent events which result in the formation of the adult phenotype. These processes are determination, specification and differentiation. The mutant phenotype Abnormal-abdomen is characterized by a loss of abdominal tergites and is controlled by a major mutant gene,
3882604|The proposition that pattern formation across the antero-posterior axis of the developing chick limb is controlled by a special signalling region has prompted many experiments. No result is inconsistent with the basic hypothesis, and much evidence supports the notion of a graded signal from the zone of polarizing activity. We describe the location in space and time, the size, the graded nature of the signal and the distance over which it acts; but despite increasing interest the molecular mechanism remains unknown. A major change in our understanding of the interaction between the polarizing region and the responding limb field is that growth as well as pattern is involved.
3881618|The endocrine basis of gonadal development, reproductive processes, and many peculiarities related to reproduction in females of the highly diversified teleosts can not yet be described satisfactorily. Although estrogens have been extracted from ovaries and peripheral blood of several species and various steroids were found to be produced by ovarian tissue in vitro, there is an almost complete lack of knowledge about their physiological role. It is beyond any doubt that hormones of the pituitary have a marked influence on ovarian maturation but many problems await further clarification. It is not yet clear whether gonadotropic hormones might have a direct influence on certain traits of behavior in females. Biochemical work and a large number of histophysiological studies are at variance with regard to the question whether one or two gonadotropic hormones exist in teleosts. Technical difficulties (e.g., shortage of hormonal material from various sources, species specificity of gonadotropic hormone (s), widely scattered data from a large array of species with considerable differences in reproductive biology) hamper comparative analysis. Investigations on the hypothalamic control of endocrine events are just in their beginning. The unique occurrence of ambisexual species in teleosts raises many questions which remain to be solved.
3882536|Assemblages of neotropical hummingbirds are organized according to parameters of available resources and morphological-behavioral attributes of particular hummingbird species. We distinguish five types of flowers relative to hummingbird foraging, and we define six community roles for hummingbirds in exploitation of various flower types. These roles are: high-reward trapliners, which visit but do not defend nectar-rich flowers with long corollas; territorialists, which defend dense clumps of somewhat shorter flowers; low-reward trapliners, which forage among a variety of dispersed or nectar-poor flowers; territory-parasites of two types (large marauders and small filchers); and generalists, which follow shifting foraging patterns among various resources. Simple communities on islands usually contain one species of low-reward trapliner or generalist and one territorial species, and sometimes support one high-reward trapliner; often these species are sexually dimorphic. More complex mainland communities support varying numbers of species in different roles, depending on the relative importance and constancy of different flower types. High-reward trapliners are particularly important in forest under-stories, while forest canopies and open habitats support large numbers of shorter-billed, mobile birds filling the other five roles. We conclude by pointing out the many parallels that exist with other consumer groups.
3881676|It has been shown that the force required to detach the holdfasts of Fucus vesiculosus depends upon the nature of the substratum; adhesion is less to barnacle shells. The lower adhesion appears to be due to a partial dissolution of the shell by acidic material, probably exudates. Growth of germlings on various substrata indicates that thalli and primary rhizoids develop better on calcareous substrata. Some ecological consequences of the phenomena are examined.
3882627|Juvenile hormone, JH-I was identified as the major juvenile hormone of a primitive insect, the firebrat, Thermobia domestica (Thysanura, Lepismatoidea). Since the same molecule is also present in Orthoptera, Lepidoptera and Diptera, its presence in Thysanura indicates that the juvenile hormones are ancient molecules and have undergone little variation during the evolution of the class Insecta.
3882063|Proboscidactyla flavicirrata is a commensal hydroid whose stolons elongate rapidly in the absence of its host. Growth pulsations comparable to those of other hydroids originate endogenously in each stolon tip, although influenced by the to and fro movements of the hydroplasm. Neither growth pulsations nor elongation appear to depend upon cellular proliferation, because the distal ends of stolons lacked mitotic figures and since irradiation sufficient to halt mitosis failed to stop stolon elongation. Cellular migration is also apparently unessential for elongation because severed stolon tips, isolated from potential sources of reusable cells, nevertheless elongated. Marking experiments suggested that cells changed shape rather than location as severed tips advanced. In old preparations the stolons became attenuated because the tips continued to progress without adequate recruitment of cells. Stolons deprived of their tips failed to elongate although they were still connected to the remainder of the colony and contained mitotic cells. Cytochalasin B simultaneously halted growth pulsations and stolon elongation in a reversable manner. Apparently stolon tip locomotion in Proboscidactyla is essential to the elongation process.
3881548|Lungfishes and amphibians have bimodal gas exchange, but various species employ airbreathing with lungs to different degrees. An increased use of pulmonary breathing is correlated with progressive structural and functional separation of the pulmonary and systemic vascular circuits. Representatives from all genera of lungfishes and several anurans and urodeles utilizing pulmonary breathing, show a preferential distribution of blood tending to minimize recirculation to the systemic and pulmonary circuits. The degree of shunting between the two circuits is variable and may express normal shifts in regional blood flow. The most important structural and functional features influencing the preferential circulation through dipnoan and amphibian hearts include: (a) Dynamics of inflow in the pulmonary and systemic veins; (b) The extent and localization of atrial septation; (c) The partial ventricular septum in lungfishes and the massive ventricular trabeculation in both amphibians and lungfishes; (d) A laminar ventricular outflow pattern; (e) Structural guidance of flow in the partially separated bulbus segment of the heart; (f) Vasomotor reactions in the various outflow vessels from the heart.
3883368|The neuromuscular system of the cockroach contains motor neurons and muscles that can be identified in all individual insects. When the axons of these motor neurons are damaged, they regenerate and eventually reform synapses only with the original target muscles. However, at early times after axotomy transient inappropriate functional connections are made between regenerating neurons and muscles that they never normally innervate. Later, the inappropriate synapses are inactivated, the inappropriate axon branches eliminated and the original innervation pattern reformed. A cell-cell recognition between identified motor neurons and muscles is required to explain these observations, particularly in light of experiments demonstrating the absence of competition between appropriate and inappropriate axon terminals within the muscle. A minimum biochemical requirement of such a cell-cell recognition is the existence of molecules whose presence in muscles correlates with the innervation by identified motor neurons. Using fluorescein labelled plant lectins to detect muscle surface glycoproteins such molecules have been identified. In addition, there should be molecular differences among the surfaces of the axon terminals of the various identified motor neurons. Hybridoma techniques have enabled us to obtain monoclonal antibodies that bind to surfaces of axon terminals of some motor neurons and not others. These lectin receptors and antigens are good candidate recognition macromolecules. Other molecules essential for axonal regeneration have been identified by their presence in embryonic and adult regenerating neurons and their absence from intact adult neurons.
3881467| In rectus abdominis muscles of the frog the active shortening provoked by 15-40 mM K was supported by Ca, Sr, and Ba, but not by Ni, Co, Mn, Cd, or Zn ions. Addition of the latter cations to a solution containing Ca decreased the responses in a manner suggesting competitive inhibition. The shortening of the rectus muscle found in divalent cation-free, low K solutions is abolished by Ni, Co, Mn, and Mg. In rat muscles a transient increase in the contractural responses to elevated potassium was observed when Ni was applied following partial washout of Ca. In single muscle fibers of the barnacle, development of tension was supported by Ca and Sr, and the other divalent cations were without effect. Retention of Ca
3883028|Immune function in higher vertebrates is mediated primarily by multimeric glycoproteins found in the serum and on the surfaces of lymphoid cells. These molecules possess common structural features suggesting that they belong to a supergene family which may have originated from a common ancestral gene. Some multigenic members of the supergene family undergo unique forms of chromosomal rearrangement during somatic development. We have identified immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region
3881430|Information on Alaskan wolf populations was obtained from examination of bounty records, 4,150 wolf radii and ulnae, 1,262 wolf carcasses, and from observations of wolves inhabiting an area of 20,000 square miles where wolves were protected. Pregnant adult female wolves averaged 6.5 fetuses; two-year-old females averaged 5.3 fetuses; female pups were not sexually mature. In Alaska, wolves conceive from late February through early April but most females breed in March. Multiparous females breed earlier than first breeders. Multiparous females produce an average of 7.3 ova and 6.5 implanted fetuses. The loss of ova from ovulation to implantation is significant. Multiparous females produce more ova than first breeders; the difference is highly significant. Mortality of pups rather than the lack of initial production of pups is believed to be the reason for the observed variations in the porportion of pups in wolf populations. Wolf packs include members in all categories of sex and age during the breeding season. Size of the pack is an indicator of abundance. Wolves in an area where they were protected increased at an average rate of 20-30% per year during an 11-year period.
3882111|The fifteen papers presented at a symposium, organized by Dr. R. Glenn Northcutt, entitled "Recent advances in the biology of sharks" are briefly summarized. Comments are made where appropriate and fruitful areas for future research recommended.
4620168|Epicuticular lipids play a critical role in allowing arthropods to thrive in terrestrial environments, by reducing transpiration of water through the cuticle. These lipids consist of a diverse array of compounds, especially long-chain hydrocarbons. Rates of water loss are correlated with hydrocarbon structural features, including chain length, unsaturation and methyl-branching. The water-proofing abilities of cuticular lipids appear to depend largely on their physical properties. In most arthropods, rates of water loss increase rapidly above a "transition" temperature. A widely accepted model proposes that this transition is due to melting of the surface lipids to a fluid, permeable state. Evidence for this hypothesis has primarily been correlative, due to experimental limitations. Recent technical advances in lipid biophysics and water loss measurements have made it possible to test the lipid melting model more directly. Experiments using model cuticles, in vitro preparations and intact arthropods support the idea that the phase behavior of cuticular lipids is a major factor determining cuticular permeability.
3883863|The primitive form of the vertebrate nephron consists of a vascular filtration surface overlain with podocytes, a specialized coelomic cavity to receive the ultrafiltrate, and a tubule for modification to final urine. Although previously thought to be unique to the vertebrates, this design is now known to be widespread among invertebrates, including most of the protochordates, and especially their larvae. Goodrich's rejection of the homology of invertebrate nephridia and the vertebrate nephron, based on a lack of germ-layer correspondence, is shown to be either unsupported by facts or logically dubious. Comparative morphology of adult and larval invertebrates suggests that filtration excretory organs, as protonephridia and metanephridial systems, evolved in the lineage to the bilaterally symmetrical animals and each consisted minimally of a filtration cell, a urinary compartment, and tubule joined to the exterior. Invertebrate metanephridial systems and protonephridia are discussed as homologous structures composed of homologous cells (podocytes, terminal cells; also nephrocytes). The ontogenetic and phylogenetic distribution of nephridia is correlated with body design, especially body size.
3884094|The prolific reproductive capabilities of the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, have facilitated the rapid spread and high densities of this biofouling organism since its accidental introduction into North America less than 10 years ago. Research on its reproductive mechanisms and capabilities may be valuable not only in predicting its further spread, but also in investigating basic mechanisms of reproduction and development and in developing new strategies to mitigate its impact. Since zebra mussels are dioecious and fertilization occurs externally, coordinated maturation, spawning, and other mechanisms have evolved to increase the probability of successful fertilization. The zebra mussel undergoes an annual cycle of gonadal growth and gamete maturation, culminating in one or more spawning events in late spring or early summer. Temperature, rates of temperature change, food availability, and effects of neighboring mussels seem to be critical variables that determine reproductive responses. Serotonin is a biogenic amine which is implicated in spawning behavior and can reliably trigger spawning. Serotonin is present in the gonad in neural varicosities that encircle groups of gametes, and specific serotonergic ligands can mimic or block spawning caused by serotonin. In females, serotonin reinitiates meiosis causing maturation from prophase I to metaphase I prior to spawning. Spawned oocytes contain substances that are species specific sperm chemoattractants. The sequence of binding, entry, and subsequent nuclear movements have been observed with fluorescence and scanning microscopy. Despite their negative ecological and economic impacts, zebra mussels have also provided a new and easily obtainable resource for studies of reproductive mechanisms.
3882651|Development is not a gradual but a saltatory process. A combination of qualitative changes in form and function-thresholds-creates boundaries between a succession of quantitative intervals-steps. Thresholds can be modified by an altered time of appearance of structures and functions (heterochrony), especially during early ontogeny, to form an operational basis for the prolongation of juvenile characters and adaptability into later ontogeny. Whereas such prolongation enables juvenilization in phylogeny, analogous principles may operate on a much shorter time scale to produce the r-selection-like altricial and the K-selection-like precocial trends in ontogeny. The inherited capacity to adjust constantly to the environment (heterochrony) selects for structural, biochemical and behavioral improvements. The tendency is toward the precocial but the way back to altricial forms is left open. The heterochronous adaptations in early ontogeny can "reverse" the vulnerable specialization, should the environment become less stable and/or the community less competitive. Juvenilization, capable of turning gerontomorphosis into paedomorphosis in evolution, and heterochronous shifts of character anlagen, capable of turning a precocial trend into an altricial trend in ontogeny are both part of the same biological process which operates during early ontogeny.
3881989|The socializing functions of nonhuman primate play behavior are discussed. An evolutionary perspective of play behavior is presented to provide a concise view of its importance in primate phylogeny. Some of the major variables influencing play behavior's socializing functions, i.e., gender, age, group structure and population dynamics, and the econiche, are reviewed. It is concluded that the major socializing functions of play behavior include proper social development, setting the basis for the adult dominance hierarchy, social integration of individuals into the group structure, and learning the social communicatory matrix.
3884546|Postinhibitory rebound (PIR) is an intrinsic property of many neurons but the underlying mechanism is not well understood. We studied PIR and its relationship to spike adaptation in B-cells isolated from the buccal ganglia of Aplysia. These neurons exhibit PIR following inhibitory synaptic input and following direct membrane hyperpolarization. Hyperpolarizing and depolarizing voltage clamp pulses from the resting potential evoke slow changes in membrane current that persist in the form of tail currents following the pulses. A substraction method was used to isolate slow tail currents for study. Current-voltage measurements indicate that slow outward tail currents following depolarizing pulses result from increases in membrane conductance, while inward tail currents following hyperpolarizations to -50 and -60 mV result from conductance decreases. The reversal potential of both outward and inward tail current is between -60 and -70 mV. Tail currents activated by pulses more positive than -60 mV are sensitive to the external K
3881957|The structure and distribution of the adrenal gland in fishes is reviewed. Studies on the in vitro and in vivo biosynthesis of adrenocortical steroids and their occurrence in the blood of fishes are evaluated in the light of modern techniques for the identification and quantification of steroids. There follows an appraisal of some literature dealing with the adrenocortical control of intermediary metabolism and ion transport in fishes.
3881717|McCord and Allen (1917) found that extracts of mammalian pineal glands contain a potent contracting agent of larval amphibian melanophores. Lerner and his co-workers determined the chemical structure of this principle and named it melatonin. This agent contracts dermal melanophores at a concentration as low as 10
3883166|Maturational delay of young female mice as the result of exposure to grouped female odors and reproductive inhibition as the result of exposure to isolated adult females have both been observed (Drickamer, 1974; Skryja, 1978). Each has the potential to reduce the growth rate of populations. Reductions in a female's reproduction facilitated by social stimulation from other females, while effective in reducing population growth, may in the case, of maturational delay and reproductive inhibition be an epiphenomenon or exadaptation of selection for improved relative reproductive success in the females possessing these abilities. The ultimate outcome of these selective processes may be the buffering of population numbers, but the selective forces may operate to maximize a female's relative reproductive success. A females' relative reproductive success can be maximized by either increasing her own reproduction or decreasing the reproductive output of other females. A body of evidence exists to suggest that in Peromyscus maniculatus and Peromyscus leucopus, females are physiologically constrained and unable to increase their own reproduction. If the assumption of physiological restraint is correct, then the most effective way for females to maximize their relative reproductive success is to reduce the reproductive output of their competitors. In this paper, maturational delay and reproductive inhibition as they affect both the adult female and young females are discussed. Examination of these effects reveals that while they can be effective in population regulation, their main function and the selective process that produced them is at the level of individual reproduction.
3882558|Successful plant colonizers are characterized by the attributes of weediness but exhibit a variety of life-history traits and genetic systems. Colonizing success would depend on the ability of exploiting niches in competition with earlier inhabitants. Within-population genetic variation plays a role in adaptation to new habitats. An experiment with hybrid derivatives from a cross between wild and cultivated soybean species proved that the ability to establish seedlings in semi-natural conditions was genetically controlled, and was loosely correlated with various traits. A wild rice species, Oryza perennis, shows a perennial-annual continuum among populations. The populations markedly differed in life-history traits and niche dimension, as conditioned by seasonal water regime and man's disturbance of the habitats. Intra-populational differentiation was also observed. The data suggested that various life-history traits are selected as a set.
3883346|The evolution of the tetrapod limb is examined from two perspectives: structural and functional. Rosen et al. (1981) argued that lungfishes are the sister group of tetrapods, with limb characteristics comprising an important subset of their evidence. A re-analysis of the limb characters advocated by Rosen et al. does not support their contention, but instead suggests that rhipidistian fishes of the family Osteolepidae are the closest relatives of the tetrapods. In order to understand the probable selective pressures leading to evolution of the tetrapod limb, a functional analysis of the fins of antennariid anglerfishes was performed. Antennariids use their limb-like fins to traverse underwater substrates. The analysis reveals a large number of functional and morphological convergences between antennariid fins and tetrapod limbs. It is suggested that tetrapod limbs were evolved for underwater transport rather than for locomotion on dry land.
3883331|The lamprey, a lower vertebrate, has recently become a very useful model system for studying motor control, including the organization of neural networks, and for examining the relation between kinematic patterns and underlying neural mechanisms. This aquatic animal displays a number of interesting locomotor behaviors, including flexure reflexes, forward locomotion, backward locomotion, turning, withdrawal, and equilibrium reflexes. A valuable property of the lamprey preparation is that the nervous system survives under in vitro conditions for several days and generates well-coordinated locomotor activity that underlies some of the above behaviors. Thus, the neural control of basic locomotor behaviors can be studied in an isolated nervous system in which the ionic or pharmacological make-up of the bath can be altered and in which stable conditions are provided for intracellular recordings. In addition, recent data indicate that the lamprey preparation is a valuable model system for studies of axonal regeneration and recovery of locomotor function following spinal cord injury. This article will focus on three aspects of locomotor behavior in the lamprey: kinematics and motor activity of locomotor behaviors, descending control of locomotion, and regeneration of descending brainstem command pathways that initiate locomotion.
3882556|Two subspecies of the tiger salamander, Ambystoma tigrinum, have a distinctive polymorphic life history that can include four adult morphs as well as typical and cannibalistic larval morphs. We evaluated the effect of environment on development of larval morphology in two laboratory experiments. In Experiment I, 180 larvae were raised in individual 3-liter containers and fed one of three food levels. Larvae in Experiment II received one of two levels of food, and were raised at three densities: one larva per 3 liters of water (50 containers), three larvae per 22 liters of water (18 containers), or seven larvae per 22 liters of water (18 containers). Cannibalistic morphs developed only in nine containers at the highest density, and their occurrence was independent of the two food levels. Our results suggest the typical and cannibalistic larvae which occur in some populations of Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum is an environmentally induced developmental polymorphism that results from some individuals responding to the environment differently than others. This difference in response may or may not be associated with genetic differences between these morphs. Based on our results we cannot discriminate between two models that differ in their assumptions about the genetic background of individual larvae.
3882399|Interest in the gaseous microclimate of the avian nest during incubation has greatly intensified in recent years because of the potentially important effects of microclimatic factors upon embryonic respiration and hydration. Few data are available describing levels of carbon dioxide and oxygen surrounding the eggs. What information is available, however, suggests that in most species levels of CO
3881440|A detailed analysis was made of the process by which the wolf comes from a state of unfamiliarity and fear of humans to a state of familiarity and friendliness. The nature of the process was found to depend on the age of the animal as well as the technique employed by the experimenter. Although young cubs were found to respond positively to almost any form of human contact, the older cubs and juveniles required much more time and effort to socialize, and fully matured adults offered very special problems which required specialized techniques to overcome. Periods beyond which no socialization could occur were not found. Wolves socialized as cubs had to be reinforced repeatedly in order to maintain their social bond with humans; however, adult wolves retained their socialized behavior even after being left with unsocialized animals and not handled for 18-22 months. Wolves socialized with the aid of tranquilizing drugs (chlorpromazine, librium, and reserpine) did not retain their socialization when the drugs were withdrawn on a variety of schedules. The development of fear responses as the animals grow older, and the association of fear with the unfamiliar, closely parallel the increasing difficulty of acquiring socialized behavior as well as the decreasing difficulty of retaining that behavior once it is acquired. Socialization is viewed as a conditioning process which must take place after the development and in the presence of the free expression of the subjective components of fear, a separable aspect of the general phenomenon of genetic wildness.
3882389|Most of the known mutants of the axolotl were uncovered by R. R. Humphrey through inbreeding laboratory stock or wild animals imported from Mexico. All are spontaneous in origin. We believe that chemical mutagenesis may be useful for increasing both the frequency and variety of new mutations. For our experiments, we have chosen the alkylating agent ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS), because its mode of action is reasonably well understood. Though we were unable to establish a lethal dose of EMS by intraperitoneal injection, we were successful when we administered the compound directly in the water. In the weeks immediately after treatment, females administered sublethal doses did not ovulate, except in response to large injections of follicle stimulating hormone. Recovery took several months. Treated males showed more normal performance, in terms of courtship and the number of spermatophores produced. At low doses, and short intervals after treatment, embryos from spawnings with treated males survived nearly as well as controls. Survival reached a minimum about a month after the male had been treated, then improved again. This depression and recovery may be correlated with the stage of sperm maturation at the time of treatment. Treatment of mature sperm from spermatophores affected only their ability to fertilize eggs in an artificial insemination; fertile eggs developed normally. The most promising procedure would, therefore, seem to be treatment of the male. Following mutagenesis, we propose that gynogenesis be used to aid in the rapid identification of new recessive mutations.
3883644|Six coral reef locations between Miami and Key West were marked with stainless steel stakes and rephotographed periodically between 1984 and 1991. The monitored areas included two photostations in the Looe Key National Marine Sanctuary, two photostations in the Key Largo National Marine Sanctuary, and two photostations in the Biscayne National Park. Stations were monitored for species number, percent cover, and species diversity of the scleractinian and hydrozoan stony corals. Monitoring began in 1984 for photostations in the National Marine Sanctuaries and in 1989 for stations in the National Park. All six areas lost coral species between the initial survey year and 1991. Survey areas lost between one and four species; these losses constituted between 13% and 29% of their species richness. Five of the six areas lost live coral cover. Based upon photographs taken repeatedly at these locations, net losses ranged between 7.3% and 43.9%. In the one station showing an increase in coral cover, the increase was only for the canopy branches of Acropora palmata; understory branches of this same species lost surface area at the same rate as canopy branches gained area. For most of the common species, there was a reduction in the total number of living colonies in the community, and a diminution in the number of large, mature colonies. Throughout the study period, there was no recruitment to any of the photostations by any of the massive frame building coral species. Mortality of this magnitude is often associated with hurricane damage, but in this survey the losses occurred during a period without catastrophic storms. Sources of mortality identifiable in the photographs include (1) black band disease and (2) "bleaching"; other potential sources of mortality are also considered. We conclude, for our survey areas, that loss rates of this magnitude cannot be sustained for protracted periods if the coral community is to persist in a configuration resembling historical coral reef community structure in the Florida Keys.
3883332|This paper reviews nineteen different classes of neuron present in the nervous system of late embryos of the amphibian Xenopus laevis to see how far the behaviour of these animals can be explained in terms of the properties of these neurons. Movements can be initiated by light sensitive neurons in the pineal vesicle and touch sensitive neurons innervating head and trunk skin. Swimming can be stopped by activity in neurons innervating head skin and the cement gland. A trigeminal pathway allows the skin impulse access to the nervous system to initiate movement. Central pathways exist in the hindbrain and spinal cord to carry excitation and inhibition to the opposite side following sensory stimulation. Two classes of spinal neuron appear sufficient to coordinate motor neuron activity in simple reflexes and the basic alternation in swimming. However, the longitudinal coordination in swimming and struggling movements is not understood. For some of the cell classes described there is no evidence on function. I conclude that the Xenopus embryo nervous system and its relation to behaviour is better understood than any other but still leaves us with many questions to answer!
3881941|The limited studies on chondrichthyean islet function are discussed and evaluated. The only certain effect is that of insulin-induced hypoglycemia in all species studied. Bovine and chondrichthyean insulin preparations both have pronounced effects. The evidence also indicates that glucagon is hyperglycemic in some species, but the source of the mobilized glucose is unknown. Blood glucose levels in the Chondrichthyes show wide variations, even within a species, and are apparently not closely regulated. To the present time the effects of pancreatic hormones on carbohydrate metabolism have been investigated, but other possible effects of these hormones on intermediary metabolism (e.g., protein and lipid) have not been studied. The sparse information on the immunology of chondrichthyean insulins is also discussed.
3883287|Considering thyroid hormone levels in the chicken, we should keep in mind that these concentrations are the integrated result of production and release on one hand and elimination, tissue utilization or peripheral interconversion on the other. Moreover all these processes can be and are probably influenced by the relative amounts of thyroxine ( T
3882710|Conventional cladistic analyses of phylogeny can be interpreted as operating at the level of phylogenetic trees. They assume that all "evolutionary steps" (transitions from one character state to the next, along a morphocline) are independent and equal, and, on that basis, select the cladogram which is consistent with the most parsimonious trees. Evaluation of the assumptions of independence and equality requires consideration of hypotheses at the level of scenarios. In some cases, arguments based on functional analysis can suggest revised interpretations of either homology or polarity. If properly formulated, these arguments can alter the evaluation of parsimony for trees to the extent that even the choice of cladogram is affected. The structure of scenario level arguments is identical to that of arguments operating at tree level. Examples of phylogenetic inference in the context of xiphosurans (horseshoe crabs), using both comparative morphological and functional analysis, illustrate this approach. In different cases, orthodox interpretations of relationship are either challenged or corroborated. Although the introduction of functional analysis into the process of phylogenetic inference may appear to compromise the usefulness of the reconstructed phylogeny for testing hypotheses concerning the role of natural selection in evolution, it actually increases the strength of such tests.
3882451|Species of at least 5 orders of insects, 6 families of birds, and 2 orders of mammals, in various combinations, can exploit the cones and seeds of most species of conifers. Lodgepole pine is the exception to this pattern of broad taxonomic diversity of seed predators in that only pine squirrels and coreid bugs attack its serotinous cones. The contrast between lodgepole pine and other conifers demonstrates that large intrinsic variation in the abundance of a resource fosters the evolution of a broad range of taxonomic groups to exploit the resource. The diverse groups are limited by different predators and alternate resources when conifer seeds independently decrease in abundance.
3882811| This paper compares the ultrastructure, development, and functional morphology of the stylet apparatus in monostiliferous hoplonemerteans (Phylum Nemertea: Class Enopla). The apparatus occurs in the middle region of the worm's eversible proboscis and consists of two main components: 1) a central stylet that is attached to an anchoring device called the basis; and 2) reserve stylet sacs that contain nail-like reserve stylets. The knob-shaped proximal piece of the central stylet is embedded in the anterior end of the basis, and the tapered shaft of the stylet is directed anteriorly. When the proboscis is fully everted, the central stylet is used to stab such prey as polychaete worms and small crustaceans. Wounds inflicted by the stylet allow the introduction of paralytic neurotoxins that are produced by glandular cells in the epithelial lining of the proboscis. Reserve stylets form intracellularly within the reserve stylet sacs and serve to replace the central stylet when it becomes lost or damaged. Fully developed stylets typically measure 50 to 250 m in length and comprise an organic core surrounded by an inorganic cortex that contains calcium phosphate. In juvenile worms that are four days to several weeks old, reserve stylets are assembled before other components of the stylet apparatus are fully differentiated. Subsequently, a reserve stylet is transferred to the central region of the proboscis and placed on the basis. Stages in the process of stylet attachment are described, and the probable sequence by which the stylet apparatus co-evolved with toxin-producing cells is discussed. 
3882139|During the course of insect evolution lipids have assumed a significant role in facilitating several important morphogenetic and physiological strategies. Stored glycerides provide a convenient reservoir of metabolic energy for periods of prolonged energy demand, while cuticular lipids are of profound importance in enabling terrestrial insects to resist dessication. The present review identifies the lipid classes of fat body, haemolymph and cuticle, and summarises the contribution of lipids to insect development, migration, diapause, protection, reproduction and flight. The release, transport and uptake of lipid during flight is discussed.
3883399|Most animal phyla lack specialized respiratory surfaces and all phyla contain groups that, for some part of their life history, depend entirely upon integumental diffusion of respiratory gases. Animals that are diffusion-limited, yet function aerobically are generally small with large surface areas and there has been convergence for this among all phyla including the coelomate invertebrates. Acoelomates lack specialized respiratory structures but have highly modified integuments, functional specializations, and features ranging from symbioses to air gulping that compensate for diffusion limitation. The diversity of structures functioning for integumentary respiration is much greater among invertebrates than vertebrates. Among the higher invertebrates with respiratory surfaces, accessory integumentary O
3884554|We present an overview of the isolation and characterization of three hormones (or hormone families) important for the growth and development of decapod crustaceans. These hormones include the ecdysteroids (steroid molting hormones), the hyperglycemic hormone neuropeptide family, and the terpenoid methyl farnesoate. Using examples primarily from our laboratory, we describe work on these hormones using various life stages of the lobster (Homarus americanus) as the principal model.
3881973|Approximately 45 species of kangaroos and their smaller relatives occupy virtually every terrestrial habitat in Australia. The most social macropod is the whiptail wallaby, which lives in permanent, discrete mobs of up to 50 individuals of mixed age and sex. Group formation is facilitated by their grazing habits, open forest and pasture habitat, partly diurnal activity, and low level of intraspecific aggressiveness. Pressure from cursorial predators, plus the whiptail's non-seasonal breeding and brief estrus, make group living adaptive. Ancestral macropods are believed to have been rabbit-sized inhabitants of dense forest, omnivorous, nocturnal, and essentially solitary. The major evolutionary trends in the family have been toward larger size and grazing habits; the trends toward diurnality and group living have had more modest results. Progressive stages in macropod social evolution may be represented by the present-day musk rat-kangaroo, the quokka, and the whiptail wallaby.
3884042|Typically, anuran amphibians communicate in a complex acoustic environment to which the calls of many males contribute. Although research has demonstrated that male vocal behavior is responsive to changes in this environment, a more thorough understanding of male-male interactions should benefit from the use of computer based systems for data acquisition and interactive playback. I discuss how I have used such systems in studies of note timing behavior, unison bout singing, aggressive behavior and female choice. In addition, I indicate how energetic constraints may be involved in shaping the temporal dynamics of chorusing.
3884531|The Cactus-Microorganism-Drosophila Model System of the Sonoran Desert represents an excellent paradigm of the role of chemistry in plant-animal interactions. In this system, four species of endemic Drosophila feed and reproduce in necrotic tissue of five species of columnar cacti. Studies over the past 35 yr have characterized a myriad of interactions between the three major components of the model system. The cacti contain a variety of allelochemicals which are primarily responsible for the highly specific pattern of host plant utilization exhibited by the desert Drosophila. Plant chemistry, through its effect on the microbially produced volatile patterns, is further involved in host specificity because the flies use the volatile pattern to cue in on necroses in the appropriate species of cactus. The metabolic activities of microorganisms (bacteria and yeasts) living in the necrosis can affect the substrate chemistry in both positive and negative ways (i.e., acting to increase or to decrease the toxicity of the substrate). Finally, cactus chemistry may affect drosophilid mating behavior since larval rearing substrate has been shown to influence adult hydrocarbon epicuticular composition. In D. mojavensis, adult hydrocarbon profile has been implicated as a determinant of mate choice leading to premating isolation between geographically isolated populations that use chemically different cactus substrates. Current research is focused on the evolution and regulation of genes whose products (cytochrome P450 enzymes) are involved in the specific insect-host plant relationships which exist between the Drosophila species and the cactus species. There are many reasons why investigators choose to focus their research efforts on what are referred to as "model systems." Typically included among these would be the idea that model systems are easier to study because they are less complex than other scientific situations. At the same time, model systems should be representative of more complex, natural systems so that information that is obtained from their study is broadly applicable. For almost a century, the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has served as a model organism for the study of genetics. As a genetic paradigm, Drosophila is more tractable to scientific investigation than most organisms and has provided important insights into a wide variety of human maladies from alcohol abuse to neurological brain disorders (Bellen, 1998). Similarly, the interrelationships of the columnar cacti and the cactophilic Drosophila species of the Sonoran Desert have, for the past 35 yr, provided an excellent model system with which to study relevant questions in evolution, ecological genetics, and chemical ecology. The intent of this article is to briefly review and characterize the chemical interactions between the plants (cacti) and animals (Drosophila) of this model system, and, in addition, provide some thoughts on possible future directions for integrative approaches in this research area.
3882437|Fever, an elevated thermoregulatory "set-point," occurs in vertebrates from fishes through mammals in response to infection with appropriate pathogens. The long phylogenetic history of fever supports the hypothesis that fever has an adaptive or beneficial role (i.e., fever is a component of the host's immunological defenses). Besides providing insight into determining the role of fever in disease, ectothermic vertebrates have also served as excellent animal models to specifically answer many questions relating to fever and disease. For example, survival studies using goldfishes, lizards, and newborn mammals (which are also virtually ectothermic) have shown that an elevated body temperature increases the survival rate of the infected organism. Furthermore, by using ectotherms it has been possible to demonstrate that the reduction in serum iron which accompanies most infections is not directly attributable to an elevation in body temperature. Nevertheless, a rise in body temperature, coupled with a fall in serum iron, appears to constitute a coordinated host defense mechanism in response to at least some bacterial infections in reptiles and mammals, and perhaps other groups of vertebrates.
3881950|Several active principles (urotensins) have been isolated from teleost caudal neurosecretory systems. The original classification of these substances has been recently modified: There are at least two mammalian hypotensive factors (with no effects yet known in fish), possibly two smooth muscle contractants, arginine vasotocin, and factors affecting Na+ movement. A factor affecting lymph heart frequency has not yet been compared with other peptides. Evidence for the hormonal nature of some of these substances includes subcellular localization in granules and calcium-dependent release by depolarization. The physiology of the system is still not clear. The best evidence for an osmoregulatory role includes effects of extracts on renal diuresis and Na+ movement and changes in firing rates of caudal neurosecretory neurons by altered ionic composition of the blood. Most other evidence is subject to alternative explanation. Several observations suggest a role for this system in reproduction.
3884378|The nucleus of the intervertebral disc in humans shows the most dramatic changes with age of any cartilaginous tissue. It originates from the notochord. In the foetus and infant, the nucleus contains actively dividing and biosynthetically active notochordal cells. The proteoglycans and other matrix components produced have a high osmotic pressure, imbibe water and maintain a hydrated structure which, though it has little mechanical strength, has a high swelling pressure which maintains disc turgor. In some species, the notochordal cells and the mucoid nucleus pulposus persist throughout adult life. However by about 4 yr of age in humans, the notochordal cells have disappeared to be replaced by those of chondrocytic appearance but of unknown origin. These cells continue to produce proteoglycans but also synthesize significant amounts of collagen. The nucleus becomes firmer and less hydrated and loses its transparent appearance. The cell density of the adult nucleus is very low with cells occupying less than 0.5% of tissue volume; each cell thus has to turn over and maintain a large domain of extracellular matrix. The density of living cells decreases with age, possibly because of problems with nutrient supply to this large avascular tissue. Proteoglycan concentration also falls, and nucleus hydration decreases markedly, the disc discolours and in many cases clefts and fissures form. In most adults, the disc nucleus degenerates eventually to a stage where it can no longer fulfil its mechanical role.
3882422|The bilateral paired heart tubes of the leech Hirudo medicinalis are controlled, via excitatory synapses, by a set of bilaterally paired segmental heart motor neurons (HE cells) which are in turn controlled, via inhibitory synapses, by a set of bilaterally paired segmental heart interneurons (HN cells). The HE cells produce rhythmic impulse bursts because their inherent steady discharge is periodically inhibited by the HN cells, most of which produce impulse bursts endogenously. The known synaptic interactions among the HN cells and HE cells can account well for the observed behavior of the hearts. The HE cells are coordinated by the HN cells such that the segmental heart tube sections on one side constrict in a caudorostral sequence (peristalsis), while the segmental heart tube sections on the other side constrict nearly synchronously (non-peristalsis). This difference in the coordination modes of the two hearts is not permanent; reciprocal coordination mode transitions occur every 10 - 50 heartbeat cycles. Only one member of HN(5) cell pair (the HN cells of the fifth segmental ganglion) is rhythmically active at a time, the other being completely inactive. By coordinating the front and rear HN cells the active HN(5) cell produces non-peristalsis ipsilaterally and peristalsis contralaterally. Reciprocal changes in the activity-inactivity pattern of the HN(5) cell pair are responsible for the reciprocal changes in the coordination mode.
3884444|Recent discoveries of similarities in the developmental genetics underlying the formation of insect and vertebrate eyes, hearts, segments, and other structures have fueled new speculation and debate about the origins of these features and the morphological complexity of early bilaterians. The pivotal issue concerning these developmental similarities is whether they represent convergence of pattern-forming mechanisms or reveal developmental regulatory mechanisms or even physical characteristics derived from a common ancestor. Here, we set forth an explicit hierarchical set of criteria for assessing developmental genetic similarities among animals. We suggest that interpretations of convergence versus descent from common ancestors should be weighed by the number, type, and phylogenetic distribution of genetic regulatory similarities. We then apply these criteria to the analysis of appendage evolution. We conclude that there has been no continuity of any structure from which the insect and vertebrate appendages could be derived, i.e., they are not homologous structures. However, there is abundant evidence for continuity in the genetic information for building body wall outgrowths and/or appendages in several phyla which must date at least to the common, potential appendage-bearing pre-Cambrian ancestor of most protostomes and deuterostomes. In order to further trace the origin of this genetic information and of appendages, it will be essential to analyze more primitive taxa such as the Cnidaria and to obtain a much better fossil record of pre-Cambrian animals.
3884192|Egg size and nest site selection are two potential effects that can have a persistent influence on the phenotype of offspring. In this paper, I develop the maternal condition-dependent choice hypothesis for the maintenance of environmental sex determination. The hypothesis stipulates three conditions: 1) there must be variation in the maternal effect, 2) the variation in the maternal effect must influence fitness of the offspring differently between the sexes, and 3) female reproductive behavior is determined by her condition or how her condition will influence her offspring's fitness. Females with the ability to recognize environments that have a higher probability of producing the sex that would benefit the most from maternal condition will have an advantage. Using egg size as a maternal effect, I test this hypothesis in the diamondback terrapin, an emydid turtle with temperature-dependent sex determination. Terrapins have large variation in egg size among clutches and little variation within clutches. Egg mass is the primary determinant of hatchling mass and can result in as much as a three year difference in reaching minimum size of first reproduction in females, but may not affect age or size of first reproduction in males. Finally, terrapins select open nesting sites with warmer incubation conditions and place larger eggs there. Females place smaller eggs in cooler sites. Terrapin reproduction is consistent with the prediction of the maternal condition-dependent nest site choice hypothesis. The model and supporting data demonstrate how maternal effects can be an important factor to consider in studies of environmental sex determination.
3882712|Functional morphological analysis has revealed the existence of three functionally and morphologically different mechanisms underlying the tongue-parasphenoid and pharyngeal-parasphenoid bites in advanced teleost fishes. The bite is specialized differently in Pristolepis and the Anabantoidei, and in a primitive condition in both the Nandidae and Channiformes. These taxa belong to at least three unrelated lineages and do not share a common ancestry as was previously postulated. It has been possible to show how an originally primitive character can acquire a new biological and phylogenetic meaning by being integrated into a specialized functional complex. Based on functional data on the pharyngeal jaw apparatus, a new hypothesis is proposed stating that the Cichlidae, Embiotocidae, Labridae, Odacidae and Scaridae represent a monophyletic assemblage. This case study has demonstrated that reciprocal illumination of functional morphological and phylogenetic findings can lead to: (1) better tested and more precise phylogenetic hypotheses; (2) the construction of new hypotheses on the basis of specialized character complexes which were unrecognized by the use of a purely descriptive morphological approach.
3883939|Grasshoppers exhibit a diversity of ventilatory patterns depending on activity status. For each pattern, the mechanism and control of gas exchange is analyzed in terms of a two-step model, consisting of tracheolar and trans-spiracular steps in series. During the intermittent gas exchange that characterizes the most quiescent grasshoppers, spiracles open and close in response to changing carbon dioxide, and trans-spiracular resistance controls gas exchange. In resting but alert grasshoppers, abdominal pumping occurs, and gas exchange is controlled equally by tracheolar and trans-spiracular resistances; tracheal oxygen and carbon dioxide are regulated by variation in abdominal pumping and spiracular opening. During hopping, abdominal pumping does not occur, and bulk gas flow is driven by cuticular deformations associated with locomotion. Increased cellular oxygen consumption depends on use of internal oxygen stores and increased partial pressure gradients. After hopping ceases, abdominal pumping increases dramatically and restores tracheal gas composition; however, the rise in abdominal pumping after hopping is not affected by tracheal gas levels. During flight, bulk flow to the flight muscles is driven by tidal thoracic auto-ventilation, while the remainder of the body is ventilated by abdominal pumping. During both hopping and flight, the greatest resistances to gas transport exist in the tracheolar rather than the trans-spiracular step.
3884190| The degree to which a female partitions resources between fecundity and per offspring investment is a central question in life-history theory. Maternal effects may influence the nature of this tradeoff through their effect on per offspring investment and subsequent offspring fitness. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of female age and size on brood size (number of offspring), per offspring investment, and fitness in the polychaete Streblospio benedicti. Early stage embryos were collected from brooding females of known age and size over a period of 100 days; these embryos were counted and analyzed for their C and N content. Female size had a positive effect on brood size; larger females produced larger broods. However, brood size decreased with female age (females did not increase in size after reaching sexual maturity). Brood size declined 20-46% between 60 and 160 days of age. During this same age period per offspring investment, measured in terms of C and N, increased by 25%. Offspring survivorship and size at two weeks post-release from the female were used as measures of offspring fitness. Offspring survivorship increased 28% between 60 and 160 days of age. Increased growth in offspring from older females resulted in a 23% increase in offspring size at two weeks. Including the maternal age effect in two population models for S. benedicti increased population growth rate (). Population growth was increased to a greater degree when the maternal effect was modeled by enhancing offspring survival compared to when fecundity was increased by the same proportional amount. This suggests that the maternal effect may be adaptive, particularly when conditions for offspring survival and growth are poor. 
3883614|The goals of this paper are twofold. One is to provide a means to access the literature that reports most aspects of crustacean chemoreception. The intent is not to provide a review or to assign credit for original discoveries. Several references appear in the literature section that are not cited in the text. These references are in important areas that are rapidly growing but not discussed here due to lack of space. The second goal is to outline my perspective on how chemicals affect the daily lives of crabs. I have taken liberty with the term crab and have included information from studies on true crabs, lobsters, shrimp, crayfish and hermit crabs. The message is that chemosensory input, when placed in the context of the environmental and physiological status of crabs, is a means of modulating daily activity.
3881681|Current investigations of the three principal families of ectoproct bryozoan burrowers has shown that while two of the families, the Terebriporidae and the Immergentiidae, belong to the minor Order Ctenostomata, the third family, Penetrantiidae, previously considered a ctenostome, actually belongs to the major Order Cheilostomata. The implications of this are important; we have considered the burrowing bryozoans to be a small obscure group, specialized for the burrowing mode of existence. We must now consider the possibility that there may be many more species of burrowing bryozoans as yet undiscovered, that they occur in at least two of the three bryozoan orders, and that burrowing constitutes an important ecological niche or mode of adaptation for the bryozoans. While such a change may seem to be merely a taxonomic maneuver, it may also serve to emphasize the diversity of the ectoproct bryozoan groups which do burrow, and perhaps encourage research on them. At present we are making progress describing the living species, their anatomy and histology. We still know almost nothing about how they penetrate the substrate, nothing about possible effects upon the host organism, and nothing about their means of geographical distribution, although they seem to occur worldwide, burrowing primarily in molluscan shells.
3882522|Muscles shorten, stay the same length and are stretched while they are active during normal modes of terrestrial locomotion. The relative importance of these different types of muscular activity changes as animals change gait. Energy is conserved during a walk by an alternate storage and recovery of gravitational potential energy within each stride, as in an inverted pendulum. In order for this transfer of energy to take place, muscular activity is required to hold the limb rigid while the animal rotates over it. Energy is conserved by a spring mechanism during running, trotting, galloping, and hopping. Energy is stored when active muscles and their tendons are stretched and recovered as they subsequently shorten. The recruitment patterns of motor units as a function of speed therefore, depends on the type of muscular activity as well as the force exerted. Discontinuities in the cross sectional area of active fibers with increasing speed have been observed at the trot-gallop transition. It is suggested that at this point the trunk is recruited as an additional spring enabling more energy to be stored elastically. It is concluded that we must consider what muscles are doing during normal modes of locomotion before we become too involved in designing schemes of motor unit recruitment.
3882267|The least explored areas in the phylogenetic development of immunity are the primitive chordate subphyla. The limited studies on tunicate internal defense mechanisms are presented and discussed. Primary and secondary immune responses and immunological maturation to vertebrate erythrocytes in Ciona intestinalis suggest that its internal defense mechanisms may be closely allied to both the invertebrates and vertebrates.
3881814| Red chromatophores (erythrophores) of the prawn, Palaemonetes vulgaris, are controlled by pigment-dispersing and -concentrating hormones. Recent experiments on the modes of action of these hormones are described, followed by a theory which satisfactorily explains the data. Red pigment-concentrating hormone is dependent upon sodium ions for a strong response to occur. There is a similar dependency of red pigment-dispersing hormone upon calcium ions. Ouabain inhibits the response to red pigment-concentrating hormone; tetrodotoxin enhances it. Erythrophores with maximally dispersed pigment had a transmembrane potential of 5515 mv inside negative in one series of experiments and 564 mv in another. No appreciable changes in permeability occur when depolarizing and hyperpolarizing currents are passed through a microelectrode within the chromatophore. Red pigment-concentrating hormone causes hyperpolarization of the transmembrane potential. The magnitude of hyperpolarization is directly related to the degree of pigment concentration. Adenosine 3, 5-monophosphate (cyclic AMP) causes dispersion of the red pigment but has no pigment-concentrating effect. The primary action of red pigment-concentrating hormone is most likely stimulation of a pump which exchanges sodium ions from inside the chromatophore with potassium ions from the outside, whereas red pigment-dispersing hormone quite likely stimulates entry of calcium ions into the chromatophore. 
3882228|Istock (1967) argued on theoretical grounds that "complex life cycles are inherently unstable over evolutionary time," yet the vast majority of frogs have distinct adult and larval forms. The maintenance of complex life cycles in anurans seems related to the unusual morphology and feeding ecology of the larval stage. An argument is presented that tadpoles are highly specialized suspension feeders adapted for utilizing rapid rises in primary production as a food source. Such resources are likely coupled to environmental fluctuations and available for only a limited amount of time during any year. In being adapted to feed on a temporary resource, tadpoles are obliged to change their feeding habits after a certain length of time. From a general consideration of matters such as predator susceptibility, feeding behavior, and growth patterns for suspension feeders, a case is made for why neotenic tadpoles have never been found and are unlikely to occur. The argument presented here links complex life cycles with short term environmental perturbation. Frog species with direct development tend to occur in relatively aseasonal environments, supporting this conclusion. The oldest known fossil frog is found in a seasonal rock formation. There has been a gradual trend toward increased seasonality since the early Mesozoic, apparently due to continental drift. This phenomenon may have some indirect and long-term bearing on the general maintenance of complex life cycles through evolutionary time. Understanding larval ecology is fundamental to understanding the process of metamorphosis and the maintenance of complex life cycles.
3882120|When AVT (arginine vasotocin) was given neonatally during the period when the brain is undergoing sexual differentiation, increased growth of the reproductive organs was observed in adulthood. Injection of AVT after this neonatal period in immature animals led to diminished growth of the accessory organs and in some cases the gonads themselves. The hypertrophic response of the in situ ovary in adult mice following unilateral ovariectomy (UO) was inhibited in a dose-related manner by a single intraperitoneal injection of freshly prepared AVT. Much less AVT was required for this response when injected into the third ventricle. After intraperitoneal injection, arginine vasopressin (AVP), lysine vasopressin (LVP), and 4-leucine vasotocin (4-leu-AVT) also inhibited compensatory ovarian hypertrophy whereas oxytocin did not. The commonality in the structure of these antigonadotrophic peptides include a closed ring and a basic amino acid in position 8. After opening the disulfide bond of these nonapeptides with mercaptoethanol, a single injection of the reduced AVT, AVP, LVP, or 4-leu-AVT into UO mice causes exaggerated hypertrophy of the remaining ovary. When added with leuteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LRH) to culture medium containing hemipituitaries from castrated estrogen-progesterone primed female rats, AVT significantly increased the release of radioimmunoassayable LH above that due to LRH alone. AVT might interact at all levels of the hypothalamo-hypophysealgonadal axis.
3882642| Mechanism of locomotion of deep cells of Fundulus heteroclitus was studied in vivo during gastrulation with the aid of time lapse cinemicrography (Nomarski differential interference contrast optics), scanning electron microscopy of cells known to be moving at the time of fixation, and cell culture. These are our findings. 1) Deep cells usually move rapidly, at about 10-15 m/min, regardless of whether they move by blebbing or spreading. Evidence suggests that this high speed is associated with weak adhesion of the trailing edge: it remains rounded, without large retraction fibers, and it advances continuously with advance of the leading edge, not sporadically, as it would if it adhered strongly. 2) In contrast, when stationary cells in close contact separate, they remain connected by retraction fibers, suggesting strong punctate adhesions. 3) Locomotion by shortening of a long lobopodium is really a form of spreading movement; the tip of a lobopodium always spreads. Also, since speed of shortening decreases with continuance, it may depend primarily on elastic recoil rather than active contraction. 4) Fundulus deep cells appear to move in two ways: a) protrusion of blebs, followed by much cytoplasmic flow; b) protrusion of lamellipodia, accompanied by filopodia and frequent cell shortening. 5) Filopodia were not found except at the leading edge of a spreading lamellipodium and often spread themselves; perhaps filopodia and lamellipodia are interconvertible. 6) A lamellipodial margin may form undulations in vivo that move backward like ruffles in vitro. 7) At all times, whether stationary or moving, the surface of deep cells is smooth, raising unanswered questions concerning the source of surface for their rapid protrusive activity. 
3882518|An investigation of developing skeletal muscle necessitates the study of three categories; the derivation of muscle cells or fibers, myofilament synthesis and interactions, assembly of myofilaments into functional sarcomeres of striated myofibrils. With few exceptions, skeletal muscle cells are of mesodermal origin, and consist of rounded mononucleated cells which elongate and fuse with one another to become myotubes. Within the sarcoplasm, myofibrillar proteins are synthesized and grouped into interacting thick and thin filaments. Crude, non-striated myofibrils result from linear arrangements of thick and thin filaments which are horizontally aligned by the invaginating sarcotubular system. After Z-lines form, providing attachment sites for thin filaments, a typical banding pattern follows. The newly formed Z-lines pull apart, followed by the attached thin filaments, and repeating "relaxed" sarcomeres are the resulting striated myofibrillar pattern.
3883168|Changes in generation time can have a major impact on population dynamics in small, rapidly breeding rodents. The onset of puberty in female house mice (Mus musculus domesticus) can vary from the age of 4 wk to 8 wk as a function of male acceleratory or female inhibitory urinary pheromones in laboratory experiments. In field studies, puberty inhibition has been demonstrated to vary directly with natural and experimental increases in population density. A model is developed suggesting that the sexual maturation of juvenile females residing in a dense population is inhibited by a pheromone produced by crowded females. The signal among females in a dense population seems to be mediated by the vomeronasal organ.
4620199|Post-activation potentiation is a phenomena that occurs only in fasttwitch muscle fibers. Its main effect is to enhance muscle force at sub-maximal activation levels for a short duration of time following previous muscle activation. We characterized this phenomenon in feline caudofemoralis (CF) muscle (composed of 100% fast-twitch muscle fibers) to understand its importance during physiological patterns of activation. During such patterns (e.g., 43 pps, 8 pulse trains delivered at 1 sec intervals) CF potentiated rapidly and apparently maximally. When CF was allowed to relax, potentiation decayed slowly with a time constant 20-40x slower than the rise-time. The level of potentiation reached during the potentiating paradigm was stable in response to a wide range of stimuli, including various stimulation rates (15-120 pps) and various inter-train intervals (up to 10 sec). The shape of the twitch force-length curve for potentiated CF was similar to that of the tetanic force-length curve in either the potentiated or unpotentiated state. In contrast, the shape of the twitch force-length curve for unpotentiated CF was shifted markedly to the right accompanied by a narrowing of the curve's peak. We conclude from our observations that fast-twitch muscle fibers operate and should be modeled in a state of full potentiation, and that modeling the potentiated state may actually be simpler than modeling the unpotentiated state.
3882845|Major ecological problems of our polluted troposphere include airborne toxic chemicals, acid rain and photochemical smog, all three of which are now recognized as being closely related chemical phenomena. We also recognize that in order to develop cost-effective strategies for their control, which protect public health and the environment, there must be close scientific interactions between chemists and biological scientists. For example, of rapidly emerging importance is the development of risk assessment evaluations for specific aspects of each of these problem areas. In preparing such assessments, chemists must define the "exposure," and biological scientists the "effects." In this paper, I discuss an example of how such close interactions proved indispensible in our search for atmospheric mutagens and carcinogens. Thus, an integrated chemical/microbiological procedure for the isolation and identification of particulate chemical mutagens in respirable diesel soot and ambient particles is described. Emphasis is placed on our use of the short-term, Ames Salmonella typhimurium bacterial mutagenicity test as a rapid, and relatively inexpensive, means of following the biological activities of these environmental mutagens through the chemical steps of their separation, isolation and identification from highly complex environmental samples. Possible mechanisms of formation of these particulate mutagens are discussed. They include the reactions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons present on the surfaces of combustion-generated particles with gaseous co-pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide plus nitric acid, and ozone. In discussing this research on a societally "relevant" problem, we illustrate the importance of "Science as a Way of Knowing." We further suggest that this integrated approach to scientific problem solving by chemical and biological scientists might serve as an example of a discussion topic on human ecology for undergraduate courses in the natural sciences.
4620174|Morphological and physiological plasticity is often thought to represent an adaptive response to variable environments. However, determining whether a given pattern of plasticity is in fact adaptive is analytically challenging, as is evaluating the degree of and limits to adaptive plasticity. Here we describe a general methodological framework for studying the evolution of plastic responses. This framework synthesizes recent analytical advances from both evolutionary ecology and functional biology, and it does so by integrating field experiments, functional and physiological analyses, environmental data, and genetic studies of plasticity. We argue that studies of plasticity in response to the thermal environment may be particularly valuable in understanding the role of environmental variation in the evolution of plasticity: not only can thermally-relevant traits often be mechanistically and physiologi linked to the thermal environment, but also the variability and predictability of the thermal environment itself can be quantified on ecologically relevant time scales. We illustrate this approach by reviewing a case study of seasonal plasticity in the extent of wing melanization in Western White Butterflies (Pontia occidentalis). This review demonstrates that 1) wing melanin plasticity is heritable, 2) plasticity does increase fitness in nature, but the effect varies between seasons and be years, 3) selection on existing variation in the magnitude of plasticity favors increased plasticity in one melanin trait that affects thermoregulation, but 4) the marked unpredictability of short-term (within-season) weather patterns substantially limits the capacity of plasticity to match optimal wing phenotypes to the weather conditions actually experienced. We complement the above case study with a casual review of selected aspects of thermal acclimation responses. The magnitude of thermal acclimation ("flexibility") is demonstrably modest rather than fully compensatory. The magnitude of genetic variation (crucial to evolutionary responses to selection) in thermal acclimation responses has been investigated in only a few species to date. In conclusion, we suggest that an understanding of selection and evolution of thermal acclimation will be enhanced by experimental examinations of mechanistic links between traits and environments, of the physiological bases and functional consequences of acclimation, of patterns of environmental variability and predictability, of the fitness consequences of acclimation in nature, and of potential genetic constraints.
3882319|There are advantages to be gained when an animal abandons its ancestral home, the ocean, and advances across the littoral zone to the land. But along with the advantages come the inevitable problems. How a land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis, has solved its problems of life on land is the subject of this paper. Its use of dew as a source of moisture and of its burrow as a refuge from predators and a hostile environment; its ability to collect moisture from a damp substrate and conduct this moisture to its branchial chambers and its gills; its capacity to retain large amounts of water before ecdysis and to use this water to stretch its new soft exoskeleton and attain its proper shape after ecdysis are only a few of the crab's special adaptations for terrestrial life. Its feeding and reproductive behavior are equally adaptive, as is its propensity for tree-climbing when danger threatens-or at other times. During the past several decades, much interesting and important research has been done on G. lateralis, as well as on other land crabs-but much remains to be done. Land crabs are and will undoubtedly continue to be promising objects of scientific research.
3881746|A state of immunological tolerance, or specific unresponsiveness to foreign antigen, can be induced in amphibians by joining two nonsibling embryos in parabiotic union. The induced tolerance is immunologically specific; the co-partners are tolerant of each other's antigens but do respond to unrelated antigens from third parties. The parabionts are blood-cell chimeras; each contains blood elements of the type proper to the other. The degree of chimerism wanes in the later life of the parabionts, which may be the consequence of the appearance of a new clone of uninhibited reactive cells derived from the bone marrow. Tolerance to a particular antigen is interpreted as arising by the deletion of the population of competent lymphocytes capable of responding to that antigen. The breakdown of tolerance occurs through the emergence of a new population of antigen-reactive cells. In essence, a tolerant cell as a discrete entity does not exist.
3883601|We studied blood parasite infections in relation to aspects of sexual selection and mate choice in 10 species of birds of paradise. Across species there was a significant, positive correlation between relative parasite intensity and showiness in males. Parasite infections also correlated across species with the degree of sexual dimorphism and varied with mating systems. Promiscuous species were showier and had significantly higher parasite prevalences than monogamous species. Within one species, Lawes' Parotia (Parotia lawesii), parasite intensity was negatively correlated with all phenotypic traits examined, a pattern significantly different than random. The mating success of males with low parasite intensities varied, but males with high intensities did not mate. Sampling of individual males on repeated occasions revealed large temporal differences in parasite counts which spanned the range believed to affect behavior and mating success. Whereas the interspecific correlations support one prediction of the Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis on parasites and sexual selection, the intraspecific data are equivocal with respect to a second prediction of this hypothesis. Parasites appear to influence the behavior of Lawes' Parotia, but alternative explanations to that of Hamilton and Zuk for this effect are equally plausible and there is no evidence of a link between female choice and the traits in males indicative of parasite loads. We suggest that female Lawes' Parotia may be avoiding highly infected males rather than actively choosing parasite-resistant males.
3881569|A functional explanation is presented for the shift of the reptilian articular and quadrate into the mammalian middle ear to become the malleus and incus. Modification of the masticatory apparatus of therapsids results in reduction of stresses on the jaw joint and consequently in reduction of posterior elements of the jaw. In the late therapsid, Bienotherium, the quadrate and post-dentary jaw bones resemble the mammalian malleus and incus which together form a lever. The therapsid articular possesses a downturned retroarticular process (for insertion of M. depressor mandibulae) homologous with the manubrium (force lever arm) of the malleus. About the time of origin of the mammalian (dentary-squamosal) jaw joint and following the origin of the mammalian depressor, the reptilian depressor is lost. This allows the enlarging reptilian tympanum to become attached to the retroarticular process. The new lever system thus formed by articular and quadrate increases the sensitivity of the ear and the reptilian one-bone system is replaced. In early mammals the reflected lamina of the angular migrates posteriorly with the angle of the dentary so that it contacts and assumes support of the tympanum. Non-homology of the monotreme and therian depressors indicates a multiple origin of the mammalian middle ear.
3884044|Acoustic signals transmitted over large distances differ significantly from those emitted by the signaler. Acoustic signals degrade in amplitude, spectral and temporal structure as they propagate through the environment. A great deal of work on acoustic communication is aimed at understanding the selective forces imposed by the environment on animal signals. I will discuss the physical constraints the environment puts on acoustic communication, and then discuss similarities in communication by anurans and insects that relate these environmental constraints to their signaling systems. Lastly, I show how changes in signals during propagation relate to changes in signal perception during phonotaxis, and thus, how propagation relates to mate choice and sexual selection.
3884092|In 1989, zebra mussels received national attention in North America when they reached densities exceeding
3881372|The widespread occurrence of neurosecretory neurons in the animal kingdom suggests a functional significance that is basic and special. The explanation of the need for this unusual cell type lies in the fact that it forms a link between the nervous and the endocrine systems whose functional interdependence forms the basis for the effectiveness of regulatory mechanisms in the animal world. These two integrative systems function in different ways. The neurosecretory cell, with its dual characteristics, and this cell alone, seems capable of receiving messages in "neural" language, and of transmitting this information in modified "endocrine" language to glandular cells. The neurosecretory neuron occupies a central position in neuroendocrine interactions, not only because it is geared for communication with the endocrine apparatus, but because it serves as a singular channel ("final common path," E. Scharrer, 1965) through which a multitude of afferent stimuli, after being processed, are channeled to a variety of endocrine way stations and thus exert control over their effector organs.
4620125|Studies of reproductive behavior in amphibians have been especially successful in synthesizing data produced from molecular and physiological research with evolutionary parameters, such as measures of reproductive success. In particular, two relatively new areas of amphibian research are highly amenable to synthetic studies. One area is the nature of chemical communication by pheromone delivery in terrestrial salamanders. Male courtship pheromones, for example, are delivered to the female during mating. These pheromones typically are received by the accessory olfactory system and act (presumably via the hypothalamus) to increase female receptivity. At an evolutionary level, pheromone delivery can increase male courtship success and thus the likelihood that a given male will sire offspring. Variation in pheromone composition and effectiveness will permit us to trace the evolution of the male pheromone on a phylogeny of related populations and species. At a proximal level, salamander courtship pheromones are being chemically analyzed in order to identify specific protein components that affect female receptivity. It also will be possible to determine whether chemical variation among males is related to behavioral effectiveness. Thus, courtship pheromone delivery is a behavior that has invited scrutiny from a combination of evolutionary and mechanistic perspectives. The second research area that is gaining from a synthetic approach is the investigation of relationships between hormonal mechanisms and reproductive behavior in field populations of anurans and salamanders. Amphibians are an understudied group, and the area of hormone-behavior relationships is inspired by testable hypotheses based on studies of other terrestrial vertebrates. The ability to correlate physiological measures with estimates of reproductive success identifies areas of amphibian research that will profit from continued attention.
3884462|Morphometric approaches facilitate the analysis of quantitative variation in form, typically becoming most useful for the study of organisms that have completed morphogenesis and are at differing stages of growth. Recent conceptual and technical refinements in the characterization and comparison of forms have joined methodological innovations in molecular biology, embryology, and phylogeny reconstruction to advance the study of the evolution of development. Among the phenomena that have recently been examined morphometrically are developmental integration and heterochrony, discoveries that in turn raise deeper questions about the connections among disciplines and among levels of description: the relationship between morphometric variables and characters, between phenomenology and process, and the interplay (and evolutionary relevance) of genes and phenotypes. Morphometrics can continue to play a vital role in evolutionary studies of development as its results generate questions both for its practitioners and for other sorts of biologists to explore.
3881791|Exocrine secretions of social insects are often characterized by extraordinarily complex mixtures of natural products. Thus, chemical communication in social insects must be interpreted in terms of signals generated by multicomponent systems, the individual constituents of which can affect the informational content of the message. Alarm pheromones have been identified chiefly in three subfamilies of ants and their distribution appears to be chemosystematically significant. Myrmicine genera emphasize 3-alkanones as alarm releasers, whereas methyl ketones, primarily of terpenoidal origin, are widely utilized as alarm pheromones in the subfamily Dolichoderinae. Formicine species may employ formic acid as an alarm pheromone in addition to the compounds produced in the mandibular and Dufour's glands. The mandibular gland pheromones are chiefly acyclic monoterpene aldehydes (e.g., citronellal) which are relatively low boiling compounds. Higher boiling n-alkanes are produced in the Dufour's glands and may serve as more persistent releasers of alarm behavior. Alarm pheromones, as well as the caste-specific pheromones of male bees and ants, probably also serve as defensive products. In many cases it is likely that pheromones were originally utilized as defensive compounds and their communicative function is a secondary development.
3883432|The decline of mass specific aerobic metabolic rates with increasing animal size has a long history of study in zoology. Attempts to explain this phenomenon have generally been concerned only with aerobic metabolism and with estimators of muscle and skeletal strength. Our finding of tremendous increases in mass-specific glycolytic enzyme activity in locomotory muscle with size in some species of pelagic fishes indicates that this approach has been too narrow. It is necessary to consider total metabolic power in any consideration of metabolic scaling in relation to skeletal strength or muscle power, since the anaerobic component of muscle power is usually greater than the aerobic and often scales differently. We show that scaling of glycolytic power appears to be much more variable among species than is scaling of aerobic power, and we suggest that the different glycolytic power scaling patterns reflect selection for different sprint swimming abilities in fishes of different habits. The rather narrow range of variation in aerobic scaling patterns suggests that they are the result of natural selection acting in the context of geometric constraints on maximum aerobic gas uptake and transport. The glycolytic scaling data emphasize that the role of natural selection has usually been neglected in considerations of scaling of metabolism while the role of the scaling of solids has been overemphasized.
3884430| The Y-organs of crustaceans secrete steroid hormones (ecdysteroids) which are responsible for molting and regeneration. The Y-organs in turn are controlled (negatively) by the eyestalk peptide, molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH). We are exploring the signaling paths in Y-organ cells that lead to ecdysteroid generation when activated by the absence of MIH. The objective is to understand the connections between MIH-receptor occupancy and the depression of genes that express ecdysteroidogenic enzymes. MIH action is mediated by a rise in cyclic 5 adenosine monophosphate (cAMP); cGMP also is involved in some species. That a cyclic nucleotide is a central regulatory component is indicated by the following selection of results: dibutyryl cAMP, activators of adenylyl cyclase or inhibitors of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase each mimic the inhibitory action of MIH. Cyclic AMP inhibits the receptor-mediated uptake of cholesterol (the obligate ecdysteroid precursor), by decreasing the number of receptor sites for the lipoprotein carrier of cholesterol. MIH via cAMP also depresses de novo protein synthesis upon which ecdysteroidogenesis depends in part. A role for cellular free calcium ( Ca
3882933|Almost all major phyla of invertebrates and lower vertebrates display a direct sensitivity of their chromatophores to light by either dispersing or-in rare cases-aggregating the pigment granules within the cell. This "primary response" of color change is an accessory component of the "dermal light sense" and characterizes the chromatophores as an independent receptor for light and effector of the chromomotor response. Photosensitivity does not seem to be restricted to certain parts of the pigment cell but is rather supposed to be a ubiquitous property of the chromatophore. Experiments on partially illuminated chromatophores show that the photopigment, whose chemical composition is still unknown, is localised within the plasma membrane or the cytoplasmic ground substance. Threshold responses for a just visible reaction are much higher than for background responses and have for some pigment cells been determined to be in a range between 0.2 and
3884429| Various methods for the quantification of stress in crustaceans have been developed in our laboratory. An ELISA was developed for the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH) from the lobster, Homarus americanus. It is sensitive to as little as 0.2 fmol of peptide. Increases in hemolymph CHH were observed following emersion. Significant levels of hemolymph CHH were also measured in lobsters that had been eyestalk-ablated. It was observed that these animals continued to produce CHH, even though the heretofore only known source of CHH had been removed. Portions of the central nervous system, from both intact and eyestalk-ablated lobsters were observed to contain significant amounts of CHH. A cDNA library was constructed from eyestalk neural tissue of H. americanus. With the use of PCR, a 171 bp probe was isolated and purified. This probe was labeled and used to examine levels of CHH expression in the central nervous system (CNS) and in eyestalk neural tissue at different periods of the lobster molt cycle. CHH mRNA is present throughout the CNS. In the eyestalk, it is undetectable in postmolt, low in intermolt, and high in premolt. Stress proteins, also known as heat shock proteins (HSPs), are a highly conserved class of proteins which show elevated transcription during periods of stress in organisms as phylogenetically divergent as bacteria and humans. Using RT-PCR we have partially cloned the lobster HSP90 gene. A 380 bp probe was
3881640| Actomyosin was extracted from skeletal muscle of Coryphaenoides, a benthic fish living at 2,200 meters depth, at a temperature of 2C, or less, and at pressure of 3,000 psi. On SDS-urea electrophoresis on acrylamide gel, the actomyosin extracts yield components of apparent molecular weight 210,000 (myosin heavy chains), 47,000 (actin), 35,000 (tropomyosin and/or troponin subunits), and 13,000 (myosin light chains). The Mg
3883580|We adopt the position that metabolism originated at (or near) mineral surfaces prior to the origin of the first cells. Based on current views of the organization of contemporary animal cells we speculate that the metabolism of the immediate ancestors of eukaryotic cells required these non-biological surfaces, but that the latter were subsequently replaced by membranes, and nuclear and cytoplasmic matrix proteins which, we argue, remain as required participants in the intermediary metabolism of contemporary eukaryotic cells. The idea that such an intracellular organization could have provided a fundamental means by which to control metabolic rate at the level of the intact animal is considered next. In the case of vertebrates we suggest that the organismic level of control might operate through the rate of capillary blood flow, as proposed in the Flow Theory of Coulson (1986): by controlling the rate at which the organized enzyme arrays within the cells are perfused with substrate, cellular metabolic rates could be set throughout the organism in an integrated fashion. Although there are problems with this linkage the interesting possibility arises that the metabolic rate of individual cells may be subservient to the organism, being driven not so much by the well known intracellular controls of concentration-based-biochemistry as by the flow of nutrients through the cells.
3884280|The plumage of birds provides a critical thermal buffer between the animal and its environment. Rates of energy expenditure are strongly influenced by the thermal properties of the environment or the microclimates the animal occupies. Current data suggest that the addition of solar radiation is equivalent to three to four-fold changes in wind speed and that solar heat gain can be extremely sensitive to changes in wind speed. Dry heat transfer through the plumage occurs by three avenues 1) conduction and free convection through air 2) conduction along the solid elements of the plumage and 3) radiation. Overall, about 95% of the total heat flow is evenly divided between the first two avenues. Radiative heat transfer accounts for only about 5% of total heat flow. Plumage color, as well as the microstructure and micro-optical properties of plumage elements, when combined with environmental properties (e.g., wind speed), determine the radiative heat loads that birds acquire from solar radiation. Although plumage color or reflectivity determines the fraction of incident solar radiation that is absorbed by the plumage and generates heat, the fraction of this heat that contributes to the thermal load on the animal can vary greatly. In a fibrous coat such as a plumage, there is some variable penetration into the coat, with absorption over a range of coat depths. Factors such as feather micro-optics and structure are critical determinants of radiation penetration into avian coats. Significant differences in solar heat loads can also result from behavioral adjustments in plumage thickness.
3881927|Frog sounds involve expulsion of air through the larynx. In mating, release, rain, and territorial calls, the air vibrates vocal cords and/or arytenoid cartilages. Sound is amplified and radiated by the distended buccal cavity and vocal sacs. Distress calls are emitted with open mouth, with minimum laryngeal modulation. The trunk is filled by inflation cycles, but air is driven out by synchronized contractions of the body wall musculature. The pressure levels are more than five times those during ventilation. In the release call of Bufo valliceps the dilatators and constrictors of the larynx fire simultaneously keeping the larynx closed. As the pulmonary pressure reaches a peak they cease firing. The arytenoids then separate and vibrate, as do the vocal cords. The dilatators terminate the sound pulse by pulling vibrators out of the air stream, hence the very sharp termination. Prolonged release call sequences include interpulse reinflations that return air from buccal cavity to lung. Frogs apparently evolved from amphibians too small to use aspiration breathing. Vocalization represented a critical factor in their social organization and its importance locked these animals into reliance upon pulse-pumping rather than the more efficient aspiration breathing.
3882946|The adenohypophysis in early head fold stage hagfish embryos is at first a distinct differentiated thickening of the archenteric roof where it contacts the developing infundibular portion of the brain. This portion of the archenteron eventually becomes the dorsal epithelium of the nasopharyngeal duct. The later development of the adenohypophysis involves formation of multiple acinar outgrowths of the dorsal nasopharyngeal epithelium which together form a layered mass of follicular tissue adjacent to the neurohypophysis. This mode of origin of the adenohypophysis by endodermal polyinvagination and delamination differs from all other vertebrates, including the lampreys. The pertinence of this new information for considerations of monophyletic versus diphyletic evolutionary origins of the modern cyclostome groups is pointed out. The unusual development of the hagfish adenohypophysis presents some new and unanticipated puzzles within the general question of pituitary evolution.
3883073|Previous empirical and theoretical work has focused on how feeding territory size is governed by average levels of food availability and intrusion pressure; the potentially important effects of variability have not yet been studied in detail. Here I incorporate variation in food availability and intrusion pressure in some simple optimality models of territory size. The results show that the possible effects of variability are diverse, including both increase and decrease in territory size. And in some cases, variation in food availability produces qualitatively different effects than variation in intrusion pressure.
3882834|Comparison is the key to biological study and both similarities and differences aid in sharpening our understanding of structures and processes. The initial comparison represents an observational level; followed by decisions about possible homology, analogy and homoplasy which represent levels that have less certainty. Analogous homoplasies are presumably the most useful conditions for characterizing functional constraints. Operational criteria are discussed, as are minimal technical standards for procedures permitting characterization of functions and roles in the masticatory system.
3882513|Cell surface sugar chains extend away from the cell membrane and offer a first line of contact with approaching cells and substrates. These sugars are candidates for mediating cell-cell adhesion and migration. Here, I review experiments that implicate carbohydrate-containing molecules in cell-cell adhesion of ascites tumor and embryonic cells and that correlate the mobility of carbohydrate-containing receptor sites in the membrane with cellular migratory activity. The experiments show that L-glutamine is required to form complex carbohydrates implicated in mediating intercellular adhesion and that a controlling factor in determining cellular adhesiveness may be the specific activity of intracellular glutamine synthetase. Molecules that promote ascites tumor cell adhesion have been isolated. These molecules are large, appear to contain terminal D-galactose residues that bind to cell surface receptor sites and consist of more than one component on DEAE cellulose. Studies with sea urchin embryonic cells, utilizing plant lectins that bind to surface carbohydrates, indicate that cell surface sugar-containing receptor sites change during development. In addition, only the micromeres, that become actively migratory, possess mobile cell surface lectin receptor sites. Other sea urchin embryonic cell populations (mesomeres and macromeres) do not exhibit lectin receptor site mobility. Cell surface sugar-containing receptor sites potentially mediate adhesion and migration in embryos and tumors.
3882672|Recent contributions to the theory of biogeography suggest that biogeographical hypotheses can potentially be derived from intraspecific patterns of morphological variation among populations. Morphological differentiation is demonstrated for meristic (serially repeated) and morphometric characters among populations of the euryhaline fish, Menidia beryllina, from the Mississippi Valley, an area for which the geological history is well known. Meristic and morphometric variation are associated with environmental variation, and meristic differences are noted between size classes within an isolated population. The results suggest that attempts to reconstruct historical area relationships will fail to the extent that geographical patterns of morphology are influenced by an exogenous component, when the direction of influence is unrelated to the true pattern of vicariance. Furthermore, temporal instability of characters will confound biogeographical hypotheses.
3884111|Frequently, animals must choose between more immediate, smaller rewards and more delayed, but larger rewards. For example, they often must decide between accepting a smaller prey item versus continuing to search for a larger one, or between entering a leaner patch versus travelling to a richer patch that is further away. In both situations, choice of the more immediate, but smaller reward may be interpreted as implying that the value of the later reward is discounted; that is, the value of the later reward decreases as the delay to its receipt increases. This decrease in value may occur because of the increased risk involved in waiting for rewards, or because of the decreased rate of reward associated with increased waiting time. The present research attempts to determine the form of the relation between value and delay, and examines implications of this relation for mechanisms underlying risk-sensitive foraging. Two accounts of the relation between value and delay have been proposed to describe the decrease in value resulting from increases in delay: an exponential model and a hyperbolic model. Our research demonstrates that, of the two, a hyperbola-like discounting model consistently explains more of the variance in temporal discounting data at the group level and, importantly, at the individual level as well. We show mathematically that the hyperbolic model shares fundamental features with models of prey and patch choice. In addition, the present review highlights the implications of a psychological perspective for the behavioral biology of risk-sensitive foraging, as well as the implications of an ecological perspective for the behavioral psychology of risk-sensitive choice and decision-making.
3884248|Two common types of egg masses rely on differing routes of supply of oxygen in water. When embryos are embedded in a gelatinous matrix, oxygen is supplied by diffusion through the gel, and thicker masses require more gel per embryo. When an adherent mass of eggs lacks a gel matrix, oxygen can be provided from water flowing through the open interstices between eggs, and larger eggs provide larger channels and thus less resistance to flow. Both types occur intertidally, where they are periodically exposed to air. Exposure to air can have a greater effect on oxygen supply via interstices than on supply via gel. Oxygen diffusing in interstices drained of water provides increased rates of supply to masses of adherent eggs. In contrast, diffusion through gel is similar for masses in air and water. Effects of emersion on desiccation also differ for the two types of egg masses. Additional gel matrix can reduce salinity change from desiccation while enhancing oxygen supply, whereas draining of interstices, though necessary for oxygen supply, may increase risk of desiccation.
3883643|This paper reviews significant discoveries and interpretations made for Paleozoic tetrapods over the past twenty-five years. In that span twelve significant, new localities have been found, including the oldest ever at about 370 million years in age. About 60 new genera have been described; five providing important insight into the early evolution of land vertebrates. The number of exceptionally well known taxa with multiple, excellently preserved specimens has doubled to eight from four. The very earliest tetrapods have been discovered to have been polydactylous, the ear region to have had a complicated early evolution and the specialized tooth type found in Recent amphibians has been found in a group of Lower Permian temnospondyl amphibians, indicating an evolutionary relationship. Perhaps the most significant advance in understanding the evolution of early tetrapods is that the basal amniote groups have become better characterized and a start has been made in providing a defensible hypothesis for their relationships. The ascendancy of cladistics, functional morphology and plate tectonics has changed the way paleontologists view fossils resulting in more defensible phylogenies and behavioral and biogeographical scenarios. These approaches to understanding have, perhaps, had a more profound impact than any of the new fossil discoveries.
3881406|Agglutination of cells, degranulation, and loss of cellular membranes compose the major form of coagulation in the hemolymph of Gecarcinus lateralis. It is only after agglutination of the formed elements of the hemolyph that fibrin-like strands appear. Sodium citrate, in a concentration of 10% or more to prevent coagulation, is always inadequate to prevent cell agglutination. Multiple studies by protein electrophoresis failed to reveal any differences between plasma and serum, nor did they allow us to identify a soluble protein in plasma that did not appear in serum. Crab hemolymph changes in its capacity for clotting during the molt cycle, with the most rapid clotting occurring in the premolt period. A new protein appears in the premolt period, but its relation to the whole clotting mechanism is unknown. In contradistinction to vertebrate systems, citrated hemolymph does not clot when calcium is added. There is no relationship that can be demonstrated between activating systems in vertebrate plasma and clotting in the crab. It would seem that, rather than the vertebrate coagulating system evolving from the crustacean type of clotting system, the development of these clotting systems has run in parallel. The crustacean cell, in addition, appears to be more potent than vertebrate cells in clotting systems. The comparison of human lymph to crustacean hemolymph would indicate that, for a given amount of cells, crustacean hemolymph clots 2 to 20 times faster than human lymph. On the other hand, agglutination of cells is a fundamental initiating step in coagulation of both human blood and crustacean hemolymph.
3881760|The discovery of parthenogenesis in reptiles came about through the casual observation of the lack of males in several species of lizards. Nineteen all female species and subspecies from five genera and three families of lizards have been named or recognized. Actual proof of parthenogenesis, however, has been demonstrated for only seven of these. Studies in variation of parthenogens versus the variation of sympatric bisexual species have been made on six species. In general the parthenogens are much less variable than bisexual species. Males have been found in most of the parthenogens studied. At least some of these seem to result from crosses between parthenogens and males of sympatric bisexual species. In a few instances, however, this seems unlikely. The evidence supporting the hybrid origin of these males rests on a few studies which show that these males have one more genome than the female parthenogens they resemble. The evolution and origin of parthenogens probably is through hybridization followed by further hybridization in some genera leading to triploidy. Evidence for these hypotheses is provided by a number of karyotype studies, skin transplants, and studies of various proteins. One study indicates that the somatic chromosome number is restored during oogenesis by an endoduplication immediately preceeding meiosis. Cnemidophorus uniparens, the species in which this phenomenon was demonstrated, is a triploid. Evolutionary aspects of parthenogenesis are discussed.
3884136|Two main defense strategies against hypoxia tolerant animals have been identified in earlier studies: (i) reduction in energy turnover and (ii) improved energetic efficiency of those metabolic processes that remain. Two model systems were developed from the highly anoxia tolerant aquatic turtle-(i) tissue slices of brain cortex (to probe cell level electrophysiological responses to oxygen limitation) and (ii) isolated liver hepatocytes (to probe signalling and defense). In the latter, a series of mechanisms underpinning hypoxia defense is initiated with an oxygen sensor (probably a heme protein) and a message transduction pathway leading to the specific activation of some genes (increased expression of several proteins) and to specific down regulation of other genes (decreased expression of several other proteins). The pathway seems similar to oxygen regulated schemes in other cells. The main roles for the oxygen sensing and signal transduction system appear to include coordinate down regulation of energy demand and energy supply pathways in metabolism. By this means, hypoxia tolerant cells stay in energy balance as they down regulate to extremely low levels of ATP turnover. The main ATP demand pathways in normoxia (protein synthesis, protein degradation, glucose synthesis, urea synthesis, and maintenance of electrochemical gradients) are all depressed to variable degree during anoxia or extreme hypoxia. However,
3883893|While chewing is not unique to mammals, it is one of their most distinctive characteristics. Historically, studies of food processing in mammals were intended to provide evolutionary insights, but more progress has been made in understanding mechanistic aspects. Mastication is considered under five headings. (1) Interaction of teeth with food. Knowledge of comparative dental anatomy and function is advanced in comparison to understanding of foods and how they are broken down. (2) Chewing force and its resistance by the skull. The traditional assumption that occlusal force is maximized is not always justified, and experimental results suggest that skull loading is far more dynamic and variable than had been envisioned from theoretical analyses. (3) How the jaw moves. The most important masticatory movement is that of the power stroke, and in most but not all species this is influenced more by the inclined planes of the teeth and jaw joints than by the musculature. (4) The role of muscles in producing both force and movement. The most fundamental distinction among jaw muscles is whether they have a rostral or caudal direction of pull, as this determines their role in transverse jaw movements. Reliance on anatomical names tends to obscure functional similarities and differences among species. (5) Intraoral structures. Because they are difficult to study, the actions of the tongue and pharynx are still debated. Even the fundamental question of whether mammals can breathe and swallow at the same time has not been definitively answered.
3882185|The in vivo mitotic apparatus (MA) of clam, worm and sea urchin eggs may be augmented or dispersed by application of specific antimitotic agents. Glycols, which are antimitotic at concentrations of 1-3% in sea water, cause a rapid massive increase in MA volume and retardation as seen in the polarizing microscope. Caffeine and dinitrophenol (DNP) cause a rapid disappearance of the MA by shrinkage. Glycol effects can be balanced by DNP or caffeine if the agents are applied at the proper time and concentration although normal cleavage does not ensue. Analysis of DNP and caffeine shrinkage suggests that they act indirectly by causing release of calcium from intracellular stores, calcium causing inactivation of polymerizable tubulin. DNP could cause release of calcium either from mitochondria (if egg mitochondria have a calcium uptake system) or by causing a decrease in ATP levels which would inactivate calcium uptake systems such as the Petzelt Ca
3883874|The poecilogonous polychaete Streblospio benedicti (Webster) exhibits both planktotrophic and lecithotrophic modes of larval development. The alternative trophic modes are associated with differences in age and size at maturation, offspring number, size and energetic investment, larval planktonic period, morphology and survivorship. This paper reviews a decade of research into the control and consequences of the traits associated with planktotrophy and lecithotrophy in S. benedicti. The dominant control on reproductive and developmental characters is genetic. Significant additive genetic variance has been detected for egg diameter, fecundity, larval planktonic period and aspects of larval morphology. However, environmental factors such as temperature, food quality and photoperiod, and intrinsic factors such as maternal age, exert considerable influence on non-trophic developmental traits (e.g., offspring number, size and energy content). Demographic consequences of development mode are reviewed for field and laboratory demes of S. benedicti dominated by individuals exhibiting either planktotrophy or lecithotrophy. Similar population size structure, fluctuations in abundance, P:B ratios, and estimated population growth rates are achieved through trade-offs between survivorship and fecundity. Development mode may best be viewed as a complex set of traits that are intimately linked developmentally and evolutionarily to other aspects of an organism's life history. Greater insight into the control and consequences of development mode should result from further investigation of these linkages.
3882805|Systematic problems associated with nemerteans at most phyletic levels result from the large number of inadequately described species. The importance of adopting a standardized approach to taxonomic descriptions of nemerteans is demonstrated by reference to the phylogenetic relationships of the Heteronemertea. An evaluation of the systematic significance of several anatomical characters leads to the suggestion that the primitive heteronemertean organization included a proboscis with three muscle layers (outer longitudinal, middle circular, inner longitudinal), a foregut with neither splanchnic muscles nor subepithelial glands, and a blood system not developed into a vascular plexus around the foregut. A new classification of the Heteronemertea proposed on the basis of proboscis morphology recognizes seven families: Cerebratulidae, Gorgonorhynchidae, Lineidae, Mixolineidae, Panorhynchidae, Polybrachiorhynchidae, Valenciniidae.
3881914|The evidence supporting the idea that microfilament-mediated cell shape changes produce morphogenetic movements of the salivary epithelium is reviewed. The correlations between microfilaments and morphogenesis and microtubules and morphogenesis, as revealed by experiments with cytochalasin B and colchicine respectively, are compared and contrasted. On the basis of a correlation between microfilament integrity and epithelial morphogenesis, and an actin-like nature of microfilaments to bind heavy meromyosin, it is proposed that microfilament contraction is required for cleft formation in the epithelium. Several ways in which microfilament activity might be regulated during morphogenesis are discussed in the framework of experiments that may comment on such regulation.
3884278|The avian epidermis is composed of unique sebokeratinocytes that elaborate and secrete sebum-like lipids as they cornify. In addition to the lipid droplets, the avian epidermis elaborates, but rarely secretes, lipid-enriched organelles, the multigranular bodies. The multigranular bodies are analogous to the lamellar bodies of mammals (Menon et al., 1991), the secretion of which results in formation of occlusive lipid bilayers characteristic of mammalian stratum corneum and providing the permeability barrier. However, in contrast to mammals, the avian multigranular bodies form the reserve barrier mechanism. In the basal state, when multigranular bodies are not secreted, the avian cutaneous barrier is deficient, but allows evaporative cooling for thermoregulation. However, under conditions of water deficit, multigranular body secretion allows for rapid facultative waterproofing, as shown in zebra finches (Taenyopygia guttata). In certain glabrous regions of the skin, such as the maxillary rictus, interdigital web, and combs and wattles in the domestic fowl, there is a high degree of epidermal lipid secretion. Also specialized feathers such as powder downs elaborate lipid rich material, which can be classified as secretion. Additionally, an inverse relation between epidermal lipogenesis and the degree of feathering has been demonstrated, as in temporarily bare areas (e.g., brood patches) and following permanent feather loss from the head accompanying attainment of maturity in certain ibises and storks. In the latter, the neo-apteria often hold large reserves of carotenoids dissolved in the lipid droplets, possibly related to an altered gradient of retinoids influencing feather morphogenesis. Unusual secondary functions of epidermal lipids include cosmetic coloration (e.g., in the Japanese Crested Ibis) and chemical defense (e.g., in the Pitohui).
3882165|This paper is cast in the form of answers to pertinent (sometimes impertinent) questions which a reader might ask of persons devoting the better part of a scientific career to studying the eye of a snail. Two structures in the eye of Helix aspersa are emphasized: the microvilli and microvesicles of type I photosensory cells. Evidence is presented to support the conclusions that the microvilli are the light-sensitive organelles and that the microvesicles, termed photic vesicles, bring to the microvilli substances needed in photoreception, such as photopigment and perhaps calcium. The evidence consists of: uptake of radioactive vitamin A by the villi and vesicles, formation of a black precipitate by both structures upon prolonged staining with osmium tetroxide, the effects of light and dark upon the microvilli and photic vesicles, a comparison between the photic vesicles of a light-tolerant slug and those of a nocturnal slug, and a preliminary finding of a high concentration of calcium in the somatic layer of the retina. The movement of the photic vesicles from the Golgi centers, where they are formed, to the microvilli is attributed to rhythmic, light-dependent pulsations of the eye caused by contractions of smooth muscle cells embedded in the optic capsule.
3883386|Current evolutionary theory predicts that energy expenditure will be adjusted in contest situations to the value of the disputed resource and the relative probability of winning it. Estimates of energy expended in contest situations support this prediction. I report on the energetic costs of display relative to other contest costs to individual fitness (e.g., risk of predation, losses in feeding time, injury and mortality) in territorial disputes of the spider Agelenopsis aperta. Cost estimates obtained in terms of decrements to milligrams wet-weight of future egg production resulting from single contests indicate that actual energy expenditure in these territorial disputes represent insignificant costs. These costs are, in fact, 5-6 orders of magnitude smaller than the costs associated with injury, potential predation and even loss in food as a result of time spent in the interactions. Review of the literature indicates that in most instances, energy expenditure may be correlated with some other factor upon which selection is acting (e.g., short contests where predation risk is high, variation in levels of escalation exhibited). Two exceptions include the tremendous losses of workers to reproductives in ant, termite, and bee colony territorial disputes and the production of specialized agonistic organs exhibited by some corals, sea anemones and corallimopharians when encountering neighbors within "territorial" boundaries.
3883130|The Lewis and Clark Expedition was the culmination of a series of efforts by Thomas Jefferson to explore the American West. The journey began at Wood River, Illinois, on May 14, 1804, and concluded with the return of the party to St. Louis on September 23, 1806. During its two years, the expedition went up the Missouri River to its sources, crossed the Rockies, wintered on the Oregon coast, and retraced most of its original route back to St. Louis. Lewis and Clark devoted much of their energy along the way to the observation, description, and collection of botanical and zoological specimens. The principal zoological results of this exploration were the discovery of more than 100 new types of animals, the presentation of these finds to the world of Western science, and the stimulation of subsequent exploratory trips into the Louisiana Territory. The most lasting consequences of the expedition were its opening of vast territories to settlement, the introduction of exploitative activities like fur-trapping, and the conversion of large tracts of forest and prairie to farmland.
3883998|Labriform locomotion is the primary swimming mode for many fishes that use the pectoral fins to generate thrust across a broad range of speeds. A review of the literature on hydrodynamics, kinematics, and morphology of pectoral fin mechanisms in fishes reveals that we lack several kinds of morphological and kinematic data that are critical for understanding thrust generation in this mode, particularly at higher velocities. Several needs include detailed three-dimensional kinematic data on species that are pectoral fin swimmers across a broad range of speeds, data on the motor patterns of pectoral fin muscles, and the development of a mechanical model of pectoral fin functional morphology. New data are presented here on pectoral fin locomotion in Gomphosus varius, a labrid fish that uses the pectoral fins at speeds of 1-6 total body lengths per second. Three-dimensional kinematic data for the pectoral fins of G. varius show that a typical "drag-based" mechanism is not used in this species. Instead, the thrust mechanics of this fish are dominated by lift forces and acceleration reaction forces. The fin is twisted like a propeller during the fin stroke, so that angles of attack are variable along the fin length. Electromyographic data on six fin muscles indicate the sequence of muscle activity that produces antagonistic fin abduction and adduction and controls the leading edge of the fin. EMG activity in abductors and adductors is synchronous with the start of abduction and adduction, respectively, so that muscle mechanics actuate the fin with positive work. A mechanical model of the pectoral fin is proposed in which fin morphometrics and computer simulations allow predictions of fin kinematics in three dimensions. The transmission of force and motion to the leading edge of the fin depends on the mechanical advantage of fin ray levers. An integrative program of research is suggested that will synthesize data on morphology, physiology, kinematics, and hydrodynamics to understand the mechanics of pectoral fin swimming.
3881709|This discussion briefly reviews some of the most important literature concerning the effects of electrical currents upon regeneration in the Metazoa, including results of experiments upon both invertebrate and vertebrate forms. In addition, a brief description is presented of an original experiment demonstrating the orientation of stolonal growth in an electric field in Perophora viridis (Protochordata). In general, the effects may be divided into two categories: those associated with polarity and orientation of growth, and those associated with the state of differentiation of the cell. The modes of action of the electric current are considered to be probably twofold: transfer of information-bearing molecules from cell to cell; and direct effect of current upon membrane-permeability, cellular movement, and metabolic state. In addition, the hormonal state of the organism, at least in the vertebrates, is probably important in modulating the effect.
3884316|The developing organism is particularly sensitive to exposure to estrogenic chemicals during a critical period in the induction of longterm changes in female reproductive organs, and persistent molecular alterations induced by the perinatal estrogenic agents. The perinatal mouse model can be utilized as an indicator of possible longterm consequences of exposure to exogenous estrogenic compounds including environmental endocrine disruptors. Attention should be paid to abnormalities in female genital organs exposed to estrogenic endocrine disruptors during fetal and early postnatal development in mammals including humans.
3882378| Unfertilized eggs of the axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, contain a pool of soluble tubulin accumulated during oogenesis. After initiation of cleavage the tubulin pool decreases somewhat and then remains constant through early development. Some properties of tubulin alter during development, but at least some of these changes are not due to changes in tubulin per se. However, the tubulin in axolotl oocytes, eggs, and embryos differs in some electrophoretic properties from tubulin in adult axolotl brain and testis. Equivalent differences were observed in Necturus maculosus tubulins. Heterogeneity of axolotl tubulins was confirmed by peptide mapping: Different patterns of peptides were formed by specific limited proteolysis of soluble tubulin from eggs and testis. The heterogeneity was more marked in the  than in the  subunit. Mobilization of soluble tubulin into the mitotic apparatus depends on the functioning of microtubule organizing centers after activation of the egg at fertilization. In eggs of the nc mutant axolotl there is a lesion in some step of activation, one effect of which is that even though the eggs contain an essentially normal pool of tubulin, microtubules fail to assemble, no mitotic apparatus forms, and embryonic development does not begin. These eggs can be partially corrected by injection of heterologous microtubule fragments, which elicit the mobilization of nc tubulin into arrays of microtubules, followed by initiation of cleavage and development to a partial blastula stage. The results of these experiments are discussed in comparison with other reports in the literature about the function of microtubule organizing centers during amphibian egg development. 
3883330|The lamprey, an anguilliform fish, swims using lateral undulatory movement; a transverse wave passes backward, from head to tail, the amplitude of the wave increasing as it moves tailward. The wave of muscle activity producing this movement travels down the body faster than the mechanical wave. The way in which certain features of anguilliform movement contribute to its efficiency have been described. The neural activity underlying swimming is characterized by: 1) rhythmical alternation between the two sides of a single segment; 2) a burst duration that remains a constant proportion of the cycle time and is independent of the cycle frequency; 3) rostrocaudal phase lag that is constant and also independent of the cycle frequency. Local circuits in the lamprey spinal cord can generate this locomotory pattern in the absence of sensory feedback following activation of excitatory amino acid receptors; the pattern is centrally generated. It has been hypothesized that the spinal central pattern generator for locomotion consists of a series of segmental burst generators coupled together by an intersegmental coordinating system. The intersegmental coordinating system functions to keep the frequencies of the oscillators along the cord constant and to provide the appropriate rostrocaudal phase lag. Mechanosensitive units within the spinal cord are sensitive to movement of the spinal cord/notochord and movement of the spinal cord/notochord can entrain the burst pattern. Entrainment occurs through movement-related feedback onto neurons at the local level. The possible roles this movement-related feedback plays during locomotion are discussed.
3883433|Pelagic aquatic environments differ from terrestrial environments in being three-dimensional and relatively homogeneous, rather than two-dimensional and heterogeneous. The present paper examines the causes and consequences of these differences in the context of their influence on the interactions of animals with environmental light. Particular emphasis is placed on light as a determinant of effective modes of crypsis in the two different habitats. The terrestrial world has selected for the expression of crypticity in the form of superficial color patterns. The heterogeneity of this habitat has resulted in evolutionary divergence of these superficial color patterns, often in very closely-related animals. In contrast, in the homogeneous pelagic aquatic habitats, evolutionary convergence on three main forms of crypsis is evident: (1) transparency; (2) reflection of most, if not all visible wavelengths; and, (3) ventral bioluminescence as counterillumination; thus, to be cryptic most animals in these habitats use one or a combination of these modalities to variously transmit, reflect or mimic environmental light. In the present paper, special attention is given to transparency as the most prevalent, yet least understood, of these mechanisms that are used in predator-prey interactions.
3882186|A morphological study of Ilyanassa embryogenesis was made from sections of several stages and the nucleic acid content was measured throughout the course of development. The kinetics of uptake and incorporation of radioactive precursors into RNA was determined. The RNAs synthesized at different stages of embryogenesis were fractionated by methylated albumin kieselguhr chromatography, and the polyadenylation of RNA during development was measured. From these studies it was concluded that the Ilyanassa embryo, beginning with the 4-cell stage, synthesizes dRNA, rRNA, 4S RNA, and 5S RNA throughout all stages of development. The extensive synthesis of dRNA and the higher proportion of RNAs polyadenylated by the pregastrula embryo was considered to be of particular significance. The localization of nucleic acids and nucleic acid precursors in the polar lobe and the effect of removing the polar lobe on nucleic synthesis was reviewed. Recent work on the ultrastructure of the Ilyanassa egg was reviewed in relation to the problem of ooplasmic segregation. The discovery of a new cytoplasmic organelle in the Ilyanassa oocyte was reviewed.
3881481|Intracranial stimulation was used as a reinforcer to condition fighting in paired rats. Stimulation for an implanted animal was made contingent upon responses which successively approximated those typical of attack. A stable pattern of aggression developed, the maintenance of which was possible on intermittent reinforcement schedules although at depressed frequencies. An implanted rat also readily initiated contact with a cat and made consistent, aggressive approaches toward a squirrel monkey. The aggression observed appeared to be a function of operant reinforcement since extinction occurred when the intracranial stimulation contingency was removed.
3881947|The current state of our knowledge of the morphology and histo- and cytophysiology of the teleost pituitary gland is presented. The zonation that characterizes the adenohypophysis is based on the regional distribution of specific cell types. As a result there is also a functional zonation indicated by specific hormones emanating from clearly identifiable parts of the gland. These observations make the teleost hypophysis ideal for the study of problems that may be basic to all vertebrates. The ultrastructure of hypophysial cells is presented and related to observations at the light microscope level. The manner in which secretory granules are released from specific cells is compared, and the problem of evaluating "cell activity" discussed. The application of immunohistochemical techniques to the study of the teleost pituitary gland is reviewed, and its use as a tool of investigation for future studies evaluated. These methods have helped to elucidate the cellular source of teleost pituitary hormones and have confirmed the findings of the histophysiologists.
3883468|Although the presence of geomagnetic sensitivity has been suspected for a long time in a variety of marine and terrestrial animals, many responses reported in the literature have been based on extensive statistical analysis of orientation results or rely on obscure behavioral activities (like cetacean strandings or honey bee waggle dances.) None of these reports have yet approached the level of clarity and simplicity displayed in experiments with the magnetotactic bacteria, which is the best example of geomagnetic sensitivity in any living organism. Furthermore, claims of magnetic effects on living organisms pervade the literature of biomagnetism, but many have failed subsequent attempts at replication. We need to develop simple and easily replicated experiments for marine and terrestrial animals which can be modified to answer basic questions concerning the psychophysics of any geomagnetic sensory system which might be present. In this paper, we report the first replication of the Walker-Bitterman magnetic anomaly conditioning experiment in honey bees, as well as one of our attempts to slightly alter their basic protocol. We also report our attempts to condition honey bees to magnetic direction in simple maze experiments, and the initial results of a pulse-remagnetization experiment designed to test the ferromagnetic transduction hypothesis. We conclude honey bees are sensitive to the geomagnetic field, that the signal processing for it is more complex than previously thought, and that a ferromagnetic transducer is compatible with all known behavioral data.
3883107| The performance of the cardiorespiratory gas exchange system of the turtle, Pseudemys scripta, at rest and at three body temperatures (15, 25, 35C), was assessed in reference to theory and experimental data. The primary processes governing gas exchange (ventilation, perfusion, diffusion) were found to be uniformly balanced in regard to CO
3883074|A set of optimization models in two variables of choice, territory size and time spent patrolling for intruders, is presented for energy maximizers. Models vary in the curvilinearity of the relationship between territory circumference and both intrusion rate and cost of expelling a single intruder. Models are analyzed both with and without constraints; constraints are on processing rate and on the time spent patrolling, feeding and actively defending. The models all include the concept of "intruder equilibrium," an equilibrial density of intruders in a territory resulting from a balance between intrusion rate and expulsion by the defender. This equilibrial density can be considered a measure of territorial exclusiveness. The two-variable models predict effects on territory size and patrol time of variation in food density, intrusion rate, costs of expelling a single intruder in energy and time, food-consumption rate of an intruder, area of detection while patrolling, total time available for territorial and feeding activities, time to eat a unit of food energy, energy cost of patrol per time, and processing-rate capacity. With increasing intruder rate, optimal territory size usually decreases, whereas optimal patrol time behaves much more irregularly. With increasing food density, optimal patrol time usually decreases, whereas optimal territory size behaves irregularly. In particular, when intrusion rate and expulsion costs accelerate sufficiently with increasing territory size and no constraints exist, the higher the food density the smaller the optimal territory size. When food density is large enough for a constraint to be effective, the opposite relation can hold and will always hold for a processing constraint. When a particular parameter changes, optimal territory size and optimal patrol time may covary or one may increase while the other decreases, depending on the parameter and model. A new set of one-variable models is suggested by the two-variable models; models optimizing patrol time while holding territory size constant could correspond to a tightly packed system of territories initially determined by settlement patterns. A unified one-variable analysis suggests that how food density affects territory size when patrol time is constant depends upon whether a constraint is operating: Provided that invasion rate does not vary with density of intruders on the territory, time minimizers and constrained energy maximizers decrease territory size with increasing food density; unconstrained energy maximizers do the opposite. The addition of a second optimization variable to a one-variable model can change qualitative predictions about variation in particular parameters (e.g., food density) and can increase the number of parameters predicted to affect optimal territory size and patrol time.
3882913|The comparative study of reproduction at the level of population and individual is a relatively recent development in spider research. Such study is necessary to describe and examine alternative reproductive tactics. Female spider tactics are related to adaptations for a carnivorous mode of feeding. Being the larger of the sexes, the female has the alternative of mating with or preying upon attending males. In web building spiders, which are generally solitary, other female alternatives are related to characteristics of a web used in prey capture. These alternatives include different responses when defending the web, and individually building the web so that it does or does not contact another. Tactics may vary in communal species which build a sheet-like structure, as females may remain in the colony or emigrate and establish a small web. Male spiders usually search for females, and mating occurs on or near a female retreat or web. A male may show different alternatives in mate searching, demonstrate various courtship and copulatory tactics, copulate or feed on the female's prey while she feeds, and guard the female after mating or depart and search for another female. Certain characteristics of females are related to these male alternatives, these characteristics being: larger size and longer life expectancy as compared with the male, carnivorous feeding, and sexual receptivity. Male web spiders may also use alternatives while defending position on the female web. These alternatives are related to the design and placement of the web, and occasional web abandonment by the female. Relevant literature is reviewed and research suggested.
3881601|Control of mosquitoes is based at present primarily on the use of chemicals. Certain larvivorous fish such as the mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, have also been used to some extent; a bibliography of 719 references was recently compiled on them. Unfortunately, some of these fish feed just as readily on the eggs of economically important fresh-water fish as on mosquito larvae. Malarial control rests on the use of a persistent, synthetic organic pesticide (usually DDT) sprayed solely on the inner walls of all dwellings in a malarial eradication zone. The current feelings regarding the hazards of using DDT recklessly should not be allowed to ban its use in regions where such banning might lead to widespread distress and a great many deaths. We would certainly prefer biological control of mosquitoes to the use of insecticides, but such methods are not yet perfected. A pilot control project in the Tokelau Islands against the vector for filariasis, Aedes polynesiensis, using the fungus, Coelomomyces, gave rather indeterminate results. We still lack a single technique involving a biotic agent commercially available in standardized formulations and properly cleared for field use by agricultural and health authorities, which will give a predictable level of control against even one specific mosquito vector.
3882934|The crustacean pigment-translocating hormones, the red pigment-concentrating hormone (RPCH), an octapeptide, and the light-adapting distal retinal pigment hormone (DRPH), an octadecapeptide, are the first invertebrate neurohormones to be fully characterized. Studies with both purified and synthetic hormones show that, in certain decapods, RPCH is a general pigment-concentrating hormone (PCH), affecting the pigments of all kinds of chromatophores (erythrophores, xanthophores, leucophores and melanophores); the DRPH seems to serve not only light-adapting function, but also act as a general chromatophore pigment-dispersing hormone (PDH). The two hormones thus function as antagonists when regulating the color-adaptation of the decapod crustaceans. PCH activity is widely distributed within the arthropod endocrine systems. The first characterized insect neurohormones, the locust adipokinetic hormones (AKH I and AKH II), show close structural similarities to the crustacean hormone, indicating a common evolution of some of the arthropod neurohormones. Physiological studies of the three hormones (RPCH, AKH I, and AKH II) and their synthetic analogs show that they cross-react, i.e., they all exhibit pigment-concentrating activity when tested on decapod crustaceans, adipokinetic activity when tested on locusts, and hyperglycemic activity when tested on cockroaches, although each of the hormones is more potent in its own system. Structure-function studies show, however, that quite different binding-site requirements exist for the hormones in activating their receptors on the various target tissues. The physiological specificity in their action therefore seems to depend on a differential evolution of the hormone receptors.
3883464|Patterns of seabird species' distributions differ between the Antarctic and the Arctic. In the Antarctic, distributions are annular or latitudinal, with strong similarities in species composition of seabird communities in all ocean basins at a given latitude. In the Arctic, communities are arranged meridionally, and show strong differences between ocean basins and, at a given latitude, between sides of ocean basins. These differences between the seabird communities in the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere reflect differences in the patterns of flow of major ocean current systems. At smaller spatial scales, in both hemispheres the species composition of seabird communities is sensitive to changes in watermass characteristics. The distribution of avian biomass is affected by both physical and biological features of the ocean. In the Antarctic, much seabird foraging is over deep water, and within-season, small-scale patchiness in prey abundance and availability in ice-free waters is likely to be controlled primarily by the behavior of the prey, rather than by physical features. Thus, prey availability may be unpredictable in time and space. In contrast, in the Northern Hemisphere, most seabird foraging is concentrated over shallow continental shelves, where currents interact with bathymetry to produce predictable physical features capable of concentrating prey or making prey more easily harvested by seabirds. Ice cover appears to be the most important physical feature in the Antarctic. An entire community of birds is specialized to use prey taken near the ice edge. These prey consist of a variety of species, some of which are normally found much deeper in the water than the birds taking them can dive. The open-water portion of the marginal ice zone is also an important foraging habitat for Antarctic marine birds. In the Arctic, a food web based on underice algae is used by marine birds, but few if any data exist on avian use of the open water segment of the marginal ice zone. Recent simultaneous surveys of birds and their prey indicate that only rarely does the small-scale abundance of birds match that of their prey; correlations between predators and prey are generally stronger at larger scales. Evidence is accumulating in the Antarctic that the largest aggregations of krill may be disproportionately important to foraging seabirds.
3882382|The spastic mutation induces swimming coordination and equilibrium deficiencies in the Mexican axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum). Behavioral ontogeny studies determined that spastics fail to develop behavior trains of sinusoidal flexures necessary to mediate escape swimming at the time of onset of cerebellar function. Behavior analysis, after lesioning different cranial nerve roots and CNS areas in wild-type animals, confirmed the "behavioral focus" of the mutation to lie in the auricle or vestibulo-cerebellum. Single unit recordings in the cerebellar auricle and adjacent brainstem vestibular zone (area acoustico-lateralis) of mutants revealed a full complement of vestibular unit types found in wild-type. However, the gene appears to alter the physical location of vestibular units in both areas, including a ventral "translocation" of cerebellar units responding to sustained ipsilateral tilt. Correlated with this unit translocation, mutant Purkinje cells and allied afferent tracts are malpositioned ventrally, i.e., "crowded" into an ectopic zone in the ventro-posterior cerebellum. Studies on cerebellar structure at the time of onset of spasticity (early feeding stage) confirmed the ventral malpositioning of cerebellar cells and fiber tracts seen in adults. In conjunction with these larval studies, mutant larvae injected with tritiated thymidine during early cerebellogenesis and assayed at the early feeding stage revealed a medio-ventral malpositioning of labelled cells; in wild-type, labelled cells were positioned laterally. Interestingly, the neuropathology of the reeler mutation (rev., Mariani et al., 1977) found in the mouse is remarkably similar to that of the spastic axolotl. Both cerebella are reduced in size, misshapen, and lack fissures. Purkinje cells appear ectopically in the granular layer, white matter and deep cerebellar nuclei. Although both cerebella lack structural integrity, no individual cell type shows marked or progressive degeneration, and cellular untrastructure appears intact; thus, both genes appear to act independently of the genesis of cerebellar elements. Instead, they appear to influence morphogenetic movements by which presumptive cerebellar cells attain their proper positions during the neurogenetic sequence.
4620121|Science is driven by productive hypotheses and technology, but these may sometimes limit the questions posed. For instance, Fisherian runaway sexual selection and related hypotheses have helped us understand the evolution of exaggerated visual sexual dimorphism. Species with indistinguishable sexes, however, may use different behavioral mechanisms when pairing and thus possess different adaptations. In the monomorphic Midas cichlid (Amphilophus citrinellum), females chose large aggressive males in a restrained situation, as sexual selection predicts, but males did not choose. The nuchal hump of males swells coincidently with pair formation. However, overly large humps were shunned by females while the normal-size hump facilitated sex recognition. This species is polychromatic, and pairs mate assortatively by color in Nicaragua. Some have suggested the Midas cichlid might therefore show how sexual selection produces explosive speciation of cichlids in Africa. All females, however, are biased toward normal-color males. The color of gold morphs modulates aggressive responses of the other fish. All else equal, the benefit to gold in a fight equals 15% more weight than the opponent. Pair formation succeeds best when the typically smaller female of a pair is relatively more aggressive than the male. The pair combination, gold male with normal female, is difficult to produce; making the female the same size as the male removes the disability. Pair formation is a negotiated process in which the male tests the aggressiveness of the female relative to self. That puts the behavioral mechanisms of the male and female in conflict.
3882151|The imaginal discs are groups of proliferating cells that are present in larvae of Drosophila melanogaster but which are not essential for larval functions. During metamorphosis these discs evaginate and differentiate giving rise to the external adult structures. We have identified genes which are essential for normal imaginal disc development by isolating lethal mutants with imaginal disc abnormalities. These mutants have been classified according to the kinds of abnormalities which they express and whether they are expressed in all of the discs, some of the discs, or only in a single disc pair. Of 66 mutants only 5 cannot be placed in a single phenotypic class. Most of the mutants (64%) affect all of the discs. Among these are two groups (discless and small-disc) which block the proliferative phase of development that normally occurs during larval life. Complementation analysis of those two groups of mutants indicates that a large number of genes can give rise to mutations causing either of these phenotypes. Detailed analyses of five of the small-disc mutants suggest that this phenotype can result not only from changes in imaginal disc specific functions but also from changes in functions common to larval and imaginal cells and even in functions which don't occur in imaginal disc cells. At the same time in development that many genes required for all imaginal cells are functioning, some genes not required by all of the discs are also functioning. One of these has been identified by a heat-sensitive mutation which causes a wide variety of defects. Using heat pulses we have shown that each abnormality characteristic of the mutant has a discrete temperature sensitive period during the larval stage.
3883397|The amphibian skin possesses a wide variety of physiological functions in that it constitutes not only the major organ for respiratory CO
3883685|Littoral lentic and shallow lotic freshwater habitats are unpredictable in periodicity and duration of shore emersion. As a result, freshwater bivalves have evolved extensive capacities to withstand prolonged emersion. Valve movement behaviors allow emersed bivalves to control rate of water loss while maintaining at least partial aerial gas exchange; these behaviors are affected by environmental variables such as temperature and relative humidity. Aerial oxygen uptake is associated directly with valve ventilatory behaviors and mantle edge exposure. Such behaviors are often phasic, indicative of oxygen "debt" payment. Lacking effective hemolymph buffer, respiratory acidosis during emersion is compensated by shell carbonate stores allowing hemolymph P
3881161|Fine structural details of the cells and processes of the hydra nervous system are reported in this paper. Ganglion cells are small bipolar or multipolar cells situated above the muscular processes of epitheliomuscular cells. An elaborate Golgi apparatus consisting of parallel lamellae and small and large vesicles is present in these cells. Some cells are poor in ribosomes while others contain numerous free ribosomes. In the ribosome-rich cells, small membranous microtubules originating from the nuclear envelope extend into the cytoplasm and neurites. The neurites also contain vesicles and mitochondria and terminate at the bases of cnidoblasts and on the muscular processes of epitheliomuscular cells. Specialized synapses were not observed. A second cell type contains many membrane-bounded dense granules, 1000 A in diameter, and these are considered to be neurosecretory cells. Neurosecretory granules on cnidoblasts and epitheliomuscular cells. Sensory cells are small elongated cells originate in the Golgi apparatus and are abundant in neurites which also terminate situated between the apical surfaces of epithelial and digestive cells. These cells are characterized by an apical specialization which appears to be a modified cilium. Neurosensory cells were also observed. The intimate connection of the nervous system with cnidoblasts suggests a role in nematocyst discharge. The finding of neurosecretory material supports the hypothesis that the neural control of regeneration in hydra is regulated by material released at nerve endings.
3882533|To a hummingbird, clusters of flowers on inflorescences represent patches and provide an ideal situation to test prediction of optimal patch-use. The basic question is what decision rule should a hummingbird use to decide whether or not to leave an inflorescence? The hypothesis is that hummingbirds will adopt the decision rule that maximizes their net rate of energy gain while foraging. This hypothesis leads to an analogue of Charnov's marginal value theorem which determines an optimal decision rule. The optimal decision rule is then used to predict aspects of the hummingbirds' foraging, and these predictions are compared with field data. The optimal decision rule is a function of how much information is used by the hummingbirds. Data indicate that a decision to leave an inflorescence is a function of the number of flowers visited, the number of flowers available on the inflorescence, and the amount of nectar obtained at the last flower. The optimal decision rule was calculated assuming no additional information is used.
3883200|Four sympatric species of Fundulus (F. heteroclitus, F. majalis, F. diaphanus, and F. luciae) are distributed along tidal height and salinity gradients such that F. heteroclitus co-occurs with each species, while the remaining species rarely occur together. Feeding habitats of all the species are similar, and food has been shown to limit population size of F. heteroclitus. This paper examines whether competition is an important structuring force within this guild by addressing two questions: 1) is the spatial separation exhibited by three of the species due to physiological barriers or due to competitive exlusion? and 2) when F. heteroclitus occurs with other Fundulus species does competition for resources take place? Laboratory studies indicate that all four species are tolerant of a wide range of environmental conditions; available evidence suggests that physiological barriers are an unlikely explanation for spatial segregation among some members of this guild. Competitive exclusion seems a likely alternate explanation, but is supported only by studies of diet overlap. Similarly, only inference from diet overlap is available to answer the second question. A field experiment is presented here in which F. heteroclitus and F. majalis were placed in enclosures separately and together. Competition between these species appears to be important, and similar field experiments are recommended to investigate competitive interactions among other species pairs within the genus.
3882423|Bivalve and gastropod molluscs undergo large changes in external environmental conditions, as well as in internal state. Cardiac responses to these changing conditions have been recorded in a variety of species. There is a general tendency for heart rate, and presumably cardiac output, to increase in response to situations that would increase the load on respiratory and excretory systems. Changes in molluscan heart function in many cases appear not to be mediated directly by cardiac nerves, but rather by such indirect mechanisms as changes in blood constituents or mechanical, hemodynamic effects on heart muscle. Three types of cardiac response in Aplysia have been shown to be mediated, at least in part, by the heart regulator nerves. The neural circuits that regulate heart rate in Aplysia and in Helix have been partially described in cellular detail. In Mercenaria, Aplysia and other molluscan species there is evidence that cyclic adenosine monophosphate has a role in mediating the excitatory effects of serotonin on heart muscle. There appears to be, in fact, a general tendency in the Aplysia nervous system for neurons that exert tonic, modulatory effects within neural networks that control a variety of behaviors to use serotonin for a transmitter. In each case there is evidence to suggest that changes in cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels may mediate some of the modulatory effects of serotonin.
3883606|The growth and development of the American Society of Zoologists (ASZ) came in an era of rapid expansion among the life sciences, as well as during a period when biologists were seeking to provide themselves with a united and effective voice. In ASZ's early years it usually remained subsidiary, overshadowed by larger organizations like the American Society of Naturalists or the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and constrained by its small enrollment to hold meetings in conjunction with these larger societies. As ASZ's numbers increased, however, new members entered from many specialized fields, and it became a focal organization for associations dedicated to such studies as ecology, genetics, animal behavior, or systematic zoology. Much of ASZ's success in achieving its integrative status can be attributed to the formation of divisions within the Society, each dedicating itself to the specialized interests of its own members under the larger umbrella of zoology. This development, of course, paralleled the interaction between ASZ and the larger social issues that have arisen during the century of the Society's history. ASZ has consistently concerned itself with just treatment for all, regardless of race or sex; with government support of science; with the education of science teachers and of young and talented biologists; and with all those issues that improve the productivity of zoologists and enhance their capacity for reaching an ever deeper understanding of animal biology.
3883932|Research on the sensory inputs regulating ventilation and perfusion in vertebrates has slowly moved from studies of receptor cells to studies of the receptor proteins on receptor cells involved in signal transduction. With this new emphasis and the insights gained from this work, questions arise about the significance of specific transduction mechanisms and their link to whole animal responses to various stimuli. This is illustrated in the present chapter using two examples. The first describes pulmonary mechanoreceptors in identical locations but with different orientations. As a result of the differences in their orientation, although the receptors have identical signal transduction mechanisms and identical roles in terms of the reflex effects they elicit, they respond to different stimuli at the whole animal level. The second example suggests that different populations of O
3881788|Using the typical mouth opening response (MOR) as the index of chemoreception, several amino acid constituents of natural food for Aplysia were effective in eliciting MOR in concentrations as low as
3882808|The phylum Nemertina, with more than 800 described species, occupies a wide range of habitats and figures prominently in theories of bilaterian evolution. Integuments of nemertines, from a number of habitats and representing the major orders, are compared and the general cell types constituting the epidermis are reviewed and defined. The general construction and cell demography of the integument are more or less characteristic for each order, but are not readily generalized to lower taxonomic levels. Similarly, the general structure of the integument has correlations with broad environments, but there are few conspicuous, uniquely adaptive, morphological specializations; e.g., the adhesive plate and ciliary bristles of interstitial nemertines, the tube-forming cells of Carcinonemertes epialti and various palaeonemertines, the epidermis of the pilidium larva. It is proposed that there are three generalized types of integumentary glandular cells, mucous, serous and bacillary, and that these and the ciliated cells vary only modestly across taxonomic and environmental lines. However, it is also proposed that the major structural variations of the integument not only are diagnostic for the orders but also suggest and correlate with two major evolutionary radiations of the extant nemertines, one epibenthic, the other infaunal-in that sequence. Similarities of the nemertine integument to that of turbellarians are superficial or at best plesiomorphous; i.e., they are also found in other taxa.
3881920|The first collagen recognizable in the embryo is in the form of an incomplete basal lamina under the epiblast and hypoblast. We suggest that this collagen acts as a railroad track to guide the migration of the primitive streak mesenchyme. The mesenchyme aggregates into chordamesoderm, a layer which is said to "induce" the overlying epiblast (now ectoderm) to develop into neural folds. This tissue interaction may be mediated by the formation of complete basal laminas separating the two tissues and by deposition of sulfated mucopolysaccharides in the intervening extracellular space. At the very least, the collagenous basal lamina serves to give the elongating cells of the developing neural tube a firm foothold. The fully formed neural tube and adjacent notochord are said to induce the sclerotome of the somite to migrate medially and differentiate into cartilage. Notochord and neural tube basal lamina and collagen fibrils may play a role by guiding the migrating cells and stabilizing the already existing chondrogenic bias of the cells. We were unable to prove this hypothesis directly (by adding collagen to somite cultures), because in our hands the somites died in vitro even in the presence of neural tube and notochord. We did obtain direct evidence, however, that the basal lamina of the lens can promote the differentiation of the cornea in vitro.
3883718|Benthic marine invertebrates with planktonic larvae may exhibit Allee effects in reproduction or recruitment. Hydrodynamic considerations and experimental evidence suggest that species broadcasting gametes suffer greatly reduced fertilization efficiencies as densities decline. There is also evidence for some species, including the red sea urchin, that post-dispersal recruitment success declines at low densities of adults, if adults provide shelter from predators or other sources of mortality. Species displaying strong Allee effects may be susceptible to catastrophic population collapses with slight increases in mortality due to harvesting or natural causes. A simple two patch logistic model suggests that the establishment of a harvest refuge is necessary to prevent collapses and maintain sustainable catches at high levels of harvesting effort. A more detailed, age structured model based on the biology of the red sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus franciscanus produces similar results. Effects of harvesting strategies are sensitive to Allee effects caused by both fertilization efficiency and the disruption of adult spine canopies. Theoretical requirements for the size and spacing of marine reserves depends upon the dispersal abilities of the target species. Multiple reserves, spaced more closely than the average larval dispersal distance, appear to be an effective and conservative strategy for maintaining healthy populations and sustainable levels of harvest.
3884481|Identifying when homoplasy is due to convergence requires confidence in trees and precise analysis of potentially convergent characters. Some features of mammals that eat mostly ants and termites are used as examples of convergence; the most speciose assemblages of these mammals are in the orders Xenarthra and Pholidota. My studies on cranial muscles in xenarthrans and pholidotans aim to 1) precisely describe the anatomy in ant-eating and non-ant-eating lineages, 2) assess variation among ant-eating lineages, and 3) compare the most derived conditions (in xenarthran anteaters and pholidotan pangolins). These data clarify the nature of morphological adaptation in ant-eating mammals, and when combined with accumulating phylogenetic studies, allow us to distinguish features that have evolved convergently from those that are variable but not correlated with diet. Interpreting the extreme similarity in anteaters and pangolins remains problematic due to lingering disagreement among phylogenetic hypotheses. Prevailing opinion favors interpretation of these similarities as convergent.
3883564|Strain gauge analysis can provide tremendous benefits to functional morphologists by accurately assessing the performance of a particular hard tissue structure in the mechanical loading environments in which it functions. This method replaces estimated calculations of skeletal stresses or strains with empirical measurements, and thus allows explicit testing of predictions derived from theoretical mechanical analyses or models. This direct measurement is particularly useful and important when the assumptions of mechanical models are violated in the biological world, such as when the geometry of the element of interest is complex and/or when the loads applied to a structure are either poorly known or dynamically changing. In many, perhaps most, systems of interest to functional morphologists, the assumptions of simple shape and well-defined loading necessary for most theoretical analyses are untenable; in these situations, strain gauge analysis can provide considerable crucial information not obtainable any other way. Although there are important limitations to the use of this approach, it can be applied to a variety of kinds of functional analyses and may supply information about skeletal performance that can contribute to meaningful functional interpretations of morphological design.
3883044|This review examines the influence of hormonal stimulation on paternal care in selected species of fish, birds and mammals. Correlational studies of hormonal changes and the occurrence of paternal behavior as well as experimental studies are considered. Understanding the influence of hormones on paternal behavior is complicated by whether the species studied shows maternal, paternal or biparental care and by the interactions among hormonal changes, prior experience and responses to external stimuli. It is evident that hormonal changes may be the result as well as the stimulus for paternal care and that stimuli from nests, eggs and young may be important for inducing the hormonal conditions which maintain paternal care. Hormonal determinants of sexual differentiation and the neuroendocrine control of paternal behavior are discussed. Although there are few theories which include the role of hormones in paternal care, some hypotheses relating to the "association hypothesis" of Gross and Shine (1981) are considered and suggestions are made for future studies.
3882018|There are now many examples in insects of axons which elicit hyperpolarizing junctional potentials in the muscle fibers they innervate. With the muscles bathed in haemolymph, electrical stimulation of these axons causes a decrease in the magnitude of slow contractions. This property allows them to be defined as inhibitory. Although inhibitory axons have the ability to regulate the magnitude of maintained slow contractions, there is little evidence that this is their normal function. The inhibitory axons supplying at least three insect muscles function to increase the rate of relaxations following each contraction of a rhythmic sequence. Moreover, when the haemolymph potassium concentration is high, some inhibitory axons probably ensure complete relaxation between rhythmic contractions by preventing potassium contractions in tonic muscle fibers. There is no convincing evidence that inhibitory axons can facilitate muscular contractions by becoming active immediately before the excitatory input.
3881435| Three wolf cubs ( and 2 ) taken blind from their den were studied in captivity. When the cubs were 20-22 weeks old, their behavior was studied in the presence of individuals of two breeds of dogs (German Shepherd and Samoyed). The wolf cubs had seen no canine individuals before the experiments and vice versa. The sexes and ages of the German Shepherds (they resemble European forest wolves in appearance) tested were as follows: female (3 years), male (17 months), female (21 weeks; the same height as the wolf cubs) and female (12 weeks). The two female Samoyeds were 2 years old. All the tests were performed in the pen of the wolf cubs and filmed. The main results are as follows: (1). Investigative behavior was observed during all the tests carried out. (2). No aggressiveness was observed between the wolf cubs and those German Shepherds which were as tall as the wolf cubs or taller. By contrast, the wolf cubs tried to kill the smallest German Shepherd (12 weeks old). (3). Great aggressiveness was observed between the wolf cubs and the Samoyeds from the moment of confrontation. (4). No difference was observed in the movements and behavior patterns of these two species. (5). The results are discussed. 
3884560|An amazing variety of mammals produce seismic vibrations by drumming a part of their body on a substrate. The drumming can communicate multiple messages to conspecifics about territorial ownership, competitive superiority, submission, readiness to mate, or presence of predators. Drumming also functions in interspecific communication when prey animals drum to communicate to predators that they are too alert for a successful ambush. The diversity of mammals that drum in varied contexts suggest independent evolution in different lineages. Footdrumming, as with other signals, probably originated by ritualization of older forms of behavior not associated with communication such as running and digging. Footdrumming patterns are species specific and range from single thumps to individual footdrum signatures. Although mammals communicate above ground with airborne drumming signals, they can also transmit sound seismically into the burrow where the signals become airborne and are received with ears especially adapted to hear low-frequency sound. Footdrumming has been studied the most extensively in kangaroo rats, Dipodomys. A comparison of species of different body mass shows that smaller sized, non-territorial species have no ritualized footdrumming; medium-sized species drum a simple pattern in limited contexts; while larger-sized species communicate territorial ownership with complex patterns. Future studies should examine the mechanics and energy requirements of drumming to test hypotheses about body size limitations on the evolution of footdrumming. Our understanding of drumming as communication is limited until investigators conduct field tests of responses to drumming signals in the contexts in which the signals are generated.
3884395|The heat shock response in kinetoplastid protozoa is distinguished from the stress response of the metazoa and yeasts by a lack of regulated transcription and by the failure to respond to stresses other than heat. The heat stress encountered by the parasites during transmission into mammalian hosts is a key trigger for their stage differentiation and may be a factor in the tropism of Leishmania species. While the major heat shock proteins are highly abundant both in the arthropod stage and the mammalian stage of the parasites, the 100 kD heat shock protein of L. major and L. donovani, Hsp100, appears to be expressed and required primarily in the mammalian stages of these parasites. Gene replacement mutants deficient in Hsp100 expression fail to express certain proteins specific for the amastigote and display markedly reduced virulence and aberrant morphology in infection experiments. However, the effects of leishmanial Hsp100 on general thermotolerance, induced or uninduced, are marginal at best. We conclude that the role of Hsp100 has been adapted to the specific needs of a parasite which has to enter stage conversion under heat stress and which has no need for tolerance against extreme stress.
3884106|This paper presents new results of risk-sensitive foraging studies of the carpenter bee, Xylocopa micans, and reviews the work to date on risk sensitivity in nectarivores. In the field, nectarivores choose among alternative food sources (flowers) that differ in the variabilities of their nectar rewards. In the lab, the foraging situation for carpenter bees was experimentally simplified by offering the bees a choice between either "low variance" or "high variance" artificial flowers. The two flower types differed in their variabilities but offered the same expected short-term rates of net energy gain to test the predictions of the short-term rate maximization mechanism. Foragers were tested under two energy budget conditions, hungry and well-fed, to test the predictions of the z-score model. Individual carpenter bees were indifferent to variability in both nectar volume and nectar sugar concentrations, and their risk-indifference was unaffected by energy budget. These findings of risk indifference support neither the variance discounting nor the z-score model of risk sensitivity. Since the low and high variance flower types are equivalent for carpenter bees in short-term rate of energy gain, there can be no selection on carpenter bees to be sensitive to variability based on differences in rate of gain. Studies of risk sensitivity in honey bees and bumble bees using variance in nectar concentration support this contention. These findings are compared with other nectarivore risk sensitivity studies in order to highlight the most likely mechanisms underlying aversion to variation in nectar rewards (short-term rate maximizing, the Weber-Fechner law of perception and learning non-empty flowers) and to suggest future research in the interplay of these three mechanisms.
3884211|The association of the sepiolid squid Euprymna scolopes with its marine luminous bacterial symbiont Vibrio fischeri is an emerging model system to study the initiation and development of bacterial symbioses in higher animals, in particular the influence of bacteria on the ontogenic development of symbiotic-specific host tissues. Experiments comparing the development of juvenile squid infected with symbiotic V. fischeri with that of uninfected juveniles suggest postembryonic development of the light organ requires cell-cell interactions with the bacterial symbionts. The presence of symbiotic bacteria induces specific morphological changes by affecting such fundamental processes as cell death and cell differentiation. The surface of the juvenile organ is largely composed of ciliated cells that appear to facilitate infection of the light organ. These cells begin to undergo cell death within hours of infection with symbiotic V. fischeri. Within three days the epithelial cells that form the bacteria-containing crypts of the light organ increase in size; these cells do not appear mitotically active, and may represent a terminally differentiated state. The light organs of uninfected juvenile E. scolopes, however, do not exhibit any of these early postembryonic developmental events but remain in a state of arrested morphogenesis.
3883041|A critical reexamination of the empirical data on male-infant interactions among baboons and macaques reveals a number of significant contrasts between them. On an absolute and relative scale, the frequency of occurrence among baboons is rare. When male baboons do interact with infants, only a small proportion of all available male actors do so, and even fewer still (less than one-quarter) account for any substantial percentage of all interactions. In contrast, macaque males are very frequently and commonly involved with infants; all males of the group interact with infants to some degree, and a greater proportion of all the group's males can be characterized as "heavily involved" with infants. The rejection of the role of kinship in interpreting this phenomenon, especially as it occurs among baboons, has rested almost exclusively on the pattern of estimated paternity between male and infant from behavioral (consort) criteria. These behavioral-based data are incomplete at best, possibly incorrect in some instances, and in fact, in many studies kinship appears to be a predominant factor. Until patrilineal data are derived from independent cytogenetic studies, these evolutionary interpretations must be viewed with extreme skepticism.
3881554| The dipteran salivary gland is considered from several points of view. Its development in relation to chromosomal puffing suggests that this tissue, perhaps more than any other, represents major evidence for differential activation and inactivation of genes during development. From studies of this tissue we have gained further insight into concepts of tissue and stage specificity. Factors regulating puffing during development include the natural hormone, ecdysone, as well as a host of other substances and environmental factors which affect cellular metabolism. Breakdown of the salivary gland seems ultimately to be controlled by chromsomal puffing. In this case one of the first detectable biochemical alterations in the gland is the accumulation of the enzyme DNase. This enzyme may play a rle in digesting the chromosomes themselves, thus accomplishing regulated self-destruction of the cell's synthetic machinery. 
3882739|The role and function of theoretical ecology are examined. The case is made that theory must be recognized as an activity closely tied to, but separate and independent in objectives and perspective, from field observation and experimentation. Too literal interpretation of models, and rigid insistence on immediate congruence between theory and observation, have led to abuses and distortion of the role of theory. Examples are given to illustrate the partnership between theory and experiment, with emphasis on the partitioning and exploitation of space. The role of theory in guiding understanding and experimentation in the rocky intertidal community of the West Coast (Paine and Levin, 1981) is discussed. Models of individual movement based on random walk assumptions are summarized, with special attention to recent work by Kareiva (1982a, b, c) designed to test the applicability of diffusion models. Such models are shown to provide an excellent foundation for the study of the foraging movements of phytophagous insects: Extensions hold great promise as descriptors of movement for much wider classes of organisms and in the presence of complications such as taxis, grouping behavior, etc. Finally, some brief discussion is given on recent efforts to develop a theory of the evolution of dispersal and dormancy in heterogeneous environments.
3883037|The contribution of the male to the care of the young varies greatly within the class Aves. In this paper we use canonical correlation analysis to provide a quantitative framework for assessing the ecological and life history correlates of male involvement in five parental activities. The avian subfamily was used as the unit of analysis. Data were obtained from the existing literature. Four significant dimensions of relationship between the behavioral outcome variables and the ecological/life history predictors emerged from the analysis. Together, these dimensions accounted for 38% of the variability in the five paternal behaviors. The analysis indicated that the most powerful predictors of paternal behavior include mode of development, mating system, certain habitat characteristics, and clutch weight as a percentage of female body weight. The approach described here makes it possible to conduct formal quantitative tests of specific hypotheses widely discussed in the literature and to explore the existing data for important relationships that may have been overlooked in earlier work. The model also generates predictions about the behavior, ecology and life history of taxonomic groups about which little is currently known.
3883058|An animal's nutritional status depends on (1) nutrient accessibility, (2) nutrient demand, and (3) physiological, metabolic, morphological, and behavioral compensations that avert or minimize discrepancies, if any, between the first two. The main thesis of this essay is that the diversity and potency of such compensatory mechanisms have often been underrated, and hence the frequency and intensity of nutritional stress in free-living animals have often been exaggerated. This theme is explored in conjunction with an inventory of the modes of compensation for actual or potential dietary deficiencies.
3882835|A survey of biomechanically significant aspects of the jaw apparatus in 13 orders of recent and fossil ungulates indicates that an expanded angular process evolved independently at least 12 times. Temporal fossa size is reduced in most ungulates of modern aspect, but not in many early ungulates. Expansion of the masseter and internal pterygoid musculature (inferred from the expanded angular process) may represent an adaptation for enhanced control of grinding action in mastication.
3881655|Two groups of fishes, the tuna and the lamnid sharks, have evolved counter-current heat-exchange mechanisms for conserving metabolic heat and raising their body temperatures. Warm muscle can produce more power, and considering the other adaptations for fast swimming in these fish, it seems likely that the selective advantages of greater speed made possible by the warm muscle were important in the evolution of this system. Some tunas such as the yellowfin and skipjack are at a fixed temperature difference above the water, but bluefin tuna can thermoregulate. Telemetry experiments show that the bluefin tuna can maintain a constant deep body temperature during marked changes in the temperature of its environment.
3881919|The concept that extracellular matrix materials are involved in the morphogenetic process is supported by substantial indirect evidence. Essential morphogenetically active materials are obscure with regard to their nature, their mode of action, and whether they are causally involved in tissue interactions. Studies are presented indicating that glycosaminoglycans are components of embryonic epithelial basal laminae, and that materials within the basal lamina which are, at least in part, glycosaminoglycan are required for establishing and maintaining branching epithelial morphogenesis. The tissue of origin and molecular nature of basal laminar glycosaminoglycan are described and speculations are made regarding its possible mode of action in the context of a model for branching morphogenesis.
3884187|Maternal effects comprise a class of phenotypic effects that parents have on phenotypes of their offspring that are unrelated to the offspring's own genotype. Although biologists have known about the importance of these effects for decades, maternal effects have only recently been studied widely by evolutionary ecologists. Moreover, the impact of maternal effects on the rate and direction of evolution of other components of the phenotype has only recently been fully elucidated by theoretical genetic models. This paper provides a brief overview of maternal effects research, focusing on research conducted in animal systems. First, I review and summarize definitions and theoretical treatments of maternal effects. Then I survey the diversity of maternal effects and some of the kinds of ecological and evolutionary impacts that maternal effects have been shown to have on offspring performance. Third, I discuss some of the ecological and evolutionary implications of maternal effects in ecological research. In this context, it is argued that the kinds of maternal effects that have been studied, and some of the potential implications of maternal effects that have not been explored are both artifacts of research effort. Hence, I identify several fruitful areas for future maternal effects research. Lastly, I describe the necessity of explicitly incorporating maternal effects in ecological research, whether or not the researcher is focusing on them as the topic of the research.
3884097| The filtration mechanics of the gill of the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, allow this organism to capture particles less than 1 m. The organization of gill cirri and the architecture of the cirri appear to be important in providing the organism with the ability to filter small particles. Bacteria may provide a useful nutrient source for these animals as bacterial proteins can be digested and assimilated into mussel proteins. Laboratory experiments indicate that D. polymorpha is capable of filtering and assimilating a wide range of bacteria ranging in size from 1-4 m. Unionid species appear to be at least an order of magnitude less efficient at filtering bacteria than D. polymorpha. Because of its relatively smaller gill size, C. fluminea also filters bacteria less efficiently than D. polymorpha. We suggest that bacterial utilization by freshwater mussel species has important population and evolutionary implications. 
3883903|Lepidopteran juvenile hormone (JH) esterase appears to have a functional role in the regulation of embryogenesis, larval growth and development, and adult reproduction. In preovipositional and newly laid eggs of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, JH esterase activity was elevated presumably to metabolize maternal JHs, and then declined after blastoderm formation. Also, a single peak in hemolymph JH esterase activity was found prior to ecdysis in the second through the fourth instar of M. sexta, the function of which is unclear. However, in the last instar, elevated hemolymph JH esterase activity was noted prior to wandering and again prior to ecdysis to scavenge the last traces of JH necessary for normal development. The hemolymph JH esterase is likely of multiple tissue origin for the prewandering peak with the fat body excluded as a source for the prepupal peak; an inhibitory factor from the brain and JH regulate JH esterase biosynthesis. In adult cabbage loopers, Trichoplusia ni, elevated hemolymph JH esterase activity appeared to be important in reducing the JH titer and preventing egg maturation. Structure/activity data with trifluoromethylketones were incorporated into the design of a novel, JH esterase inhibitor, the sulfone and hydrate of octylthio-1,1,1-trifluoropropan-2-one, with selective and persistent, in vivo inhibitory activity. The topical application of this compound to last instar larvae and virgin adults of T. ni produced juvenizing effects (delayed pupation and induced egg maturation/oviposition, respectively) providing direct evidence of a functional role for JH esterase in lepidopteran development.
3881418|Study of the visual displays of more than 30 species of crabs allows some generalizations on the Brachyrhyncha. The displays fall into two groups, the Lateral Merus and the Chela Forward. Each group contains three major subtypes of display, which originated as discrete signals of intensity. Several special ritualizations of the Lateral Merus have evolved in certain genera. The Lateral Merus seems to be the primitive type of display in the Brachyura and still exists in most crabs. It is speculated that the Chela Forward arose from a specialized courtship display but has been adopted for general agonistic use in some genera.
3883026|Current research reveals that the somewhat separate subdisciplines ethology, zoosemiotic and sociobiology function together in clarifying animal behavior. Ethology is taken as the study of individual behavioral patterns, zoosemiotic as the study of animal communication, and sociobiology as the study of social organization. The explosive progress in all research areas cannot be summarized briefly but examples are drawn to provide the flavor of each subdiscipline and their interactions. Among the illustrative topics selected are behavioral development, animal orientation, signal structure, the context of communication, language, mating systems and cooperative breeding. At junctures some possible paths toward future study are identified, but the concluding examples point to the principal theme and prediction: the integrated study of behavior combining historically distinct approaches-which promises to help clarify not only the lives of our fellow earthly inhabitants but our own lives as well.
3884495|The colinear, anterior to posterior expression domains of the Hox genes in vertebrate embryos is strongly correlated with regional changes in vertebral morphology. The limbs of tetrapods are consistently aligned with specific areas of the vertebral column. However, control of limb development is apparently situated in the lateral plate mesoderm, and has been experimentally shown to be independent of an axial Hox code (Cohn et al., 1997, Nature 387:97-101). We have used experimental manipulation of chick embryos to test the causal role of Hox genes in patterning derivatives of the paraxial mesoderm. Hox expression in heterotopically transplanted segmental plate responds in a manner consistent with a patterning role for these genes in the morphological behavior of the transplants. Expression is maintained in dorsal paraxial regions where patterning is also intrinsic to the donor site of the graft. However, expression is apparently lost in somite cells that migrate into the host lateral plate environment and form appropriate host-level muscles. This arrangement could enable increased plasticity in the evolution of transpositional variation in the vertebrate body plan.
3881491|The location and function of the five or six sets of silk glands of Araneus diadematus (Cl) are discussed. The structure and function of the three major parts of the ampullate gland indicate a synthesizing, collecting, and possibly structuring section. Two methods of stimulation of the ampullate gland, namely emptying the gland and cholinergic stimulation, are known. In both cases there is an initial secretory stage followed by rapid synthesis of new protein. The sequence of events following stimulation by both methods is described, based on studies of the incorporation of labeled protein and RNA precursors and on autoradiographic studies. Characteristic changes occur in the fine structure during the stimulatory cycle. Several experiments show that the spider has information on the amount of silk available to it for use in web-building. A structure which may act as a biological transducer has been located in the ampullate gland.
3882034|A variety of animals are now known to be facultative anaerobes, capable of utilizing molecular oxygen when it is present and capable of sustained anaerobiosis when it is absent. During anoxia these organisms rely upon the simultaneous catabolism of carbohydrate and amino acids. In probing the mechanisms utilized, this essay accounts for (1) the maintenance of redox balance during anoxia, (2) the sources of energy in the form of ATP, and (3) the formation of a multiplicity of anaerobic end products.
3882837|The actions of the masticatory muscles of a variety of mammals in which feeding behavior and the configuration of the masticatory apparatus differ have been reported. The most common approach used in these studies involves (1) obtaining a good anatomical perception of the musculature, (2) deriving a theoretical model of the actions of these muscles during jaw movement, and (3) testing this model by recording muscle activity and jaw movements simultaneously. A catalogue of the activity patterns in eleven species of mammals during food reduction reveals certain trends in the actions of the masticatory muscles. Horizontal jaw movements are generated primarily by differential activities of the deep temporalis, superficial masseter, and medial pterygoid. Vertical movements and the maintenance of tooth to food contact apparently are produced by action of the superficial temporalis, deep masseter, and zygomaticomandibularis. Thus, horizontal movements are seemingly generated by muscles having fibers arranged in marked anteroposterior direction, whereas vertical movements are generated by muscles having more or less vertically arranged fibers. The asymmetry of jaw movement and the muscular activity generating it suggest that mastication involves an interaction between an unbalanced and flexible functional unit (muscles) and a balanced and stable structural unit (skull and teeth). Thus, any unbalancing of the structural unit results in a further unbalancing of the masticatory process.
3884535|Host shifts and subsequent host-race formation likely play a more common role in the speciation of herbivorous insects than has generally been recognized. Our studies of the interactions of goldenrod host plants (Solidago: Compositae), the gall fly Eurosta solidaginis (Diptera: Tephritidae), and the stem- and gall-boring Mordellistena convicta (Coleoptera: Mordellidae) provide behavioral, ecological, and genetic evidence of insect host races that may represent incipient species formed via sympatric speciation. Eurosta solidaginis has developed genetically differentiated and reproductively isolated host races that are associated with the ancestral host Solidago altissima and the derived host S. gigantea. Conventional wisdom suggests that shifts even to closely related host plants are limited by host preferences or the inability to utilize a chemically and developmentally distinct host. However, our preliminary work with Eurosta from S. gigantea implies that host choice and gall induction do not deter a shift to S. canadensis. The galling of Solidago by Eurosta created a new resource that has led to a subsequent host range expansion by the stem-boring beetle. Mordellistena convicta from stems and galls are genetically distinct and likely shifted from stems to galls. Beetles from S. altissima versus S. gigantea galls exhibit assortative mating and higher preference for and/or performance on their natal host. The present-day distributions of the Eurosta host races and their behavioral isolating mechanisms do not suggest that geographic isolation was required for their formation; rather these characteristics suggest a sympatric mode of differentiation. Our findings lend credence to recent assertions that sympatric speciation may be an important source of biodiversity.
4620220|Certain issues of metazoan phylogeny remain difficult to resolve even with advances in phylogenetic theory and molecular tools. This lack of resolution might be due to limited phylogenetic signal in regions of the metazoan tree. For example, 18S rDNA data are consistent with a rapid radiation early in the history of bilaterian animals. Despite this lack of resolution, our understanding of metazoan evolutionary history can be furthered by extracting phylogenetic signal from data with more appropriate evolutionary models and by explicitly testing alternative hypotheses. I examined 18S rDNA data across a diverse number of phyla to identify potential problems with using genetic data to reconstruct metazoan history. Although the 18S performs well at the most general level of metazoan phylogeny, it has shortcomings particularly among the non-arthropod protostomes. Examples of parametric bootstrap simulation are given to illustrate how we may begin to address methodological issues when there is limited phylogenetic signal. These simulations suggest that we are more likely to understand the bilaterian radiation event by increasing the length of nucleotide sequences collected than by employing faster genes.
3881759|Two genera of fishes, Poecilia and Poeciliopsis, both in the family Poeciliidae, have established unisexual populations. One "species," Poecilia formosa, is a diploid form that relies upon sperm from Poecilia latipinna or P. mexicana to initiate parthenogenetic development (gynogenesis). Triploid individuals of P. formosa have also been discovered but the mode of reproduction and the significance of such fish to natural populations have yet to be established. In the genus Poeciliopsis three gynogenetic triploids are known. Each is superimposed on a different bisexual host: Poeciliopsis lucida, P. monacha or P. viriosa. Five diploid hybridogenetic forms also have been identified. These are fertilized by either P. lucida, P. latidens, or P. occidentalis. In hybridogenetic forms, sperm actually fertilizes the egg. A hybrid with maternal and paternal characters is produced, but only maternal genes are transmitted through the egg to the next generation. Because of their sperm dependency, all unisexual fishes must reside with at least one of the parental species. They are forced to compete with them for sperm, space, and other limited resources. The ability to produce two females for every one that bisexuals produce suggests that the unisexuals have the potential to win this competition; but in so doing, they would lose their sexual support and eliminate themselves. A density-dependent mate selection system plays a role in establishing a workable balance between the competing elements. Unisexual forms of both Poecilia and Poeciliopsis are of hybrid origin. For most of them, the parental precursors and the proportion of genetic material that each contributed to the unisexual is known. The various genomes that make up the unisexuals are adapted to a variety of habitats. Once these genomes are combined in a unisexual hybrid, potential for adaptation to multiple niches exists; this coupled with heterosis contributes greatly to the success of gynogenetic and hybridogenetic fishes.
3882596|I have reinvestigated the "classical" Hydra transplantation phenomena, using experiments of simple design and large sample sizes. All experiments involved transplanting small tissue fragments from a donor hydra to a host. Both of the effects which are considered to demonstrate "head inhibition" in hydra (removing the head of the host, and placing transplants at different distances from the host's head) can be explained by assuming a diffusible inhibitory substance produced in the head; the apparent half-life of the substance is 2 hr and the apparent diffusion constant
3882711|The phylogeny of the major groups of deuterostome coelomates-the chordates, hemichordates and echinoderms-is discussed based on a mechanical-functional analysis of the hydrostatic skeleton and associated structures. The basic approach is to first establish transformation series of individual features and of functional complexes of features and second to determine their "Lesrichtung" by showing the direction of increased economy (i.e., better adaptation) with respect to environmental factors. It is argued that a metameric coelom is primitive with respect to an oligomeric one and that the ancestral form of the deuterostome coelomates is a metameric, coelomate worm-like animal with a complex set of circular, transverse and longitudinal body muscles. The coelom plus the complex body musculature formed the hydrostatic skeleton. The sequence of structural modifications leading to chordates is: (a) appearance of the notochord; (b) specialization of the dorsal longitudinal muscles with a reduction and disappearance of the transverse and circular muscles; (c) simultaneous appearance of the dorsal hollow nerve cord; (d) development of a postanal tail; and (e) appearance and specialization of the branchial basket with gill slits as a filter feeding apparatus. The primitive chordate would be most similar to the lancelet (Acrania). Tunicates are advanced chordates specialized for sessile life and lost most chordate features in the adult, but retained them in the larvae as adaptations for active dispersal. Enteropneusts (acorn worms) are another advanced group specialized for burrowing in fine sediments and that evolved the anterior proboscis as a peristaltic burrowing organ. The notochord was lost as was the dorsal nerve cord and segmented condition of the coelom. A collar originated as a means to prevent discharged water from re-entering the mouth. Pterobranchs arose from enteropneustlike forms; their major structural changes are reduction of the branchial basket and modification of the collar into tentacles which are associated with life in a closed tube. Finally, echinoderms arose from a pterobranch-like ancestor by specializing for sessile life and feeding with tentacles and by final loss of the branchial basket. Groups such as the tunicates, hemichordates and echinoderms could be eliminated as ancestral forms within the deuterostome coelomates because the evolution of acraniates and vertebrates from each of these groups would involve the appearance of gill slits before the notochord and/or the evolution of a metameric coelom from an oligomeric one, both of which are exceedingly improbable. Central to the methods used to establish the transformation series of features and their direction of evolutionary change (Lesrichtung) are functional (mechanical) analysis and adaptive interpretation of features; hence, functional-adaptive analyses are an integral and essential part of the methodology of phylogenetic investigation.
3882769|Use of isolated cell preparations have been a powerful approach to understanding cellular and biochemical processes of a wide variety of tissues, including transporting epithelia. A method for isolating the extra-renal organ or salt gland from a larval brachiopod crustacean, the brine shrimp, has been developed. This preparation is unique as it is the first isolated epithelial cell preparation from a crustacean and is derived from an early stage of development. As both the removal and purification protocols differ markedly from previous cell isolation methods, details of their development have been described. This preparation has allowed measurement of the Na+K ATPase specific activity in the salt gland and intestine for the first time. Use of the isolated salt glands will facilitate cellular and subcellular studies of both the structure and function of this ion transporting epithelium.
3882680|Budding of colonial ascidians was reviewed from three different viewpoints. First, budding was classified into two functional types, propagative and survival. The former type is supposed to occur in all colonial ascidians; it is active and functions during colony growth. The latter type is passive and occurs in some ascidians under adverse environmental conditions to ensure the survival of the animal. Second, a comparative study was made on the development and budding of ascidians of the subfamily Polyclininae. Third, some morphological problems concerning the asexual development of ascidians were discussed. Special attention was paid to 1) morphological differences between oozoids and blastozooids, 2) establishment of bud polarity, and 3) transmission of bilateral asymmetry to the next asexual generation. The evidences cited in these discussions show that colonial ascidians have a great promise for the study of morphogenesis, especially pattern formation.
3881980|The tradition with which both male and female Uganda kob return to permanently located territorial breeding grounds (TG's or leks), along with the dispersion of individuals in relationship to a home TG and morphological variation between individuals associated with different TG's, indicates that the total population of kob in the Toro Game Reserve and its vicinity is subdivided into relatively closed breeding units. Mathematical analyses of linear body measurements show significant differences in morphological features between three demes, not only in averages but also in the inter-relatedness of body characteristics, suggesting an underlying genetic integrity within demes. Interdemic gene flow through individuals appears to be inconsequential, but there may be significant gene flow through the formation of temporary TG's. Altruistic behavior among territorial males may contribute to kinship selection, and the individual kob behavior in response to predation suggests that altruism may have a bearing on the regulation of predation. The lek system of social organization may be significant in maintaining genetic heterogeneity in the kob antelope, which lives in geographically isolated populations throughout its range.
3882534|Food competition among coexisting nectarivorous birds is conspicuous and often intense, affecting patterns of flower choice, daily behavior budgets, and timing of successful reproduction. Exploitative competition involves loss of accumulated nectar to other individuals that visited a flower first. Preliminary data support the use of Poisson models of the frequencies of point-source visitation and overlap for determining the probabilities of actual competitive events. Nectar losses from monitored flowers can be estimated in terms of time intervals between visits weighted by flower-specific nectar production and bird-specific nectar removal capabilities. Foraging time budgets then provide a meaningful common denominator for assessing the impacts of competitive nectar losses, because compensatory increases in foraging time are required to maintain a balanced energy budget. Flexibility in foraging time budgets made possible by high efficiency foraging and predictably low competitive losses may be an important determinant of reproductive timing and success in nectar feeding birds. Aggressive displacement of competitors and territorial defense of flowers are common forms of interference competition in nectar-feeding birds. Aggression has definable caloric costs that ultimately must relate to caloric gains. Defense of flowers increases the aggressor's exclusive use of nectar, increases the predictability of a nectar supply, and increases the average amount of nectar obtained per flower. Simple cost-benefit models of territoriality define conditions when net benefits of territoriality are greater than those of alternatives.
3884445|Arthropods exhibit highly diverse limb morphologies ranging from unbranched walking legs to multibranched swimming paddles. Understanding morphogenesis in structurally diverse limbs can be useful for ascertaining homologies between limbs. Structurally similar limbs have been produced by different evolutionary modifications of morphogenesis in certain cases. Whereas it is easy to support the claim that whole arthropod limbs are homologous structures, I demonstrate that it is not always possible to draw well-founded homologies between parts of different limbs. This result is important with regard to general models of appendage development and evolution in arthropods because it clarifies contradictory explanations based exclusively on gene expression data.
3882630|During larval life the insect epidermis makes a larval cuticle and certain pigments due to the presence of juvenile hormone (JH) at critical times during the molt cycle. The presence of JH also permits growth of imaginal discs and maintains strictly larval epidermis. At metamorphosis the lepidopteran epidermis responds to a low level of 20-hydroxyecdysone (20HE) in the absence of JH by becoming pupally committed, then later it forms a pupal cuticle when more 20HE appears, even though JH is present. During the change of commitment, DNA synthesis occurs but is not essential, whereas both RNA and protein synthesis are. The major changes in the translatable mRNA population at this time are threefold: a decline in most larval cuticle mRNAs, a transient increase followed by a disappearance of a few larval cuticle mRNAs, and an appearance of at least one "pupal commitment" mRNA and two to three mRNAs for small pupal cuticular proteins. Similar changes are seen in the protein synthetic patterns. Thus, a pupally committed cell is one which can no longer make larval products but which is not yet able to make most pupal products. Juvenile hormone prevents the change to pupal commitment by directing some of both the primary and the secondary actions of 20HE on the genome.
3883003|Some of the major features of nucleic acid structure and replication are reviewed in respect to their constancy and variability. These two qualities of conservation and change are broadly discussed in terms of the roles that genetic informational molecules play in biological evolution.
3883056|Operative and standard operative temperatures, T
3881357|A shedding substance, found in the radial nerves of 14 species of starfish, induced the release of gametes from intact animals as well as from whole or fragmented gonads. The shedding substance was not sex-specific, being present in the radial nerves of both males and females throughout the year, and, in general, was not species-specific. This neurosecretory-like polypeptide appeared to function by stimulating ovarian muscle to contract, and was calcium-dependent; it also stimulated the maturation of immature eggs. The shedding substance has been purified and its amino acid composition investigated. A second physiologically-active material, termed "shedhibin" because it inhibited shedding activity, was also found in the radial nerves of ripe sea stars. In the presence of shedhibin, normally-adequate quantities of shedding substance would not cause the release of gametes from isolated ovarian fragments. It appeared that although the level of shedding substance was constant throughout the year, the level of shedhibin fluctuated, possibly controlling the natural release of gametes from sea stars. The precise chemical nature of shedhibin has yet to be determined.
3882515|Alterations in tumor cell surface properties are thought to be important in the survival and metastasis of malignant cells. In vivo selection procedures have been used to enrich melanoma and fibroblastic tumor cell populations of variant cells which possess greater potential for arrest, survival and growth at specific secondary sites. Determining the surface properties of these metastatic variants should aid in the development of effective controls over malignant cancer spread.
3883736|Mate choice has been observed in many species of non-human primates. There are few definitive studies, however, due to the long life spans, complex social behavior, and cognitive abilities of these animals. Here I review the current literature on mate choice in primates. Females typically prefer complex behavioral traits such as social status, familiarity, personality, and parental care abilities. This tendency to prefer behavioral traits is consistent with the non-primate mammalian data. A female's ability to express preferences, however, is often constrained by her social environment-in particular male mating tactics and female-female competition. Males exhibit preferences for high-ranking females. In several species, high-ranking females produce more offspring than low-ranking females. In addition, females may also influence male dominance rank and in doing so reduce male-male competition and increase male mating success.
3883988|The integration of craniofacial elements during development in mammals is studied in a phylogenetic approach. Developmental series of four metatherian (marsupial) and five Eutherian (placental) taxa are examined, and the sequence of emergence of major characters of the central nervous system, the cranial skeleton and the cranial musculature is reconstructed. These sequences are transformed into a series of characters that are then mapped onto the phylogeny of the taxa. This phylogenetic approach makes it possible to distinguish between characters that are uniform across all mammals, and those that differentiate marsupials and placentals. The most significant difference between the two groups involves the relative timing of the development of the central nervous system and the somatic system. The central nervous system differentiates far in advance of the bones and muscles of the head in eutherians. In metatherians, somatic elements, particularly of the face, are accelerated. Additional other differences between the two groups of mammals are discussed. Many elements, however, are unchanged, and develop in a consistent relation despite overall shifts in development. These data are used to test several hypotheses on the ways that cranial development in mammals is integrated.
3881498|The common house spider, Achaearanea tepidariorum, has a sensitive vibration receptor on each of its eight legs. This receptor is the tarso-metatarsal lyriform organ, and while it may not be the only vibration receptor the spider has, it appears to be the most sensitive. The 10 receptor units of which the sense organ is composed are all sharply tuned to specific frequencies between 60 and 1400 cps, but the sensitivity of each receptor unit depends upon the tension of the slits of the lyriform organ. Physiological experiments have shown that the tuning of the receptors occurs only in response to air-borne sound; no discrimination is made of frequencies of web-borne vibration. One can speculate that the high sensitivity to air-borne sound is a consequence of the relatively poor transmission of vibration through Achaearanea's web.
3883702|Chemical engineering theory proves useful in predicting selective constraints on algal-cnidarian symbioses. Scleractinian corals are used as a model for understanding how the architecture of polyps and colonies affects the transport of material between the host and symbiotic algae, and the environment. Transport properties of the symbiosis are described by mathematical functions involving molecular diffusion and forced convection (water motion). Metabolic rates (photosynthesis and aerobic respiration) measured under manipulated regimes of water motion provide evidence that the physical state of the boundary layer (laminar or turbulent) surrounding the symbiosis directly affects both symbiotic algae and coral. However, the algae's photosynthetic rate is affected by changes in the ambient flow regime to a lesser degree than the symbiotic association's aerobic respiration rate, indicating a buffering effect of the host tissue. Two mathematical models presented explore the relationship of size and shape of contracted and expanded polyps on maximal rates of gas or nutrient exchange: the size/shape spectrum of scleractinian polyps is understandable in terms of how diffusion limits delivery of metabolites to coral and algae. Polyps of differing size are not geometrically similar; the shape changes observed are consistent with keeping fluxes of dissolved substances to these symbiotic associations "diffusionally similar." Expanded polyps possess diffusive boundary layers of considerable depth which limit delivery of metabolites to the algae. The mass transfer characteristics and size range of scleractinian polyps lie within the range where theory predicts an optimal polyp wall thickness should occur.
4620221|Traditional views on the interrelationships of the major animal groups are based on morphological characters, but molecular data of various types have in the last decade given indications of new and sometimes quite puzzling phylogenies. This should be an incentive not only to reevaluation of the available morphological characters but also to new studies to fill the voids in our knowledge. Modern morphology is not concerned only with traditional studies of structure and ontogeny of organ systems, but also with newer methods, such as SEM, TEM, immunocytochemistry, and cell marking. This has given morphology new dimensions, but it also has shown that vast areas of the animal kingdom remain very poorly known even through traditional studies. Phylogenetic trees built on morphology (and molecular trees with morphological characters added) demonstrate morphological characters that are in conflict with the phylogeny, and therefore should be reinvestigated; they also indicate areas where new research can contribute significantly to our understanding of the pathways of the evolution. Morphological phylogeny has the distinct advantage that characters of ancestors can be inferred and the evolutionary changes checked in terms of functional continuity and hypotheses of adaptation.
3883038|The literature on paternal behavior in rodents includes reports of many species; however, paternal behavior appears more prevalent among muroid and hystricomorph rodents than in the sciurids. Many reports of paternal behavior are based on small numbers of animals observed under special conditions. Where systematic studies have been conducted, the most salient feature of rodent paternal behavior is its lability. The occurrence varies with observer constraints, genotype, experience, social conditions during observation, and stimulus characteristics. This intraspecific variability renders application of the comparative method in understanding evolution difficult but may provide a key in the remarkable adaptation of rodents to diverse habitats. Although species differences exist the evolution of rodent paternal behavior appears to entail changes in the thresholds and conditions for the occurrence of a relatively few basic motor patterns of paternal care.
3881675|Penetration of calcareous substrates by algae involves different micro-environments. Endolithic algae include two different life forms: (1) algae colonizing existing spaces within the rock, and (2) algae actively boring within the carbonate substrate. Two species of boring Cyanophyta were studied, and their borings were compared in exposed calcite (Island spar). The size and pattern of borings reflect the corresponding properties of the algae and show taxonomic distinctions. The direction of the tunnels and their wall sculpture are determined by the planes of crystal cleavage and twinning. Algal boring is a dissolution process performed by the terminal cells of endolithic filaments. The space dissolved away by an alga has the shape of a miniature calcite crystal. Dissolution proceeds along the crystal twinning lines diagonally to the previous microcrystal space. The tunnel represents a sequence of such microcrystal-shaped spaces. Both biological and mineralogical determinants should be considered in the interpretation of algal boring patterns.
3882160| Dopa decarboxylase (DDC) in the Diptera is an enzyme involved in sclerotinization of the cuticle in the epidermis and the production of neurogenic amines in the central nervous system. Its appearance in the epidermis at pupariation is induced by the molting hormone ecdysone. The dietary administration of the analog inhibitor -methyl dopa ( MD) was used to isolate resistant and hypersensitive mutants. Two of three dominant resistant strains isolated increase DDC activity 35-70%. For both the increase is due to mutations between rdo (53) and pr (54.5) on the left arm of the 2nd chromosome (2L). The very highly resistant strain which does not affect DDC in any way is located at 54.0 on 2L. Twelve dominant,
3884409|The evolutionary history of marine mammals involved marked physiological and morphological modifications to change from terrestrial to aquatic locomotion. A consequence of this ancestry is that swimming is energetically expensive for mammals in comparison to fish. This study examined the use of behavioral strategies by marine mammals to circumvent these elevated locomotor costs during horizontal swimming and vertical diving. Intermittent forms of locomotion, including wave-riding and porpoising when near the water surface, and prolonged gliding and a stroke and glide mode of propulsion when diving, enabled marine mammals to increase the efficiency of aquatic locomotion. Video instrumentation packs (8-mm camera, video recorder and time-depth microprocessor) deployed on deep diving bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus), northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris), and Weddell seals (Leptonychotes weddellii) revealed exceptionally long periods of gliding during descent to depth. Glide duration depended on depth and represented nearly 80% of the descent for dives exceeding 200 m. Transitions in locomotor mode during diving were attributed to buoyancy changes with compression of the lungs at depth, and were associated with a 9-60% reduction in the energetic cost of dives for the species examined. By changing to intermittent locomotor patterns, marine mammals are able to increase travelling speed for little additional energetic cost when surface swimming, and to extend the duration of submergence despite limitations in oxygen stores when diving.
3883842|Melatonin, a hormone of the pineal gland, exerts multiple effects upon the brain-pituitary axis of vertebrates. Among mammals, the best documented physiological roles of melatonin involve the photoperiodic induction of reproductive and other seasonal adjustments. Day-length regulates the effects of gonadal steroids upon gonadotropin secretion and sexual behavior as well as the frequency of a neural generator of GnRH pulses. In hamsters, these effects are paralleled by changes in GnRH, AVP and beta-endorphin immunoreactivity, and in opiate receptor density in the medial amygdala. Autoradiographic studies indicate a high concentration of
3883132|Limnology was not recognized as a distinct science at the time of the great post-Civil War western explorations of Hayden, Wheeler, King, and Powell. However, these and some earlier explorations made observations in certain branches of natural science that would become integral parts of limnological science. In keeping with what was known at the time, some exploring parties made observations and collections, such as water temperature or water samples and larger invertebrates, which could be readily accomplished by hand or with simple equipment. The inconvenience of carrying or expending time to build boats for offshore use may have seriously deterred limnological work.
3882953|Calcium regulation in lower vertebrates appears to be a continuum. The predominant hypercalcemic hormone in reptiles, birds and mammals is parathyroid hormone, while the major hypercalcemic control in fishes is a pituitary factor, probably prolactin. In the amphibians dual controlling mechanisms are at work, so that both the pituitary and parathyroids exert their influence. Prolactin may still retain some hypercalcemic potency in the higher vertebrate groups, either directly or indirectly by influencing the secretion of other hypercalcemic hormones. On the other hand, parathyroid hormone does not occur in, nor does it elevate blood calcium in fishes. It thus seems to be a new invention of tetrapods, or possibly to have evolved from a pituitary factor of fishes. The ability to lower blood calcium seems to be very important in seawater fishes, in which the corpuscles of Stannius exert major control. In terrestrial forms, the corpuscles of Stannius are not present, and hypocalcemic factors assume a minor role in overall calcium regulation.
3883814|In the last thirty years systematics has transformed itself from a discipline concerned with classification into a discipline concerned with reconstructing the evolutionary history of life. This transformation has been driven by cladistic analysis, a set of techniques for reconstructing evolutionary trees. Long interested in the large-scale structure of evolutionary history, cladistically oriented systematists have recently begun to apply "tree thinking" to problems near the species level. In any local ("non-dimensional") situation, species are usually well-defined, but across space and time the grouping of organisms into species is often problematic. Three views of species are in common use today: the biological species concept, the evolutionary species concept, and the phylogenetic species concept. Each of these has strengths and weaknesses, but no matter which is applied, exact counts of the number of species in any extended area will always be ambiguous no matter how much factual information is available. This ambiguity arises because evolution is a historical process, and the grouping of organisms into species always depends to some extent upon expectations of the future behavior of those organisms and their descendants, expectations that cannot be evaluated in the present. The existence and special character of the species problem is itself one of the central pieces of evidence for the fact of evolution.
3884421|This paper reviews comparative and evolutionary aspects of nitric oxide (NO) signaling in major systematic groups such as prokaryotes, plants, fungi and invertebrate animals. It appears that NO-mediated signaling can be as old as cellular organization itself. Both non-enzymatic and enzymatic (in addition to NOS) synthetic pathways can contribute to NO formation in living systems. The evolutionary roots of this means of gaseous signaling can be traced back to the role of NO in non-immune defensive mechanisms and the role of NO in control of gene expression, chemical ecology and, perhaps, symbiotic interactions in the ancient prokaryotic world. These functions of NO can be preserved in practically all modern taxons and be widely expressed in the nervous system. However, it is hypothesized that neuronal NO signaling is a relatively new evolutionary invention and it is likely to have happened several times during animal evolution. Although a comparative analysis of neuronal NO signaling is still in its early stages, the hypothesis is proposed that in many invertebrate lineages one of the primary neuronal functions of NO was regulation of feeding patterns, chemosensory processing and neurodevelopment.
3882380|As a homozygous recessive, gene e in the Mexican axolotl prevents optic vesicles from forming, thus producing an eyeless animal. Previous experimental evidence has indicated that the gene acts by affecting the ability of anterior medullary plate ectoderm in the eye field to respond to inductive mesodermal signals. Other possible mechanisms of gene action are described. The hypothalamus is also affected and "eyeless" animals are sterile. The absence of eyes results in increased levels of circulating MSH and thus the animal is also highly pigmented. Eyes may be grafted into the heads of "eyeless" axolotls. These eyes become functional and lead to normal pigmentation. When present as a homozygous recessive, gene r acts to allow the penetration of heterozygous e (E/e r/r). This results in abnormal eye development.
3884077|The neuroendocrine system of crustaceans, crayfish in particular, has been extensively studied. As among vertebrates, a wide variety of processes are hormonally regulated, including reproduction, growth, carbohydrate metabolism and color changes. The sinus gland, a neurohemal organ in the crayfish eyestalk, is the major neuroendocrine center. Herein, crayfish reproductive cycles and their hormonal control, particularly by the gonad-stimulating and gonad-inhibiting hormones, are a major focus. In addition, the aminergic and peptidergic neuroregulators identified in crayfish central nervous organs that either have been or likely may be shown to have neurotransmitter/neuromodulator roles in controlling hormone release are discussed with respect to localization and identified roles.
3884130|Amniotes undergoing oviparous development are exquisitely accessible to physiological measurement and mainpulation. Further, interpretation of data obtained from studying these embryos is less complicated than that obtained for placentals, where maternal regulatory actions may account, at least in part, for fetal homeostasis. Nevertheless, surprisingly little is known about the developmental physiology of hydromineral balance in bird and reptile embryos, especially when compared to information gleaned from mammalian concepti. The data are even more scarce for specific homeostatic mechanisms which involve embryonic or maternally deposited hormones. Published reports fall into three general categories, the majority of which concern direct or indirect evidence for hypophyseal actions: (1) Classic endocrine organ-deletion experiments involving hypophysectomy (partial decapitation) of chicken embryos. The data strongly suggest that one or more pituitary factors normally act to reduce fluid volumes and electrolyte concentrations of the allantois and to maintain the relatively high sodium and chloride gradients between the allantois and the other embryonic or extraembryonic compartments. Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), prolactin (PRL), and arginine vasotocin (AVT) have been implicated as potentially important pituitary hormones involved in these actions. (2) Treatment of embryos with a variety of exogenous hormones, including PRL, growth hormone, and 1, 25 dihydroxycholecalciferol (the hormonal form of vitamin D). These hormones have their most profound effect on the allantoic compartment as well as the yolk sac (vitamin D), resulting in altered fluid volumes and/or perturbations of the fluid electrolytes. (3) Ontogeny of synthesis of hormones with suspected osmoregulatory functions and the subsequent appearance of these hormones in embryonic plasma. This latter group includes synthesis and release of embryonic hormones in response to osmotic challenge during development. The data from these three related areas, combined with basic developmental physiology work, suggest that the target organs for the hormones involved in hydromineral regulation in bird embryos are likely to include the embryonic kidneys as well as the membranes of the extraembryonic compartments, especially the allantois.
3883581|Myosin is a molecular motor that through its interaction with actin, produces the movement characterized by such diverse cellular functions as muscle contraction and cytokinesis. The myosin molecules responsible for these movements are encoded by complex multigene families in higher organisms. Genes in these families show tissue-specific as well as developmentally regulated expression. In mammals, it has not been possible to dissect the precise functional contributions of individual members of the myosin heavy chain gene family. This manuscript discusses the information that can be gained from the molecular cloning of mammalian myosin heavy chains and how those cloned sequences can be used to study their function in vitro and in vivo.
3883986|Studies of intra and interspecific variability of urodele mesopodia have revealed biases in the production of novel phenotypes; observed patterns of variability represent a small subset of the possible arrangements. The major trend in the phylogenetic diversification of the salamander limb is the reduction or loss of carpal or tarsal elements, and these patterns are often highly homoplastic. Mesopodial arrangements that are homoplastic are commonly encountered in studies of intrapopulational variation. Patterns of variation, when integrated with developmental biology, inform about the relationships between morphological integration and homology. The extensive conservation of primitive developmental and genetic interactions suggest that the individuation of structures may not be complete and that homologies, themselves, may be partial.
3883392|The skin is a heterogeneous, multimembrane system with multiple diffusion pathways and potentially numerous rate-limiting barriers for specific molecules that are exchanged with the environment. A broad survey of animals indicates that integumentary coverings are morphologically, biochemically and embryologically diverse but with common themes of adaptation. The evolutionary proliferation of intercellular junctions, fibrous or mineralized protective barriers, and lipoid waterproofing barriers emphasize the generality of diffusion limitations. However, the regulation of specific exchange processes such as the flux rates of respiratory gases entails a complex interaction of multiple factors affecting both diffusion and perfusion limitations. Consideration of specific pathways and rate limitations for diffusion of various substances suggests that the permeation of skin by specific molecules can be partially independent of other exchange processes. Our understanding of regulated permeability is, however, lacking in mechanistic and integrated analysis in most cases. Comprehensive understanding of the integument as a regulatory pathway of communication with the environment will require comparative studies of specific transport pathways, their rate-limiting resistances, and the interactions as well as individual regulation of transported molecules.
3883319|Most vertebrate skeletal muscles consist of a heterogeneous array of muscle fiber types that are distinguishable, in part, by differences in their contractile protein isoform content. It is often suggested that the information necessary for directing the development of these fiber types is derived from interactions with factors outside the muscle fibers themselves and, in particular, with innervating motoneurons. However, recent data from this and other laboratories indicate that the emergence of fiber specialization within developing muscle is not dependent on innervation at all. These studies recognize two periods of embryonic fiber specialization. The first occurs during early embryonic development as individual muscles are formed from primary generation fibers expressing different myosin isoform types. The formation of these "early" muscle fiber types and their characteristic distributions within and among different muscles are not dependent on interactions with innervating motoneurons. Furthermore, myoblasts isolated from "early" embryonic muscle tissue and cultured in vitro display the same heterogeneity of myosin expression as the primary generation fiber types in ovo, suggesting that the differences in expression among early muscle fiber types are preprogrammed within their myoblasts. The second period occurs "late" in development after the major morphological events of limb formation are complete and the initial pattern of fiber types has been established. It is during this period that massive growth of most muscles occurs which is due, in part, to the formation of a secondary generation of muscle fibers. These secondary generation fibers in ovo and the cultured myotubes derived from "late" embryonic myoblasts exhibit a single myosin phenotype (e.g., fast). The transition from "early" to "late" embryonic phases is accompanied by a change in fast myosin heavy chain expression and is blocked by agents that disrupt neuromuscular contacts.
3882416| The ultrastructure of the single-chambered hearts of selected arthropods is compared with that of the multi-chambered hearts of three molluscs. I used the following four systems to make the comparison: (1) contractile apparatus, (2) sarcoplasmic reticulum and surface invaginations, (3) cell to cell junctions, and (4) nerves. The contractile apparatus is composed of thin and thick filaments. While the thin filaments have the same diameter, the diameter of the thick filaments differs from one heart to another. Evidence is presented to indicate that this is due to varying amounts of paramyosin in the thick filaments. The arthropod cardiac cells have an extensive system of sarcoplasmic reticulum, the terminal vesicles of which are coupled to the plasmalemma and to the invaginations of the plasmalemma, the T-system. The molluscan cardiac cells lack a typical T-system, which is presumably due to their small cell size (about 10 m). They possess, however, an elaborate system of sarcoplasmic reticulum which extends from just under the plasmalemma to the middle of the cell. In addition to elaborate sarcoplasmic reticulum, the heart of the whelk (Busycon canaliculatum) possess many small invaginations of the plasmalemma, called sarcolemmic tubules. These invaginations of the cell surface are not found in the hearts of the few bivalves examined. All arthropod and molluscan hearts have intercalated discs which can be seen in the light microscope. Two types of junctions can be distinguished in the electron microscope. The mechanical junction is at the level of the terminal sarcomere where the thin filaments are embedded in the cell wall and dense granular material appears to cause the two adjacent cells to adhere to each other. The electrical junction is found along the lateral borders of cells of both the molluscan and arthropod hearts. Finally, while nerves appear to be absent in the myogenic moth heart, they are abundant in the myogenic cockroach heart and in the neurogenic lobster heart. Furthermore, two types of nerves appear very prominently in the myogenic molluscan hearts. 
3883193| Reproduction in Fundulus heteroclitus is adapted to the temperate climate and the tidal environment of the coastal marshes which are its primary habitat. Egg deposition and spawning are closely linked to the tidal cycle. Concentration of spawning on spring tides gives the fish access to sites in the high intertidal zone. Eggs are deposited near the high water mark, usually in sand in New England populations and in Spartina alterniflora or empty Geukensia demissa shells in Middle Atlantic and southern populations. Aerial incubation of eggs appears to be essential for their survival in the salt marsh. Loss of eggs due to lack of fertilization, mortality during development and predation was always less than 30 percent in our observations. Hatching occurs only when the eggs are inundated, usually on spring tides. An endogenous semilunar gonadal cycle appears to be involved in control of spawning, but an effective environmental synchronizer has not been found. Cyclic changes in estradiol-17 accompany the gonadal cycle, while spawning behavior is stimulated by neurohypophyseal hormones. Both temperature and photoperiod have been implicated in the control of seasonal reproduction in F. heteroclitus. Early workers focused on males and concluded that increasing temperature was the stimulus that initiated gonadal recrudescence in spring. These experiments were not rigorous tests of the effects of photoperiod. We have shown that in females both warm temperatures and long photoperiods are involved. In female F. heteroclitus, as in most mammals and birds, it is the timing rather than the duration of the light exposure which determines its effectiveness in stimulating gonadal maturation. Maintenance of gonadal maturity in female F. heteroclitus depends on long photoperiods, but the ovary may become refractory and regress even when stimulatory photoperiods are sustained in the laboratory. Ovarian maturity can be stimulated with gonadotropin injection in refractory animals, indicating that the brain-pituitary axis is the site of refractoriness. The pathway by which light influences ovarian maturity may involve an encephalic photoreceptor, since neither the eyes nor the pineal gland is necessary. 
3881990|Data were collected on play behaviors occuring within a single troop of rhesus monkeys in two environments. Observations were regular and covered a total of almost 2 years. The three categories of play-object, activity, and social play-tended to occur together, typically within the same recording session. Thus, the attending conditions-including satiation and maturity-which permitted the occurrence of one category of play behavior, permitted the occurrence of the other categories as well. Maturity seemed to account for the appearance of a particular behavior within a category (e.g., manipulation rather than touching; climbing rather than active hanging; romping and wrestling rather than contact or touching). The social context, determined by such factors as maternal dominance, the identity of nearby animals, and the overall social tension of the troop, and reflected in the extent of inhibitory control of the target animals by their mothers, seemed to determine the frequency with which these elements in the infant monkey's repertoire could be displayed during any given period in the ontogeny of the individual.
3883819|The importance of the organisms and processes that occur in forest canopies is becoming increasingly recognized in relation to understanding biodiversity. The upper tree canopy of many forest ecosystems fosters extremely diverse communities, particularly of vascular epiphytes and arthropods. Epiphytes also contribute to the diversity of birds because they add to the total amounts of resources, provide opportunities for resource specialization, and temporally spread available resources in the canopy throughout the year. Epiphytes also contribute to ecosystem processes such as nutrient cycling because they gain access to nutrient sources originating outside the ecosystem and transfer them to other members of the forest, thus functioning as a "keystone" resource.
3883849|The amino acid transmitters can be placed in two general categories, excitatory and inhibitory. This discussion focuses on the role of the inhibitory transmitter GABA and the excitatory amino acids aspartate and glutamate in the control of gonadotropin secretion and reproductive behavior. GABAergic neurotransmission in the preoptic area inhibits gonadotropin secretion via direct synaptic contact with LHRH neurons and possibly through presynaptic inhibition of noradrenergic fibers that stimulate LH release. In the arcuate-median eminence, GABA acting at GABA
3881719|The current status of knowledge concerning the mammalian pineal's endocrine effects and the possible mechanisms for their mediation is reviewed and discussed. The diversity, physiological relations, and variability of the pineal's peripheral effects, and the constancy, rapidity, and homeostatic nature of its central and behavioral effects are consistent with the view that the pineal's primary action is on brain tissue. It remains probable that on a seasonal basis, the pineal's vegetative and homeostatic effects may contribute to the adaptive physiological changes in particular mammalian species under the influence of changes in photoperiod and possibly other environmental factors.
3883033|In spite of an early history of interaction, progress in the fields of ecology and evolutionary biology during most of this century has been made largely in parallel, with little creative exchange until the past two decades. In contrast, recent history in the two fields shows an exciting and productive trend toward a unified effort in understanding the ecological and evolutionary forces and constraints that together produce the phenomenon of adaptation. Common themes that have drawn the two fields together in the past decade include an intensified appreciation of discontinuities in time and space, an increased awareness of the interaction of history and mechanism, a greater concern for tradeoffs and constraints, and a renewed exploration of the role of hierarchy in producing pattern.
3881806|Intertidal crabs are subjected to marked fluctuations in environmental factors. Temperature and salinity influence the distribution of organisms both on a latitudinal basis and along a subtidal to terrestrial gradient. These factors are operative on all stages of the life history. Resistance-adaptations. Adult fiddler crabs (genus Uca) from the temperate zone are more resistant to low temperature than tropical species. Also, the tolerance to low temperature of crabs from the temperate zone is greatly influenced by thermal acclimation, i.e., cold-acclimated crabs are more resistant than warm-acclimated animals. In contrast, tropical species have limited adaptive ability. At elevated temperatures no consistent difference in the lethal limits of crabs from tropical and temperate zones is observed. In contrast with the adults, larvae of tropical species are cold-resistant. However, the larvae of all species tested are more sensitive to reduced salinities than are the adults. Capacity-adaptations. Subtidal species of crabs tend to have a lower level of respiratory performance, as measured by various indices, than crabs from the intertidal zone. The metabolic response of fiddler crabs from the temperate zone is more labile at low temperature than in species from the tropical zone. At elevated temperature the reverse response is observed. On an interspecific basis, differences in the metabolic-temperature patterns of acclimation of latitudinally separated populations of U. pugilator are observed when based on the hypothetical schemes of Bullock, Precht, and Prosser.
3883844| The ovarian steroid hormones, estradiol and progesterone, act in the guinea pig brain to regulate the expression of sexual behavior. In studies of the cellular mechanisms of steroid hormone action, we have used an immunocytochemical technique to study the regulation of these receptors in different neuroanatomical regions. We have observed that progestin receptor-immunoreactivity in cells in certain neuroanatomical regions are more responsive to particular steroid hormone treatments than are cells in other regions. Similarly, we have observed selective regulation of progestin receptor-immunoreactivity in neurons identified on the basis of their neuropeptide content. Finally, in the rostral part of the ventrolateral hypothalamus, a site involved in hormonal regulation of female sexual behavior, estrogen receptor-immunoreactive neurons that have dopamine--hydroxylase varicosities closely-associated have higher levels of immunostaining for estrogen receptors than neurons without this relationship. Taken together, these studies demonstrate the possibility of studying the microregulation of steroid hormone receptors in subsets of neurons defined by neuroanatomical location, neuropeptide/neurotransmitter content, afferent input and projection sites. The ability to study interactions among different systems at the cellular level may help us to understand more clearly the cellular processes involved in hormonal regulation of fundamental neuroendocrine processes, including the neuroendocrine regulation of sexual behavior. 
3881639| Studies are described on the adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) properties of myosin isolated from skeletal muscle of Coryphaenoides, a benthic fish captured at 2,200 meters depth. Ca
3883296|While form and function are always together in organisms, the studies of morphology and physiology often take place in different places by different people. In the 20th century some zoologists have re-united the two into a point of view called "functional morpholgy." The concepts a student should know in order to set about a study in functional morphology include: (1) the scales of size and time, (2) structural hierarchy, (3) permission and constraint of function, (4) properties as descriptors of structure and function, (5) analogy and homology. The structural phenomena that a student will see in any organism include: (1) pattern, especially polarity and symmetry, (2) dimensions that signify the size scale, (3) heterogeneity, which includes the concepts: (4) composite materials and (5) anisotropy resulting from the preferred orientation of fibers and crystals. Rather than being a discipline, functional morphology is the combination of structural and physiological thinking that invites other points of view, especially those of development and evolution, to be added.
3883447|Biologists are integrating studies of morphology, development, physiology, and other disciplines in order to understand how species and lineages diversify and cope with their environments. An evolutionary perspective in such studies, including those of cells, tissues, and organs, is potentially useful for the structure and analysis of such problems. Evolutionary biology is the study of the history of evolution and the elucidation of its mechanisms. Comparative biology is the comparison of a trait or traits in selected taxa, and may be, but need not be, evolutionary in approach. A phylogenetic hypothesis is necessary for reconstruction of pattern in morphology, ecology, behavior, and other areas. Acquaintance with evolutionary and phylogenetic perspectives can guide selection of taxa for study and open new approaches to analysis of data. Such an approach is not always appropriate to problems in biology, but it could be utilized beneficially more frequently than is currently practiced. Studies of cells, tissues, and organs may contribute to the construction of new phylogenetic hypotheses and to analysis of patterns and mechanisms of change when pursued from an evolutionary perspective.
3883173|Many population phenomena are driven by the behavior of individual animals. The effects of behavior on differential reproduction vary with the mating system and with ecological factors; understanding of the complex interactions requires both laboratory and field research. Ecologically-relevant laboratory research should be designed using generalizable behavioral patterns with animals of appropriate species, meaningful genotypes, and known early experience that are studied in carefully-designed situations. Three exemplars of research of potential relevance to population phenomena are discussed. Studies of dominance and differential reproduction in deer mice in seminatural enclosures suggest that dominant males make disproportionately large contributions to gene pools and that dominance may be heritable. Laboratory studies of reproductive function in individuals bearing different alleles, determined electrophoretically, appear relevant to population processes reported correlated with changes in gene frequencies at these loci. Patterns of mate choice in two species of Microtus may be important in generating their contrasting mating systems in the field. Well-designed laboratory research can help reveal behavioral processes critical to population phenomena.
3882932|Recent advances in our understanding of the mechanism of intracellular transport in unicellular chromatophores are reviewed. Emphasis is placed on the possible role(s) of the three major cytoskeletal components microtubules, intermediate filaments, and actin filaments. A comparative analysis of different chromatophore types suggests that these cytoskeletal fiber systems may play different roles, or at least seem to be involved to a varying degree, in intracellular pigment translocation. Ultrastructure, transport characteristics, and responses to pharmacological agents of a wide variety of vertebrate and invertebrate chromatophores do show sufficient variation to make one consider the possibility that the underlying mechanisms also vary to some extent. It is hoped that the increased use of new methodological approaches, including microinjection of single cells and the development of reactivatable cell models, will greatly aid us in our exploration of the physical-chemical basis of chromatophore motility.
3883791|Broadly speaking, "epigenetics" refers to the entire series of interactions among cells and cell products which leads to morphogenesis and differentiation. Thus all cranial development is epigenetic, by definition. Among the numerous epigenetic factors influencing the vertebrate face is mechanical loading. Loading seems to be particularly significant for formation and growth of skeletal tissues. As a first approximation, bone grows in the direction of tensile loading, while the shapes of growing cartilages are modulated by axial compression. One of the many sources of loading is function (defined, before birth or hatching, as muscle-controlled movements). For example, muscle activity is a source of tension for bones of attachment, and differences in muscle anatomy may thus be responsible for differences in bony anatomy. A possible instance involves a new addition to the masseter muscle in pigs and an associated unusual process of the zygomatic bone. Changes in the mammalian mandibular condyle in paralyzed fetuses provide a dramatic illustration of how function regulates cartilage growth. Such ontogenetic processes may account for species-specific variations in mandibular shape that are conventionally regarded as the direct adaptive results of natural selection. In general, mechanical loading is a relatively late-acting epigenetic factor and affects primarily quantitative features of facial structure. However, loading appears to be involved in at least one more fundamental ontogenetic event, the transformation of the primary jaw joint into the mammalian middle ear.
3882207|Although phylogenetic studies of neurohypophysial principles are well advanced, studies of their development are rare. Fetal mammals have been shown to have unusually high vasopressor/oxytocic ratios in their pituitaries. Paper chromatography of extracts from pituitaries of fetal sheep and fetal seals (Callorhinus ursinus) indicated the presence of AVT, in addition to AVP and oxytocin. This was confirmed by the pharmacological and chemical analysis of AVT, purified from fetal seal pituitaries. The presence of AVT suggested a "recapitulation" of a principle previously known only in sub-mammalian vertebrates. Studies of ammocoete larvae and adult lampreys (Lmapetra richardsoni) showed the presence of AVT, but there was no evidence for any "recapitulation" of an "early" neutral principle. It seemed possible that an apparent recapitulation might occur only when the principle had a use in fetal life. Therefore the possible actions of AVT (and AVP) in the mammalian fetus (guinea pig) were studied. AVT and AVP were shown to act on the isolated amnion to slow, and even reverse fetal-maternal water movement. AVP acted on the yolk sac, the fetal skin and the fetal bladder to increase water flow inwards, towards the fetus. These actions suggested an extraplacental mechanism for supplying water to the fetus and its environment, through the extraembryonic membranes. These actions were reminiscent of those known in the anurans. The apparent success of the concept of recapitulation, in both the molecular and functional fields, may have been fortuitous. However, the results suggest that phylogenetic considerations may well be useful in understanding the physiology of the mammal during fetal life.
3884158|The phylum Cnidaria arose early in metazoan evolution and, assuming monophyly, is regarded as being close to the ancestral metazoan. The simplicity of structure in the cnidarian nervous system is not reflected in the physiology of neurons. The motor neurons that control swimming in the jellyfish Polyorchis penicillatus epitomise this operational complexity. Synchrony in the contraction of the swimming muscle sheets is achieved by compensating for the conduction time of motor APs propagating to distant parts of the motor network. This depends on motor APs continuously decreasing in duration as they propagate through the network which in turn leads to a decrease in the delay of muscle action potential initiation. Two membrane currents are critical for this mechanism, a fast, transient K
3882875|The phylogenetic origins of the lateral line electrosensory, lateral line mechanosensory, and auditory components of the octavolateralis system are unknown but each of these sensory modalities appears to have evolved early in vertebrate history. The octavolateralis terminal field occupies a large area of the dorsolateral wall of the medulla and among agnathids, cartilaginous fishes, non-teleost bony fishes and, with modifications, urodeles, consists of a dorsal electrosensory nucleus, a medial mechanosensory nucleus and a ventral octaval nuclear complex. This arrangement of medullary octavolateral nuclei, which differs from that of non-electroreceptive and electroreceptive teleosts, is considered the primitive plan and is retained in that phyletic line leading to tetrapods. Separate and parallel pathways are known, in elasmobranchs and a few teleosts, to ascend from each medullary lateral line center to the midbrain and presumably from midbrain to telencephalic levels via thalamic relays. There is no evidence, with the loss of lateral line senses among some amphibians and all amniotes, that the central neural pathways and nuclei are retained and used to process information from other sensory modalities. The anatomy of the central auditory system of fishes is unknown but is required for an understanding of whether auditory nuclei and pathways are retained during the fish-amphibian transition, or whether new ones arise, to process information from independently evolved peripheral receptors.
3882785|The organic matrix of calcium carbonate structures can be involved in the formation of the biomineral by regulating various stages of crystal growth. The preponderance of evidence suggests that matrix can act as an initiator of crystal growth at the mineralizing front. The mechanism for this initiation is not known. However, the matrix may provide a template for the crystal lattice, or more likely, a surface that can simply stabilize the critical nucleus of calcium and carbonate. The degree of specialization of the nucleation sites is uncertain; however, they are hypothesized to be a class of soluble, acidic, calcium-binding polymers which are present in matrix extracted from biomineral. Recent studies have revealed that similar soluble components of extracted matrix have the capability of inhibiting nucleation and crystal growth in vitro and biomineralization in organisms exposed to the extracts. Further, crystals grown in vitro in the presence of extracted matrix have a morphology distinct from those of crystals grown without matrix. These findings generally support the hypotheses generated either a priori or from morphological observations which suggest that matrix must limit crystal growth and may well influence structure of biomineral. Hypotheses which explain a dual function of the soluble matrix have these components periodically released to the mineralization front where they can associate with more insoluble forms of matrix and sequentially initiate or inhibit growth. There also exists evidence to suggest that soluble regulatory components are intra-crystalline in orientation and thus may be released continuously.
3884424|Rich redox chemistry of the diatomic NO gives this molecule the functional flexibility to interact with both metal and non-metal components of biological molecules. This important biological signaling and allosteric control has become evident in such varied applications as brain/nervous system function; immune response; growth and development; behavior; and gas transport. Many of the basic discoveries linking NO to biological systems have arisen from structure-function relationships in hemoglobin. For example, by analogy with hemoglobin, Lou Ignarro, in a now-classic paper on NO, proposed that the activation of soluble guanylate cyclase occurs via a NO-driven planar shift in the enzyme's heme iron (Ignarrow et al., 1984). Many other proteins involved in NO biology are heme proteins where NO coordination plays an essential function. In this regard, we may view hemoglobin as a microcosm of NO biology. Invertebrates provide rich examples in which to explore alternate functions, or even perhaps the original functions, of the globins. Oxygen-carrying proteins could well have evolved from metalloproteins that primarily functioned in nitrogen metabolism rather than reversible oxygen binding. Newly discovered aspects of Hb function relate to the signaling and control processes that nitric oxide shows in biological systems. The comparative approach to these processes has played an important role in their elucidation as well as providing rich, intellectual stimulation to those scientists interested in them.
3883185|Whether herbivores are food limited and compete interspecifically for food has been debated by population/community ecologists. To examine this proposition, a mechanistic approach based upon autecological observations is employed: 1) 45 foraging studies of 20 species of generalist herbivores indicate that the herbivores behave as energy maximizers in their diet selection, as determined by a linear programming model. 2) The constraints that determine the forager's energy maximizing diet can be used to determine whether a food item should be consumed, based upon a minimum digestibility that determines energy value and a minimum item size or abundance that determines cropping rate. 3) Population densities of a number of herbivore species depend upon the biomass of plants in the environment that satisfy the minimum characteristics sought by the herbivore. 4) Using experimental populations for several herbivore species that are known to be food limited, it can be demonstrated that these species compete with each other. The competitive isoclines are non-linear and arise from the fractions of each forager's food resources that it shares and exclusively uses, which depend upon each species' minimum food characteristics. The results indicate that a mechanistic approach can provide considerable insights into herbivore community structure. The foraging constraints underlying the entire analysis may be body size dependent, providing a more general view.
3881402|The permeability of the foregut of the land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis, to tritiated water (THO), Na
3881460|The structure and function of the transverse tubular system (TTS) in two types of crustacean muscle fibers are examined. Giant fibers from the barnacle, Balanus nubilus, which are gradedly contracting, are compared with all-or-none twitch fibers from the crab, Carcinus maenas. Both fiber types were found to have deep sarcolemmal invaginations which serve both to increase the fiber surface area and to keep the length of the tubules short enough for electrotonic propagation. The ultrastructure of the tubular system in both types of fiber is compared. The system is better developed in Carcinus than in Balanus, but the slow Balanus fibers do have a relatively well developed TTS and sarcoplasmic reticulum in contrast to slow vertebrate fibers. The apparent high, membrane-capacitance values of crustacean fibers are the result of investigators not taking into consideration the large increase in surface area due to the sarcolemmal infoldings. The tubular membranes in Carcinus fibers were found to be permselective to chloride ions, and could be made to swell (as confirmed by electron microscopy) by establishing an outward gradient for chloride across them. The capacitance of the tubular membrane relative to the plasma membrane was found to increase when the tubules were swollen. The implication of a fiber having two spatially separated, differentially permeable membranes on excitation-contraction coupling is discussed.
3882125|This article reviews those factors other than light that affect the activity of the pineal gland. Both testosterone and dihydrotestosterone were shown to have tissue-specific inhibitory effects on pineal MAO activity concomitant with an increased activity of the gland. Estradiol stimulated pineal MAO activity and decreased the activity of this gland. This effect also was tissue-specific. Bilateral and unilateral experimental cryptorchidism also decreased pineal MAO activity 3 to 4 weeks after surgery. Acute stresses appear to increase adrenal catecholamine output (epinephrine and norepinephrine) as well as to stimulate local adrenergic pathways, while chronic stress, such as starvation, appears to act through the adrenal corticosteroids by decreasign pineal MAO activity thereby indirectly increasing melatonin synthesis. Thusly, both components of the adrenal gland appear to act in concert to increase effectively melatonin synthesis by the pineal gland. Irradiation and histamine have also been reported to affect pineal function-the latter specifically inhibits HIOMT activity. These observations indicate that many factors other than light affect pineal morphology and melatonin synthesis. The pineal appears to be a true neuroendocrine organ that is affected by hypophysectomy and is responsive to feedback and control from other organs within the mammalian organism.
3881711|The present paper is concerned mainly with studies from my laboratory on regeneration of the lizard's tail. Over the past five years my students and I have focused our attention on: (1) a careful description of the histology of tail regeneration: (2) the role of neural elements (nerve and ependyma) in the initiation of regeneration; (3) the role of the ependymal epithelium in the guidance of regenerating central fibers; and (4) the development of techniques of tissue culture applicable to this system.
3882483|Sea turtles are not confined to the tropics but may experience and tolerate widely different temperatures. This paper discusses the role of temperature in determining sexual differentiation of the embryos, incubation duration, emergence from the nest, activity, growth, survival, hibernation, internesting interval and distribution of sea turtles. Methods of measuring temperatures of adult turtles are considered in detail. Particular attention is devoted to the question of sex ratio and whether temperature determination of sexual differentiation has adaptive value.
3881555|The existence of an epithelio-mesodermal interaction in the embryonic chick thyroid has been tested by reaggregation of 8- and 16-day epithelial monolayers with capsule, mesentery, heart ventricle, and perichondrial cells. Establishment of the histological and cytological pattern of the thyroid occurred only in the presence of capsule. The loss of endoplasmic reticulum which occurs in monolayer culture was shown not to be a result of spreading, since organ cultures of immediately reaggregated cells undergo the same degenerative changes. Dissociation itself also cannot be the explanation for the loss since membrane destruction and recovery occur at different times in raft cultures and in chorio-allantoic grafts. The similarity of the results after immediate reaggregation and in combinations of epithelial cells with capsule after monolayer culture suggests that the role of the mesodermal component is to support the specialized cytoplasmic structure and function of the epithelial cell type.
3884108|Group foraging is rare in spiders, occurring only where prey availability is high. If colonial web-building increases individual prey capture rates as shown, why does group foraging not occur more often where prey are scarce? Risk sensitivity may explain this paradox, as variance in prey capture is reduced in groups; risk-averse spiders should join groups only when prey exceed a threshold level. Field studies show that group foraging varies as predicted between species, between populations of a single species, and between sites within a population. However, recent models suggest the necessity of examining variance within individuals over time rather than between individuals within populations. Additionally, mechanisms responsible for variance reduction in colonial webs may be less effective than previously assumed. New field data suggest that while prey variance over time may be somewhat less for individual spiders in groups than for solitaries, the relationship between colonial web-building and variance in prey capture is far more complex than originally thought. The influence of risk sensitivity on reproductive success and the evolution of colonial web-building is discussed.
3882218| This paper summarizes the major pertinent findings of previously published work and includes new experimental data. Culture conditions have been defined for long-term maintenance of basic testicular structure, primitive type A spermatogonia, and Sertoli cells. The primitive type A spermatogonia grown for 8 weeks in organ culture were capable of restoring complete spermatogenesis after the cultures were transplanted into the testes of sexually mature homologous hosts. Since the primitive type A spermatogonia were the only germinal elements present in the organ cultures at the time of transplantation, they probably represent the spermatogenic stem cells. Differentiation of gonocytes or spermatogonia to spermatocytes in late pachytene stage required presence of vitamins A, C, and E or 4 mM concentration of glutamine in the medium but was not affected by hormones. The replication of Sertoli cells in vivo and in organ culture was shown to be age related and hormone independent. The Sertoli cells possess specific FSH binding receptors and respond to FSH with increased synthesis of c-AMP and androgen-binding protein. The biologic function of FSH in the Sertoli cells remains to be clarified. Other cellular components of the testis, the germinal, or peritubular cells do not bind FSH. In organ cultures of testicular tissue or Leydig-cell cultures all enzymes in the steroid biosynthetic pathway, leading from progesterone to testosterone, remain active for several days. In older cultures, the conversion of progesterone to testosterone becomes impaired primarily due to loss of two specific enzymes: 17 hydroxylase and 17-20 lyase. Addition of HCG to monolayer cultures of Leydig cells stimulated both the synthesis and release of testosterone. 
3881713|Entire muscles in vertebrate extremities can regenerate from minced muscle fragments implanted into the bed of the removed muscle. The histological course of regeneration of muscle fibers in this system is the same as that described in damaged mammalian muscle. This type of regeneration has been called the tissue regeneration of muscle, and entire muscles have been regenerated by this mode in urodelan and anuran amphibians, birds, and mammals. Entire muscles are also formed in a regenerating limb (an epimorphic regenerative process). It is postulated that there are two fundamentally different modes of regeneration of muscles. Epimorphic regeneration is relatively slow, and the blastema seems to play an important role. The end product is morphologically and functionally perfect. Morphogenesis seems to be controlled in a manner analogous to that in the embryonic limb. The tissue regeneration of muscles is rapid, occurring without the mediation of a blastema. The end product is smaller and less well organized than a normal muscle, and its morphogenesis seems to require the function of the limb. A possible parallel reaction of skeletal elements is discussed.
3884381|Movements of the pelvis have recently been found to contribute to ventilation in both crocodilians and birds. Alligators have a kinetic pelvis in which the ischiopubic and ischiotruncus muscles rotate the pubic bones ventrally to increase abdominal volume and thereby facilitate inspiration. In birds, the entire pelvis rocks on the axial skeleton to produce ventilation. Although the mechanisms of pelvic aspiration are very different in crocodilians and birds, it is unusual among vertebrates for the pelvic musculoskeletal system to play an active role in inspiration. This observation raises the possibility that the pelvic musculoskeletal system may have played an important role in the ventilation of basal archosaurs. Based on the mechanism of pelvic aspiration in crocodilians and the structure of gastralia in basal archosaurs, we suggest that an ischiotruncus muscle pulled the medial aspect of the gastralia caudally, and thereby helped to produce inspiration by increasing the volume of the cuirassal basket. The proposed mechanism of cuirassal breathing in non-avian theropods leads us to suggest that the phase relationship of the ventilatory and locomotor cycles in running theropods was the opposite of that observed in running birds. Furthermore, we suggest that the ventilatory cycle of flying pterosaurs was entrained to the locomotor cycle with a phase relationship that was the opposite of that observed during flight in modern birds.
3881533|Though the primary development of principles of energetics was pioneered in aquatic studies, considerable information has accrued from more recent investigations of terrestrial species. Studies of soil organisms-particularly arthropods-have given us some understanding of the applicability of principles of energetics to terrestrial communities. Data from soil communities have yielded an annual energy budget for oribatid mites, ecological efficiencies for two trophic levels, and a series of herbivore:carnivore ratios for a number of communities. Energy-flow analyses of the problems of species abundance in community organization, the relationship of population production and maintenance, and the energy relationships of the soil to above-ground communities have also been attempted. As data accumulate, however, the inadequacy of the Lindeman model becomes apparent, and there are prospects for change in this conceptual scheme.
3884503|Based on studies of a few model taxa, amphibians have been considered stereotyped in their feeding movements relative to other vertebrates. However, recent studies on a wide variety of amphibian species have revealed great diversity in feeding mechanics and kinematics, and illustrate that stereotypy is the exception rather than the rule in amphibian feeding. Apparent stereotypy in some taxa may be an artifact of unnatural laboratory conditions. The common ancestor of lissamphibians was probably capable of some modulation of feeding movements, and descendants have evolved along two trajectories with regard to motor control: (1) an increase in modulation via feedback or feed-forward mechanisms, as exemplified by ballistic-tongued plethodontid salamanders and hydrostatic-tongued frogs, and (2) a decrease in variation dictated by biomechanics that require tight coordination between different body parts, such as the tongue and jaws in toads and other frogs with ballistic tongue projection. Multi-joint coordination of rapid movements may hamper accurate tongue placement in ballistic-tongued frogs as compared to both short-tongued frogs and ballistic tongued-salamanders that face simpler motor control tasks. Decoupling of tongue and jaw movements is associated with increased accuracy in both hydrostatic-tongued frogs and ballistic-tongued salamanders.
3881828|The current genetical theories regarding the effects of environmental changes in shaping new species are first reviewed briefly; Matthew's concept based upon paleontological and zoogeographic data is then compared and found in accord with the genetical set. This theory proposes that changing climates, whether of an annual or long-term nature, induce speciation. Accordingly the north temperate continental land-masses are viewed as the main arenas of vertebrate evolution, especially temperate Eurasia. A more recent concept from biogeographic sources, that of Darlington, proves discordant to all the foregoing but agrees more closely with observed facts of recent distribution and the geologic record. Its major premises are that speciation proceeds most rapidly under tropical conditions and in regions of vast extent; hence, the Old World tropics are pointed to as the principal theater of speciation. These two zoogeographic concepts are then harmonized by showing that, during the period in which most of the evolution of the vertebrate taxa occurred, the tropical belts were much more extensive than at present and included what are now north temperate regions. The genetic theories are shown to be especially valuable in elucidating the changes involved in the life cycle of a species rather than the effects of major climatic changes.
3882813|The feeding biology of nemerteans is reviewed, new information is presented, and the role of nemerteans in natural communities is discussed and evaluated. Most nemerteans are carnivorous, the majority feeding on live, often specific, prey, while some are scavengers. Macrophagous feeding is found in the Palaeonemertea, Heteronemertea and some of the Hoplonemertea; the more specialized suctorial feeding is limited to five of the hoplonemertean families, and suspension feeding (omnivorous diet) occurs only in the highly specialized symbiotic monogeneric Bdellonemertea. Feeding adaptations seem to be related to the nature and employment of the proboscis, the dilatability of the mouth, and the structure of the anterior part of the digestive tract. The transport of dissolved organic materials from seawater has been demonstrated, but its role in nemertean nutrition is just being contemplated. Present meager information on predation has shown nemerteans to have actually and potentially large effects on prey populations and thus on the communities in which they live. As the feeding biology of only a relative handful of species has been studied, much basic comparative research is needed before we can corroborate or refute our present ideas concerning the ecological roles of nemerteans.
3882436|The pineal complex may be a part of the sensory and central neural system controlling thermoregulatory behavior. The pineal and parapineal organs of some ectotherms appear to function as radiation dosimeters, regulating exposure to sunlight. Physiological thermoregulation may be influenced by the pineal complex through cardiovascular adjustments or metabolic rates. Additionally, the pineal organ may exert thermoregulatory effects through the control of brain electrolytes. While the precise mechanisms of action remain to be defined, it is clear that pineal-parapineal organs participate in thermoregulatory adjustments by acting upon the central nervous system.
3881731|The pigmentation of poikilotherms is based upon the presence of dermal chromatophores: melanophores, iridophores, and xanthophores. The form, function, and composition of each chromatophore type is discussed, and variations in melanosome composition are described. Recent theories about the mechanism of melanosome movement are discussed. The role of iridophores in pigmentation processes is described and their importance in structural coloration is evaluated. Interrelationships of the pigmentary organelles of all three chromatophores are discussed, and evidence is presented that they have a common origin. Associations of pigment cells with themselves or with other elements of the integument are described as a basis for chromatophore function.
3882148|The posterior polar plasm of Drosophila melanogaster may provide a model for understanding processes involved in cellular determination during early embryonic development. The presence of germ cell determinants in the posterior tip of the egg has been demonstrated by transplanting this material to new locations and showing that cells, induced at the site of transplantation, can function as germ cells. Furthermore, by utilizing similar procedures, the posterior polar plasm of late stage oocytes has been shown to be functional in inducing germ cells, thus demonstrating that the active components are formed during oogenesis. A number of maternal effect mutations affecting germ cell formation have been analyzed ultrastructurally and the mutant phenotype described. Ultrastructural studies have focused on polar granules, the unique organelle of the polar plasm, and these studies indicate that they are nonmembrane bound structures containing RNA and protein. Although ultrastructural observations have suggested that the protein components of polar granules may be continuous in the cytoplasm of germ cells during the whole life cycle, nucleo-cytoplasmic hybrid pole cells indicate that the structure of the polar granule is dependent upon the nucleus in each new generation of oocytes. Finally, attempts are being made to obtain a purified polar granule fraction in order to test their role in germ cell determination. Initial results indicate that clusters of ribosomes are attached to polar granules. Pole cells have recently been isolated as an enriched source of polar granules. These isolated cells will also provide an opportunity to analyze the unique traits of these cells at the time that they become segregated from the remaining cells of the embryo.
3884437|The exoskeleton of crustaceans and insects is formed by cells of the hypodermis, but several hemolymph proteins contribute to the synthesis of the new exoskeleton. These hemolymph proteins share a surprising degree of sequence similarity and are members of the hemocyanin gene family. Copper-containing prophenoloxidases of crustaceans and insects are directly involved in cross-linking and hardening of the exoskeleton during molting and repair. Crustacean cryptocyanin and insect hexamerins lack copper and have probably evolved from a copper-free product of an early hemocyanin gene duplication. These proteins have been implicated in transport of hormones and phenols, and may be used directly as structural components of the new exoskeleton. They are synthesized elsewhere in the body, transported in the hemolymph, and probably taken up by the hypodermis via specific receptors. Hemocyanins have some residual phenoloxidase activity, in addition to their primary role of supplying oxygen to the metabolizing tissues. Thus multiple members of the hemocyanin gene family play vital roles during molting, and a molecular phylogeny of these proteins will contribute to our understanding of the evolution of form and function of these molecules from oxygen transport to molt-related activities. Further studies on the expression of prophenoloxidase, cryptocyanin, hexamerins and hemocyanin, potential marker proteins, may extend our understanding of the relationship between other molting animals in the proposed clade, Ecdysozoa.
3882622|Three yolk polypeptides (YPs) are major constituents of eggs. YPs are synthesized in the fat body and in ovary associated cells, secreted into the blood and sequestered into developing oocytes. YPs are translated as precursors which can be processed to lower molecular weight polypeptides by dog pancreatic microsomes, suggesting signal peptide removal. YP synthesis in both ovary and fat body is stimulated by juvenile hormone (JH), but 20-hydroxyecdysone (20HE) only stimulates YP synthesis in fat body. JH also induces YP sequestration into oocytes. The amount of RNA translatable into YPs increases sevenfold in the first day after eclosion. The increase can be blocked by ligating the abdomen to isolate it from anterior endocrine organs, and it can be restored by injecting these preparations with 20HE. Using electrophoretic variants, the YPs have been genetically mapped to the X chromosome: Yp1 and Yp2 are adjacent and Yp3 is distantly linked. Two mutants have been described which decrease the quantity of a single YP, map near the respective YP structural loci, are cis-acting and are not ovary autonomous in transplants. fs(1)1163 alters the structure of the primary translation product and is hypothesized to alter YP processing and secretion. Although
3881391|A review of some recent experiments in the immunobiology of fertilization in frogs is given, with especial emphasis on the role of the jelly-coats of eggs in the initiation of sperm-egg interactions. Data on physical, chemical and antigenic properties of egg-jellies are summarized. Experiments analyzing the nature of the interaction between sperm and egg-jellies are described. The effects of antibodies against materials of the jelly coat on fertilizability of eggs are presented, as well as an analysis on double-diffusion plates of tissue- and species-specificity of the jelly components. The localization of regional differences between the secretions of different levels of the frog oviduct by means of immunodiffusion patterns, fluorescent-antibody staining and certain histochemical reactions for mucopolysaccharides, is reviewed. A model scheme suggesting the possible operation of various types of jelly antigens in the fertilization process is presented as a working hypothesis for further experimentation. Certain surgical manipulations whereby eggs may be transferred between females of the same or different species are described, and the results of some preliminary experiments made possible by these techniques are evaluated. The role of species-specific and shared jelly antigens in the origin of reproductive isolation among anuran amphibians is discussed.
3882867|During morphogenesis, intercellular attachments constrain cell mobility so that embryonic tissues may (i) deform as solid sheets of tightly bound cells, (ii) disperse to migrate as separate cells or (iii) flow as multicellular liquids (in which cells remain aggregated yet can still slide past one another). By modelling deep germ layers as multicellular liquids in amphibian gastrulation, Davis and I have predicted, and then confirmed experimentally, (i) the area-invariance of deep-germ-layer surface tensions in vitro, (ii) spontaneous cell slippage in deformed deep-germ-layer cell aggregates and (iii) correlations of tissue surface tensions with tissue positioning in deep-germ-layer cell-sorting and aggregate-fusion experiments. Liquid-tissue flow involves intercalations of interior cells into expanding tissue interfaces (or withdrawal of surface cells from shrinking tissue interfaces). Tissue surface tensions are macroscopic reflections of the microscopic, tissue-specific adhesive differentials which direct these cell translocations. Such adhesive differentials may act independently of, or together with, active cell-shape changes, chemotaxis, contact guidance and/or haptotaxis in controlling embryonic tissue rearrangements. Deep cell intercalations in vivo occur throughout amphibian gastrulation: during ectodermal epiboly; during marginal-zone extension and convergence (and therefore blastopore closure); during mesodermal involution; and probably during the anterior spreading and axial extension (and therefore dorsal convergence) of involuted mesoderm. Tissue-surface-tension measurements may help determine (i) which of these cell-intercalation processes are active and which are passive, (ii) the specific contributions of various microscopic cell properties to the regulation of liquid-like germ-layer assembly and (iii) similarities and differences between in vitro and in vivo control mechanisms governing amphibian gastrulation.
3882724|Three steroid-sensitive neural systems are reviewed to suggest where hormones act to modify neuroendocrine or behavioral functions: the system controlling the ovulatory surge of luteinizing hormone in laboratory rats, the system controlling male copulatory behavior in the rat, and the system controlling passerine bird vocalizations. In each, steroids act at several levels, including the final common path. This generalization is discussed in light of some earlier conceptualizations of the levels of hormone action in behavioral systems.
3883286| In order to better understand the action of thyroid hormones in chick embryo, we have studied their binding to cellular receptors from target tissues, the interaction of thyroid hormone-receptor complex with DNA and their effect on the synthesis of various mRNAs. Target tissues contain nuclear receptors which specifically bind L-thyroxine and L-triiodothyronine. L-triiodothyronine binds to a single receptor, which is a non-histone protein of Mr = 60,000 d with a sedimentation coefficient of 3.8S. Its association constant is
3882401|The water/water and water/gas interfaces of the developing embryo are described. During incubation three main compartments are present: the subgerminal, amniotic and allantoic fluids. The formation, composition, and regulation of these solutions are considered as examples of the water/water interfaces. Evaporative water loss across the eggshell is considered as an example of a water/gas interface. The effects of this phenomenon are considered as having been oversimplified in the past because they ignore phase changes (condensing of water vapour) and the ability of the embryo to regulate its development according to the supplies available.
3882514|Current research on the mechanism of transmembrane regulation of topographic modulation at the cell surface is described for the sea urchin egg and Sarcoma 180 ascites tumor cells of Swiss Webster white mice. The transmembrane system is characterized in terms of three components: glycocalyx, membrane, and cytofibrillar structures. The importance of membrane molecular architecture per se relative to the other surface components is assessed in terms of freeze fracture analysis of both cell types as well as concanavalin A (ConA)-mediated long term agglutination, cytochalasin B effects, and other drug-induced changes at Sarcoma 180 cell surfaces. A quantitative and qualitative assessment of intramembranous particle (IMP) sizes and density distributions reveals intrinsic structural changes of the fusing membranes at cortical reaction during sea urchin egg fertilization and also with the post-fertilized accumulation of surface microvilli. Comparable changes in IMP are noted for microvillus retraction and membrane smoothing in Sarcoma 180 cells under a variety of experimental conditions. On the other hand, chemical perturbation of S-180 cell surfaces reveals a rather non-ubiquitous, though identifiable, involvement of microfilaments and no microtubule involvement in these topographic changes. These observations suggest that the plasma membrane is a dynamic structure poised between "restrictive" and "less restrictive" states of fluidity or deformability and, hence, is a determinant component in topographic change.
3883365|In the CNS of Aplysia the number and sequence of lesions influence the regeneration of identified neurons and their synaptic connections. The left pleural ganglion giant neuron (LGC) fails to regenerate its severed axon following crushes of the cerebro-pleural (C-PL) connectives. A conditioning lesion paradigm in which first a foot nerve and then 10 days later, the left C-PL connective is crushed, results in the LGC regenerating its axon. Synaptic inputs from identified neurons in the cerebral ganglion rarely regenerate when only the C-PL connectives are crushed. Conditioning lesions also result in the regeneration of synaptic connections from the cerebral A neurons. Multiple and sequential lesions appear to be more effective than single lesions in promoting both axonal regeneration and synapse formation. The possible mechanisms by which axonal regeneration and synaptogenesis are controlled are discussed.
3883543|This essay is part of the seventh presentation of a yearly educational project of the American Society of Zoologists. The purpose is to provide background materials for those who teach the first-year biology courses in colleges and universities. The Science as a Way of Knowing project emphasizes the conceptual framework of the biological sciences, shows how scientific information is obtained and validated, and relates science to human concerns. The topic for consideration this year is Neurobiology and Behavior. The introductory essay is concerned mainly with the conceptual framework of neurobiology, as developed over the ages, and a few examples of behavioral studies which can be related to neurobiology or which are of special interest through links to human considerations and problems.
3883457|The sea ice surrounding Antarctica provides an extensive habitat for organisms ranging in size from bacteria to marine birds and mammals. Historically, most of the ecological work on the ice biota has focused in the nearshore land-fast ice. Only in the last decade have there been comparable studies in the deep-water pack ice regions. These studies have indicated that there are fundamental differences in structural and physical characteristics of fast and pack ice that are a result of differing physical regimes in nearshore and oceanic regions. Other physical processes act to create heterogeneity within the ice habitat that can range from geographic and regional scales of patchiness to a pronounced vertical gradient within ice floes. The conspicuous patterns in the distribution of the ice biota can be explained largely by these physical processes. Over 200 species have been reported living on, in, or in association with Antarctic sea ice. The ice biota includes bacteria, a variety of algae, heterotrophic protozoans and small metazoans. The diatom assemblages are the only taxonomic group that is known well enough to make comparisons among the various habitats. Studies by a number of workers suggest some specific diatom assemblages along with occurrence of species that are widely-distributed in both ice and plankton. Ice may also serve as a temporary habitat for species that also comprise planktonic communities, so that providing a "seed population" for ice edge plankton blooms may be an important role of the ice biota. Trophic interactions among organisms in ice suggest that the ice assemblage is a true community with a well-developed microbial food web. The ice microbial community may be an important part of the Antarctic marine food web because large consumers from the adjacent planktonic and benthic communities appear to feed on the ice biota.
3881747| Experiments with amphibians have revealed that tissues allografted in embryonic and early larval life may later succumb to a host immunological attack. In Xenopus, the ontogeny of this alloimmune response is correlated with the lymphoid maturation of the thymus. This article describes experiments primarily designed to ascertain if such a correlation exists in Rana pipiens. Initially, a histological study of the differentiation of the lymphomyeloid complex of the leopard frog was undertaken. At 18-21 C lymphoid histogenesis is well under way in the thymus and is beginning in many other organs during the third week of larval life. Extensive growth and differentiation of these organs follow. Observations are also presented on the structure, function and development of the lymphoid and lymphomyeloid organs from late larval life through metamorphosis to adulthood. Experiments were then performed to determine the onset of the alloimmune response to embryonically transplanted neural fold material. At 18-21 C incompatibility phenomena, albeit slight, are first detected in these grafts as early as 17 days after fertilization, i.e. 15 days after transplantation. Thus, in the leopard frog, the alloimmune response develops soon after lymphoid maturation of the thymus. At later stages of development, a more vigorous response is witnessed, concomitant with a rapid phase of lymphoid organ differentiation. 
3883898|The large (26 kDa) prothoracicotropic hormone of Manduca sexta stimulates ecdysteroid secretion by the prothoracic glands through the action of cyclic AMP (cAMP). Adenylate cyclase in the prothoracic glands is sensitive to calcium/calmodulin, and enhancement of intracellular calcium levels may be the means by which PTTH stimulates cAMP synthesis. The cyclic nucleotide in turn activates cAMP-dependent protein kinase and protein phosphorylation, most notably of a 34 kDa membrane-associated protein. It does not appear that protein kinase C plays a role in the acute action of PTTH, nor has the hormone been found to stimulate formation of inositol trisphosphate under current assay conditions. PTTH rapidly increases protein synthesis by the prothoracic glands, and translation inhibitors block PTTH-stimulated ecdysteroid secretion. Connections between protein phosphorylation, protein synthesis, and ecdysone secretion remain to be clarified.
3883218|Aquatic habitats, especially those of the intertidal, are subject to massive fluctuation of O
3881176|Three environmental zones which can influence the activation of the feeding response of Hydra littoralis are termed the macro-, micro-, and ultramicro- environment. The first consists primarily of the ions in the bulk medium, and of dissolved gases. The microenvironment is the area immediately surrounding the hydra; its composition is influenced by substances emitted from and taken up by the animal. The third zone, the ultramicroenvironment, is presumed to be made up of a thin shell of ions in the medium that are attracted to the charged surfaces of the animal. Through a physicochemical study of these environments, we have determined: (1) the presence of ionizable groups at the receptor site which may be involved in the binding of glutathione; (2) the role of potassium and other ions in influencing the feeding response; and (3) the possible existence of charged surfaces on hydra surrounded by a pH shell. Further, these experiments help to resolve many seemingly inconsistent reports dealing with the feeding behavior of hydras.
3882569|The tunicate Ecteinascidia turbinata contains a substance or substances capable of exerting a number of biological effects. Extracts of tunicate tissues have been shown to kill tumor cells in vitro and arrest tumor growth in vivo. The extracts also suppress allograft rejection, graft-vs.-host reactions and lymphocyte proliferative responses as well as humoral responses to immunization. By modifying the conditions, the extracts could potentiate antibody responses. In addition, they augment functions of monocyte-macrophages as evidenced by in vitro phagocytosis, in vivo clearance, and cytotoxic activity against target cells. After studies in mice, we were able to demonstrate that the extracts could activate the phagocytic systems of shrimp, blue crab, and fish (the American eel). In fish, the intraperitoneal route was superior to the intravenous route for promotion of phagocytosis, increase in percent presentation of granulocytes and for enhancement of resistance to bacterial infection. Intramuscular and intraperitoneal injection led to local inflammation with accumulation of granulocytes and macrophages.
3881665|The prismatic region of two bivalve molluscs exemplifies, in its structure and organization, one of the types of differentiated calcareous substrates through which boring organisms must penetrate. The oriented inorganic crystals, separated from one another by intercrystalline "spaces", are structurally organized into well defined prisms. The prisms of each bivalve vary in shape and size and are delineated from one another by electron-lucent, non-calcified regions. The demineralized organic matrix is also structurally organized into prisms, delineated from one another by prism sheaths, and an intraprismatic matrix structurally organized into closely packed sheet-like compartments and subcompartments in which the inorganic crystals are deposited. The non-mineralized intercrystalline "spaces" between the individual inorganic crystals of the same or adjacent rows in a mineralized section are occupied by the walls of the intraprismatic sheet-like compartments. Similarly, the non-calcified electron-lucent regions delineating one mineralized prism from the next are occupied by the thick prism sheaths. These portions of the organic matrix which fail to mineralize completely undoubtedly provide ready pathways for the passage of solutes and solvents through these tissues of highly ordered, densely packed, inorganic crystals. Moreover, the framework of the organic matrix, which fails to mineralize in these heavily calcified, molluscan substrates, may provide the primary, not the secondary source of chemical attack during boring, for once the sheaths and compartments surrounding the crystals are broken down or solubilized, the crystals are themselves loosened and freed for mechanical removal by shell-penetrating organisms.
3883798|This paper describes fundamental methodological challenges faced by computational neuroscience. Modeling strategies intended for consolidating extensive knowledge and data into single predictive models are inappropriate for much of neuroscience at this stage in its evolution. Instead, models designed to explore the implications of guesses or suppositions are more likely to have utility in supporting experimental studies, either by deriving added insight from available data or by suggesting experiments that otherwise might not be performed. Such computational experiments, if they are to be useful, must be based upon models with a careful balance between solid data and supposition. The implications of this requirement for two major modeling strategies, simulation modeling and parametric data modeling, are examined.
3883918|The localization problem is the problem of the segregation of determinants into different cells of the embryo; the history of this idea is reviewed and recent approaches to the study of the localization of morphogenetic determination are discussed.
3882878|Temperature regulation in vertebrates utilizes both behavioral and metabolic-circulatory mechanisms which are under the control of preoptic-anterior hypothalamic structures. Both central and peripheral thermoreceptors exist in all classes of vertebrates, but major differences in their importance in regulating body temperature occur. Within the central nervous system (CNS), structures controlling thermoregulation are highly redundant; subsystems occur at several CNS levels in a hierarchical organization. Thermoregulatory effector mechanisms have not evolved independently, but are derived from pre-existing organ systems which originally evolved for other functions.
3881894|The high intensity of decomposition in heavily polluted systems favors high individual counts of certain species of cilate Protozoa, in spite of the lack of dissolved oxygen and the presence of ammonia and other products of septic decay. Other species grow best under the particular conditions of starting re-aeration or nitrification, respectively. In general, the whole range of the self-purification process may be divided into zones which are characterized by particular associations of ciliates. The population growth of these species is regulated by (1) availability of food, for example, bacteria; (2) abiotic environmental factors, such as oxygen and products of septic decay; and (3) competition and predator-prey relations.
4620131|Superimposed upon seasonal changes in morphology, physiology and behavior, are facultative responses to unpredictable events known as labile (i.e., short-lived) perturbation factors (LPFs). These responses include behavioral and physiological changes that enhance survival and collectively make up the "emergency" life history stage. There is considerable evidence that glucocorticosteroids, and other hormones in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) cascade, initiate and orchestrate the emergency life history stage within minutes to hours. This stage has a number of sub-stages that promote survival and avoid potential deleterious effects of stress that may result from chronically elevated levels of circulating glucocorticosteroids over days and weeks. These sub-stages may include: redirection of behavior from a normal life history stage to increased foraging, irruptive-type migration during the day, enhanced restfulness at night, and elevated gluconeogenesis. Once the perturbation passes, glucocorticosteroids may also promote recovery. Additional evidence from birds indicates that glucocorticosteroid responses to a standardized capture, handling and restraint protocol are modulated both on seasonal and individual levels. Field work reveals that these changes in responsiveness to LPFs have ecological bases, such as reproductive state, body condition etc., that in turn indicate different hormonal control mechanisms in the HPA cascade.
3883934|Cardiovascular variables in developing amphibians are affected by both allometry and organogenesis. Blood pressure, cardiac output, and stroke volume increase during development, whereas peripheral resistance decreases. Invariably, resting heart rate changes as development proceeds from embryo through larva to adult. The pattern of change, however, varies between species and does not even correlate with family. The mechanisms underlying these varying patterns of developmental changes in heart rate of anuran amphibians larvae awaits complete description. Cardiovascular variables in adult vertebrates are influenced by nerves and hormones as well as intrinsic factors. However, information on the development of cardiovascular control systems is scarce, but receptor sensitivity apparently develops before functional innervation becomes apparent. The amphibian heart responds to acetylcholine and adrenaline several stages before functional innervation becomes evident, and in some species the cholinergic and adrenergic sensitivity of the cardiac pacemaker changes with development. As in mammals, acute hypoxia results in different cardiovascular responses depending on the developmental stage of the animal. The different responses reflect the relative maturity of neurohormonal mechanisms operating within the cardiovascular system.
3882684|Renewing cell populations are tissues or groups of cells which rapidly proliferate and whose cell division is balanced by cell loss. The rapid proliferation of cells can be determined in autoradiograms by the uptake of tritiated thymidine into DNA synthesizing cells, and the migration and loss of cells can be followed by taking samples of tissues at increasing time intervals after exposure to the radioisotope. In ascidians, renewing populations are the testis, ovary, blood cells, and epithelial lining of the digestive tract. They are made of subpopulations called compartments: 1) germinal compartments of relatively undifferentiated, dividing stem cells (these cells are labeled at short time intervals), 2) mature compartments of fully differentiated, nondividing cells (these become labeled with time by the migration of stem cells), and 3) transitional compartments of cells in intermediate stages. The stomach groove cell population is a model system for cell differentiation and renewal in the digestive tract. Germinal compartments can be distinguished from mature compartments by their morphology (pseudostratified vs. simple columnar epithelia), by the uptake of tritiated thymidine in autoradiograms, by histochemical staining, by their surface features in the scanning electron microscope, and by their intracellular organelles when viewed in the transmission electron microscope. Stem cells differentiate into absorptive cells and zymogen cells. In differentiating, stem cells increase in size and lose their abundant free ribosomes. Absorptive cells develop longer microvilli, a long cilium, smooth apical vesicles, and large supranuclear lysosomes. Zymogen cells produce abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and numerous zymogen granules. The renewing cell populations of blood (lymph nodule) and digestive tract are important model systems for studying cell differentiation, morphogenesis, and the phylogeny of vertebrate hemopoietic, immune, and digestive systems.
3883969|Lucinid bivalves occur widely in habitats ranging from subtidal to deep ocean basins. The evidence reported to date supports the contention that all lucinids contain intracellular, sulfur-oxidizing bacterial symbionts which contribute substantially to the nutrition of the intact association. These burrowing bivalves are found in both high and low sulfide habitats. Examinations of sulfur compounds in the hemolymph of lucinids reveal that thiosulfate may be a key intermediate in the metabolism of sulfide in all members of this family. The presence of free sulfide in the hemolymph of both freshly collected and experimental clams suggests that the total sulfide oxidation/detoxification capacity of the lucinids may be substantially lower than that found in other sulfur bacteria/invertebrate symbioses. Intracellular granules catalyze the oxidation of sulfide in L. floridana, one apparent line of sulfide toxicity defense in this species. These electron-dense granules occur in high densities in the bacteriocytes (bacteria-containing gill cells) of all lucinids. Thiosulfate produced during this detoxification may be available for further oxidation by the abundant symbionts housed in these same cells. Hemolymph thiol and elemental sulfur levels in clams from low sulfide habitats suggest that these animals have evolved mechanisms for sulfur acquisition. In sulfur-free seawater, sulfur-starved Lucina floridana are infrequent, periodic ventilators, but in the presence of sulfur show a significant increase in ventilation frequency. This periodic ventilation may be a trait of all lucinids that plays a substantial role in reducing metabolic costs during low nutrient availability.
3883983|Many of the critical pieces are now in place to exploit the evolution of paedomorphosis (metamorphic failure) as a model for both the phylogenetic and mechanistic analysis of a developmentally integrated character. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that paedomorphosis has evolved convergently among different populations and species of ambystomatids during the recent past. Mechanistically, there is growing evidence that paedomorphosis is controlled by a few loci, with different combinations of loci and alleles blocking metamorphosis in different conspecific populations and among closely related species. A reductionistic approach is needed to determine if the same or different loci were altered in the independent evolution of paedomorphosis among different ambystomatid lineages. We provide an overview of the genetic strategies that we are using toward this end, and present some of our own published and unpublished results. We then briefly discuss the potential insights and limitations of the reductionistic approach to character evolution that we are advocating in this research strategy.
3882061|A series of studies into the nature of terminal growth movements in hydroids (chiefly the thecate Campanularia) is reviewed. Both stolon and pedicel tips of all hydroids observed grow by an endless repetition of "growth cycles." In thecate stolons, the geometry of the tip's excursions is relatively simple and successive cycles are predictable in their duration and per cycle growth. Conversely, athecate stolons are much more complex or variable in each of these respects. In Campanularia both cycle time and per cycle growth differ among genetic stocks. Such environmental or environment-related factors as temperature, organic contaminants in the sea water, and the nutritive condition of the colony each affect cycle time and/or per cycle growth. Also, ingestion of a large meal temporarily inhibits the retractions that characterize most growth cycles. Growth movements are a property of the stolon tip, since isolated tips less than 0.5 mm long move in basically normal fashion. However, two aspects of the cycle are modified by more distant regions: the cycle is accelerated by a pacemaker lying 0.5 to 2.0 mm from the tip, and the extent of each cycle's retraction phase is determined by intrastolonic pressure generated by hydroplasmic flow. Certain neuroinhibitor drugs duplicate in intact stolons the cycle changes seen in surgical isolates. Synchronized with each growth cycle is a pattern of epidermal thickening and thinning at the stolon tip, this layer being thinnest just after the crest and thickest about two-thirds of the way through the cycle. Cells behind the tip also move in relation to the growth cycle, generally approaching the tip during epidermal thickening and retreating during epidermal thinning. Several types of metabolic inhibitors markedly affect the stolonic growth movements, indicating the need of oxidative metabolism and of protein synthesis using a short-lived mRNA for the tip's activities. Campanularia pedicel growth cycles differ from stolon growth cycles in having a shorter and more variable duration, a lesser per cycle growth, and a shallower retraction phase, with changes in these features along the length of the pedicel correlated with changes in the type of growth occurring. These studies and those of other investigators are related, their contributions to our understanding of elongation are discussed, and persisting problems are highlighted.
3883627|From a respiratory and metabolic standpoint, a blue crab is in an extremely precarious condition during a molt. A molt is physiologically possible for two major reasons. First, a premolt alkalosis anticipates the acidosis that arises during actual exuviation when the gas exchanger and ventilatory appendage are impaired and thus anaerobic metabolism must be activated. Second, the crab is able to revert to more primitive forms of skeletal support and, immediately after exuviation, gas exchange. These mechanisms are very fragile, however, as are the cardiovascular mechanisms that provide the force for exuviation; any one may fail. Changes in various enzyme activities and in free amino acid content of the tissues, which are usually associated with osmotic challenges, are associated specifically with a molt as well. I suggest that they are related to isosmotic water uptake and cell volume regulation.
3883186|When food is abundant, sparrows are found in great variety of habitats and appear to specialize on particularly profitable types of seeds. However, during periods of food scarcity, each sparrow species occupies a very narrow range of habitats but consumes a great variety of seeds within each occupied habitat. As a result, average dietary overlap may underestimate the potential for competition for food within habitats during periods of food shortage whereas average habitat overlap overestimates the potential for competition since each species occupies a different habitat during periods of food shortage.
3883232|Functional-anatomical work on complex structural systems is handicapped by several difficulties: (1) Lack of established guidelines on how to select the structures that are relevant for the intended study, (2) lack of methods to check the accuracy of the description of a system's morphology, and (3) the need to integrate a large mass of results obtained through a variety of approaches taken from different disciplines, such as anatomy, physiology, physics, biochemistry, ecology and evolutionary biology. Suggestions to alleviate some of the problems include (1) to use information on the physiological and physical properties of the tissues in a system and on biomechanical principles governing the interactions among these tissues to help in the selection and checking process necessary during the morphological description, (2) to construct a structural model of the system by condensing the morphological description, (3) to construct a functional model on the basis of the structural model by using physiological, physical and biomechanical principles that govern the functioning and interactions of the tissues and elements of the system, and (4) to test the functional model through independent observations, experiments or natural experiments (i.e., individual variations).
3884135| The number of biomarkers being evaluated as environmental indicators continues to increase even as proposed assessments expand in complexity. One key to a rational consolidation may lie in clearly identifying and characterizing those biochemical pathways shared among many biomarkers which are sensitive to environmental perturbation. Recent studies suggest that signal transduction pathways which are common to many cell types and species may provide multiple targets for the toxic effects of heavy metals. Such intracellular communication pathways might provide a useful framework for understanding hormetic effects and for predicting responses to complex contaminant mixtures. Preliminary in vitro experiments tested the effects of mercuric chloride ( HgCl
3881340|Extracts of the neurohemal pericardial organs from Cancer borealis have a cardio-excitor activity when tested on the isolated, perfused heart. Analysis of the extraot indicates that there are two active peptides, similar in size and amino acid composition. The procedure for isolation of these peptides is presented, as well as a discussion of the proposed role of indolic substances as cardio-excitor agents.
3883584|The colonial marine hydroid Hydractinia has a sophisticated allorecognition and effector system. Unlike many unitary organisms (i.e., vertebrates) which lack a current context for allorecognition, there is the potential for strong selection pressure for allorecognition and response in Hydractinia. Hydractinia colonies use allorecognition in intraspecific competition for two dimensional space; space is an absolute requirement for Hydractinia to successfully complete its life-cycle and thus interactions for space are of central importance for Hydractinia. Studies of the mechanisms, molecules, and genes involved in allorecognition in Hydractinia may contribute to our understanding of the evolution of allorecognition in the metazoa.
3882224|We must establish the allometric regularities of functional scaling in interspecific, "mouse-to'elephant" plots in order to provide criteria for the recognition of special adaptations unrelated to the requirements of size. The qualitative literature suggests that post-canine tooth areas of herbivorous mammals should increase with positive allometry in such plots. This positive allometry might reflect the demands of metabolism or the ecological strategies of large vs. small herbivores embodied in Levins' concept of environmental grain. Plots of postcanine area vs. body size display the expected positive allometry in all groups studied: hystricomorph rodents, suine artiodactyls (pigs, peccaries, and hippos), cervoid artiodactyls (deer, s.l.), and four groups of primates considered separately (lemuroids, ceboids, cercopithecoids, and great apes). Sketchy data for australopithecines also indicate positive allometry and the relatively larger cheek teeth of robust forms may only reflect their large body size and not the dietary differences so often advocated. Phyletic dwarfs of large herbivores display negative allometry (relatively larger cheek teeth in dwarfs) in opposition to the interspecific trend.
3882056|A head inhibitory gradient arising in the vicinity of a hydra's head, and a foot inhibitory gradient arising from the animal's foot are thought to intersect in the budding region. To investigate the possible influences of these gradients on budding, samples were prepared of 25 or more animals having as many as five gastric regions or gastric-plus-budding regions grafted in tandem. The segments of grafted animals were considered equivalent except for distance from the head and foot. The average frequencies of regeneration of budding regions on grafted gastric regions, and the average number of buds on grafted budding regions were determined for each sample. Both of these variables changed as functions of distance from the head in U-shaped curves as the hypothesis predicts. The arm of the U closest to the head indicates a stronger degree of inhibition than the arm closest to the foot since there are less regeneration and fewer buds close to the head. Evidence for segments on which ectopic heads regenerated also shows inhibition of budding due to a head. The slopes of the arms of the U-shaped curves do not resemble the slopes of the curves for head and for foot inhibition, however, particularly since the slopes for budding inhibition do not decrease as a function of the number of grafted segments. It is doubtful, therefore, that the observed bipolar inhibition of the budding region is due to the inhibitors of head and foot formation.
3881368|Hormones may act at the molecular level (1) by changing the properties of the cell membrane or the membrane of some intracellular organelle, (2) by inducing an allosteric change in the conformation of a protein molecule so as to alter its enzymatic activity, (3) by altering the rate of synthesis of a specific protein, (4) by serving as a co-substrate in a specific enzymatic reaction, or (5) by initiating the transcription of a specific section of DNA and producing a specific messenger RNA for the production of a specific protein. The last mechanism appears to be involved in the response of the larva of the blowfly to the hormone, ecdysone. These theories are not mutually exclusive, and a given hormone may have more than one mechanism of action. The effects of androgens on the ventral prostate of the rat and the effects of estrogens on the endometrium of the rat's uterus appear to be mediated by the production of the specific kind of RNA. Testosterone increases the weight of the seminal vesicle and prostate of the rat by increasing the synthesis of a specific kind of RNA. RNA extracted from the seminal vesicle of one rat can be instilled into the lumen of the seminal vesicle of another rat and lead to growth similar to that induced by the injection of testosterone. Treatment of the RNA with ribonuclease or by heating destroys this activity. Experiments with luteinizing hormone show that it has three clearly distinct effects on ovarian metabolism and three different mechanisms of action in this one tissue.
3884351|Certain teleost fish have large anatomically discrete islet organs called Brockmann bodies (BBs). When transplanted into streptozotocin diabetic athymic nude mice, tilapia BBs provide long-term normoglycemia. This has afforded us the opportunity to examine tilapia islet in vivo function in a non-piscine environment and compare this with in vivo function in the donor species. As expected, fasting and non-fasting glycemic levels in long-term murine recipients of tilapia BBs were analogous to corresponding values in donor tilapia, but, surprisingly, tilapia BB grafts provided mammalian-like glucose tolerance profiles. Teleost fish, in general, are severely glucose intolerant. When glucose tolerance tests were performed in tilapia, the mean glucose disappearance rates were very low; however, diabetic nude mice bearing long-term tilapia BB grafts were extremely glucose responsive. This suggested a severe or absolute peripheral resistance to the glucostatic effects of insulin. Using Western blotting with polyclonal antibodies and then confirmed by Northern analysis, tilapia peripheral tissues appear to be devoid of GLUT-4, the insulin-sensitive glucose transporter responsible for the hypoglycemic effect of insulin in mammals, but not GLUT-1, the insulin independent glucose transporter. This may explain why tilapia, and possibly other teleost fish, are severely glucose intolerant after pharmacologic glucose-loading. Because tilapia do not tend to consume large quantities of glucose in the wild, it is not surprising that they have evolved without a mechanism to move glucose rapidly from the bloodstream into muscle and fat. Nevertheless, insulin still appears to play an important role in maintaining normoglycemia in tilapia; however, this is mostly likely a result of its effect on glucose uptake in the liver. We also present comparative data on tilapia beta cell function, quantification of islet cell numbers and types, islet products, insulin gene structure and expression, and beta cell sensitivity to the diabetogenic drug streptozotocin.
3883012|The biological evolution of mankind continues at present, even though for the last few millennia mankind's mode of adaptation has been primarily cultural. The necessary and sufficient conditions for biological evolution are genetic variability and differential reproduction (natural selection). The genetic variation of human populations is immense: no two individuals developed from different eggs can ever be genetically identical to each other. The two components of natural selection-differential mortality and differential fertility-continue unabated in modern mankind. Cultural changes fuel human biological evolution, which may well be faster now than it has ever been. The genetic endowment of mankind may be deteriorating precisely owing to the advances of modern health care, although this is not occurring as fast as some would have it. The eugenic measures proposed to improve the genetic lot of mankind may be classified into four broad categories: genetic counselling, genetic surgery, germinal selection, and cloning. The first two can be used as measures of negative eugenics, that is, to prevent the spread of harmful gene mutations. The goals of negative eugenics would seem unobjectionable, and so would be their voluntary application; compulsion would violate fundamental human rights. Germinal selection and cloning are primarily proposals for positive eugenics that seek the multiplication of desirable genetic characteristics. Positive eugenic proposals are unacceptable on biological, ethical, and sociopolitical grounds.
3881668|The results of a study of the role of organic compounds in the formation of carbonate crystals in marine biological systems are reported. In an increasing concentration of certain organic compounds which complex calcium ions, the proportion of aragonite decreases and that of calcite increases. In increasing concentrations of magnesium ions the proportion of aragonite increases and that of calcite and vaterite decreases. When the influence of organic compounds is greater or smaller than that of magnesium ions, only calcite or only aragonite is formed, respectively. Organic compounds forming a strong complex with calcium ions cause the formation of magnesium-rich calcite, and with an increase in temperature and the concentration of magnesium ions, the magnesium carbonate content of precipitated magnesian calcite increases. When the influence of organic compounds is almost equivalent to that of magnesium ions, in increasing or decreasing temperatures, the proportion of calcite decreases or increases, respectively, and the proportion of aragonite increases or decreases, respectively. The concentration of magnesium ions in the body fluids of marine calcareous organisms seems to differ little from that of other organisms, and seems to be similar to that of sea water. Only the presence of certain organic compounds brings about the formation of the carbonate crystals observed in marine biological systems. The very important role of organic matter in the formation of crystals found in skeletal carbonates is emphasized.
3883169|Current theory and supporting data regarding population regulation and cycling in microtine rodents needs to be reviewed in light of a new, season-sensitive model of social behavior for meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus. The finding of a clear social imperative among meadow voles during most of the fall, winter and spring conflicts with the prediction of high levels of social intolerance in the higher density populations commonly existing late in the year. The general rarity of adult dispersal, except during periods of declining density in winter and early spring, and the contact-seeking nature of this dispersal, are generally contradictory to predictions based on "intrinsic" theories. Finally, published data on meadow vole reproduction, recruitment and dispersal, and hence demography, are probably biased as a result of effects produced by the spread of rodent pheromones by investigators, prolonged entrapment of individual voles, and inappropriate behavioral measures in the field.
4620223|The Extraxial/Axial Theory (EAT) of echinoderm skeletal homologies describes two major body wall types: axial and extraxial. The latter is subdivided into perforate and imperforate regions. Each of the regions has a distinctly different source in early larval developm. Axial skeleton originates in the rudim, and develops in association with the pentaradially arranged hydrocoel according to specific ontogenetic principles. Perforate and imperforate extraxial regions are associated with the left and right somatocoels respectively, are not governed by ontogenetic principles of plate addition, and are products of the non-rudiment part of the larval body. The morphology of even the most bizarre of the earliest echinoderms can be explored using the EAT. Among these, edrioasteroid-like taxa best fit the idea that forms expressing archimery in the sequential arrangement of axial, perforate extraxial, and imperforate extraxial regions are the first echinoderms. Metamorphosis is especially marked in clades that have a high axial to extraxial skeleton ratio because structures developing from the non-rudiment part are suppressed in favor of the developing axial elements during this process. However, in early echinoderms, extraxial skeleton makes up a far larger proportion of the body wall than axial, implying that metamorphosis was not as significant a part of the developmental trajectory as it is in more recently evolved taxa. Echinoderm radiation consists of a succession of apomorphies that reduced the expression of extraxial components but increased the influence of axial ones, with a concomitant increase in the prominence of metamorphosis.
3881743| Recent evidence suggests that amphibians represent a key transition stage in the evolution of immunological competence. In particular, anuran amphibians exhibit a significant advance relative to more primitive vertebrates in their capacity to synthesize two distinct classes of immunoglobulins in response to antigenic stimulation. These two classes of antibody molecule resemble the M and G antibodies of man in size and polypeptide chain structure. Furthermore, cellular aspects of antibody-production in anura resemble those of mammals in the method of retention of antigen and the range of antibody-forming cells (lymphocytes to plasma cells). In addition to these parameters of antibody-formation, a state of specific non-responsiveness (high zone tolerance) can be induced in adult anura by pretreatment with large doses of protein antigen. Studies of larval anurans establish that these forms become immunologically competent early in development, but possess only M immunoglobulins. These larval stages provide feasible model systems for the study of the activation of genes which specify immunoglobulins. Antibody-formation in urodeles is discussed in relation to the emergence of immunological competence in amphibians. 
3883364|Detailed knowledge of the projections and synaptic connections of identifiable neurons in the leech has permitted a similarly detailed study of the sprouting, regeneration, and degeneration of axons. We have learned that certain cellular components, such as synaptic targets and glia, may play only a limited role in synapse regeneration and in axon degeneration. Yet contact with the synaptic target may inhibit sprouting and availability of targets may promote it. Overall, results in the leech support the idea that degeneration as well as regeneration share fundamental mechanisms with other invertebrates and the vertebrates, including mammals.
3884478|The androgenic gland has been described in a variety of crustacean species-isopods, amphipods and decapods. It has been shown to play a role in the regulation of male differentiation and in the inhibition of female differentiation. Upon its application for endocrine manipulation, it inhibits female characteristics. Recently, the androgenic hormone from the isopod Armadillidium vulgare was purified and characterized on the basis of a morphological bioassay. The hormone is a glycosylated protein composed of two peptide chains connected each to the other by two disulfide bridges. The pro-hormone consists of the same two chains connected by a third peptide in a complex that resembles the insulin super family hormones. The study of the androgenic gland in decapods lags behind that in the isopods, and a decapod androgenic hormone has yet to be identified. In this review, five decapod species are described as models, in which the androgenic gland exerts morphological, anatomical, physiological and behavioral effects. These models could serve as the basis of possible bioassays for the study of the structure and mode of action of the androgenic hormone in decapod crustaceans.
3881591|This paper describes, not ionic movement, but rather the transfer of organic nutrients from environment to cell in microorganisms. A section on methods for studying such transfer is followed by a discussion of generalized models derived from kinetic data. Control mechanisms, involving regulation of synthesis of membrane proteins and feedback modification of their activity, are described. Some recent work on specific models for transport of amino acids and carbohydrates is also discussed.
3882574|We report results of a three year comparative laboratory study of kin recognition abilities in Arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) and Belding's ground squirrels (S. beldingi), and a field investigation of kin recognition in S. beldingi. Our laboratory work shows that in both species, preweaned pups reared together, whether they are biological siblings or cross-fostered (unrelated) nestmates, are equally aggressive in subsequent paired arena tests. Thus, pups that share a natal nest are treated like siblings. Among pups reared apart, sister-sister pairs are less aggressive in arena tests than are pairs of nonkin females, whereas relatedness does not affect male-male or male-female aggression. Thus both relatedness and rearing environment mediate recognition among female S. parryii and S. beldingi. In free-living Belding's ground squirrels at Tioga Pass, California, dam-offspring and sister-sister recognition apparently first occur at weaning, coincident with aboveground emergence of juveniles. Most intriguing (electrophoretically identified) littermate full-sisters and maternal half-sisters, which result from multiple mating by females, seem to treat each other differently despite having shared a natal nest. The full-sisters are less agonistic and more cooperative than the half-sisters. In interpreting these laboratory and field results, we explore four proximal mechanisms by which kin might be identified, including one in which recognition is based on (learned) phenotypic similarity to an individual's nestmates or itself (phenotype matching). Our data and those of several recent investigators of recognition in other taxa implicate both association with relatives and phenotype matching in the ontogeny of kin recognition.
3884309|The Extraxial-Axial Theory (EAT) is applied to the body wall homologies of asteroids. Attempts to characterize major plate systems of asteroids as axial or extraxial, particularly those that are highly organized into series, can be problematic. However, the Optical Plate Rule (OPR) is instrumental in establishing that ambulacrals and terminals are axial. It is equally clear that the region aboral to the marginal frame is a part of the perforate extraxial body wall (with the possible exception of the centrodorsal, which is likely imperforate extraxial). Previously established EAT criteria, particularly those strongly rooted in the embryologically expressed boundary between axial and extraxial body wall in larvae, suggest that marginals, and perhaps adambulacrals, are extraxial in origin. We also explore the extraxial nature and phylogenetic significance of the odontophore. Our data from both juveniles and adults show that plate and tube foot addition sequences occur according to the OPR, and shed light on poorly known homologies of the asteroid mouth frame. These data indicate that the mouth angle ossicle must at least contain the first ambulacral, although we cannot rule out the possibility that the first adambulacral also contributes to the construction of this ossicle. The interpretations provided by the EAT for all ossicles suggest a synapomorphy scheme for somasteroids, ophiuroids, and asteroids.
3884137| Among the oxygen carrying proteins, two groups are known to adapt to environmental challenges in the adult stage. Both vertebrate hemoglobins and arthropod hemocyanins adapt to chronic hypoxia by responding to the actions of allosteric co-factors. The design strategy, however, differs fundamentally in the two groups. Even within the arthropods, chelicerate and crustacean hemocyanins respond to co-factors very differently. Only in the crustaceans does the oxygen carrier adapt by shifts in intrinsic molecular properties. In hypoxic blue crabs, increases in the ratio of the primitive 1  6-meric oligomer bring about a higher oxygen affinity relative to that in normoxic animals, in which greater proportions of the derived 2  6-meric oligomer are responsible for a lower oxygen affinity. 
3884559|Vibration through the substrate has likely been important to animals as a channel of communication for millions of years, but our awareness of vibration as biologically relevant information has a history of only the last 30 yr. Morphologists know that the jaw mechanism of early amphibians allowed them to perceive vibration through the substrate as their large heads lay on the ground. Although the exact mechanism of vibration production and the precise nature of the wave produced are not always understood, recent technical advances have given answers to increasingly sophisticated questions about how animals send and receive signals through the substrate. Some of us have been forced to explore the use of vibration when all other attempts to manipulate animals in the field have failed, while others began to think about vibration to explain some of the puzzling behaviors of species they were studying in other contexts. It has thus become clear that the use of vibration in animal communication is much more widespread than previously thought. We now know that vibration provides information used in predator-prey interactions, recruitment to food, mate choice, intrasexual competition and maternal/brood social interactions in a range of animals from insects to elephants.
3884234|Photosynthesis and calcification in zooxanthellate scleractinian corals and coral reefs are reviewed at several scales: cellular (pathways and transport mechanisms of inorganic carbon and calcium), organismal (interaction between photosynthesis and calcification, effect of light) and ecosystemic (community primary production and calcification, and air-sea CO
3882827|The secretion of neurohormones from the crustacean X-organ - sinus gland system is controlled by environmental influences, light being the most conspicuous. Two sets of photoreceptors appear to mediate the influence of light on neurosecretion based on intracellular recordings from X-organ neurons and estimations of hormone release. Extra-retinal photoreceptors can initiate neurohormonal release from the eyestalk. Neurosecretory activity is also influenced by putative neurotransmitters. GABA is found in high concentrations in the medulla terminalis of the eyestalk and is released by stimulation, in a calcium-dependent manner. Diurnal variations occur in the amounts of eyestalk neurohormones, either those present in the eyestalk or released by electrical stimulation of the isolated sinus gland. Rhythm phases vary from one hormone to another. Neurohormones secreted in the eyestalk are also found in other regions of the central nervous system. Rhythms of neurosecretion are present both in the secretion in the isolated eyestalk and in eyestalkless animals, thus indicating that rhythmicity is a distributed property of the neurosecretory system.
3881694|Several gastropod families belonging to the superfamily Tonnacea are known to bore into the calcareous shells of echinoids and bivalves, but little work has been done on the family Cymatiidae. New observations show that the cymatiid, Argobuccinum argus, which feeds on the tubicolous polychaete, Gunnarea capensis, possesses large proboscis glands which secrete 0.4 to 0.5N H
3884215|Marine invertebrates develop in waters that extend from the poles to the equator, experiencing the full range of environmental temperature and food conditions. How selection has modified their development under the influence of these two factors has been a matter of debate. In this paper we argue that the primary influence on developmental rate is temperature, while other factors such as food availability are much less important. From existing literature we demonstrate that (1) developmental rates of both lecithotrophic and planktotrophic asteroids decrease in a similar way from the tropics to the poles, as they do also in other groups of invertebrates (echinoids, molluscs, crustaceans), and (2) rates of development at any one temperature cluster around the function describing the effect of temperature, without any relationship to egg size, suggesting that developmental rates are near the maximum for a given temperature regardless of other variables such as nutrition. We also investigated the response of development to temperature in four species of planktotrophic asteroids, one tropical, one temperate, two polar. There was limited temperature compensation among these four species, but little or no apparent ability to compensate for the retarding effects of reduced temperature within species. Arrhenius analysis of the data suggests that Q
3881401|The salt-absorbing tissue is found in the respiratory lamellae of the gills in the form of a highly interdigitated epithelium. The folds of the epithelium are supplied with mitochondria in the form of "mitochondrial pumps." Intercellular spaces between the folds also satisfy the morphological requirements for Diamond's model system for water transport based on his theory of standing osmotic gradients. Most of the osmoregulatory tissue is localized in the three most posterior gills, which in turn rest on the pericardial sac. It is suggested that the pericardial sac transfers ground water to the gills for salt and water absorption. The pericardial sac serves for storage of water and as a hydraulic assist during the molt.
3882110|The difficulties of observational study of active, wide-ranging sharks in the relatively concealing natural underwater environment are discussed for both baited and non-baited situations. The possible technique of habituating sharks to the diver's presence is considered in view of the logistical and safety problems imposed by the physical limitations of unaided, unprotected human divers. It is concluded that previous shark-observation methods are inadequate, and that supplementary study techniques must be developed and emphasized. These include remote monitoring by ultrasonic telemetry, telemetry-aided direct observation, and the use of miniature submersibles designed specifically for shark observation.
3882889|Foraging behavior of bumblebees has been in the past analyzed from two major perspectives. On the one hand, behavioral mechanisms have been studied to learn more about the animal. On the other extreme, the animal has been used incidentally to examine optimal foraging theory (O.F.T.). Major problems have arisen when theory designed to answer evolutionary questions was used to determine proximal mechanisms. While O.F.T. could be highly useful in making predictions to point out useful problems, the bottleneck to our understanding at the present resides in the lack of experiments that test alternative hypotheses. Whether or not a bumblebee worker's foraging behavior is adaptive (enhances fitness), however, or is optimal (maximizes fitness) cannot yet be resolved by observations or experimentation on individual bees. However, calculations can show the potential energy costs and payoffs of alternative potential foraging behaviors. Rapid progress could be made by examining the mechanisms of foraging behavior that act to enhance foraging returns, without worrying about whether or not the behavior is "optimal."
3882396|The principles which govern gas exchange by diffusion across the pores of the avian eggshell are reviewed and compared with convective gas exchange. The concept of conductance is defined for both diffusive and convective gas exchange through pores, and methods of calculating pore size are described. Estimates of conductances of the elements in the gas transfer path from atmosphere to chorioallantoic capillary blood are discussed, and recent studies on the role of ternary diffusion and a convective component to gas fluxes are presented.
3882243|Autozoids in R. evelinae are budded as in most cheilostomes, but some lateral zoid buds systematically become empty kenozoids that wrap around onto the basal side of the colony. Each kenozoid contributes partly to the formation of a younger autozoid. Bud suppression and kenozoid formation lead to an erect, branching, stony colony. Kenozoids calcify heavily and may bud other kenozoids or autozoids in old colony parts; these probably are adaptations to protect the otherwise delicate basal sides of autozoids. Large frontal avicularia are produced from two areolae (pores) in frontal walls of autozoids. Interior walls delimiting the avicularium contact the frontal cuticle (epitheca), from which the mandible differentiates. The hypostegal cavity of the autozoid remains in communication with the perigastric cavity only through avicularia. Rare lateral avicularia similarly differentiate from pores connecting autozoids and basal kenozoids. All zoids heavily thicken secondarily; cuticles between adjacent zoids simultaneously are thrown into interlocking longitudinal folds which probably strengthen the colony mechanically. Despite continuing carbonate secretion, the cystid epidermis is tenuous and incomplete; the peritoneum is absent or poorly-developed. This situation is usual among gymnolaemate Bryozoa. The bryozoan body cavity is therefore usually a pseudocoel in the morphological sense, but developmental evidence indicates it represents a degenerate coelom. The ovicell develops as a compressed evagination from the body cavity of the autozoid distal to the zoid which deposits its egg in the ovicell. Both inner and outer walls calcify, the outer more heavily than the inner. Secondary calcification is achieved by engulfment of the ovicell by a fold of hypostegal coelom which calcifies basally. There is no nutritive median vesicle, so embryos develop without food. The polypide is unique in lacking a vestibule; this may be associated with the absence of a medial vesicle.
4620219|Accurate phylogenetic reconstruction requires character systems that have evolved fast enough to have kept pace with cladogenesis but slowly enough to have conveyed the resulting phylogenetic signal to the present. Because stratigraphic evidence suggests that basal arthropod lineages arose rapidly during an ancient (Cambrian) phylogenetic radiation, the discovery of molecular sequences capable of resolving arthropod phylogeny may be a significant challenge for molecular systematists. This challenge is exemplified by our attempt to resolve arthropod phylogeny using the amino acid sequence of elongation factor-1 (EF-1). Our fossil-based assessment of evolutionary rates indicates that EF-1 should be capable of resolving Cambrian-age divergences. However, phylogenetic analysis using EF-1 fails to establish relationships among most higher-level groups, although it does recover more recently derived clades. Here we propose two models to explain this incongruity. The Rapid Radiation Model maintains that fossil-based estimates of arthropod diversification are essentially accurate and that diversification occurred so rapidly during the Cambrian that few phylogenetically significant changes occurred in the slowly evolving EF-1 sequence. The Enhanced Preservation Model maintains that fossil-based estimates of Cambrian-age divergences reflect enhanced preservation of pre-existing lineages and that arthropod diversification occurred before the Cambrian. This model attributes lack of resolution to degradation of phylogenetic signal within EF-1 by subsequent evolution. Current evidence is more consistent with the Enhanced Preservation Model, which implies that fossil-based methods can be very misleading when attempting to gauge the phylogenetic information content of molecular sequences for Cambrian- and Precambrian-age divergences.
3884524|Biologists must remember that physiology is the product of natural selection on organisms interacting with heterogeneous environments. "Behaving" organisms may alter the osmotic conditions they experience and achieve results unexpected from laboratory studies. Their ability to exploit environmental heterogeneity depends on its temporal/spatial scale relative to that of the organism, and the correspondence between the osmotic differences and the organism's sensory and osmoregulatory physiology. "Behaviors" include evasion of stressful habitats, selection among differing microenvironments, changing body characteristics that affect salt/water uptake/loss, manipulating fluids differing in osmolytes, and modification of osmotic microenvironments (especially for vulnerable offspring). To draw "comparative and integrative" inferences, investigators must strive to understand an organism's actual challenges by "seeing" the world from its perspective, and then making observations and performing experiments in the context of the "real world" experienced by that organism.
3884127|Sexual differentiation of the endocrine and behavioral components of the avian reproductive system occurs throughout embryonic development, initiating some of the early cellular events that form the central nervous system (CNS) and culminating in the organization of male or female neuroendocrine responses. Early cellular events have been studied intensively in recent years and these developmental processes appear to involve specific growth factors in the development of certain tissues. Subsequent to cellular differentiation, primordial germ cells migrate to the appropriate anatomical location and contribute to the development of the single ovary or testes; steroidogenesis begins soon thereafter. Other portions of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis also appear during early embryonic development with migration of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons from the olfactory region of the CNS to the midbrain and separate formation of the pituitary gland. The gonadal steroid hormones affect development of accessory sex structures as well as the later organization of neuroendocrine regulatory systems and secondary sex characteristics. Manipulation of steroids during embryonic and early posthatch periods results in altered endocrine and behavioral responses in adult birds. There are marked species differences in the timing of these events, especially when precocial and altricial species are compared. Altricial species hatch in a less developed state and as such are more dependent on parental care. Of necessity, the precocial species must be capable of feeding and other motor capabilities at hatch and coincidentally their other physiological systems also appear to be more mature at this time. Finally, there is the separate issue of song birds versus those avian species that do not have elaborate learned songs. It appears that most of the species with elaborate neural circuitry responsible for song are altricial. This may benefit them from the standpoint of gaining more time and contact with the parents to enable them to learn the appropriate song. There are also hormonal and neuroendocrine components critical in the process of song development. Finally, the effects of environmental factors, such as endocrine disrupting chemicals take on added significance when viewed in the context of exerting permanent organizational effects which are likely to alter endocrine and behavioral components of reproduction in the adult.
3883970|During tidal exposure the echiuran worm Urechis caupo encounters toxic sulfide in its burrow microhabitat on the marine mudflat. Although sulfide freely penetrates the two respiratory epithelia (the body wall and hindgut) and tissue cytochrome oxidases are extremely sulfide sensitive, the worm tolerates sulfide concentrations which exceed environmental exposures. Sulfide tolerance results from a suite of sulfide detoxification mechanisms that extend from the coelomic fluid to the epithelial surfaces. The coelomic fluid is rich in hemoglobin and hematin, both of which bind sulfide and catalyze the oxidation of sulfide to thiosulfate in vitro. Peripheral defense mechanisms responsible for protection of aerobic epithelia from sulfide poisoning may include mucus secretion, sulfide oxidation by symbiotic bacteria and/or specialized organelles termed SOBs, and sloughing of sulfide damaged cells. Thiosulfate, the principal detoxification endproduct produced in vivo, is eliminated primarily by diffusion across the hindgut, and sulfur metabolites may be sequestered and eliminated by the anal sacs. Based on a hypothetical model, we conclude that sulfide tolerance in U. caupo is due primarily to the sulfide oxidation activity of the coelomic fluid and that the specialized integument and hindgut protect the metabolically active, sulfide-exposed epithelial cells. These sulfide detoxification mechanisms may allow populations of this filter-feeding worm to exploit nutrient-rich, sulfidic environments.
3882353|The oxygen-binding properties and some associated structural features of invertebrate hemoglobins (Hb) are reviewed together with the environmental conditions (particularly in stressful habitats) that influence oxygen-binding functions in nature. Compared to the vertebrates, invertebrate Hbs display a spectacular variation in functional properties, which is manifest within the major systematic groups of animals, and within the different histological and molecular categories of the pigment. This variability is seen primarily to represent adaptations to the wide range of environmental conditions to which Hb-bearing invertebrates are subjected in nature, but also to reflect certain organismic functions, which determine the internal conditions under which the Hbs work in life. These adaptations appear to be uniquely directed towards optimizing the transfer of oxygen from the environmental source to the mitochondrial combustion sites. The immense structural and functional complexity of invertebrate Hb systems may well compensate for a decreased organization at the organ level compared to that in vertebrates, shifting more of the regulatory burden to the molecular level.
3883042|A traditional view of multi-male primate groups has held that males provide relatively little direct care to infants, possibly as a result of low confidence of paternity associated with a relatively promiscuous breeding system. In the last five years this view has changed as a result of a careful documentation of intimate male-infant affiliations in certain species, especially the savanna-dwelling baboons (Papio spp.). The occurrence of these affiliations raises the question as to whether males care for their own offspring preferentially and, if so, on what basis male confidence of paternity is mediated. Recent field studies of baboons suggest that male-infant relationships are mediated through affiliations between the males and the infants' mothers, but the degree to which these male-female affiliations are based on prior mating experience (hence, paternity) has not been established. Comparative studies of male-infant relations in primates have given little attention to the variation in the intensity and form of male care patterns within the set of species that have a multi-male social organization. Among multi-male species, male care of young is reported most often in baboons and barbary macaques (Macaca sylvanus) and least often in other macaques, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), and vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops). This interspecific variation may result both from differences in the importance of male care to infant survival and from differences in male confidence of paternity, which in turn may relate to seasonal breeding patterns and, in particular, to the presence or absence of conspicuous signs of ovulation in females.
3883940|Ontogeny of cardiac and ventilatory function was investigated in the direct developing crayfish Procambarus clarkii to determine basic developmental patterns and to evaluate diffusional and convective gas exchange. Animals were exposed to water ranging in Po
3882272|This paper examines the thymic dependence of alloimmunity in amphibians. In Xenopus, the presence of a thymus during the first 2 weeks of life is essential for the development of normal first-set skin allograft immunity. Thymectomy during this early period always impairs the alloimmune response of young adult toads. However, most of these thymectomized animals are able to completely destroy skin allografts, albeit with prolonged rejection times. Chronic graft rejection, rather than tolerance, still occurs following thymectomy as early as 5 days, when the thymus contains no small lymphocytes. In contrast to the considerable differences in first-set allograft survival times in control and early-thymectomized Xenopus, second-set grafts, applied subsequent to first-set destruction, are rejected in acute fashion (<3 weeks) in both groups. That the defect in first-set alloimmunity is specifically related to absence of thymus has been confirmed by implanting allogeneic thymus 2 weeks post-thymectomy. The donor thymus remains healthy and restores the allograft response to normal. In contrast, allogeneic spleen does not reconstitute and itself often undergoes destruction. Preliminary autoradiographic experiments on lymphoid tissue involvement in first-set allograft rejection are also described.
3882277|Recent data concerning the development of antibody forming capability in the chick are reviewed. In addition, information is presented indicating that there may be cells in the chicken lymphoid system which are capable of synthesizing immunoglobulin but not specific antibody. These cells appear to be independent of the bursa for their development but dependent on interaction with thymus dependent cells to elaborate their product. These results have led to the formulation of a new scheme of immunologic development in the chicken which better reflects contemporary understanding of the system.
3882872|All vertebrates face the problem of analyzing events in their environments. In spite of environmental differences, there are, however, aspects of the problems of analyzing external events that are common. It can be expected that sensory systems thus have certain common design features that reflect the functional constraints placed on sensory systems as information processing networks. This article surveys the organization of vertebrate sensory systems and identifies several major design features. The nature of design features and the assumptions underlying their definition are then discussed.
3884281|Conventional wisdom notwithstanding, fur and feathers are unlikely to have arisen in direct association with elevated metabolic rates in early mammals, birds, or their ancestors. A complete insulative fur coat probably appeared first in the earliest mammals long after mammalian ancestors (therapsids) had attained mammalian, or near-mammalian, metabolic rates. The evolution of feathers was unlinked to the evolution of modern avian metabolic rates since early, fully flighted birds (i.e., Archaeopteryx) retained an ectothermic metabolic status. Recent claims of "feathered dinosaurs" should be regarded with caution.
3882306|Neonatal treatment with corticosterone can differentially and persistently reduce either the basal level of plasma corticosterone or the amplitude of the adult diurnal rhythm in the rat depending on the age at which exposure to the steroid occurs. This alteration of basal secretion by hormonal manipulation during the first postnatal week may be related to the high levels of corticosterone found in pituitary cell nuclei following exposure of the immature rat to exogenous corticoid. The ontogenetic course of cytosol binding in the pituitary suggests a mechanism by which such vulnerability may occur. The hypothalamus was the only brain region found to have a constant level of cell nuclear binding throughout development, although it closely resembles the brain as a whole with regard to the development of cytosol binding sites. The significant postnatal neurogenesis of the hippocampus is reflected in a large postnatal rise in both cytosol and nuclear binding of corticosterone. This increase would appear to be due in part to a delay in binding competence by the pyramidal and granule cells of the hippocampus. The autoradiographic evidence indicates that in the immature rat the retention of steroid by hippocampal pyramidal cells correlates directly with the embryonic age of the neuron. Likewise, the oldest granule cells are the most heavily labelled granule cells in the dentate gyrus, while newly arrived cells do not concentrate corticosterone. This would suggest that an event in cellular differentiation occurs sometime after the cells are "in position," which permits the binding of glucocorticoids by these hippocampal neurons.
3883623|A large number of factors are now known to influence the oxygen affinity of hemocyanins in crabs. In this article I review several case studies in which a number of different variables, including pH, CO
3883030|The successes in comparative physiology during the last 25 years have resulted from the study of those cellular or subcellular phenomena common to all animals, but approachable most easily in a few model species. In contrast, complex systems comprising many cooperating tissues and organs are characteristic of narrow taxa; analysis of such systems does not yield widely applicable generalities. An analogy between the distribution of commodities and products in biological systems and in marketing channels is developed, and the function of the circulation is considered in that context. The accumulation and assorting of products by the flow of blood from the tissues to the collecting vessels emerges as a particularly important role. The techniques that have been developed for coping with man's highly complex organizations and activities should be applicable to analogous biological systems.
3882355|Studies on the role of red blood cell organic phosphates in regulating oxygen transport and hemoglobin function in various species have emanated from several laboratories in the past few years. These data reveal that the organic phosphate composition of erythrocytes is certainly more diverse between classes of animals than previously recognized, that the kind and concentration of red cell organic phosphate modulator changes during development of the species, and that the role of organic phosphates in modulating hemoglobin function is variable. For example in birds we believe that the changes in amounts and distribution of the intraerythrocytic organic phosphates account for the sudden changes in whole blood oxygen affinity during development of the embryo and young bird as well as in the mature bird. In the loggerhead and green sea turtle, it appears that organic phosphate modulators regulate whole blood oxygen affinity during embryonic development but it is unlikely that whole blood oxygen affinity is controlled by organic phosphate modulation of hemoglobin function in the adult turtle. From the data now available on air-breathing fishes, it appears reasonable to consider that whole blood oxygen affinity may be regulated by a combination of organic phosphates; that is, the relative concentrations of the primary regulator (
3881782|A study of the effects of photic stimulation on the ability to induce flash luminescence in the female Photuris firefly by electrical brain stimulation was made. Pulses of light delivered to the eye of the firefly are not only able to inhibit spontaneous flashing but also reduce the ability of electrical brain stimuli to induce firefly flashes. Inhibition by photic pulses is most effective when the pulses are delivered approximately 300-400 msec prior to brain stimulation. Only flashes of brain stimulus-flash onset latency greater than 120 msec can be inhibited in this fashion, while driven flashes of 90 msec were immune from the inhibitory effect. It is suggested that the inhibitory effects of photic stimulation provide some physiological explanation of the male-female response latency found in the courting fireflies.
3882383|As with mammals, the ability to test questions of an immunogenetic nature in the axolotl and other amphibia is greatly enhanced by the use of defined, inbred genetic lines. These have been developed and at present qualify as partially inbred strains; there are 7, with the most highly inbred being at present at
3883163|Research on populations of rats (Rattus norvegicus) in Baltimore beginning in 1945 suggested the hypothesis that aggressive behavior could regulate the numbers in a city block where food and shelter were adequate. A program of experiments using wild rats or laboratory mice justified publication of the aggressive behavior hypothesis in 1949. Continued research by Davis, Calhoun, Christian and graduate students showed that the number of rats in a city block returned towards an asymptote after a reduction in number, and that the introduction of alien rats was followed by a decline. Communication about the level of population was achieved by signals (visual, olfactory, auditory and tactile) that determined social status. Rates of reproduction declined and rates of mortality increased as the population increased. Various physiological mechanisms were explored but the mechanisms of communication were little studied before 1955.
3884475|Since the discovery that methyl farnesoate (MF), the unepoxidated form of the insect juvenile hormone (JHIII), is produced by mandibular organs of numerous crustaceans, extensive evidence has accumulated that this compound appears to perform similar functions in the Crustacea as JH performs in insects. A major function of MF appears to be in enhancing reproductive maturation. This was first shown by indirect experimentation with eyestalk ablation, which augmented MF production. Subsequently, direct treatments of several species of crustacea with MF showed that reproductive maturation was enhanced. A second function of MF, similar to that of the JH of insects, is in the maintenance of juvenile morphology. This is especially true in the late larval transformations into juveniles, where MF plays an inhibitory role, as well as during the transformation of juveniles into adults. These results were inferred from eyestalk removal experiments. In the case of the larval-juvenile transition, inhibitory results were also obtained with MF by direct hormone treatments. However, the transition from very early larval stages, such as one nauplius stage proceeding to the next, which in many cases also involves morphogenetic changes, may be occurring in the presence of MF. Indeed, MF appears to be stimulatory to early postembryonic larval stages of Crustacea. Again, this function of MF in Crustacea appears to be similar to functions of JH in early postembryonic insects. However, it should be pointed out that there are many more "early" stages in Crustacea than there are in insects, and very few of these cases have been investigated. When considering the animal kingdom and larval metamorphosis, the question may be raised whether there are other members of the JH family regulating metamorphosis and reproduction. One plausible example appears to be among certain annelids. The trochophores of Capitella respond to various juvenoids, but are most responsive, within one hour, to MF and eicosatrienoic acid. This latter compound is present also in adult annelids, where it has been named "Sperm Maturation Factor," since it seems to function in the maturation of sperm in Arenicola. Therefore, eicosanoids perform in annelids two functions performed in insects by JHs. In conclusion, it seems that there are morphogenesis promoting responses to JHs in early larval development in crustaceans, annelids, and possibly other forms, which differ from those MF effects in later larvae of Crustacea where MF retards morphogenesis. Such early responses as noted here have recently also been described for insects. Furthermore, it is clear that the polyunsaturated 8,11,14-eicosatrienoic and aracidonic acids seem to be juvenoids, and appear to function as such in annelids, and may also be functionally active in insects and crustaceans. It seems reasonable to conclude therefore that new and novel juvenoids exist, while others still await discovery.
3884385|The similarity in swimming style and external body shape between dolphins and scombrid fishes, especially tunas, is a textbook example of evolutionary convergence. I identify additional morphological features of the musculoskeletal system shared by dolphins and tunas. Specifically, these swimmers share a pattern of force transmission through a complex, three-dimensional system of collagenous fabrics, which are stiffened by muscular hydrostatic pressure. This force transmission system increases both the displacement advantage and moment arm of contracting axial muscle. These features represent a functionally significant design for steady swimming vertebrates.
3884125|The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system plays an important role in controlling animal development and growth. There are three components to the IGF system: ligands (IGF-I and IGF-II), receptors (type I and type II IGF receptors) and IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs). These members of the IGF system are expressed differentially and their expression patterns implicate them in critical developmental events. Even though IGFs have been proven essential for normal fetal growth through experiments using IGF "knock-out" mice, the precise role of each member of the IGF system is not fully understood. Recent studies suggest that the IGF system has been highly conserved in teleost fish. This paper provides an overview of what is currently known about the IGF system in teleost fish. Several aspects of the IGF system are discussed, including the structural and functional aspects of fish IGFs, the fish IGF receptors and IGFBPs. The biological actions of fish IGFs are described in reference to their roles in growth, development, reproduction and osmoregulation. Finally, some of the unique advantages of using teleost fish as experimental models for defining the developmental role of the IGF system and the underlying molecular mechanisms are discussed.
3883674|Most experimental studies that deal with the effects of biotic interactions in marine soft sediments are designed to examine the direct effects of one species (or group of species) on some subset of the community. However, species within a community influence one another through a complex web comprising both direct and indirect effects. Ignoring this complexity in the development of hypotheses and experimental designs will likely lead to unexpected or conflicting findings. Few studies of marine soft-sediment communities have emphasized indirect effects and even fewer have included experimental designs capable of testing for them. To illustrate the potential importance of indirect effects in marine soft sediments, I provide several examples from the literature and describe the type of experimental design required to demonstrate a simple indirect effect involving three species. Perspective on indirect effects in a particular community changes as more information is collected about individual species and their effects. The influence of one species or guild may be confounded by that of another and even effects expected to be strong may appear weak or nonexistent as a result of unidentified indirect effects. Recognizing indirect effects in soft-sediment communities may help to explain apparent paradoxical results in past experiments and provide an improved template for the design of future experiments.
3881842|Hormone retention by various target tissues has been demonstrated for a number of sex steroids. Retention of the steroid by the target tissue appears to be specific and saturation occurs at physiological levels of hormone. Thus, target tissues are said to possess specific receptors for the hormone. Only the estrogens have been extensively studied, and both a cytoplasmic and nuclear receptor have been described for various estrogen target tissues (uterus, pituitary, hypothalamus). The receptor concept has been utilized by a number of laboratories as a mechanism which might be helpful in understanding the relationship between estrogen effects, i.e., changes in physiology or behavior resulting from estrogen treatments. The basis for the estrogen receptor is reviewed along with the data which attempt to relate hormone retention to a physiological response. There is considerable evidence that hormone retention is a primary step in the tissue hormone interaction as in its absence the effects attributable to the presence of the hormone are not observed. Progesterone retention has also been demonstrated for some target tissues, and an estrogen (priming) component is apparent for uterus and vagina. To date there is no concrete evidence for specific progesterone retention at the neural level.
3883141|Light is characterized by three basic properties: intensity, the frequency of electromagnetic vibration, and polarization. Beneath the surface of the sea each of these properties of light is modified in ways that could affect the behaviors and the underlying physiological and biochemical mechanisms that control the behavior of organisms. How light changes under water in several time domains, such as seasonal, daily, and even shorter periods of time, is described. The correlation between diel shifts in the activity of fishes and marine invertebrates and the daily changes in light under water is described. It is concluded that exactly how light influences these daily shifts in animal activity, and whether or not circadian rhythms also influence the shifts, is, for most species, not known.
3884294|The nuclear receptor (NR) superfamily includes, in addition to ligand-activated transcription factors, members called orphan receptors, for which no ligand has yet been identified. Phylogenetic analysis shows that the nuclear receptor superfamily can be split into six subfamilies. Interestingly, there appears to be no relationship between the position of a given liganded receptor in the tree and the chemical nature of its ligand. For example, RAR and RXR, which both recognize retinoids, belong to two different subfamilies, suggesting an independence between the evolutionary history of the receptors and their ligand binding abilities. A PCR screen for the presence of NR genes in several phyla of early- and nonmetazoan organisms suggests that NR are specific to metazoans and also reveals that the NR genes in Hydra or Anemonia appear to be limited to homologues of orphan receptors. Taken together these data suggest that the first members of the superfamily were probably orphan receptors that later on gained the ability to bind a ligand. Finally, we observed that SmFTZ-F1 and SmRXR are expressed at different levels along the life cycle of the parasitic flatworm Schistosoma mansoni. This suggests that these receptors may play a role in the control of the development of this organism.
3882119|A small molecular weight antigonadotropic factor was purified from extracts of bovine pineal glands. The chemical characteristics suggest that the substance is peptidic. When given to female mice over a period of ten days the pineal antigonadotropin (PAG) was observed to reduce fertility. Single injections of PAG given at various times during the estrous cycle to female rats were seen either to inhibit ovulation or to reduce the number of ovulations presumably by reducing preovulatory serum LH levels. A gonadal site of action was ruled out since PAG was ineffective in inhibiting or reducing the action of exogenous gonadotrophins in immature male or female mice. In contrast to that of arginine vasotocin (AVT) no oxytocic activity was recorded for various preparations of PAG in a rat uterine assay in vitro. These observations and other incongruous biological activities support the conclusion that PAG and AVT are different substances.
3882719|Vocal repertoires of male and female non-human primates can differ by presence or absence of sounds, acoustic form, and function or usage. Examples of sex-specificity in vocalizations are taken from field studies of two macaque species that differ in social organization and habitat. They are used to illustrate sex-specific acoustic patterns and vocalizations that are employed in socially different fashion by males and females. Some vocal sex differences develop from sounds shared in common by young animals of both sexes while others arise late in life by an acoustic pattern suddenly emerging only in males. Differences may be due to sexual selection, social suppression, morphological features, or because vocal sounds are linked to circumstances experienced by only male or female adults. The relation between social usage of some vocalizations by adults and youngsters affords insights into their signal value and into the underlying state of the vocalizing animal.
3884413|When locomotor activity is brief, physiological steady state conditions are not attained. It is therefore difficult to model the energetic costs of intermittent activity using standard methods. This difficulty is addressed by considering as reflective of the metabolic costs of activity not only the oxygen consumed during the activity itself, but also the excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC) and any excess metabolites persisting at the end of EPOC. This paper briefly reviews the metabolic events associated with EPOC, and then examines how this approach can be applied to address questions of how behavioral variables associated with locomotion (activity duration, intensity, frequency) can influence the energetic costs to the animal per unit distance. Using data for lizards, mice, and others, EPOC can be shown to be the major component of energetic costs when durations are short, regardless of exercise intensity. Brief activity is much more expensive by this measure than is steady state locomotion, regardless of phylogeny or body mass. Three studies of intermittent locomotion provide evidence that brief behaviors can be undertaken at lower metabolic costs than predicted from single bouts of activity when repeated in a frequent, repeated pattern. Metabolic savings appear greatest when the pause period between behaviors is short relative to EPOC duration, the time for organismal metabolic rate to return to pre-exercise levels, although longer pause periods may increase endurance.
3882052|Endosymbiotic algae in hydra release photosynthetically fixed carbon to the host which augments the animals nutrition during starvation. The algae may acquire metabolites from hydra as a source of nutrition when the animals are maintained in the dark. The kind of algae acquired by aposymbiotic hydra is determined by a recognition phenomenon involving the hosts digestive cells and potential endosymbionts. The size of the algal population is related to the necessity of light for maximum algal multiplication, the rate of cell division in hydra, and the potential for heterotrophy by the algae.
3882471|Son of a country physician, Edwin Grant Conklin grew up in central Ohio and was educated along traditional lines. A decision to enter biology as a profession came only after three years of teaching a variety of subjects in a private school. Graduate study at Johns Hopkins and summer research opportunities at Woods Hole were the doors to a richly productive career as scholar, author and administrator. His research works in embryology and cytology gained him great eminence. An important theme in much of his work was the role of the cytoplasm in development. He wrote extensively on evolution and other subjects of general interest, among them science and religion, and the nature of man.
3881453|A broad comparative survey has been made correlating ultrastructure of cross-striated fibers with contractile properties in both invertebrates and vertebrates. Most of the muscles were found to be heterogeneous in fiber-composition as indicated by: length of sarcomere, extent of SR, number of invaginating tubules, numbers of mitochondria, etc. Z discs and M bands have markedly different structures in different fibers. The general concept of the "fibrillar" nature of striated muscle is challenged. It is suggested that following excitation the responses of individual sarcomeres, or parts of sarcomeres, are relatively independent. The possibility that all striated muscles contain a very thin elastic filament in parallel with actin and myosin, which may also be contractile, is raised.
3881758|Most contemporary authorities on the taxonomy of Coleoptera agree that its three-quarter million described species and subspecies should be placed in three suborders: Archostemata, Adephaga, and Polyphaga. Judged by the absence of males or the occurrence of variant sex ratios, parthenogenesis occurs in all three. Those that have been studied cytologically and a few that can safely be surmised are discussed with reference to their probable origin and evolutionary significance.
3884476|Eyestalk neuroendocrine factors control specific yolk protein synthesis in the ovaries of the shrimp, Penaeus vannamei. A bioassay was developed to measure specific yolk protein synthesis in vitro. The eyestalk neuroendocrine complex may also produce a peptide capable of stimulation of yolk synthesis.
3883385|On behavioral, hormonal, and physiological grounds, mammalian reproduction can be compartmentalized into the following continuous sequence of events: mating (courtship, estrous), gestation, parturition, lactation, post-lactational parental care, and maternal recovery. We point out that comparing the relative allocation of energy for these events across mammals is difficult because of life history variability (e.g., litter size, birth weight), allometry, phylogeny, and individual variation. We review the empirical and theoretical literature on each of these events with respect to: different methodologies in measuring energy use; broad patterns of energy consumption across diverse mammalian taxa; and, identification of particular reproductive characteristics (e.g., birthing, parental care) which may be costly but have yet to receive energetic measurements. Although most studies have considered gestation and lactation the critical reproductive events for energy expenditure, variation in these events is substantial and almost certainly is a function of relative allocation of time to gestation vs. lactation as well as the presumed energetic costs of mating, birthing and parental care. In addition, repeated observations show that behavioral compensation is an extremely important strategy for minimizing energy requirements during reproduction. From this review, we argue that more complete analyses will come from (1) incorporating energetic measurements in studies of mammalian behavior and (2) including mechanisms of behavioral compensation into physiological studies.
3882398|Evolution of the avian egg from the naked, amniotic egg of ancestral reptiles probably was the outcome of intense predation by soil invertebrates and microbes on a highly integrated and coadapted complex of characters. The calcareous shell, which from its inception afforded a measure of protection to eggs against attacks by soil organisms, became progressively thicker and more complex in the face of continuing selection for antipredator devices. However, increases in thickness and complexity of eggshells led to simultaneous reductions in the amount of liquid water that could be absorbed by incubating eggs from the substrate. Because embryos initially were dependent upon uptake of substantial quantities of water from the environment to satisfy their needs for this solvent, adaptive increases in thickness of the eggshell required coupled increases in the amount of water contained by eggs at oviposition, thereby reducing the degree of dependence of embryos upon external sources of water for successful completion of development. The rigid-shelled eggs resulting from this evolutionary sequence absorbed little (if any) liquid water during incubation, and the eggs contained sufficient water at oviposition to sustain embryos to hatching. Such eggs were functionally cleidoic and had attained an avian level of organization.
3882294|Two clusters of neurons, the bag cells, associated with the central nervous system of Aplysia californica play an essential role in the induction of egg laying by the animal. Studies concerned with the morphology, electrophysiology, biochemistry, and function of these cells are reviewed and discussed. The unusually favorable characteristics of this preparation suit it for development as a model neuroendocrine effector system.
3882587|Carcinonemertes errans is a nemertean worm, the juveniles of which are found as epibionts on the Dungeness crab, Cancer magister, in close association with the arthrodial membranes of the crabs. The juvenile nemerteans appear to have no means of taking in particulate food but survive for many months on the surface of the host. We show that the juvenile C. errans are capable of removing amino acids from dilute solution in sea water, that the water near the arthrodial membranes where the worms are found contains high concentrations of primary amines, and that there is a low resistance pathway for low molecular weight amino acids across the arthrodial membrane examined in vitro.
3881680|Clionid sponges are noted for their capacity to bore into calcareous substrates. During penetration the substrate is gradually destroyed as the sponge hollows out an extensive system of cavities and tunnels. Preliminary studies revealed that these excavations are produced as small fragments of calcareous material are removed by a special type of amoebocyte which exhibits an etching activity. Cellular penetration occurs along the interface where these cells contact the substrate and is characterized by a unique pattern of cell-substrate relationships. Each active cell releases a substance which dissolves the substrate around its edge, forming a linear etching which corresponds in size and shape to the contours of the cell. Deeper etching occurs as the cell edge, moving gradually downward through the initial etching, sinks into the substrate in a noose-like fashion. During this movement the cell border is drawn down through the slit-like crevice cut by the cell edge, while the nucleus remains in position on the surface of the substrate within the original etched outline. Eventually the undercutting action is completed and a small chip is freed from the substrate. Penetration is achieved by the precise cellular release of a chemical agent which dissolves the calcareous substrate along restricted zones of contact between cell and substrate.
3883174|Five approaches to the study of behavior as a factor in the population biology of rodents are outlined. These approaches are: (1) genetics, (2) physiology, (3) chronobiology, (4) behavioral ecology and sociobiology, and (5) the use of intra- and inter-specific comparisons. For each approach selected examples from the recent literature, from this symposium and from my own work are used to illustrate the new directions that are emerging for analyzing behavior as a factor affecting natality, mortality and emigration/immigration in rodents. Areas where additional investigations are needed are noted including some questions to be tested by future experiments. A variety of new techniques that have been developed or are innovative applications of existing techniques are incorporated into the examples. Most of the material presented concerns four genera of rodents, Microtus, Mus, Peromyscus, and Rattus. The following major conclusions emerge from an overview of these approaches: Most recent research on behavior as a factor in rodent population biology has been concerned primarily with natality. Few investigators have dealt with mortality and only a limited number have explored emigration/immigration. Field and laboratory studies on behavioral aspects of rodent population biology have become more integrated than they were several decades ago. Both proximate and ultimate questions about behavior and population dynamics are now being tested by both laboratory and field methods. In contrast to some earlier approaches that often viewed population control as involving a single factor, most emerging conceptual frameworks have, as a major assumption, that population regulation is a multi-factorial process including many behavioral components.
3884062|The primary objectives of this paper are to define, explore the environmental factors favoring, and discuss hypotheses concerning the endocrine bases of two important arctic breeding strategies that we call spatial and temporal opportunism. We identify several species that display spatial opportunism in the Arctic, and one that displays temporal opportunism. In spatial opportunism, breeding may be highly seasonal but the locality where individuals breed may change from year to year as a result of unpredictable spatial distribution of food, nest site availability, or other factors such as predator abundance. We suggest that flexibility of the transition from migration to settlement distinguishes spatial opportunists from site-faithful migrants. Thus far, data are available for only two hypotheses regarding the endocrine basis of this flexibility. Circulating patterns of testosterone (associated with territory establishment) and corticosterone (associated with migratory activity) appear not to be involved in the regulation of spatial opportunism in white-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii), but more detailed study is necessary. In temporal opportunism (that may occur simultaneously with spatial opportunism), temporally variable food availability apparently selects for the capacity to initiate reproduction across a wide portion of the year. Tonic activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis could provide a mechanism to minimize the delay between discovery of abundant food and onset of nesting in any season. However, the evidence for one arctic temporal opportunist, the white-winged crossbill (Loxia leucoptera), indicates that the HPG axis is not tonically active, but probably switches off (i.e., becomes photorefractory) in autumn, as for other birds breeding at these latitudes. Opportunistic breeding very early in the year (e.g., March near Fairbanks, Alaska) is associated with increased luteinizing hormone secretion, probably in response to a combination of abundant food and social stimuli, after refractoriness dissipates. We have taken the first step of identifying spatial and temporal opportunism as important phenomena in the Arctic, and discussing hypotheses related to endocrine mechanisms. Future research should identify specific environmental cues involved, and elucidate the neuroendocrine and endocrine mechanisms underlying these two reproductive strategies.
3881590|During the past 10 years considerable information has accumulated on the electrochemical relationships of higher plant cells during transport of mineral ions. Using the Nernst equation as a criterion, none of eight ions ( K
4620171|Larvae of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, live within necrotic fruit, a challenging environment in which larvae can experience severe thermal stress. One response to thermal stress, the expression of heat-shock proteins (Hsps), has evolved distinctively in this species; the gene encoding Hsp70 has undergone extensive duplication and accounts for the bulk of Hsps that are expressed upon heat shock. Genetic engineering of hsp70 copy number is sufficient to affect thermotolerance at some (but not all) life stages. Increases in Hsp70, moreover, can protect intact larvae against thermal inactivation of the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase and thermal inhibition of feeding. Deleterious consequences of high levels of Hsp70, however, may limit further evolutionary proliferation of hsp70 genes. These findings illustrate how the perspectives of integrative and comparative biology, if applied to even well-studied model organisms, can lead to novel findings.
3883189|The mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus, was first used in the laboratory as a source of ripe eggs and sperm to provide developing bony-fish eggs. These in turn were used mostly to study embryological processes and responses to various chemicals. Other investigations at the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth centuries dealt with regeneration, developmental genetics and hybridization, osmoregulation, behavior, and pigmentation, especially color change. Except for experiments on chromatophore control, endocrinological studies did not get underway until the 1930s. They have included the functioning of the thyroid, adrenal, and pineal glands, and the endocrine control of reproduction, growth, osmoregulation, and calcium metabolism. Among more recently studied subjects are survival at subzero temperatures, adaptation to stress, weightless orientation in space, circadian rhythms, and the bioassay of the exophthalmos-producing substance of man as well as other physiologically active factors. The single attribute of the mummichog that has been most responsible for its remarkable popularity as a laboratory animal is its hardiness in captivity. Despite the fact that it is not widely available like the goldfish, is not easily bred in aquaria like the livebearing guppy, and has no value as a food or game fish like the trout, the mummichog has made a most substantial contribution to experimental biology.
3881937|This review summarizes currently available information on the composition and structure of vertebrate insulins and proinsulins. Consideration is given to the important structural features of insulin and its precursor that are involved in the function and formation of the active hormone. Studies on the biosynthesis of insulin in teleost fishes indicate the existence of larger single chain precursor forms similar to the mammalian proinsulins. Preliminary results of experiments on insulin biosynthesis in the hagfish (Myxine glutinosa), which has the most primitive islet parenchyma of all vertebrates, indicate the existence of a similar biosynthetic mechanism. The major storage product in the B-cells in all the vertebrate species studies thus far is insulin rather than proinsulin. In fishes an intracellular tryspin-like enzyme may suffice to convert proinsulin to insulin, while in mammals a more complex mechanism involving both an endopeptidase and an exopeptidase is probably required. Conversion occurs within the Golgi apparatus and newly formed secretory granules in the B-cells. The similarity to the higher vertebrates in the biosynthesis and molecular structure of insulin in the primitive hagfish indicates that the properties and biological role of this hormone have remained fairly constant throughout several hundred million years, or that its evolution has followed the same pattern in most extant organisms despite considerable differences in their origin and living conditions. A hypothesis for the evolution of insulin and of the B-cells based on the biosynthetic mechanism involving proinsulin and its conversion to insulin is briefly considered.
3881710|The North American marsupial, Didelphys virginiana, has proved to be uniquely suited for studies of replacement of mammalian limb. The newborn opossum provides the rare opportunity to perform chronic experiments on extremely young mammalian limbs. Since this marsupial is born without lymphocytes, xenoplastic as well as homoplastic transplants are tolerated; supplementary nerve tissue was transplanted to newborn hindlimbs and the limbs were amputated immediately above the ankle. When the implant remained in place, a regenerative response ensued. Results of control experiments indicate that neither the trauma of simple amputation, the trauma of implantation, nor the implantation of other tissues can evoke the response which results after implanting nerve tissue. These studies demonstrate that young opossum limbs are capable of regenerating when additional nervous tissue is supplied.
3881494|Methods for photographing spider silk without intense light or a reflective coating have been devised which permit appropriate exposure for both the spider and the thread in the same picture. Patterns of light scattering which may prove useful in other studies were observed.
3883770|The mammalian chorioallantoic placenta is an extremely complex and structurally diverse organ. To better understand the placenta a number of classification schemes have been devised. Classification on the basis of gross form or shape recognizes four major categories-diffuse, cotyledonary, zonary and discoid. Another important classification scheme is based on the number of tissue layers separating the maternal and fetal vascular systems in the placenta. On this basis, three major types of placentas are recognized-epitheliochorial, endotheliochorial and hemochorial. In many species, pathways in addition to the chorioallantoic placenta exist for maternal-fetal exchange. Some species have a yolk sac placenta functioning concurrently with the chorioallantoic placenta whereas in some other species exchange may occur across a chorioamnion. Some species have accessory or paraplacental structures which function in nutrient exchange; these include hemophagous regions and areolae. In the final sections, I review how these different structural specializations come into play to accomplish a particular function, namely that of iron transfer to the fetus. There are at least four different mechanisms by which different species accomplish iron transfer to the fetus. These include 1) absorption of maternal transferrin-bound iron by the placenta; 2) absorption of iron by the yolk sac; 3) phagocytosis of maternal erythrocytes and 4) absorption of iron-rich uterine secretions by accessory placental structures.
3883599|In lek breeding Sage Grouse Centrocercus urophasianus in eastern California, male mating success is strongly correlated with individual differences in lek attendance, and in the rate and acoustic quality of courtship display, suggesting that these provide cues by which females choose mates. Increased lek attendance and high display rates are also associated with elevated metabolic expenditure. This paper examines the hypothesis that the ability to commit energy to display is related to the incidence of blood parasites. A single hematozoan genus, Haemoproteus, was found in 37.5% of 184 Sage Grouse sampled over a five year period. Parasitism varied across years and increased through the breeding season. However, no measure of display performance or mating success was significantly correlated with decreased parasite load among adult males. Several additional lines of evidence, including numerically low infection intensities, the absence of detectable effects of parasites on hematocrit and erythrocyte production, and the seasonal distribution of parasite incidence all suggested that infections were unlikely to impact male courtship display. Alternative factors maintaining individual variation in male display performance in this population are also evaluated.
3881621| Numerous experiments have implicated the crustacean hepatopancreas as a target of the molting hormone, and recent studies strongly suggest that -ecdysone is the crustacean molting hormone. For example, -ecdysone can elicit molting in inter-molt crustaceans and stimulates the synthesis of protein and RNA in the hepatopancreas. When
3882936| -Melanotropin (-MSH) is a tridecapeptide,
3884377|This paper reviews our current understanding of the relationship between the structures and properties of the tissues of the spine and their mechanical functions. Emphasis is on the human lumbar spine. Vertebrae consist of a core of cancellous bone (low density) surrounded by a shell of cortical bone (high stiffness); as a result they have high stiffness but low mass. The intervertebral disc is able to withstand compression because of the swelling pressure exerted by the nucleus pulposus which is constrained, radially, by the annulus fibrosus. Thus the disc acts as a thick-walled pressure vessel. Collagen fibers within the annulus provide reinforcement during compression, bending and torsion of the disc. Collagen fibers also provide tensile reinforcement and prevent tears spreading across ligaments. The ligamenta flava contain elastic fibers (low stiffness and low strength) with collagen fibers (high stiffness and high strength). In the unstretched ligamenta flava, the collagen fibers have almost random orientations but they become aligned as the ligament is stretched. This structure enables the high extensibility of elastic fibers to be exploited but protects them from damage at high strains. The structure of the interspinous ligament suggests that its main function is to attach the thoracolumbar fascia to the posterior spine. Thus the fascia is maintained in tension when stretched by the abdominal muscles. This and other observations indicate the importance of muscles for maintaining the stability of the spinal column.
3884089|Temperate fresh waters of eastern North America were invaded in the late 1980s by two bivalve species, the zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) and the quagga mussel (D. bugensis). The point of origin of zebra mussels is unknown because they are widespread throughout western and eastern Europe, but the quagga mussel is confined to the Dnieper and Bug rivers in the Ukraine. Both species are highly variable in shell morphology. Zebra mussel color and pattern morphs defy classification, but at least one distinct pattern is found only in the Aral-Caspian region and North American populations. An extremely pale, laterally compressed quagga morph is found in eastern Lake Erie and southern Lake Ontario, but has not been noted in the Ukraine. Allozyme electrophoresis has revealed extraordinarily high levels of genetic variability in the zebra mussel. Average heterozygosities range from 27.0 to 43.5%, compared to 9.7 to 14.5% in the quagga mussel. Two surveys of North American and European populations indicated that little variability was lost when zebra mussels were transported to North America. Therefore, either the invader population was comprised of a large number of individuals, and/or more than one source population contributed to the invasion. No genetic differentiation among populations has occurred in North America in the nine years since the first invasion. Zebra mussels, like many bivalves, demonstrate heterozygote deficiencies at some loci. A weak correlation has been found between individual heterozygosity and shell length. The need for identification of enzymes, loci, and allelic mobilities to allow comparison of genetic data among studies is stressed, as is the need for vouchering specimens. Fruitful areas for future research include elucidation of dreissenid taxonomy and status of putative subspecies, monitoring for the potential invasion of the saline tolerant D. rostriformis grimmi into North American estuarine waters, and ecological and physiological comparison of extreme morphs such as the normal and profundal quagga mussels.
3883337|Although the data described in this paper are from a traditional experimental animal, the cat, the problem addressed is applicable to many forms of motor control in a broad range of species. In general, we are trying to understand how the musculo-skeletal structure of a body component imposes constraints on how that component is controlled by the central nervous system. Our approach to this problem has been to develop a theoretical model of sensory-motor integration in complex systems where movement is produced by a large number of muscles and then to test whether that model can predict the patterns of neck muscle activity that underlie head movements. The resulting theoretical interpretation of physiological data sheds light on the organization of head movement control in the cat and also reveals a number of fundamental principles that must be considered in trying to characterize and understand any sensory-motor system.
3882584|Studies on the role of dissolved organic material in the nutrition of marine invertebrates have largely been confined to adults. However larval forms, with a higher surface area to volume ratio, have a greater weight specific capacity for absorbing dissolved organic material than adults. Autoradiographic, biochemical, and kinetic experiments with bivalve larvae all indicate that amino acid uptake and translocation mechanisms can operate efficiently at naturally occurring substrate concentrations. The mechanisms operate throughout the life-span of the animal, from fertilized egg to adult. Experimental evidence is presented to show that the kinetics of uptake by larvae allow them to compete with bacteria for dissolved organic material in sea water. In larvae, supplementary sources of energy may be more important than in adults since larvae are provided with minimal food reserves by the parent and must pass through periods when particulate feeding cannot occur.
3882275|Gastrointestinal (GI) tracts from four anuran and four urodele species were examined macroscopically and histologically from the esophagus to the cloaca. Anatomic observations were facilitated by treating the GI tracts with acetic acid, a procedure which removes gut epithelium and exposes underlying structures. Histologic analysis involved routine as well as specific histochemical techniques. Detailed observations reveal that anuran amphibians possess nodular, well-organized gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) throughout their GI tracts. In striking contrast, no such patterns of lymphoid tissue have been noted in the Urodela. Similar techniques have revealed the location of lymphoid tissues in the urogenital system (e.g., cloaca and bladder) of advanced anurans. These nodules appear to be lacking in the primitive anuran Xenopus and in all the urodele species we examined. Preliminary observations have confirmed GALT and urogenital-associated lymphoid tissues in the snapping turtle.
3882156| A new approach in the understanding of the role of the two molting hormones, -ecdysone and -ecdysone, in disc development is described. A new culture medium has been developed which allows discs, with either hormone, to undergo all steps of metamorphosis. Time-lapse cinematographic and scanning electron microscopic analysis of the mechanism of evagination led to the conclusion that cells probably do not move extensively with respect to one another. In contrast, changes in cell shape appear to play a major role in this process. 
3882585|Deep-sea sediments contain less particulate organic matter and lower biomass than shallow-water sediments, but the dissolved organic matter in pore water varies less with depth and may provide a significant food source for deep-sea benthos. Pogonophora are a phylum of predominantly deep-sea animals, all without an internal digestive system. Experiments show that one or two species ought to be able to live by uptake of dissolved organic matter from pore water in deep-sea deposits: some other species may need local enrichment of the habitat for such uptake to be useful. Less is known about nutrition of other deep-sea animals, but dissolved organic matter may supplement a conventional diet in several groups. Chemoautotrophy, using endosymbiotic bacteria, may be important for the large vestimentiferan Pogonophora in the high-sulfide conditions of the hydrothermal vents.
3881851|The large Retzius cells are serotonin-containing neurons whose impulse activity controls the secretion of mucus from the skin of leeches. Serotonin elicits the secretion of mucus without any apparent synaptic transfers in either the central or peripheral nervous systems. Such a secretogogue function may be more general as serotonin controls the secretion of mucus from the gastro-intestinal tract of mammals and from the ciliated gills of bivalved molluscs. Furthermore, the qualitative and quantitative distribution of serotonin in molluscs, annelids, arthropods, and vertebrates corresponds approximately with mucosecretory structures. Serotonin appears also to control other secretory functions in some of these animals. It is proposed therefore that serotonin might often function in controlling secretion.
3883879|The sustainable use of wild species by local people is emerging as an important conservation strategy. The premise is the economic value of species will justify their own preservation as well as the habitats they occupy. However, the lack of natural history and demographic information for the majority of species being exploited or with potential uses presents challenging problems for implementing sustainable use programs. Each year in Argentina and Paraguay, an average of 1.9 million tegu lizards of the genus Tupinambis are exploited for their skins. In spite of the importance of tegus as a resource, their biology is poorly known and their populations have never been managed. The life history of Tupinambis, like that of other exploited lizards, is characterized by a relatively long life span, a large clutch size, several years of growth before reproduction, and high mortality of hatchlings. Importantly, the mortality of young-of-the-year and the proportion of females reproducing each year are both probably strongly influenced by interannual environmental variation. When these parameters were randomized in life table projections to simulate the effects of environmental stochasticity, the population growth rate was highly sensitive to environmental fluctuations. Monte Carlo simulations of different harvest strategies showed that estimates of population growth rates were overwhelmingly influenced by environmental variation and the number of years included in the growth rate estimate, even in the face of seemingly large changes in adult mortality that would result from population management. These results are both encouraging and cautionary for Tupinambis conservation. On the one hand these patterns can help explain how Tupinambis populations may have persisted in spite of high and variable harvest levels during many years, but conversely, stochastic effects make it difficult to evaluate the effects of conservation measures. Size and sex can be determined from harvested skins, and pilot studies suggest that analyses of the annual harvest can provide valuable information for evaluating long-term population trends.
3884543|Three primary factors contribute to locomotory speed changes in the pteropod mollusk Clione limacina. (1) An increase in cycle frequency of locomotory appendages is associated with a baseline depolarization and enhancement of postinhibitory rebound in central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons, and a reorganization of the CPG through recruitment of additional interneurons. (2) An increase in the force of appendage movements is generated through enhancement of activity of active motoneurons, recruitment of additional motoneurons and peripheral modulation of swim musculature. (3) Changes in biomechanical aspects of appendage movements are presumably achieved, at least in part, through changes in the activity of motoneurons and swim muscle. All changes associated with nonstartle swim acceleration are produced by a serotonergic arousal system that acts at all three levels of the swimming system: CPG interneurons, motoneurons and swim musculature.
3882180|Pattern formation in molluscs is illustrated by the example of the larval head pattern of gastropods. The egg cell at the beginning of development is provided with a spatial pattern of developmental factors lying in the surface membrane, by which the main axes of the future embryo and the frame of reference of ooplasmic segregation are determined. Ooplasmic segregation leads to a gradient-like distribution of pole plasm substance along the main axis and to the formation of RNA-rich granula in the vegetative cells, which play a part in the induction of bilateral symmetry in the animal hemisphere. The pattern of larval head organs arises by interaction of the axial gradient and a dorsoventral concentration gradient of an inductive substance.
3882431|Wider attention to Fry's (1947) "final preferendum" paradigm would facilitate comparative studies of temperature preference (behavioral thermoregulation) among different animal groups. According to Fry's bipartite definition, the final preferendum is that temperature at which preference and acclimation are equal, and to which an animal in a thermal gradient will finally gravitate regardless of its prior thermal experience (acclimation). This paradigm is helpful in distinguishing between acute thermal preferenda (measured within 2 hr or less after placing an animal in a thermal gradient), which are influenced by acclimation temperature, and the species-specific final preferendum (measured 24-96 hr after placement in the gradient), which is essentially independent of prior acclimation because reacclimation occurs during the gravitation process. The paradigm does not take into account non-thermal acclimatization influences (e.g., season, photoperiod, age, light intensity, salinity, disease, nutrition, pollutants, biotic interactions) which can also affect temperature preference. However, a graph of acutely preferred temperatures versus acclimation temperatures can be employed to determine an equivalent acclimation temperature for any given acclimatization state, as a simple means of quantifying acclimatization states resulting from interactions of many influences. This paradigm, developed for use with fishes, can also be applied to other ectothermic taxa, although it is most easily employed with aquatic organisms because of the simplicity of specifying aquatic thermal environments in terms of water temperature alone. Methodologies used in studies of behavioral thermoregulation should take the paradigm into account (especially with respect to length of tests) to enhance the comparative value of data across taxa.
3882404|Many morphological and physiological parameters of avian eggs are known to be correlated with fresh egg weight, i.e., to exhibit allometric relationships. It has been predicted that part of the variability around some of these allometric relationships is the result of adaptations to incubation periods of different lengths. I performed multiple regressions of three of these parameters (the rate of water loss in the nest, conductance of the shell to gases, and the rate of O
3884277| The integuments of extant vertebrates display a variety of epidermal appendages whose patterns, morphology and terminal differentiation (epidermal keratins) depend upon interactions between ectodermal (epidermis) and mesodermal (dermis) tissues. In reptiles and birds, appendage morphogenesis precedes terminal differentiation. Studies have demonstrated that appendage morphogenesis influences the expression of the appendage specific keratin genes. However, little is known about the nature of the structural genes expressed by the epidermal appendages of reptiles. How pattern formation and/or appendage morphogenesis influence terminal differentiation of reptilian appendages is not known. The epidermal appendages of reptiles and birds are characterized by the presence of both alpha () and beta () type keratin proteins. Studies have focused on the genes of avian  keratins because they are the major structural proteins of feathers. The occurrence of  keratin proteins in the scales and claws of both birds and reptiles and their immunological cross-reactivity suggest that the genes for reptilian  keratins may be homologous with those of birds. In bird appendages, the  keratins are the products of a large family of homologous genes. Specific members of this gene family are expressed during the development of each appendage. Recent sequence analyses of feather  keratins, from different orders of birds, demonstrate that there is more diversity at the DNA level than was implied by earlier protein sequencing studies. Immunological techniques show that the same antibodies that react with the epidermal  keratins of the chicken (Gallus domesticus) react with the epidermal  keratins of American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). Furthermore, a peptide sequence (20 amino acids) from an alligator claw  keratin is similar to a highly conserved region of avian claw, scale, feather, and feather-like  keratins. These observations suggest that the  keratin genes of avian epidermal appendages have homologues in the American alligator. Understanding the origin and evolution of the  keratin gene families in reptiles and birds will undoubtedly add to our understanding of the evolution of skin appendages such as scales and feathers. 
3881684|The boring mechanisms of species of polydorid polychaetes are little understood due to lack of experimental evidence and direct observations. In the present studies the boring mechanism of adults and metamorphosing larvae of Polydora websteri was investigated by (1) inducing adults and larvae to settle against test substrates, (2) observing behavior in natural burrows and in "artificial blisters" composed of transparent "Pliobond" films surrounding Iceland spar substrates, (3) removing the giant setae of worms prior to tests of boring, (4) applying the giant setae to substrates, and by (5) testing for production of acid. All the layers of oyster shell, including conchiolin, were bored. Calcareous substrates and Iceland spar were penetrated rapidly by adults without the assistance of the giant setae. Nor were these organs essential to the boring of a larva. A characteristic type of behavior involving close contact with the substrate during backwards and forwards movements and periods of immobility always preceded boring. The worms produced acid, probably some common product of metabolism, which can account for these results.
3884354|Somatostatins are a diverse family of peptide hormones that regulate a vast array of biological processes in vertebrates, including the modulation of growth, development, and metabolism. The multi-functional nature of the somatostatin family arises from the an elaborate, multi-faceted signaling system consisting of somatostatin signaling molecules, G-protein-coupled receptors, and cellular effector pathways. A striking aspect of this signaling system is the substantial diversity at every level. The signal molecules themselves display considerable structural heterogeneity. This molecular heterogeneity results from tissue-specific differential processing of a single large precursor protein (preprosomatostatin) as well as from the existence of multiple somatostatin genes, each giving rise to different precursors. In addition, numerous SS receptor subtypes have been characterized (five in mammals), some of which exhibit preferential binding to one ligand form over another. Propagation of the signal results from linkage of the receptors via numerous types of G-proteins to several different cellular effector pathways, including adenylyl cyclase, various protein kinases, numerous ion channels, and phospholipase C/inositol-3-phosphate. Ultimately, a particular response in a given target cell may be determined by structural interactions between and among the various elements of the signaling system.
3883835|Four adult females of the katydid Lirometopum coronatum Scudder (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae: Copiphorinae) were collected at night near the Old Lab building at Finca La Selva Research Station in Costa Rica 12-14 April 1983. From laboratory observations, this katydid appears to be primarily nocturnal and carnivorous. These and subsequent generations (through F3) were maintained in the Insect Zoo at the San Francisco Zoological Garden from April 1983 to December 1985. Propagation methods were developed. Life history and behavior data were recorded: F1 females ranged in adult body size from 46 mm to 55 mm; adult ovipositor length ranged from 19 mm to 27 mm; from hatching to death ranged from 189 to 301 days; with an average life span of 239. Males ranged in adult body size from 41 mm to 47 mm; age ranged from 164 to 390 days; with an average life span of 308 days. Both stridulation and leaf shaking was observed in males.
3883199|Animals faced with environmental perturbations must adapt or face extinction. The respiratory complex, specifically hemoglobins, is perhaps the best system to study such adaptation because it exists at the organism-environment interface. Fish are particularly useful models because they respond directly to such environmental variables as temperature, oxygen, pH, carbon dioxide, and salinity. Our experiments have addressed the molecular, cellular, and physiological mechanisms employed by fish to maintain respiratory homeostasis in the wake of changing temperature and oxygen. Immediate, intermediate, and long-term adaptation can only be understood when the hemoglobin's ligand binding properties and the cellular and hormonal regulation of various ligands are considered simultaneously. We describe a detailed thermodynamic model for the binding of oxygen, protons, and organic phosphates to hemoglobin; discuss the role of multiple hemoglobins; and present evidence for physiological and genetic regulation of hemoglobin's major allosteric modifiers in response to environmental stress in the mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus.
3882407|Theoretical predictions and experiments on eggs of domesticated birds indicate that the diffusion coefficient of gases is inversely proportional to barometric pressure. Therefore, potentially lethal losses of CO
3882417| The heart of the American lobster, Homarus americanus, represents a relatively simple nerve-muscle system. A nine-celled cardiac ganglion functions to initiate the contractions of the transversely striated myocardium. To describe the development of this nerve-muscle system, hearts of lobster embryos in different stages of development have been examined with an electron microscope. The heart wall consists of an outer adventitial layer of fibroblast cells and an inner layer of transversely striated myocardial cells. Adjacent fibroblast cells form fasciae adherent and gap junctions. Intercalated discs and membrane regions of close apposition (4 nm) occur between adjacent myocardial cells. A cardiac ganglion that contains nine neurons and synaptic neuropil is present. Neuromuscular synapses occur in the myocardium. Cells that we have termed storage cells contain dense cytoplasmic inclusions that resemble yolk material and form gap junctions with myocardial cells. The heart at six weeks is about 200 m long and 160 m wide; at six months it is 300 and 250 m respectively. The myocardium grows by an increase in the size and in the number of myocardial cells. The myocardium contains pre-myoblast, myoblast and well-differentiated myocardial cells. Sarcomere formation occurs first adjacent to the inner surface of the sarcolemma where the myofilaments align and anchor. Distinct A and I bands appear first, followed by the Z lines. The myocardium is sparsely innervated when the initial heartbeats occur; a preliminary quantitative analysis has shown that three days later, the density of innervation has increased six-fold. 
3882842|Human ecology, specifically the population-resource-environment dilemma, should be given thorough coverage in every introductory biology course. To aid educators in integrating it into the course, the subject is outlined here and suggestions are given on what topics should be emphasized and how they might be introduced to students. Special attention is given to the fundamental role of population growth in the dilemma, and to the complex interactions among population growth, depletion of resources, and environmental deterioration. Today's human population size appears to be above the long-term carrying capacity of Earth, and is only maintained (albeit often badly) by the exploitation of a "one-time bonanza" of fertile soils, fossil fuels, concentrated ores, ground water, and other species of organisms. If current trends continue, the depletion of these resources will progressively degrade the human environment, destroying the capacity of natural ecosystems to supply civilization with indispensible services. The results will be in increasing frequency and severity of disasters, especially famines, that will at first most seriously affect the poor. But the rich will increasingly be impoverished, and be engulfed also. The basic solution to the dilemma is reduction of the size of the human population to one well below the long-term carrying capacity (one living on resource "income" rather than "capital") and establishing an equitable society with a sustainable economic system.
3881932|Sound as a communicating medium has been utilized by at least five classes of vertebrates. Non-vocal sounds have developed independently, involve many different parts of the body, and show no particular pattern of structure or function. The main source of sound production in tetrapods is related to modifications of the respiratory system. The larynx develops as a sound producer in amphibians, and is used by reptiles and mammals. The glottis functions as a valve regulating air flow. Vocal folds or cords function in sound formation in some amphibians and mammals. The voice-producing syrinx of birds is analogous, and shows adaptive radiation within the class, while the larynx remains simple. Other accessory structures and cavities appear to be of independent origin in tetrapods. The central nervous nuclei show parallels between fish and tetrapods, and the peripheral nerves seem to be fairly constant to the vocal muscles. Some possible experimental studies are suggested to complete a study of the vocal apparatus.
3881501|This report lists the most important venomous spiders of South America, describes their behavior, gives quantities of venoms extracted from living spiders, and relates the results of studies on toxicity conducted at the Instituto Butantan.
3882091|Growth and mortality rates and maximum sizes are examined for 16 urchin species using, primarily, values from the literature. A positive correlation exists between the Brody-Bertalanffy growth constant K and the instantaneous natural mortality rate M: those urchins which approach maximum size very rapidly also have a high mortality rate. It is proposed that this relationship is the result of the way particular species allocate resources. Those species in which individuals grow rapidly and expend a large fraction of their resources on reproduction have less to spend on maintenance. The result of this allocation is that these individuals suffer a decreased probability of survival. Predictable recruitment success is suggested as the factor which determines whether a species can persist with fast growth and short life.
3882280|Autosomal recessive pituitary dwarf mutants of the Snell-Bagg and Ames mouse strains develop severe immunodeficiency of the thymus-dependent (T cell) system which frequently leads to a fatal wasting syndrome. The ontogenetic development of the T cell system is already subnormal soon after birth as evidenced by diminished responsiveness of thymus and spleen cells to phytohemagglutinin and concanavalin A. The immunodeficiency of the dwarf mouse is a consequence of defective pituitary influences which will cause (i) an inadequate production of immunocompetent cells due to a central developmental defect primarily affecting the thymus, and (ii) the inability of immunocompetent cells to undergo a rapid and efficient antigen-induced proliferation and differentiation into antibody-forming cells. The lack of epinephrine-induced stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in dwarf spleen and thymus cells suggests that the impaired lymphoid cell proliferation in dwarf mice may be due to inadequate stimulation of cyclic AMP production.
3881878|A female specific protein is found in queens, workers, and gynandromorphs of several species of social Hymenoptera. Possibly it is present also in experimentally produced diploid males, but it could not be found in normal haploid drones. A high titer of the female specific protein (vitellogenin) is found in the hemolymph of honeybee queens during periods of oviposition and even during periods when no eggs are laid. A high titer is also observed in egg-laying workers of the honeybee and the stingless bees. Rates of synthesis of vitellogenin are negatively correlated with the concentration in the hemolymph. In nursing workers rates of vitellogenin synthesis are twice as high as in egg-laying workers. In non-laying workers vitellogenin normally only occurs in the hemolymph of nursing workers; this period of nursing is more extended in A. florea than in A. mellifica, a fact which may signal a more primitive level of female caste differentiation in A. florea. Aspects of genetic, endocrine, and social regulation of vitellogenin synthesis are discussed.
3881354|Tissue mass, rate of protein synthesis, content of ribosomal RNA and rates of synthesis of ribosomal RNA have been studied throughout the molting cycle in the midgut gland, epithelium, and somatic muscle in the land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis. In all tissues there is an increase in ribosomal RNA followed by an increase in the rate of synthesis of protein in the premolt period. Subsequently, the three tissues differed in that (a) in the midgut gland the level of ribosomal RNA and protein synthesis returned to the intermolt rates before ecdysis whether or not the mass of the tissue was increasing or decreasing; (b) ribosomal RNA and protein synthesis in epithelium reached a maximum at a time when epithelial cells reached a maximal size; subsequently, all three parameters decreased toward intermolt levels before ecdysis; (c) ribosomal RNA and protein synthesis reached a maximum in the premolt period in somatic muscle while the muscle was in fact decreasing in mass. Muscle ribosomes are very stable and appear to be conserved for weeks or months to be reused after ecdysis in a second burst of protein synthetic activity at the time when there is replacement and growth of new muscular tissue. The relation of these events with hormonal control of growth is discussed.
3882314|Sexual differentiation of the neural control of reproductive function with respect to both gonadotropin secretion and sexual behavior is thought to result from exposure of the brain to testicular androgens during a very restricted or critical period of CNS differentiation and development, when the tissue is competent to respond to the hormone, and after which it is refractory or responds in a reversible manner. This paper reviews the cellular aspects of sexual differentiation with particular emphasis on the morphological expression of the gonadal hormonal effects in the adult brain. It presents experimental evidence for the morphogenetic basis for the observed steroid effects by showing how the addition of steroid to undifferentiated hypothalamic cultures produces a selective neuritic response that is steroid-dependent. These results suggest that since afferent axonal input and temporal factors are critical for dendritic and synaptic differentiation, steroid-induced variations in neuritic development could result in gender-specific responses seen in sexual differentiation of reproductive function.
3883318|Vertebrate skeletal muscles consist of mixtures of different fibers that can be identified by their selective response to antibodies against fast or slow myosins. At least three developmental forms of myosin are expressed sequentially during normal differentiation. Alteration of the nerve supply by neuromuscular block or by cross-reinnervation can effect a conversion of the myosin pattern, and in some cases, a new myosin is synthesized that is not normally present. Muscle fiber composition is therefore influenced by the type of nerve supply, but the type of myosin is not specified by the motoneuron alone.
3883921|With the current interest in and criticism of Model Systems Research in mind, I review some of the details of a research program at the turn of the century. I present data about career trajectories of the degree recipients in August Weismann's Institute of Zoology, in Freiburg i/Br., Germany. I ennumerate the organisms they use in their research and provide some discussion about the level of analysis performed by certain students bound for academic careers. I conclude that between 1880 and 1912 diversity prevailed in career objectives, research projects, organisms investigated and levels of analysis. This was the diversity of a General Zoology suited to Weismann's primary interests in evolution and the contemporary expectations of academic zoology. This General Zoology contrasts with the organism specific research prevalent at the same institute directed by Hans Spemann between 1918 and 1931. In closing I propose a sequence of historical stages which changed the General Zoology at the beginning of the current century into Model Systems Research at the end.
3881428|A multiple character analysis was undertaken of a broadly representative sample of three species: Canis lupus (wolf), C. latrans (coyote), and C. familiaris (dog). These species are clearly and significantly distinguished by the technique of linear discrimination. The analysis provides a basis for the identification of skulls not obviously distinguishable by size or other diagnostic characters. Early populations of Canis n. niger and C. n. gregoryi (red wolf) are compared with the three species above and are found to form a cluster with lupus and to be sharply distinct from the other two species. Additional comparisons show that while lupus lycaon and niger both overlap with lupus, they are distinct from each other. This entire cluster is quite distinct from latrans, with niger being the farthest removed. A sample population of C. n. gregoryi, from the edge of the extending range of C. latrans, was examined and found to show too great a range of variation to be attributed to a single species.
3883339|Steering during flight in the locust involves complex changes in wingbeat, bending of thorax and head, and ruddering movements of abdomen and hindlegs. Most of these behavioral subcomponents involve coordinated modification of axial and appendicular musculature control. Some of the mechanisms underlying this neural modification have been analysed at the cellular level. During steering via wingbeat, sensory information about course deviations leads to highly coordinated and asymmetric changes in the flight motor's output through the following mechanisms. Identified feature detector neurons in the locust brain integrate sensory information concerning specific types of course deviation. Each of these descending detector neurons makes connections with a population of thoracic interneurons. These thoracic interneurons have two important properties. First, they relay deviation information to flight motoneurons. Second, they are under the gating control of the flight central oscillator. Through this gating control the descending sensory signal is phase-coupled to the flight rhythm and delivered to appropriate flight motoneurons in one and the same step. Although most of the recent cellular studies have been aimed at unraveling the neural basis of wingbeat alterations, similar (but not identical) principles of neural organization seem to be involved in the steering reactions produced by axial motor systems.
3883622|Terrestrial crabs are physiologically rather similar to their aquatic relatives, despite their markedly different access to water and ions. They have high evaporation rates and void vital salts in isosmotic urine. Some of them manage to have fairly miserly water and ion budgets, but others succeed despite profligacy. There is no single solution to the challenges of terrestrial life; each pairing of animal and environment must be seen as a system in which a unique suite of behaviors compensates for limited physiological prowess. By exploiting temporal and spatial variability of available microhabitats, each species assembles a "composite habitat" in which it can balance the "debit" sides of its water and ion budgets with the requisite "credits."
3882780|Many of the invertebrates possess calcium carbonate spicules. This paper is a review of the formation of these structures in the Porifera, Coelenterata, Platyhelminthes, Mollusca, Echinodermata and Ascidiacea. Mature spicules appear to be extracellular structures. Sponge spicules initiate intercellularly then become extracellular. Alcyonarian, turbellarian, echinoid and ascidian spicule deposition begins intracellularly and then becomes extracellular. The continuation of growth in the extracellular environment has not been documented except for the echinoids. Placophoran spicules initiate and remain as extracellular structures. Early spicule growth seems to occur from or within a single cell. However, cell aggregation and/or neighboring cells appear to be important to the process of spicule formation. The spicule forming cells, in general, are found in a collagenous medium which may be associated with spicule growth. The organic matrix from the spicules of the gorgonian Leptogorgia virgulata is a glycoprotein. Autoradiography reveals that this matrix is apparently synthesized in the rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complexes and then transported to the spicule forming vacuole via Golgi vesicles. To gain information about the entry and transport of calcium ions, the effects of ouabain and vanadate on calcium uptake were examined. Ouabain had no effect on calcium uptake. Vanadate treatment increased the uptake of calcium in scleroblasts and epithelial tissue and decreased its uptake in spicules. This may suggest that vanadate sensitive ATPases are involved in the pumping of calcium out of scleroblasts, out of epithelial cells into the mesoglea, and into scleroblast organelles. Autoradiography using
3882670|The distributions and relationships of exemplary species groups of the Neotropical frog genera Cycloramphus and Leptodactylus are discussed in terms of current biogeographic models. From this exercise, the following conclusions emerge: (1) frog biogeography is and will remain primarily a correlative science; (2) both morphological and genetic data are required to choose among alternate biogeographic models; (3) frog speciation events significantly predate recent distributional events complicating the understanding of past and recent distributions; (4) both data and theory are inadequate to completely understand Neotropical frog biogeography at present.
3882051|Two aspects of the chemistry and function of the mesoglea of hydra were studied. (i) Chemical composition: Its component neutral sugars and amino acids were analyzed to determine if this structure contains collagen. (ii) Role in morphogenesis: Hydra were exposed to the lathyrogen 3-aminopropionitrile, an inhibitor of collagen crosslinking, to discover if new cross-linked mesoglea is required for normal regeneration to occur. Large amounts of the neutral sugars glucose and galactose and small amounts of fucose and rhamnose were found, as was the amino sugar glucosamine. Evidence that the major protein component of the mesoglea is collagen was revealed by the detection of hydroxylysine, hydroxyproline, and proline, and of large amounts of glycine. The glucose and galactose are joined as a dimer by an alkali-stable bond to the polypeptide backbone of the collagen. The lathyrogen 3-aminopropionitrile, known to block the assembly of newly synthesized collagen into fibers, causes abnormal head regeneration in hydra. The drug has its maximum effect between 24 and 48 hr after the previous head is removed.
3884314|Phylogenetic approaches have sparked controversy in asteroid systematics since 1987. Despite recent attempts at resolving these differences and evidence of some consensus, our understanding of relationships among asteroid taxa remains unsatisfactory. This paper presents results of an investigation into asteroid evolutionary history using DNA sequence data from mitochondrial transfer RNA and the cytochrome oxidase c subunit I genes analyzed with and without previously published ribosomal gene sequences. Analysis of these genes provides an assessment of familial relationships but does little to elucidate ordinal relationships. A basal position for the Paxillosida is not supported. However, close relationships of some velatid and valvatid taxa are upheld. The resulting phylogenies are not a definitive answer to controversies in asteroid systematics. However, with new insights to some asteroid relationships, they highlight the need for a redirection of future systematic studies so a consensus can be made.
3883428|Many basic biological functions are constrained by the physical properties of the fluids in which organisms live. Here I explore four selected examples in which physical differences between air and water have contributed to the functional divergence of terrestrial and aquatic organisms. 1. Water is about 800 times as dense as air. As a result, while the cost of locomotion is generally less for aquatic organisms, the hydrodynamic forces they encounter are larger. 2. The combined effects of density and viscosity insure that the capture of suspended particles is mechanically more effective on land than in water. 3. The speed of sound is four times greater in water than in air, requiring aquatic organisms to use higher frequency sounds in echolocation systems. 4. The resistivity of air is 16 orders of magnitude larger than that of seawater, which might explain why aquatic animals use electrical sensing organs to detect prey but terrestrial animals do not.
3881419|Crustaceans have adapted to land through various morphological, physiological, biochemical, and behavioral modifications, of which some are shared by all land-dwelling crustaceans and others are unique to animals within a particular habitat. Among the three groups of crustaceans having truly terrestrial members, the amphipods have achieved their success on land primarily by behavioral means, while the isopods and the decapods have developed many morphological, physiological, and biochemical adaptations as well. In all three groups, behavioral modifications ensure that loss of water is minimal, that the animals are exposed to favorable rather than extreme environmental conditions, and that the fine line between evaporative cooling and excessive dehydration is maintained. In most crustaceans the excretion of nitrogenous wastes requires that copious supplies of water be available for washing away the soluble end-products. Yet terrestrial isopods are able to excrete ammonia as a gas, without being subject to toxic side-effects. In decapods, either ammonia or insoluble uric acid may be excreted, with ammonia the more likely product when water is available, uric acid when water is scarce. In adult land crabs water balance is maintained through the concerted action of gills, pericardial sacs, and gut. These organs may take up, store, and redistribute salts and water in response to control exerted by the central nervous system through its secretory products. In larvae of land crabs these organs are not known to function in this way. Rather, the larvae are adapted to cope with osmotic problems of their planktonic existence. Gaseous exchange in adult land crabs is carried on not only by the gills but also by the highly vascularized lining of the branchial chambers, and the hemocyanin of these crabs is adapted to function in the environment peculiar to each species. Terrestrial crabs seem unable to withstand low temperatures, but their high rate of cytochrome c oxidase activity may help them to survive when temperatures are high. Modifications in behavior must have occurred quite early in the transition of crustaceans from sea to land. Then, as now, appropriate behavioral responses to light, temperature, humidity, tidal cycles, and so on, were crucial if a terrestrial animal was to survive. Social interactions, both for courtship and for aggression, required the sending and receiving of appropriate visual and acoustic signals and were promoted by the ritualization of potentially injurious patterns of behavior.
3883522|A research adventure is described in which the symbiosis of Hydra and Chlorella is modeled with a novel computer program. The model faithfully simulates equilibrium populations of hydra and algae, and is used to discern the parameters which govern the stability of the symbiosis and its breakdown resulting from eutrophication. The model reveals that amelioration of a nutrient limitation causes symbiotic Chlorella to reduce fitness of host cells, converting a stable mutualistic symbiosis into an unstable parasitic one.
3883411|Information about proximate behavioral mechanisms is required to answer a variety of important questions about the evolution of behavioral and other traits. For instance, theoretical studies of maternal effects indicate that the behavior of parents may have profound effects on the evolution of phenotypic traits in their offspring, and that maternal effects may provide nongenetic pathways for the inheritance of both behavioral and nonbehavioral traits. Similarly, the recent emphasis on genetic correlations among traits cautions that correlations among behavioral traits may have surprising effects on behavioral evolution, and provides further impetus for studies of the proximate bases of behavioral trait syndromes. Finally, the literature on information acquisition suggests that the behavioral processes used in assessment may affect the evolution of behavioral and other traits. For instance, if information is costly to obtain, individuals may prefer familiar to unfamiliar situations. In a social context, a preference for familiar individuals could have a variety of effects on the evolution of social and nonsocial behavior patterns. These and other examples suggest that interest in behavioral processes will continue to grow during the next decade, and that proximate and ultimate approaches to behavioral problems will be more closely integrated than was true in the past.
3883079|Overdispersion of colonies exists in many eusocial insects. Overdispersion can be generated by direct attack on colonies or founders, by defense of space, by defense of food resources being harvested, or by exploitative competition. When direct competitive interactions lead to colony overdispersion, territoriality is said to occur. Whereas solitary territory holders typically defend space, most eusocial colonies defend resource patches rather than space per se. Also unlike solitary territory holders, colonies with forager communication can simultaneously defend several spatially separated food patches. A model explores optimal numbers of scouts (discoverers of patches) and recruits (followers) needed to maximize net rate of energy intake by the colony. Territorial costs are added to the model by requiring a higher investment of foragers per unit resource collected. According to the model, optimal colony size and percentage scouts are more sensitive to changes in patch size than in patch density. If patch defense is required for resource control, a decline occurs in optimal percentage of scouts; the decline is greatest for small colonies. Colonies that must defend patches in order to harvest from them suffer a loss in net energy intake; the loss is greatest for small colonies. It is predicted that among eusocial insects, those with territorial defense of resources should preferentially visit large patches and have comparatively large colony sizes and relatively few scouts. Ways of testing these predictions are discussed.
3881345|The review presented here shows that a number of eyestalk substances having pronounced physiological effects as endocrine agents can be separated from crude extracts of eyestalk material by various treatments. The hormones appear to be proteinaceous in nature, with several of them apparently polypeptides of relatively low molecular weight. Some of the reported pigmentary-effector hormones are recognizable as distinct molecular species on the basis of chromatographic behavior and molecular size. The diabetogenic hormone is a much larger molecule and is a protein. The properties of the molt-inhibiting hormone of the eyestalk, although still too little known for specific classification, indicate that it belongs to one of these two categories. Tests of functional specificity and structural studies, which in most cases depend on further chemical purification, seem attainable in the near future. The subsequent comparative studies that may become feasible will be of physiological and biochemical interest.
3884303|Amphibian metamorphosis is controlled by thyroid hormone and the thyroid hormone receptor. The thyroid hormone receptor functions as a master control factor that can both activate and repress genes in controlling the transformation of the larval tadpole to the adult frog. We have made use of the microinjection of both Xenopus laevis oocytes and embryos to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in this regulation of transcription. We define three steps in the regulation of transcription by thyroid hormone receptor: the establishment of a repressive chromatin structure, disruption of chromatin and transcriptional activation. Our results also suggest that there are four major stages in the developmental control of gene expression during metamorphosis 1) Tissue and stage specific expression during embryonic development prior to tadpole hatching independent of thyroid hormone receptor. 2) The general repression of transcription of these genes by thyroid hormone receptor after tadpole hatching (stage 36), but prior to the production of thyroid hormone, which is first detectible in the circulating plasma around stage 55. 3) The activation of transcription dependent on thyroid hormone and receptor at metamorphosis (stages 55-66). 4) The acquisition of tissue specific and possibly thyroid hormone-independent patterns of gene activity.
3882674| Quantitative analysis of low-level (mostly subspecific) geographic differentiation of aposematic color patterns in three groups of forest butterflies (Heliconiini, Ithomiinae, and Troidini), in 1,550 half-degree quadrants throughout the Neotropics, indicates four principal species-endemicity regions, 44 principal subspecies-endemicity centers, and 300 quadrants of subspecies hybridization. The endemism centers are different in outline but nearly identical in position for each of the three ecologically different groups. Basic data on present and past physical environments (climate, soils, geomorphology, and vegetation structures), when integrated into maps, show 1) regions of favorable ecological conditions for forest organisms in the present, 2) regions of environmental conformities and rapid transitions in the present, and 3) regions of high probability for humid forest persistence during the major landscape changes at the end of the last glacial period, 13,000-20,000 yr ago. Species diversity (a local phenomenon) is readily related to favorable modern ecological conditions and environmental microheterogeneity, promoted by unpredictable mild disturbance. Biogeographical patterns of evolution at the level of regional subspecies correlate very well with presumed paleoecological conditions. The biogeographical data also support an hypothesis of differentiation resulting from areas of rapid environmental change; most of the hybridization quadrants fall within transition zones. There is lower correlation between centers of endemism and zones of environmental conformity, but some individual cases of differentiation in the butterflies may be adequately explained by modern ecological factors. Species presently undergoing differentiation in isolated habitat islands (Amazonian savannas and high-altitude Andean forests and pramos) may offer the best opportunities for observation of evolutionary processes in the present. 
3883508|Natural history, in focusing on the individual whole organism in its environment, occupies a central position in the spectra of spatial and temporal scales appropriate to biological science. This essay examines the current status of theory relevant to natural history, growing points of research within natural history, and its relevance to other components of biology. During the past 15 years, optimality, especially of foraging, and biomechanics, especially of individual organism-environment relationships, have been fruitful hypothetico-deductive approaches to animal natural history. Because of the nested hierarchical nature of biological organization, knowledge of individual organisms is necessary to understand more complex levels-populations and communities-as well as the roles of the component parts of organisms. For systematics and evolutionary biology, individual organisms preserved as specimens in natural history museums document knowledge of the biological world. Type specimens are especially important, as these "name bearers" that anchor original descriptions document all communication among biologists about species.
3883370|The seemingly antithetic attributes of rigorous connectivity on one hand and vigorous regeneration on the other, are combined in the arthropod nervous system. This apparent paradox is largely resolved by the comparison of normal postembryonic development with regeneration, which is also restricted to immature stages. It is also becoming apparent that growth and interaction between neurons is more flexible than had been assumed. Normal sensory regeneration in situ is highly specific in restoring lost function. The crucial event in regeneration, as in embryonic development, is the establishment of first contacts between periphery and center. Thereafter regeneration follows an accelerated recapitulation of normal postembryonic development. Data from ectopic grafts, homoeotic mutants, and homoeotic regenerates address four components of sensory development and regeneration: a) Positional information in the epidermis determines receptor type and central projection, b) Passage from periphery to ganglion is non-specific. Ectopic neurons reach mismatched ganglia. c) Within neuropile the specific projection is a product of interaction between intrinsic programs of the neuron and pathways expressed as specific surface markers. d) Fine tuning of synaptic relationships can occur in response to changed milieu. The current elucidation of the genetic basis of metameric segment determination, and the identification of specific gene products as markers of pathways open the way to the understanding of neural specificity in development and regeneration at the molecular level.
3883768|Quantitative analyses based upon the superimposition of phylogenetic and reproductive data have revealed that viviparity has originated on at least 132 independent occasions among vertebrates, with 98 of these origins having occurred among reptiles. The viviparous lineages have given rise to at least 24 matrotrophic clades, all but four of which are anamniotes. Traditional scenarios assume progressive, gradualistic evolution from oviparity to lecithotrophic viviparity to matrotrophic viviparity. However, mammalian evidence indicates that matrotrophy can precede the evolution of viviparity. Moreover, data on reptiles seem to be consistent with a punctuated equilibrium model for viviparity and a saltatory model for incipient matrotrophy and placentation. Among the specializations for fetal nutrition, strong convergence is evident at organismal, organological, and cytological levels. Examples include yolk sac placentation, trophotaeniae, and adaptations for embryonic cannibalism. Certain lizards of the genera Mabuya and Chalcides have converged strongly on eutherian mammals with respect to morphology of the chorioallantoic placenta. Placental specializations that have evolved independently in some eutherians and matrotrophic lizards include placentomes, giant binucleate cells, deciduate maternal tissue, and chorionic areolae.
3883816|A central scientific problem for ecologists and systematists has been to explain spatiotemporal patterns of species diversity. One aspect of this question is how to understand the taxonomic assembly of biotas and their included ecosystems and communities. Four processes add or subtract species from a region: speciation, extinction, biotic dispersion, and long-distance dispersal. Speciation and biotic dispersion are postulated to result in historically structured (hierarchical) species assemblages, whereas long-distance dispersal results in assemblages that would be expected to be historically unstructured (nonhierarchical). Continental biotas, as exemplified by the Australian avifauna, are historically structured: they are segregated into areas of endemism having hierarchical relationships that presumably arose as a result of their history being dominated by cycles of biotic dispersion and vicariance. It is also proposed that these latter two processes are necessary, and in many cases probably sufficient, to explain the taxonomic composition of communities within these areas of endemism. Long-distance dispersal appears to play a much more minor role in the assembly of either continental biotas or their communities than current ecological theory would predict.
3883436|On the basis of experimental work, a clear dichotomy in design of the feeding mechanism between aquatic and terrestrial vertebrates has been found. The aquatic medium combined with suction and the hydrodynamic tongue offer an unparalleled array of prey capture opportunities for aquatic vertebrates. In the terrestrial feeding model, prey capture and prey processing require a precise functional design to match the nature of the prey. It is proposed that this dichotomy in basic design would result in fundamental differences in the aquatic and terrestrial paradigms in vertebrate ecology. Four hypotheses and their respective supporting evidence are presented: (1) Increased opportunism, more extensive prey switching and food overlap are prevalent in aquatic systems; (2) Convergent evolution which is so pervasive in terrestrial feeding systems is uncommon among aquatic vertebrate feeding systems; (3) Competition is relaxed and character displacement is absent in aquatic vertebrate feeding systems; and (4) Patterns of diversity in aquatic vertebrate feeding systems defy the terrestrial paradigm.
3881556|Clonal hormone-secreting cell lines have been established from animal tumors. These lines include adrenal steroid-secreting cells, growth hormone-secreting cells, steroid-secreting Leydig cells, and ACTH-secreting cells that retain their differentiated function for prolonged periods in continuous culture. In addition, fibroblast cell lines that secrete a material which stimulates steroidogenesis by adrenal cells and Leydig cells are described. A systematic approach to obtain functional cultures and the general problem of retention of differentiated function in cultured cells are discussed.
3881617|The ultimate control of amphibian gonadal function rests with environmental factors mediated through the hypothalamus. It appears that control of ovarian growth resides in the infundibular region and ovulation in the preoptic area. For normal temporal relationships between oocyte growth and ovulation to occur, an intact hypothalamo-pituitary complex is necessary. It is uncertain whether the several types of pituitary basophils considered histologically as gonadotropin-producing cells are in fact producing separate LH- and FSH-like hormones. Perhaps the concensus indicates a single hormone has both vitellogenic and ovulatory functions. This hormone stimulates estrogen synthesis and secretion by the ovarian follicle cells, and this steroid causes oviduct growth and the hepatic biosynthesis of vitellogenin, the major yolk platelet precursor. Uptake of this lipoprotein from the circulation and its conversion to the components of the platelet is mediated by the gonadotropin, the presence of which results in the establishment of a rapid micropinocytotic process at the level of the oocyte surface and of a mechanism for crystallization of the yolk. A sudden surge of pituitary hormone, when presented to fully grown oocytes leads to their maturation and ovulation, and to oviducal jelly release in some species. The active hormone is progestin in nature, again produced by the follicle cells. In this review the known factors involved in the hypothalamo-hypophysio-ovarian axis are discussed together with some consideration of outstanding problems and the possible relevance of oviparity and ovoviviparity in amphibians to the ovarian control found in viviparous species.
3883686|Bimodal breathing crustaceans, while representing a stage in the transition from the aquatic to terrestrial habitat, also constitute a distinct group that can be characterized by morphological, behavioral, and physiological traits. Morphologically, this group displays reduced gill surface area and enlarged branchial chambers. The lining of the branchial chambers, the branchiostegites, also has increased surface area and is highly vascularized. The branchiostegites can be smooth, cutaneous epithelia, or they can have more complex evaginations or invaginations to further increase surface area. In addition, the thickness of the branchiostegal epithelium is greatly reduced, compared to that in the gills, thus minimizing the diffusion distance between air and hemolymph. These animals maintain a store of water in the branchial chamber that covers the gills and allows for simultaneous gas exchange with two media (air and water). There is also a partitioning of gas exchange, with oxygen uptake occurring preferentially from air across the branchiostegites, and carbon dioxide excretion occurring across the gills into the branchial water. One critical factor that appears to separate bimodal breathing crustaceans from fully terrestrial, exclusively air-breathers is the ability of the latter group to excrete CO
3883528|The SCPs are a family of neuropeptides found in many gastropod species. Two SCPs with similar sequences have been characterized in Aplysia. These peptides are potent modulators of central and peripheral synapses. They also enhance ongoing contractile activity in spontaneously active tissues such as heart and gut. Their distribution in central ganglia suggests that their predominant role is in the regulation of feeding behavior. There is good evidence that the identified SCP-containing neurons, B1 and B2, provide the major central regulation of gut motility during feeding through the release of the SCPs from their terminals in gut. The SCPs have also been localized to motor neurons that innervate buccal muscles which generate biting and swallowing movements. In many of these neurons, the SCPs have been shown to coexist with conventional transmitters such as ACh, or other peptides such as FMRFamide. The SCPs appear to be released along with conventional transmitters from these neurons to modulate the effectiveness of the conventional transmitter. In all cases, the SCPs cause an enhancement of the amplitude of contractions produced by motor neuron stimulation. The precise mechanisms underlying this effect vary from muscle to muscle. All of the effects of the SCPs are mediated by increased cAMP levels in target tissue. At many sites of action, serotonin produces actions that are qualitatively similar to those of the SCPs. This is likely to involve a convergence at the level of the adenylyl cyclase. In addition to these peripheral effects, the SCPs also have multiple central effects on feeding and other behaviors in gastropods.
3884273|Historical-narrative evolutionary explanations for the origin and further evolution of avian feathers involve two steps. The first phase reconstructs a series of probable morphological changes from a reptilian scale to the primitive feather. The second deduces possible functions and biological roles of the features and feasible selective demands on these features at all stages in its evolution. The best explanation for the evolutionary origin of feathers would be one consistent with historical-narrative evolutionary explanations for the origin and further evolution of other features in the history of birds. Feathers of Recent birds have a number of functions and biological roles, and it is difficult to ascertain which of these functions and roles were involved in feather origin. Two major rival published theories are based on the roles of feathers in insulating the body against heat loss and in providing an aerodynamic surface for flight. However, because of the lack of knowledge about the roles and ecological relationships of protofeathers and of the most primitive feathers, it is not possible to test strongly either of these theories, or others as proposed in this symposium, against objective empirical observations to determine which is falsified or is the most probable. Finally it is argued that test of historical-narrative evolutionary explanations, including classifications and phylogenies, is generally difficult to impossible because of the lack of the necessary objective empirical observations.
3883512|From the time of August Weismann's characterization of fundamental differences between the role of the reproductive system (to preserve the "immortal" germplasm) and the other, somatic tissues of the organism (to maintain the organism) biologists have inherited an interesting organismic conundrum. How, indeed, are we to understand the relationship between the somatic systems (especially the nervous system-that characterize the animal organism) and the reproductive system, within that organism? In this paper it is argued that: (1) neuron-gamete-organism interactions are essential, organismic phenomena that have scarcely begun to be investigated; (2) with reference to at least three different kinds of animals it is possible to determine developmental, structural, functional and behavioral relationships between the (species-oriented) reproductive systems, and the (individual, organism-oriented) nervous systems of those animals; and (3) results of such investigations make sense only in terms of the peculiar evolutionary history and environmental of specific kinds of animal organisms.
3884564|The male prairie mole cricket, Gryllotalpa major, native of the tallgrass prairie of the south central U.S., constructs a specialized acoustical burrow in the spring in the prairie soil from which he generates an airborne calling song that attracts flying females for mating. Males do not phonorespond to manipulations involving playbacks of airborne sounds. At the same time, vibrations with the same temporal scale and pattern as the airborne signal are produced in the substrate through an unknown mechanism. These ground vibrations can be distinguished from background vibrations in the soil at distances up to 3 m depending on soil conditions and conditions that control the background vibration environment (e.g., wind, highway traffic). We hypothesize that males use the vibration component of the call as information for spacing as they form display arenas, or leks. We used modified field recordings of soil vibrations from singing males with an electromechanical vibration exciter to simulate the vibration component of a calling song in playback experiments. Airborne sounds of males were monitored for two minutes before and two minutes after the introduction of the ground vibration stimulus with a tape recorder microphone placed 20 cm from the burrow opening. Males did respond to the manipulation experiment; although, we observed individual variation in the level of response.
3883488|Recent investigations into the evolution of the living Crocodilia, belonging to the suborder Eusuchia, have revealed that the genus Gavialis may be its most primitive living member. New morphological studies have shown that the braincase structure, neural pocket, air sinus systems, jaw adductor mechanisms, pelvic and hindlimb morphology and epaxial musculature of the caudal region of Gavialis gangeticus do not correspond to the rest of the living Eusuchia. Contrary to the morphological findings, recent biochemical studies suggest a sister group relationship between Gavialis gangeticus and Tomistoma schlegelii, another longirostrine eusuchian. Judged by its morphology, Tomistoma is merely another member of the genus Crocodylus within the Eusuchia. This conflict in data either means that not enough of the genome of both Gavialis and Tomistoma is known, the shared genome represents the primitive states for these genes or that similar genotypes can give rise to rather different morphologies. As Gavialis resembles in some ways a Mesozoic level of organization it is considered to be a surviving eusuchian relict.
3884401|Low to moderate levels of stress induce a class of molecular chaperones called heat shock proteins (Hsps), which protect cells, tissues and whole organisms from more severe stress. In higher Eukaryotes, Hsp70 is one of the principle heatinduced chaperones. This response is general, and how much Hsp70 an animal produces correlates with the level of stress to which it is exposed. Nonetheless, definitively linking high Hsp70 expression as an adaptation to stress tolerance is problematic, because organisms and cells respond to stress in many ways. By molecular manipulation of Hsp70 in one animal group, Drosophila, differences in hsp70 copy number are shown to directly influence heatinduced expression of Hsp70 and tolerance of heat. However, too high an expression level of Hsp70 can harm individuals during periods of rapid growth. This strong physiological relationship between Hsp70 concentration and thermotolerance, along with Hsp70's remarkable degree of interspecific coding sequence conservation, suggest that hsp70 regulatory elements may evolve as an adaptation in diverse species to their thermal environments. To examine this possibility, correlative studies within species and research on phylogenetic covariation between these traits is reviewed with a focus on Drosophila species. However, the techniques and results discussed should broadly apply to other animal groups where evolutionary approaches can be used to test whether genetic variation in both thermotolerance and Hsp expression within and among species select locally on either hsp70 sequence and/or expression.
3882812|Bacq (1936, 1937) discovered two substances by pharmacological experiments using whole body extracts of various nemertine species. "Amphiporine," found only in hoplonemertines, stimulated nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-mediated events. "Nemertine" evoked spontaneous action potentials in isolated crab nerves. Both substances caused convulsions when injected into crabs. Anabaseine, a pyridine alkaloid isolated from the hoplonemertine Paranemertes peregrina, has chemical and pharmacological properties equivalent to "amphiporine." Hoplonemertines produce a wide variety of pyridine toxins depending on the species. The heteronemertine Cerebratulus lacteus contains cytolytic (10,000 dalton) and neurotoxic (6,000 dalton) proteins. The neurotoxic polypeptides most closely resemble "nemertine": they cause repetitive spiking in isolated crustacean axons. Several cytolytic and neurotoxic "isotoxins" occur within Cerebratulus. Both the hoplonemertine and heteronemertine toxins are localized in the integumentary tissues of the body wall and proboscis. So far, the pyridine alkaloid toxins are only found in the Enoplan species, where they probably function as both offensive and defensive toxins. Protein toxins have only been found in Anoplan species; they probably serve as a chemical defense against some predators.
3882175|The morphology of "primitive" and "modified" sperm types in molluscs is reviewed. The cytochemical localizations of glycogen reserves and enzymes related to the metabolism of glyocogen are discussed in relation to their roles in sperm motility and the ultrastructure of the mid-piece of molluscan spermatozoa.
3883628| We describe here some of the components of the exoskeleton of the decapod crustacean with emphasis on the constituent proteins, including both structural and enzymatic. All four layers, but particularly the inner three, of the exoskeletons of four brachyurans contain high concentrations of proteins 31 kDa; the innermost membranous layer is especially rich in such proteins. A number of crab exoskeletal proteins resemble insect cuticle proteins in size
3881433|Miniature collar-type transmitters originally designed by W. W. Cochran, Illinois, were adapted for use on timber wolves (Canis lupus sp.) in east-central Ontario. Wild timber wolves were captured in steel traps, restrained with a forked stick, fitted with radio-collars and released at point of capture. Receivers were adapted for use in trucks, airplanes, and for walking in rough bush country. Maximum ranges were 3.2 km with ground and 9.6 km with aircraft receivers. A preadult female tagged in July, 1964, and a lactating adult female tagged in June, 1965, were tracked intermittently for 5.5 and 2.5 months, respectively. Tracking periods for six other animals of both sexes, ranging in age from pups to adults, varied from 2 days to 4 months. The lactating female and her associated pack regularly returned to three preferred "resting sites" for various periods during July and August. Preferred areas were well drained, semi-open, mixed conifer-hardwood stands in close proximity to swamps or beaver ponds. The preadult female ranged in an area frequented by a pack, but frequently remained independent of it. A preadult male, tagged in the same region, wandered over a slightly larger area than the female. Tagged animals were active throughout all periods of the day or night. Activity increased slightly during the early evening hours. There was a slight correlation between weather conditions and patterns of behavior and activity. Apparently, tagged individuals were quickly accepted by other members of the pack.
3881827|The response in species diversity associated with successional change in vegetation, or in a more general sense, species diversity as a function of time in any system of primary producers, has been the subject of much speculation but little direct study. All evidence available shows that pioneer communities are low in diversity, that in mesic environments the peak in diversity in forest communities can be expected 100-200 years after the initiation of a secondary successional sequence (when elements of both the pioneer and the stable communities are present), and that a downturn in both diversity and primary production takes place when the entire community is made up of the shade-tolerant climax species. The natural tendency in forest systems toward periodic perturbation (at intervals of 50-200 years) recycles the system and maintains a periodic wave of peak diversity. This wave is associated with a corresponding wave in peak primary production. Specialization for the habitats in the early, middle, and later phases of the cycle has figured prominently in species-isolating mechanisms, giving rise to the diversity in each stage of the forest succession. It is concluded that any modifications of the system that preclude periodic, random perturbation and recycling would be detrimental to the system in the long run.
3884502|Many fishes use a powerful bite of the oral jaws to capture or tear their prey. This behavior has received less study from functional morphologists and physiologists than suction feeding, and presents an opportunity to examine motor control of fish feeding across alternative prey-capture strategies. We used electromyography to compare muscle activity patterns of the feeding bite in five teleost fishes representing at least three lineages in which biting has been independently acquired: two parrotfish (Cetoscarus bicolor and Scarus iseri), a wrasse (Cheilinus chlorourus), and two serrasalmines, a pacu (Piaractus brachypomus) and a piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri). Multivariate analysis indicated that muscle activity patterns differed significantly among species, although a four-way ANOVA designed to test for differences within a phylogenetic hierarchy revealed that the biting motor pattern was largely similar for both narrow and broad phylogenetic comparisons. A comparison of the motor patterns of biting and suction feeding species revealed that biters had significantly shorter durations of the epaxialis and sternohyoideus and significantly longer relative onset times of the epaxialis, adductor mandibulae, and sternohyoideus. Character mapping of timing variables suggested that short relative onset times are primitive for suction feeders and that this characteristic is generally retained in more advanced species. Despite these differences, all species overlap extensively in multivariate EMG space. Our results demonstrate that change in the feeding motor pattern has accompanied morphological and behavioral change in transitions from suction to biting, which suggests that the neuromotor system has not acted as a constraint on the evolution of the feeding system in fishes.
3882494|There are several forms of individual and colony organization available to benthic marine invertebrates with indeterminate growth. In particular, anthozoan coelenterates exhibit three such forms of organization: 1. solitary individuals without asexual reproduction, 2. colonies or clonal groups with determinate polyp size and indeterminate colony size, and 3. colonies or clonal groups with both indeterminate polyp size and indeterminate colony or clone size. The last group includes species where asexual reproduction is continuous and those where it is limited to a single season of the year. A model is presented which defines three optimal sizes for indeterminately growing organisms, 1. optimal size for a solitary individual, 2. optimal size of a polyp within a colony, and 3. optimal size at asexual division. The optima are derived by maximizing the difference between energy intake and energetic cost. Simulations allow prey size and habitat quality to vary and derive predictions of optimal size and organization for each case. Individual and clonal growth rates are modelled for the case where asexual reproduction is limited to a single season and polyp sizes within clones are compared. The model predicts that the three forms of organization among anthozoan polyps are related primarily to the size distribution of prey.
3881992|Squirrel monkeys (Saimiri) have been studied in a variety of laboratory and natural environments. The frequency and form of exploration and social play vary considerably among different environments. For example, in some environments, young monkeys have been observed to play for 3 hr per day; but in one natural environment, not a single bout of social play was seen during a 10-week intensive study. Numerous intermediate levels of play activity have been observed. Whereas many theories of play make it appear that play is essential for the development of sexual behavior, integrated roles in troop structure, control of aggressive responses, social cohesion, etc., the data on squirrel monkeys indicate that social organization and many normal social behaviors can develop without social play. However, the opportunity to play socially provides learning experiences that increase the variety of each animal's behavioral repertoire and the subtly of social cues to which it can respond. An adaptive modicum of competence can appear without social play, but the opportunity to play socially develops the competence of animals beyond that modicum.
3883146|Gammarus species time the release of their young by using ovarian diapause and the duration of embryonic development. During diapause vitellogenesis is arrested and oostegite setae are lost. The onset of diapause is influenced by photoperiod under experimental conditions. Two Gammarus species were studied. Gammarus lawrencianus is typical of the majority of Gammarus species that produce sequential broods through the summer and have a diapause in the autumn. Gammarus setosus is typical of those which have an obligatory diapause lasting most of the year that follows the annual autumn brood. Experimental short day photoperiods (4L to 12L) induce vitellogenesis in Gammarus setosus, and have the opposite effect on Gammarus lawrencianus. Long day photoperiods promote vitellogenesis in Gammarus lawrencianus and prolong the duration of diapause in Gammarus setosus. It is concluded that these two Gammarus species have their own endogenous rhythms and that the role of photoperiod is to time the reproductive cycle. Short days near the time of the fall equinox ensure that this timing is synchronized over a range of latitudes. The effect of photoperiod is modulated by the influence of temperature on embryonic development over the broad range of geographic latitude inhabited by the species. Short photoperiods inhibit but do not prevent sexual maturation of the young. Short days also result in a slower average growth rate and greater size at maturity.
3884399|Ectothermic organisms often face dramatic traverses of environmental temperature on a daily or seasonal basis; exemplars among this group are invertebrates and fish of the rocky intertidal zone. Because of the extremes of temperature exposure, intertidal animals have served as an excellent study system to examine the expression of heat shock proteins (Hsps) in response to natural variation in environmental temperature. Ecologically relevant variation in Hsp expression has been observed with seasonal acclimatization, with small-scale temperature gradients that occur in microhabitats and between species with different intertidal distributions. The maturing understanding of Hsp expression patterns in marine organisms has established a solid foundation on which to build the next set of questions. In this paper, I present an overview of the variation of Hsp expression in intertidal animals in nature and then address two emerging areas of investigation in the ecological physiology of Hsps. One area addresses the plasticity of Hsp expression in marine invertebrates and focuses on the mechanism of regulation of Hsp gene expression by environmental temperature. A second emerging area of investigation concerns whether Hsps as molecular chaperones display functional diversity that correlates with species' adaptation temperature.
3884460|Homology is a central concept for Developmental Evolution. Here I argue that homology should be explained within the reference processes of development and evolution; development because it is the proximate cause of morphological characters and evolution because it deals with organic transformations and stability. This was already recognized by Hans Spemann in 1915. In a seminal essay "A history and critique of the homology concept" Spemann analyzed the history and present problems of the homology concept. Here I will continue Spemann's project and analyze some of the 20th century contributions to homology. I will end with a few reflections about the connections between developmental processes and homology and conclude that developmental processes are inherent in (i) the assessment of homology, (ii) the explanation of homology, (iii) the origin of evolutionary innovations (incipient homologues), and (iv) can be considered homologous themselves.
3883246|Certain species of Chlorella have exploited an intracellular habitat and occur naturally as cytobionts in Hydra viridissima. The algae evoke phagocytosis by Hydra digestive cells and are sequestered in individual phagosomes that migrate to the base of the host cells and resist fusion with lysosomes. The ability to resist digestion is closely correlated with release of extracellular carbohydrate (maltose) by the algae. The established population of algae grows at an average rate equal to or greater than that of the host and a constant population density is maintained. The host regulates algal population density by expelling or digesting excess algae, or by controlling algal cell division. The control michanism is unknown but can be breached by addition of inorganic ions to the Hydra culture medium with the result that the algae overgrow the Hydra. The Hydra-Chlorella symbiosis is probably mutually beneficial, but conditions such as prolonged darkness (with or without feeding) can reduce the competitive fitness of the host since this condition results in heterotrophy by the algae at the expense of selected host substrates. The evolution of selective permeability to organic substrates is a major feature of the successful colonization of the intracellular habitat by symbiotic Chlorella.
3884414|The earliest studies of intermittent exercise physiology noted that moving intermittently (i.e., alternating brief movements with brief pauses) could transform a heavy workload into a submaximal one that can be tolerated and sustained. The brief pauses that characterize intermittent locomotion permit at least partial recovery from prior activity. This research provided the foundation for the development of interval training and more recently for the re-evaluation of steady-state paradigms for comparative animal locomotion. In this paper I review key concepts underlying the performance of repeated activity. I provide examples from human athletics and training and comparative animal locomotion. To explore the limits of intermittent exercise performance, I examine the performance limits for continuous exercise and the rate and extent of the recovery of performance capacity following activity. While it is evident that altering locomotor behavior (i.e., moving intermittently) can alter the capacity of an animal to perform work, mathematical models of intermittent exercise could predict strategies (i.e., exercise intensity, exercise duration, and pause duration) that will increase performance limits for intermittent activity.
3883259|I review recent advances in our knowledge of the eucaryotic cell cycle: the set of processes by which cells grow and divide. Genetic approaches to the cell cycle of somatic cells identified a pathway of events where the initiation of each event was dependent on the successful completion of the preceding event, as well as a single key gene, cdc2, that is required both at the beginning and at the end of the cell cycle. The alternative approach of studying the cell cycle biochemically in early embryos provided evidence for a cytoplasmic oscillator which alternated between mitosis-inducing and interphase-inducing states and identified the mitosis-inducing component as maturation promoting factor (MPF). These two very different views of the cell cycle initially seemed irreconcilable. However, a link between the somatic and embryonic cell cycles was provided by the recent discovery that the cdc2 protein is one of the components of MPF. In the embryonic cell cycle the activation of MPF and induction of mitosis is triggered by the accumulation of a protein named cyclin which becomes a component of MPF. Somehow, MPF induces the proteolytic degradation of cyclin, which inturn allows MPF to be inactivated and allows the cell cycle to pass from mitosis into interphase. The more complex cell cycle of somatic cells is probably derived from the embryonic cyclin-based oscillator by imposing a system of checks and balances on the accumulation and destruction of cyclin. I also present some thoughts on the relationships between science and society, and comment on the way in which scientists describe their work to the lay world.
3881171|Romanes generalized conclusions concerning the coordinating mechanisms of jellyfish have been re-evaluated in the light of results obtained by the direct recording of nervous activity in both hydro- and scyphomedusae. In basic outline his deductions are confirmed, but he insufficiently recognized the important differences existing between the two classes. For example, the swimming-beat contraction in a scyphomedusan follows a single through-conducted impulse spreading from any marginal center across the appropriate nerve-net, whereas in the hydromedusae local pacemaker centers cause the muscular contractions, but their activities are coordinated by a through-conducted spike which has no direct effect on the muscles. Direct recording reveals a hydrozoan pattern of multiple pacemakers, superimposed conducting systems, cryptic activity, and regional autonomy in the hydromedusae which is very different from the greater simplicity of the scyphozoa. In the latter the direct responses of the marginal center pacemakers can now be understood with reference to the specific demonstrable interactions between the pacemakers and the two nervenets. In hydromedusae, however, the complexity that is disclosed demands further analysis of the ontogenetic changes in coordinating system function during the hydroid metamorphosis.
3882625| Ovaries of Locusta migratoria synthesize large amounts of ecdysteroids at the end of ocyte maturation. The predominant ecdysteroids in mature ovaries are conjugated 2-deoxyecdysone (100 M) and conjugated ecdysone (50 M) which outnumber the corresponding free compounds by 50-100 fold. These various ecdysteroids persist during ovulation and are recovered from newly-laid eggs. The conjugated maternal ecdysteroids are gradually metabolized as embryonic development proceeds; they have disappeared as such on day 6 after oviposition, that is after blastokinesis and shortly after dorsal closure. Concomitantly to this metabolism of the maternal conjugated ecdysteroids, other ecdysteroid conjugates appear in the eggs which have different chromatographic behaviors and some of which are conjugates of ecdysone metabolites formed by the embryo. The data available so far are compatible with the hypothesis that the maternal conjugates are hydrolysed to free 2-deoxyecdysone and ecdysone by the embryo during early stages of development and subsequently conjugated to inactivation compounds. During the later stages of embryonic development however, a de novo synthesis of ecdysone is probable, the maternal conjugates having been metabolized during the earlier stages. 
3884193|In free spawning species, maternal investment is limited to the contents of the egg. Striking correlations between egg size and larval characteristics, such as development rate, larval size, body form, feeding capability, nutritional requirements, and size at metamorphosis, have been observed in many taxa of marine invertebrates, in spite of tremendous morphological and ecological diversity. Analysis of these relationships has historically been based on comparative observations or quantitative modeling. Advances in our understanding of life history ecology in marine organisms require combining evolutionary theory with functional analyses of larvae as pelagic organisms. I believe that development will prove to be an important integrative link between these fields. In taxa with regulative development (e.g., echinoid echinoderms), it is possible to experimentally manipulate the amount of material that is available for larval morphogenesis. This provides a powerful tool for elucidating the developmental consequences of changes in maternal investment. Here, I will examine the rationale and methodology underlying this experimental approach and review the conclusions and some outstanding questions concerning the influence of maternal investment on the morphology, function, growth, and development of larvae. The four main effects of an experimental reduction of egg size (blastomere isolation) are: 1) smaller larval size, 2) simpler larval form, and 3) slower development in the early-stage larvae, but 4) regulation of size, shape, and development rate in late-stage larvae.
3882241|External structures on the erect parts of zooids of Aetea have been demonstrated to be brood chambers by observation of release, settlement and metamorphosis of larvae from the chambers. The ancestrula is smaller than, but very similar to succeeding zooids in the primary zone of astogenetic change, which do not show tubular connections. Sections through brood chambers and zooids show that part of the brood chamber wall may be slightly calcified. Brood chambers appear to be products of the external zooid wall and not diverticula derived from the tentacle sheath.
3881811|In many intertidal species, size-distributions vary with elevation of the beach. When this pattern is the result of behavior, it is appropriate to investigate its adaptive significance. In Olivella biplicata larger animals live higher on the shore and smaller ones lower. The inclusion of a bottom-swimming larval stage in the life history may enable new young to reach the lower shore, while settled snails segregate by size in response to light. These responses carry smaller animals to levels of the shore where physiological stresses lie within their range of tolerances. In moving higher on the shore, the larger snails, whose physiological tolerances are broader, exploit additional resources and reduce intraspecific competition. The size-class distribution also facilitates reproduction and augments a non-random mating pattern. Possible further values of the pattern of distribution are considered, e.g., a widened intertidal range may enable populations to survive violent fluctuations in the physical environment.
3882765|The paired salivary glands of female ixodid ticks are essential organs of osmoregulation. As the female feeds, the rate of salivary fluid secretion increases greatly enabling the tick to concentrate its bloodmeal by returning excess water and ions to the host via the salivary ducts. The glands are controlled by nerves and the neurotransmitter at the neuroeffector junction is dopamine. Cyclic AMP is a "second messenger" of the fluid secretory process. Specific endogenous salivary gland proteins are phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases which facilitate in some way the fluid secretory process. Fluid secretory capability and dopamine sensitive adenylate cyclase activity in glands of feeding females are dependent on weight of the feeding tick from which they are obtained. Conversely, cyclic AMP-dependent phosphodiesterase is inversely related to the magnitude of fluid secretory capability of the glands. Deletion of calcium or addition of verapamil to the bathing medium during experiments with isolated glands inhibits dopamine-stimulated fluid secretion. The precise role(s) of calcium in secretion is(are) unknown but it may help regulate cyclic AMP by regulating activator and inhibitor proteins of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase. The inhibitor modulators are at much higher concentrations in salivary glands of ticks in the rapid phase of feeding.
3883719|The nature of overfishing of marine invertebrates is complex, ranging from the perception of overfishing because of competition by user groups for a common property resource to extensive overfishing to near extinction because of poaching by either licensed or unlicensed fishers. As a group, marine invertebrates seem particularly resistant to overfishing, primarily because their relative immobility and scattered concentrations means refuge populations often exist. However, this distribution pattern also means a fishery is scattered over an often large geographical area with relatively small, frequent landings at any location. A minimum legal size regulation, enforceable anywhere before consumption, is the primary regulation applied by managers for many species to ensure against overfishing. Overfishing concerns arise primarily for those species where price is sufficiently high to encourage illegal fishing or where harvest by fishers is not easily monitored or controlled because of the nature of the fishing activity or because only part of the animal (e.g., the flesh) is harvested. Instances of overfishing by cause are discussed, and examples are presented to demonstrate how managers are dealing with or have dealt with different situations.
3883834|Pair formation is a prerequisite for reproduction in California condors and exploring the process has been central to the captive breeding program for this endangered species. Observations show that once birds reach sexual maturity they can form pairs within a matter of months; even birds who have lost or been separated from their mates will successfully bond with others. However, some adults who are housed together show little indication of pairing. When such birds are placed with other potential mates they frequently successfully pair and produce young, suggesting that individual differences play a role in pair formation. We recommend that adults who have not bonded within two years be housed with different potential mates. Condors raised together may or may not form pair bonds upon reaching sexual maturity; unfamiliar condors introduced at four years of age or older will form pair bonds. In the four cases where pairings have been successful the male initiates more intrapair interactions with aggressive behavior than does the female. Unpaired condors housed in groups do show courtship and the most dominant birds, usually males, are the most active in giving wings-out/head-down displays. Displays may be directed to males or females and may signal dominance and/or interest. Displays may be followed by mounts and one female may crowd in front of the bird to whom a male is displaying, increasing the chances that she will receive the display and be mounted. Displaying and the response to displaying birds may be mechanisms which influence mate selection.
3881707|Much circumstantial evidence points to a neurotrophic influence in amphibian limb regeneration. Although fine-structural observations of nerves in regenerating limbs have indicated the possibility that neurosecretory vesicles accumulate distally in these axons, there is no clear-cut demonstration available that these organelles are neurotropic. Evidence is accumulating that the neural influence in newt limb regeneration is transneuronal. There is also evidence that trophic substances other than those found in the nerve itself may be involved in the supporting limb regeneration. The characterization of the neurotrophic substance is considered a central task for students of regeneration in the future.
3883043|Human fathers are more involved in childcare than males of most other mammalian species. The authors describe several studies designed to determine how much time fathers spend with their children and how this compares with the extent of involvement by mothers. On average, fathers spend 25 to 35% as much time as mothers do in direct interaction with their children. Factors affecting the degree of paternal involvement are then described. These factors include: Motivation, skills, support, and institutional practices. Researchers have demonstrated that human fathers can be as competent as mothers, although lack of practice leads over time to lower levels of competence than evinced by mothers. Mothers and fathers behave differently in interaction with their children, with maternal-child interaction dominated by caretaking and father-child interaction characterized by play.
3882750|Most large, sessile organisms when exposed to rapid flows of air or water are markedly deformed as a consequence of their structural flexibility. Responses to air and water movement are similar, although both extreme and typical forces generated by water flows are greater, and erect organisms are commonly shorter in water than in air. A useful way of viewing data on the scaling of drag with flow speed is with a graph of speed-specific drag (drag divided by the square of speed) against speed. Since an ordinary solid body usually gives a horizontal line on such a plot, deviations from the ordinary are immediately evident. The slopes of the double logarithmic version of these graphs provide useful numerical comparisons. All of the cases considered here-trees, macroalgae, sea pens, etc.-give negative slopes at high flow rates, indicating that speed-specific drag drops with increasing flow. Such results may be taken as evidence that the flexible response commonly constitutes an adaptively useful reconfiguration as opposed to a mere incidental consequence of the material economy afforded by flexibility.
3882708|The controversy over whether functional data can contribute to phylogenetic inference has grown in recent years. Steps can be taken toward its resolution if the relevance of functional data is judged for each component of phylogenetic analysis. These components are (1) recognizing of basic taxa (species or supraspecific taxa), (2) formulating hypotheses of homology followed by character analysis, (3) evaluating character phylogeny, (4) formulating phylogenetic hypotheses, and (5) evaluating alternative phylogenetic hypotheses. It can be shown that functional data do not play a necessary or unique role in any of these components of phylogenetic analysis. Arguments to the contrary have failed to provide a rigorous, repeatable method to incorporate functional data; proponents of a functional approach to phylogenetic reconstruction rely too often on subjective, authoritarian argumentation. Students of functional evolutionary morphology frequently have failed to understand the kinds of information necessary to study or apply the causal process of adaptation via natural selection. This information, required by the very nature of the theory itself, includes knowing the pattern of heredity of the phenotypic characters being studied, relating intrapopulational phenotypic variability to variation in fitness, and knowing a sufficient amount about population structure to specify the components of natural selection. Studies within functional evolutionary morphology are not designed to satisfy these requirements. Functional evolutionary morphology uses the concepts of adaptation and natural selection axiomatically, and thus such studies contribute nothing to our understanding of the evolutionary process because hypotheses about that process are not being evaluated. This also suggests that, if functional evolutionary morphology wishes to engage in analyses of the evolutionary dynamics of the phenotype, a reorientation of its research strategy and goals will be necessary.
3884039|Prostaglandins and related eicosanoids are oxygenated metabolites of C20 polyunsaturated fatty acids. These compounds have been detected in many vertebrate and invertebrate species that represent all major phyla. The significance of eicosanoids relates to two broad areas of animal biology, one as mediators of crucial cellular events and another in mediation of certain ecological interactions. Eicosanoids exert physiological actions in reproduction, including release of egg-laying behavior in some insects, hatching in barnacles, egg-production in snails, spawning in bivalves, oocyte maturation in sea stars, and prevention of polyspermic fertilizations in sea urchin eggs. Eicosanoids are also involved in salt and water transport physiology (insects and bivalves), neurophysiology (mollusks) and cellular immune defenses (insects). I propose that some eicosanoid actions are fundamental to animal physiology. Eicosanoids also mediate certain host-parasite and predator-prey interactions. These include skin penetration by blood fluke larvae, blood feeding by ticks and predator avoidance by certain octocoral and nudibranchs. Research in eicosanoids yields insights that help explain details of physiological and ecological phenomena in vertebrates and invertebrates. Although we have seen considerable progress in our appreciation of eicosanoids in invertebrates, we are sorely lacking in our understanding of the biochemical mechanisms of eicosanoid actions in invertebrates. I suggest that research in this area will yield meaningful insights into the physiology and ecology of invertebrates.
3881972|Reptiles display a diversity of behavior that is reflective of their evolutionary heritage from fish and amphibians and their ancestral contribution to the diversity found in birds and mammals. Much of the behavior observed in reptiles seems specific to the ecological setting within which they live. As a result, a diversity of behavior is found in each of the groups of modern reptiles. Recent studies on the social behavior of lizards have proved them capable of a variety of behavioral postures, sequences, and sociality that exceeds that found in some mammals and birds. While many species of lizards are territorial, others are hierarchial and some have harems. For all those territorial species studied, crowding results in increased social interaction, increased aggression, and a switch to hierarchial behavior. While smell and sound may be important stimuli for social behavior in some reptiles, posture, actions, and especially color appear to be most important in diurnal lizards. Temperature and energy studies suggest that the large extinct dinosaurs probably fought considerably less than commonly portrayed in movies and stories, but were also probably much more brightly colored than commonly shown in reconstructions.
3884315|Often, as environmental endocrinologists, we observe animals in nature with the goal of describing their normal endocrinology. However, the contamination of virtually all natural habitats by chemicals of anthropogenic origins (e.g., PCBs, organochlorines, phytoestrogens, alkyphenols, heavy metals) that might alter endocrine conditions suggests we need to reevaluate many of our field studies with respect to points of reference or controls. The impaired response of the stress axis of feral brown trout, Salmo trutta, correlated with chronic exposure to heavy metals is examined as a case in point although the problems extend to other hypothalamic axes as well. Our studies emphasize that measurement of one static endocrine parameter to assess the health of any hypothalamus-pituitary axis (e.g., plasma cortisol levels to indicate stress) should not be used as a biomarker for field studies.
3883011|Exuberance over insights gained in the infant field of genetics early this century led scientists to extrapolate beyond their data to heredity of behavioral traits in people. One of the direct consequences was the incarceration of Americans and Canadians of Japanese ancestry during World War II as enemy aliens. Drawing on this personal experience of the misapplication of science, I describe the process of scientific indoctrination and blindness to the limitations of this way of knowing. This led to my attempt to demystify science through the electronic media. Only recently have I come to understand that two assumptions that impelled me to use television in the first place are wrong. The first was that with access to more information about science, the general public would be in a position of making better informed decisions on issues involving science and technology. The problem is that we are overwhelmed with information and most people lack the ability to distinguish meaningful "signal" (i.e., credible information) from background "noise" (i.e., garbage). We believe in phantoms created by the acceptance of anything because it exists as print or television programs. My second assumption had been that we need a mechanism to do an in-depth "cost/benefit" analysis of new technologies before they are actually made available. But history reveals that the benefits of new technologies are immediate and obvious while the costs are usually hidden and completely unpredictable. But in the rush to exploit new scientific insights we ignore the fact that science must look at nature in isolated bits and pieces. Knowledge gained in fragments does not yield an understanding of the greater context from which the pieces are taken. With each new discovery, we itch to apply it, forgetting how much we have yet to learn. Our attempts to manipulate nature are often illusions of control created by our ability to overpower nature by brute strength. In the area of genetic engineering, this could be truly disastrous.
3882925|The teaching of evolution in introductory biology courses is critically discussed and those aspects of molecular evolution believed to be important for inclusion in these courses are briefly reviewed. Consideration is given to the use of biochemical and molecular biological procedures for studies of phylogenetic relationships and genetic variability, "classical molecular evolution and molecular population genetics," as well as the evolutionary basis of molecular biological phenomena, "neoclassical molecular evolution." The major results of classical molecular evolution and molecular population genetics studies are summarized and their implications discussed. Particular consideration is given to the neutralist-selectionist controversy and the processes accounting for differences in rates of organismal and molecular evolution. The scope of neoclassical molecular evolution is outlined and two subjects within this realm considered in some detail: i) experimental studies of the evolution of new genes and functions, and ii) the existence, maintenance and evolutionary roles of parasitic ("selfish") DNA and infectious inheritance.
3884056|The paper discusses how birds by changing their responses to the critical daylength can adjust the time for the initiation of the gonadal growth to more northern latitudes. Some remarks are also given on how changes in an individual's sensitivity towards non-photoperiodic factors, such as, for example the temperature, play an important role in adapting the gonadal growth rate to the flexibility of the local environment. Special attention has been given studies on swans and great tits.
3882787|In Sarcopterygii (Latimeria, Neoceratodus, Protopterus, Lepidosiren) and Amiidae (Amia) collagen fibrils of the basal plate are packed in bundles whereas they remain isolated in Teleostei. The basal plate looks like plywood, a system of superimposed layers of parallel fibers or fibrils the directions of which rotate with a regular angle in two successive layers. The double twisted plywood is constituted of two imbricate systems, the odd and the even, where the rotation of the fibrillar directions is right-handed in Sarcopterygii and left-handed in Amiidae and numerous primitive Teleostei. The orthogonal plywood, with its two main orthogonal fibrillar directions, characterizes the evolved Teleostei and some more primitive ones. In most teleostean species, as in Amia and Protopterus, mineralization of the basal plate in elasmoid scales involves Mandl's corpuscles that mineralize without contact with a pre-existing calcified tissue; they grow and coalesce with the neighbouring ones and fuse to the mineralizing front. Their shape is directly influenced by the local arrangement of the collagenous fibrils. In two teleostean families (Osteoglossidae and Mormyridae) Mandl's corpuscles are completely lacking but spreading of mineralization in the basal plate has a peculiar aspect. Whatever that may be, the various characteristic organizations of the skeletal tissues or isopedine that constitute the basal plate of osteichthyan elasmoid scales, all are varieties of bone tissue that have undergone more or less important specialization linked to the general regression of dermal ossifications and to functional adaptations.
3882668|Cladistic analysis of mayflies suggests that dispersal was very asymmetrical after the new land connection between North and South America. Twenty-one genera apparently moved from South to North and Central America, but there is good evidence for only one North American genus moving into the south. Testable predictions are possible once the boreal (Laurasian) or austral (Gondwanian) designations are made. For example, Paracloeodes, a genus of austral origin, was predicted to be found in South America, and in North America in warm rivers north and east of its known distribution. These predictions have been confirmed. Other characteristics of tropical mayflies, such as length of larval period and emergence and mating patterns, may be used to predict habitats and characteristics of present North American genera. Merger events and consequent dispersal of organisms have profound influences on distributional patterns, and from such information, biologically useful generalities can be made.
3882323|Recent evidence indicates that myomorph rodent species use ultrasonic calls as communication signals. The range over which sound communication signals may travel and the ease with which they may be localized depends on their intensity and structure and the structure is made. It is concluded that rodent calls are mainly within the range 20 - 100 kHz and not longer than 300 msec, except for some rat calls which last up to 3 sec. Intensities may be as high as 103 dB SPL (at 10 cm) in pups and 86 dB SPL (at 5 - 30 cm) in adults. Bandwidths between 1 - 104 kHz are found. High frequency sounds are attenuated with distance more than lower frequency sounds, mainly by atmospheric attenuation, ground attenuation and scattering. These effects are not all linear so it is difficult to predict how far rodent sounds may travel without making measurements under the conditions in which sounds are known to be produced by rodents in the wild. It is shown that there is little attenuation due to scattering from vegetation in a wood inhabited by woodmice. But in grass or wheat where field voles may live, sounds above 20 kHz are rapidly attenuated. Attenuation may be much less in rodent runs and burrows and this is being studied by a new spark technique.
3882480|A captive colony of green sea turtles, Chelonia mydas, has been maintained and observed at a commercial sea turtle farm on Grand Cayman Island, B.W.I., since 1973. Observations of this breeding colony show that the mating and nesting behaviour of the captive green sea turtle is similar to that observed in wild populations. Evidence indicates that mating observed prior to a female's nesting in a given season determines the hatchability of that season's egg production. Annual per female egg production of the captive colony appears to be two to five times greater than that reported for wild colonies. Observations on the reproductive biology of green sea turtles hatched and raised under farm conditions suggests that the minimum age of sexual maturity is eight to nine years of age. The number of eggs per nest, the number of nests per season per female and hatch rate tend to increase with successive seasons nesting for these turtles reaching sexual maturity.
3883088| The animal-vegetal organization of the amphibian egg may originate from the axis of organelles and cytoskeletal elements established in the oocyte as it divides from the oogonium. Along this axis, cytoplasmic materials are localized during oogenesis: yolk platelets, for example, are translocated toward the vegetal pole, increasing their amount and size in that region. In the first cell cycle after fertilization, the egg cortex rotates 30 relative to the cytoplasmic core, modifying animal-vegetal organization. The direction of this rotation, biased by the point of sperm entry, defines the site of development of anatomical structures of the dorsal midline of the embryo. As its immediate effect, rotation activates the cytoplasm of a subregion of the vegetal hemisphere, causing cells cleaved from this subregion to be more effective than other vegetal parts in inducing marginal zone cells to initiate gastrulation movements. The most strongly induced part of the marginal zone begins gastrulation first (the dorsal lip of the blastopore) and proceeds through a series of cell interactions leading to its determination as the anterior dorsal mesoderm of the embryo. If these cell movements are inhibited in the gastrula stage, or if vegetal induction is inhibited in the blastula stage, or if cortical rotation is inhibited in the first cell cycle after fertilization, the embryo always fails to develop dorsal structures of the anterior end of its body axis; the more inhibition, the more posterior is the level of truncation, until a radial ventralized embryo develops, derived from the animal-vegetal organization of the oocyte. 
3883227|Behaviors to conserve water during intertidal exposure at the same time impair respiratory gas exchange, so that observed responses to emersion may reflect compromises between these incompatible needs. Behavioral isolation of the tissues from air results in the complete or partial reliance on anoxic energy metabolism, which is most reliably measured directly as heat dissipation. Combined direct calorimetry and indirect calorimetry (respirometry) enable the partitioning of total metabolic heat dissipation into its aerobic and anoxic components, which may vary according to physical and biological factors. The mussel Mytilus edulis is tolerant of anoxia and saves water and energy during aerial exposure in its rocky intertidal habitat by closing its shell valves and becoming largely anoxic. Like most suspension feeders in this habitat, its compensation for reduced feeding time involves energy conservation; there is little evidence for energy supplementation such as increases in feeding rate or absorption efficiency. Ammonia production continues during aerial exposure and is involved in acid-base balance in the hemolymph and mantle cavity fluid. Infaunal cockles (Cardium edule) and mussels (Geukensia demissa) gape their shell valves, remain largely aerobic and have high rates of heat dissipation during intertidal exposure, a response which appears related to the lower desiccation potential and exploitation of richer trophic resources in their soft-sediment habitats. The variable expansion of the symbiotic sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima reflects interaction among the responses to desiccation, irradiance and continued photosynthesis by its zooxanthellae during exposure to air.
3882700|An attempt is made to argue from discrete measurement of shape, through field representations of form, to analyses that encompass entire patterns. One method for achieving this last is the optical Fourier transformation. Examples of how it works on theoretical patterns are presented. Results of practical studies of actual radiographs of cancellous patterns in vertebral bodies of humans and apes are given. Architectural elements totally unsuspected from normal radiographic examinations are found. And it is shown that these have implications for our understanding of the nature of the relationship between bone architecture and stress bearing. The application more widely of such a method for the analysis of complex patterns is noted.
3882017|Miniature end-plate potentials were used in studying several aspects of the neuromuscular systems in the cockroach femur. The similar sizes and time courses of miniatures associated with fast and slow type excitatory axons suggest that they employ the same transmitter. There is other evidence also indicating that the essential difference between these two excitatory systems is in the number of packets of transmitter released per nerve impulse rather than different transmitter substances. From the shapes of miniatures it was suspected that typical muscle fibers might have a branching structure. This was confirmed by histological examination, intracellular stimulation, and intracellular dye injection. That inhibitory transmission is quantal is indicated by hyperpolarizing miniatures which occur at random time intervals. Inhibitory transmission can be made to fail and recover in a stepwise manner by manipulating the Ca/Mg ratio. In studies of toxins which affect transmitter release at vertebrate motor end-plates, botulinal toxin was found to be without effect at either excitatory or inhibitory junctions in cockroach muscle. However, black widow spider venom acted as it does in vertebrates, promoting massive release of transmitters and then permanent inactivation of the junctions.
3883113|The elongate body form of snakes and the wide diversity of habitats into which they have radiated have affected the form and function of the cardiovascular system. Heart position is strongly correlated with habitat. The heart is located 15-25% of the body length from the head in terrestrial and arboreal species, but 25-45% in totally aquatic species. Semi-aquatic and fossorial species are intermediate. The viperids are exceptional, with generally more posterior hearts but arboreal species have hearts closer to the head. An anterior heart is favored when snakes climb because it reduces the hydrostatic pressure of the blood column above the heart and tends to stabilize cephalic blood pressure. In water, where hydrostatic blood pressure is not a problem, a more centrally located heart is favored because the heart does less work perfusing the body. In terrestrial species, head-heart distance increases linearly with body length and the increased hydrostatic pressure is matched by higher resting arterial blood pressure in longer animals. Unlike mammals and birds, snakes have blood pressures that increase with body mass. The added stress on the ventricle wall in larger snakes is correlated with ventricles that are larger than predicted by other reptiles. Heart mass scales with body mass to the 0.95 power in snakes but only 0.77-0.91 in other reptiles that are not as subject to the hydrostatic effects of gravity. The spongy hearts of reptiles do not conform well to the Principle of Laplace.
3881900|An empirical relation relating specific growth rate in steady-state systems to nutrient status with respect to more than one nutrient simultaneously is proposed. Some ecological implications of the model are discussed, in particular with respect to the concept of luxury consumption and Liebig's law of minimum.
3882147|In Drosophila the female-specific yolk protein, or vitellogenin, is synthesized in the fat body. In D. melanogaster, vitellogenin, is first detected in the female hemolymph at the time of adult eclosion and in the ovaries 20 hours later, suggesting different regulatory mechanisms for the processes of synthesis and uptake. Transplantations of pupal or immature adult ovaries into D. melanogaster adult males induce vitellogenin synthesis, implicating an ovarian agent in the control of synthesis. Larval ovaries fail to stimulate synthesis. Female-sterile mutants with rudimentary or previtellogenic ovaries synthesize and accumulate large quantities of vitellogenin in the hemolymph, but not in the ovaries. Transplantation of these rudimentary ovaries into males induces vitellogenin synthesis, suggesting that the ovarian inducing agent does not originate from the germ cells. Treatment of the homozygous female-sterile mutants with juvenile hormone stimulates the uptake of vitellogenin by the ovary in some strains. This shows that juvenile hormone plays a role in vitellogenin uptake. The potential importance of Drosophila vitellogenesis for studies of gene regulation is discussed.
3882759|The general organization of arthropod epithelia is compared to that of vertebrates. It is suggested that although ciliated epithelia, stratified epithelia and in some cases continuous muscle sheaths do not occur in arthropods, they have certain analogous structures which carry out the same functions. For example, the arthropod cuticle is compared to the squamous layer of vertebrate stratified epithelia, and complex arthropod basement membranes are compared to the muscle and connective tissue sheaths of certain vertebrate epithelia. The cellular organization of transporting epithelial cells is then discussed, with particular reference to elaboration of plasma membranes, and similarities and differences between vertebrates and arthropods, and between insects and crustaceans are pointed out. Specializations peculiar to insect cells are described, including the insertion of mitochondria into apical membrane microvillia, and the presence along this membrane microvillia, and the presence along this membrane of small particles called portasomes believed to be involved in active transport. Finally, it is shown that in the midgut of the insect Manduca sexta, distinct ultrastructural changes accompany loss of potassium transport activity during a larval molt and in the prepupal stage. The ultrastructural changes which occur include a proliferation of the basement membrane and muscle tissue underlying the epithelium, and a change in the morphology of the potassium transporting goblet cells. Possible correlations between ultrastructural changes and loss of transport activity are discussed.
3882349|Recent studies clearly demonstrate the respiratory importance of the hemocyanins in each of the three animal phyla in which they occur. Despite their generally low oxygen affinity, hemocyanins can be highly oxygenated at the site of gas exchange with the medium, as well as deoxygenated at the tissues. The functional range of a hemocyanin oxygen transport system is severely limited, however, by environmental change. These systems function under incipient hypoxia due largely to responses of blood pH which are not fully understood; a normal Bohr shift is accompanied by a rise in blood pH and a reverse Bohr shift by a decrease in blood pH. In both instances blood oxygen affinity increases and its oxygenation state at the gill remains high, in spite of its lower Po
3882339|Electron microscopy up to the present time has made significant contributions toward a better understanding of the phylogeny and systematics of the flowering plants at the higher taxonomic levels in two areas, namely in the study of angiosperm sieve-element plastids and the study of pollen morphology. Sieve-element plastids are of three main kinds: S-plastids or starch-containing plastids, which contain starch grains only; P-plastids or protein-containing plastids, which contain protein inclusions (and may have starch grains as well); and N-plastids or null plastids, which lack both starch grains and protein inclusions. P-plastids in turn may be classified, according to the morphology of their protein inclusions, in a number of different types and subtypes whose taxonomic occurrence has great systematic significance. After classifying and providing a synoptical key to sieve-element plastids as well as summarizing their taxonomic distribution, I discuss my interpretation of their evolution. I conclude among other things that S-plastids are the basic, primitive kind of angiosperm sieve-element plastid from which the various types and subtypes of P-plastids have been derived. With regard to pollen morphology, I note that the main contribution of electron microscopy to angiosperm systematics and phylogeny has been in the study of the nature of the pollen wall itself, and more particularly in the detailed examination of pollen wall sculpturing, structure, and stratification, and that a major use of electron microscopy in the future will undoubtedly be to study fossil angiosperm pollen grains.
3883493|Recent crocodilians live primarily in freshwater habitats. However two species (Crocodylus acutus and C. porosus) are estuarine specialists; two others (C. niloticus and C. johnstoni) that are primarily found in fresh water, have estuarine populations. Routes of uptake of water and sodium include drinking, feeding and associated incidental drinking, and integumental and buccal diffusion. Routes of loss include faeces-cloacal fluid, lingual salt glands, integumental and buccal diffusion, and respiratory loss. The least understood route of salt and water exchange is that of the oral and buccal epithelia, which are much more permeable to water and sodium than the general integument. The freshwater alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) osmoregulates in a manner typical for an amphibious reptile. Body sodium turnover is low and the general integument is quite low in permeability to sodium. Water turnover is more rapid (in terms of molar exchange) but still relatively low for an aquatic reptile. Most water exchange occurs across the integument and buccal epithelia. The presence of lingual salt glands in freshwater crocodilians remains enigmatic, as does the failure of these exocrine glands in estuarine species to respond to saline loading. Secretion does occur after injection of the parasympathetic stimulant methacholine chloride. The "salt water crocodile" (C. porosus) possesses a suite of osmoregulatory adaptations similar to those found in other estuarine reptiles. Water and sodium balance are maintained primarily by an extremely low general permeability to sodium, by economies in water loss, and by excretion of excess sodium by the lingual salt glands. Further work is needed to examine newly hatched C. porosus, and the possibility of ontogenetic change in lingual gland function in C. acutus. The importance of incidental drinking of sea water during feeding (recently discovered in turtles) needs to be evaluated in crocodilians. The use of osmoregulatory data in interpretation of the evolutionary history of the genus Crocodylus needs to be viewed with caution. The hypothesis that all species of Crocodylus originated from the transoceanic migration of a saline-tolerant from may not be the most parsimonious explanation.
3882495|Our studies of sea anemones reveal that asexual reproduction can lead to the amplification of particularly successful genotypes. Populations of Haliplanella luciae studied to date are characterized by exclusively asexual reproduction and typically are dominated by one or a few clones. A field translocation experiment suggests that this population structure may result from differential mortality among colonizing clones, most of which are not preadapted to local conditions. Asexual reproduction by survivors leads to extensive multiplication of one or a few genotypes. Metridium senile reproduces sexually and asexually, and we offer evidence that there is significantly less vegetative proliferation, but larger individual body size, in areas of low tidal current velocity than in areas of moderate to high velocities. This may indicate that small individuals (produced asexually) are at a particular feeding disadvantage in slowly moving water, leading to an emphasis on maintaining individual body size at the expense of asexual reproduction. Individuals heterozygous for a phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI) locus appear to be more successful than homozygotes in maximizing body size, independent of current regime, and in maintaining large clone biomass in low velocity habitat. Members of heterozygote clones are significantly more dispersed, some clonemates being separated by 9 meters or more, and are overrepresented in the low velocity habitat. Selection against (small) homozygotes, active choice of habitat, and passive, differential dispersal of larvae and adult anemones may all contribute to this pattern.
3881703|This article evaluates historically some of the factors other than the new "cell biology" that have influenced embryologists to think in terms of cells rather than supracellular agencies. Evidence of Spemann's emphasis on organizers as supracellular phenomena is presented, but it is pointed out that Spemann raised some cellular questions that were by-passed at the time. Vogt and others who studied morphogenetic movements in the 1920's also considered these as supracellular processes, although Vogt previously (1913) had studied the movements of individual amphibian embryonic cells isolated in vitro. It is pointed out that the number of investigators who studied isolated cells in vitro before the development of tissue culture was considerable, including Remak (1855), Stricker (1864), and His (1899), among others. Holtfreter observed the actions of isolated cells from 1931 on, in part, at first, because the cells isolated themselves from cell groups in vitro. His studies of explants, in the 1930's, 1940's, and 1950's, emphasized that supracellular phenomena must be explained in terms of cell properties, including membrane properties. In addition, the dramatic results of his experiments demonstrating affinity drew attention to cells as organized individuals, just as Spemann's experiments had done earlier to demonstrate the integrative qualities of embryos-as-wholes.
3881696|Penetration of shell by the muricid gastropod, Urosalpinx cinerea follyensis, is accomplished by successive alternating periods of radular rasping and chemical activity by the accessory boring organ (ABO). This paper reports on the histology of the ventral secretory disc of the ABO in relation to the functional state of the organ. The secretory disc is composed of tall columnar epithelial cells which are arranged in groups and only form a continuum over the ABO surface at their distalmost end. The interstitial spaces between the epithelial cell groups contain muscles and capillaries and also form the link between the distally open capillaries and the sinus of the ABO stalk. Abundant nerve fibers are found interstitially as well as in close relationship to the epithelium. The epithelial cells possess cytological features characteristic of secretory cells. The increased differentiation especially of the Golgi complex during periods of active boring indicates that the cells elaborate a product which plays a role in the chemical dissolution of the shell of prey. The cells also appear capable of regulating secretory overproduction and of storing glycogen during inactive periods for subsequent use.
3881727|Patterns of cell differentiation in the general body epidermis of vertebrates vary from class to class and within certain classes. In fish, a multiplicity of non-keratinized differentiated cells are found over the body. Their presence is readily explained on the basis of each arising from a distinctive precursor in the germinal layer. In amphibians and mammals all cells form alpha keratin. In birds and some reptiles, beta keratin is found over some parts of the body and alpha keratin is found elsewhere. These regional differences are probably based on certain specific dermal influences. In the epidermis of squamate reptiles, the fate of cells that have left the germinal layer alternates between synthesis of beta or alpha keratin in a manner unique among the vertebrates. There is evidence to suggest that feedback loops within the epidermis coupled to specific patterns of cell behavior in the germinal layer are important in regulating the remarkable switch in protein synthetic pathways.
3883475|Current conservation research focuses on diminishing species diversity, minimal viable populations, and on the successive demise of habitats and populations that leads species to extinction. In this paper we utilize the monarch butterfly's remarkable migration and overwintering biology as a paradigm of a new conservation theme: endangered phenomenon. An endangered phenomenon is a spectacular aspect of the life history of an animal or plant species involving a large number of individuals that is threatened with impoverishment or demise; the species per se need not be in peril, rather, the phenomenon it exhibits is at stake. We envision the near future with increasing numbers of species reduced in range and so constrained in numbers that they can no longer exhibit these characteristic spectacles.
3883670|Parasitism among aquatic invertebrates is common, if not ubiquitous, and can be pathological to hosts. However, host evolution in response to parasitism has received little attention, particularly for marine invertebrates. Drawing on the rich literature demonstrating prey adaptations to predators, I develop analogous predictions for the ways in which host life histories may be molded by their parasites. Such adaptations are expected when the effects of parasites are severe and when the probability of infection is high. Predicted life history changes include the evolution of semelparity, reduced age at first reproduction and reduced size at first reproduction. Using Recent and fossil populations of two bivalves species in the genus Transennella, I show that the incidence of trematode parasites may explain a trend of reduced size through time and contribute to the maintenance of sexual dimorphism for size.
3882590|Marine invertebrates absorb amino acids directly across their external body surfaces. This absorption process occurs via carrier-mediated transport systems which, recent evidence suggests, may be sodium-dependent. Steady-state amino acid gradients are maintained at levels excedding
3883885|The accurate perception of change requires a period of continuous observation. For species conservation, change has often not been anticipated, so such periods of observation are generally not available. We instead usually have to deal with the imperfect recollections of individual investigators. We argue here that it may be possible to do better than this by making use of old field notes or museum collections. In some cases, these sources can provide accurate descriptions of at least some aspects of past community structure. Our first example is for freshwater streams from Trinidad. One of us (JE) has studied these streams for 19 years and available data include repeated visual censuses of fish communities. These censuses contain at least a qualitative index of change in the fish communities accompanying anthropogenic changes in the habitat. Our second example includes three types of data gleaned from collections made in Costa Rican streams during the 1960s and 1970s, and housed at the University of Costa Rica. We show how these collections can be used to describe species abundance and diversity for entire watersheds, yield detailed descriptions of the composition of the community at individual collecting sites, and reveal much about the life histories and ecology of resident species. All of these descriptions can be used as a frame of reference for evaluating what present communities are like in the same areas, and hence for evaluating how these communities have changed. We argue that similar quantitative descriptions are available for many fish communities throughout the world, and for some other groups of organisms.
3883203| The mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus (L.), an estuarine cyprinodontiform teleost, is used extensively and increasingly as a bioassay organism in toxicological investigations and as an indicator of marine water quality owing, in part, to its wide geographic range, abundance throughout most of that range, and adaptability to laboratory conditions. Available data are summarized for acute toxicities to mummichog adults of 118 contaminants at 22  2 salinity, 19.5  0.5C, pH 7.8  0.2, and dissolved oxygen >4.0 mg/liter. Organochlorine insecticides were the most toxic chemicals tested under these conditions; approximate concentrations of 15 organochlorine pesticide compounds fatal to 50% in 96 hr ranged between 0.0001 mg/liter and 0.1 mg/liter. Comparable data for other groups of chemicals were: 11 organophosphorus insecticides, 0.001 and 100.0 mg/liter; 30 trace metals and metalloids, 0.01 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; 34 synthetic detergents, 1.0 and 1,000.0 mg/liter; 10 chemical oil dispersants, 1.0 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; 13 oil-dispersant mixtures, 100.0 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; 3 household soaps, 100.0 and 10,000.0 mg/liter; and 2 crude oils, 1,000.0 and >10,000.0 mg/liter. Parameters currently used to evaluate sublethal effects of pollutants in mummichogs include bioaccumulation, histopathology, growth and early development, teratology, liver enzymes, blood chemistry, fin regeneration, organ weight, and behavior; these are illustrated with appropriate examples. There is a need for more pertinent variables to assess toxicant-induced stress in mummichogs. 
3882586|Cnidarians posses polytrophic feeding capacities including: 1) endocytosis of particulate food, 2) absorption of dissolved organic material, 3) utilization of assimilates from zooxanthellae. Heteroxenia fuscescens seems to be specialized to fuel metabolism only by epidermal uptake of organic compounds and by material originating from the cytosymbionts. Therefore, these soft corals are appropriate organisms to study the contribution of both substrates to nutrition quantitatively. By the uptake of only 12 amino acids and glucose, experimentally determined, approximately 80% of the energy demand can be covered, the contribution of algal products not included. Autoradiographic studies show that absorption occurs through epidermal membranes and that compounds are transported through the mesogloea in both directions at low rate. Furthermore, adaptations can be shown which intensify absorption of organic compounds and which reduce the loss of energy-rich substances from the coelenteron. For example, material originating from zooxanthellae which would wash out into the sea due to the polyfunctionality of the coelenteron, is partly retained by pharyngial tissue and the epidermis. Thus the loss of useful compounds is reduced.
3882187|A review of RNA synthesis patterns in molluscs points to two conclusions. First, there is no common pattern which could be characteristic of "mosaic" development. Second, among bivalves the pattern of gene expression in early development is the same as in sea urchin embryos. DNA-like RNA predominates during cleavage, including a prominent, short-lived species (about 9S) which enters light polysomes. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) synthesis cannot be detected prior to gastrulation. New gene transcripts appear and are required for development beyond gastrulation. Among gastropods, there is variation regarding the need for embryonic gene expression for gastrulation and subsequent differentiation, and the time of onset of rRNA synthesis. The synthesis of poly(A) + RNA has been demonstrated in snail veligers. The principle limiting factor in rRNA synthesis during cleavage of molluscan and other embryos is probably the length of interphase. The time of activation of rRNA synthesis beyond this stage may be influenced by the magnitude of the rRNA stockpile. The oocytes of two species of clam with similar requirements for rRNA and with equal time available for oogenesis differ in the degree of amplification of the rRNA cistrons, suggesting that they may also differ in the redundancy or rate of transcription of those cistrons.
4620192|New information about molecular mechanisms of development can be combined with existing knowledge about embryology, anatomy and paleontology to allow for an increased understanding of evolutionary biology. The tetrapod limb is appropriate for such an approach since much is known about both its structural variation and development. To this end we are investigating molecular regulatory mechanisms in urodele limb development and regeneration. Urodeles have unique patterns of limb development compared to other tetrapods. In addition they are able to regenerate their limbs as adults, thus providing the opportunity to conduct comparative studies of the molecular mechanisms involved in development and regeneration in an identical genetic background. We have investigated the role of several homeobox-containing genes in the control of growth and pattern formation during limb development and regeneration, and have found that although there can be considerable variation in the ways in which expression of these genes is regulated in time and space, their expression patterns relative to morphological landmarks is conserved. These results suggest that the function of these genes is a deeply conserved feature of all tetrapods, and may be the molecular manifestation of the homology between different limb types. These conserved similarities are overlaid with changes in the time at which genes are expressed and the sequence in which structures differentiate. It is these latter features that are most likely responsible for the wide variety of morphologies observed among tetrapod limbs.
3881692|The marine gastropod, Siphonaria pectinata, has an active part in the complex formation of secondary solution features characteristic of outcroppings of beach rock in south Florida. Analyses were made of the distribution, anatomy, and feeding activity of this snail. The results show that these molluscs are concentrated in areas of maximum algal growth. While grazing they rasp substrata presoftened by algae so that new rock surfaces are continually exposed to biochemical erosion.
4620211|What can the comparative study of gene expression patterns during development contribute to the study of phylogeny? I discuss the basic properties of gene networks that function in development, using information gleaned from developmental model systems. Using examples from the analysis of anteroposterior, dorsoventral and proximodistal axis formation, I outline how the gene networks that pattern these three axes of development are linked in evolution. Finally, I discuss the types of analyses necessary to further our understanding of how gene networks function in regulating the evolution of morphology.
3883121|In embryonic chick neural retina the carbohydrate-binding protein ligatin has been shown to interact with peripheral glycoproteins whose oligosaccharides contain phosphodiester-linked terminal glucose residues. These glycoproteins have been implicated as being important to intercellular adhesion since exogenously added ligatin will bind to intact retinal cells and inhibit their adhesivity. The glycoproteins bearing this modification have been partially characterized by incubating retinal cell homogenates with
3882101|Although many sharks have a rather general vertebrate body plan, they display a number of specializations for feeding that belie the notion that they are "primitive." These specializations include a battery of highly developed exteroceptive systems such as vision, olfaction, acoustico-lateralis sense and electroreception; and a cranial morphology that has been molded into a number of functionally adaptive forms. These forms result in grasping, sucking, crushing, gouging, cutting and filtering systems of feeding. With relatively few exceptions elasmobranch feeding mechanisms share such features as subterminal or inferior mouths, a dynamic tooth replacement system, hyostylic jaw suspension and a kinetic, protractile upper jaw. The importance of each of these components is discussed. The evolution of the high diversity of mechanical feeding systems in such a small group of vertebrates has probably been facilitated by the morphological simplicity of the basic feeding mechanism. This radiation was accomplished by modifications in jaw length, the length and supporting angle of the hyomandibula, the size of the gape, dentition and changes in the relative size of the cranial musculature. The evolutionary pattern of shark feeding mechanisms is complex, there being several examples of both parallelism and convergence. A long-jawed, grasping form (similar to, but not identical with Chlamydoselachus) is here considered primitive. From a subsequent benthic sucking and grasping ancestor, similar in many respects to some living batoids, radiated crushing, ray-like forms; cutting, squaloid forms; and gouging, lamniform and carcharhiniform types. From the latter developed sucking and grasping, or crushing forms such as modern orectolobiforms, triakids and heterodontiform sharks. From several levels (primary crushing, secondary crushing and gouging) there emerged filter-feeding forms represented today by mobulids, rhiniodontids and cetorhinids.
3882628|Two compounds which possess anti-juvenile hormone activity in insects have been isolated and identified from the plant Ageratum houstonianum. These compounds, called precocenes, have been shown to inhibit the development of the insect corpus allatum (CA) and/or destroy the CA in sensitive species. The action of the precocenes can be seen to affect only those CA which are actively synthesizing and secreting the juvenile hormone. Structure-optimization studies of the precocenes reveal that the 3,4-double bond must be present and unsubstituted for biological activity to occur. In vitro studies reveal that the precocenes are very probably converted into reactive epoxides which undergo facile reaction with nucleophiles since histological examination of precocene-inactivated CAs indicate a direct cytotoxic action of the precocenes on the parenchymal cells of the CA. The most likely mode of action would appear to involve the alkylastion of macromolecular cellular elements by a reactive epoxide or similar activated precocene intermediate.
3883824|The isolation and small size of oceanic islands make them attractive models for studies of diversification; the sensitivity of their biota makes them important subjects for studies of extinction. I explore the origin of island biotas through dispersal and in situ diversification, and examine the fate of these biotas since human contact. Island biotas start out depauperate and disharmonic, facilitating the survival of relict taxa and stimulating adaptive radiations. The often highly restricted range and small population size of insular species, together with their limited diversity of defenses, make island biotas particularly vulnerable to extinction, largely through habitat loss or interactions with introduced species.
3883941|Many microchiropteran bats can reduce their metabolic rate three orders of magnitude during heterothermic torpor. This extraordinary range provides a unique insight into the adaptability of mammalian ventilatory control and function. To enable powered flight, bats have developed the highest capacity gas exchange system among mammals. However, starving during winter may account for the greatest mortality among bats that hibernate, thus imposing a strong selective pressure to decrease metabolic cost during torpor. This high capacity gas exchange system must therefore operate efficiently at very reduced rates, despite conflicting mechanical constraints imposed by an enormous functional overhead. The bat surmounts this dilemma by adjusting its control strategy to breathe intermittently during torpor. This allows instantaneous breathing rates and tidal volumes near predicted optimal levels. In addition, a passive oxygen influx coupled with a high acidotic tolerance facilitates longer intervals between the breathing bouts. The acidotic tolerance supports the endurance of these apneas because the passive efflux of carbon dioxide does not match the rate of oxygen influx. The acidotic tolerance further helps by allowing carbon dioxide to enrich the alveolar gas during apnea to levels above that of a nonacidotic, continuous pattern of breathing. Thus, the bat's carbon dioxide load can be cleared in fewer breaths when breathing resumes. By efficiently controlling a high capacity gas exchange system to meet the minuscule demands during torpor, the bat demonstrates how physiological control strategies can adapt to overcome limitations imposed by conflicting selection pressures.
3882809|Nemertines are traditionally viewed as acoelomates with blood vascular systems and a specialized cavity housing an eversible proboscis, or, as coelomates with modified coelomic cavities forming the rhynchocoel, lateral vessels and gonadal sacs. Comparative ultrastructural data such as cell polarity, the occurrence of podocytes and mesodermal cells with rudimentary cilia for proboscis, rhynchocoel, lateral and dorsal vessels, and gonadal linings are consistent with their interpretation as modified coelomic cavities as found, analogously, in the higher leeches. These and additional data regarding musculature, connective tissue, glia-like cells and gametes for 13 species affirm that nemertines are intermediate between full-blown coelomate and acoelomate grades of organization. A comparison of ultrastructural details, however, indicates that their acoelomate attributes evolved secondarily from a more typical coelomate condition.
3882387| A naturally-occurring genetic mutation, designated c for "cardiac lethal" in axolotls, Ambystoma mexicanum, is proving to be a useful model for studying myofibrillogenesis in differentiating heart cells. In this paper I describe morphological, biochemical and immunofluorescence studies which compare the contractile proteins in normal and mutant hearts. In addition, morphological studies on anterior endoderm, an important heart inductor tissue in salamanders, are reviewed. Detailed electron microscopic studies show that normal heart myocytes contain numerous well-organized myofibrils. Although mutant heart cells contain a few myosin and actin filaments, there are no organized myofibrils. Instead, amorphous proteinaceous collections are prominent in the peripheral cytoplasm of the cell where myofibrils would be expected to first form. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis shows that actin is present in almost normal amounts in mutant hearts, myosin heavy chain is reduced and tropomyosin is virtually absent. Immunofluorescence studies reveal that myosin, -actinin and tropomyosin are located prominently in the organized myofibrils of normal heart cells. In mutant hearts myosin is localized almost exclusively in the amorphous collections at the cell peripheries, -actinin also is distributed mainly in the peripheral cell cytoplasm. There is almost no staining for tropomyosin. Heavy meromyosin (HMM) binding experiments demonstrate that the actin in mutant heart cells is contained within the amorphous collections in a non-filamentous state and the addition of HMM causes its polymerization into filaments. In view of these findings, we undertook studies to determine whether there might be a causal relationship between the absence of tropomyosin in mutants and the failure of actin to form into filaments. Our results indeed show that addition of tropomyosin to glycerinated mutant hearts or homogenates of mutant hearts causes the amorphous actin to form into filaments. Thus, this single gene mutation results in mutant heart cells having reduced, but significant, amounts of myosin and actin, even though non-filamentous, and substantial amounts of -actinin. There is almost no tropomyosin. It is implied that the drastic reduction of tropomyosin in mutant cells is somehow related to the failure of normal myofilament formation, which in turn would seem to be an essential step in the normal organization of myofibrils. 
3882967|The cardioexcitatory neuropeptide FMRFamide was first identified from a clam, but has now been demonstrated in several other molluscs. It is probably present throughout the molluscan phylum though co-existing with related peptides in some species. For example, I report here the finding of the peptide phenylalanyl-leucyl-arginyl-phenylalanine amide (FLRFamide) in the mesogastropod Pomacea paludosa where it accounts for 10-20% of the total FMRFamide-like activity. This peptide may be a minor component of the FMRFamide-like activity in other species as well. The pulmonate snails have several, closely-related, heptapeptide analogs of FLRFamide that are unique to them, such as pyroglutamyl-aspartyl-prolyl-phenylalanyl-leucyl-arginyl-phenylalanine amide (pQDPFLRFamide) which was isolated from Helix aspersa. Two additional pulmonate heptapeptides that have been isolated probably differ from pQDPFLRFamide only in their N-terminal amino acid residues. The heptapeptides account for most of the FMRFamide-like activity in the species in which they occur. Though the tetrapeptides FMRFamide and FLRFamide have virtually identical activities on various molluscan tissues, the heptapeptides have activity that is distinct from the tetrapeptides on some pulmonate muscles. I have attempted to explain the evolution of this diversity of peptide structure and function found in the modern pulmonates by postulating a gene duplication in the gastropod line leading to them.
3882682|Certain species of compound ascidians have an ability to distinguish self colonies from non-self colonies within the same species. This ability, called colony specificity, is manifested by the fusibility between colonies. The fusibility among colonies of Japanese Botryllus is genetically controlled by a series of multiple alleles at a single locus. The fusibility is determined by a factor(s) in blood, so that the fusibility can be altered by the exchange of blood. It is suggested that rejection, called "nonfusion" reaction, may occur from the interaction between blood cells and blood humoral factor(s).
3881781|Two groups of 15 larvae were trained to go consistently to one side of a T-maze, using escape from light as a reinforcer for correct performance. Two yoked control groups received non-response contingent reinforcement on trials when individuals in the experimental groups were reinforced. A third control group received non-response contingent reinforcement on every trial, and a fourth control group was left untrained. After metamorphosis, one experimental group was trained to turn in the same direction as in original learning (relearning), while the other experimental group was trained to turn in the opposite direction (reversal learning). All the control groups were also trained as adults. In the experimental groups, relearning occurred significantly faster, and reversal learning occurred significantly slower than learning in any of the control conditions. These findings are interpreted as providing evidence of retention of learning through metamorphosis.
3883568|Marine invertebrate larvae are well known for their distinctive body shapes and elaborate patterns of ciliation. In this study I take a physically based approach to investigate the functional consequences of variations in body shape and patterns of ciliation. With experimental models I demonstrate that shape as well as surface area contributes to drag of larval forms. Based on flow fields around larvae tethered in still water and flowing water I argue that drag, which acts as a partial tether, may influence how water is processed and food is captured by cilia. With mechanical models of cilia I show that placement of cilia on the surfaces can influence the effectiveness with which water is moved and the steepness of the velocity gradient through the ciliary layer. These models indicate that placement of cilia on ridges, at extreme anterior ends, and at extreme posterior ends of larval bodies increases the volume of water moved per ciliary stroke relative to placement of cilia on a flat surface. A comparative survey of 46 larval forms indicates that distributions of body shape and patterns of ciliation reflect functional requirements of swimming and feeding by larvae. The experimental and comparative approaches together suggest functional constraints on the evolution of larval forms which may lead to convergence in patterns of ciliation and conservation of larval forms within taxa.
3881754|Parthenogenesis is discussed according to type (arrhenotoky, thelytoky, deuterotoky, artificial parthenogenesis, gynogenesis) and presence in various acarine taxa. Evidence for parthenogenesis is based on rearing and/or cytological studies. Arrhenotoky occurs in Mesostigmata, Prostigmata and Astigmata and usually does not occur sporadically throughout these taxa; when present it operates in many closely related species as the major type of reproduction in certain genera, subfamilies or families. Thelytoky is present in Mesostigmata, Metastigmata, Prostigmata, Astigmata and Cryptostigmata, but in no case is the major mode of reproduction in higher taxa, i.e. subfamilies, families. Its sporadic occurrence may or may not be accompanied by polyploidy. Deuterotoky occurs in one acarine group (Listrophoridae) and artificial parthenogenesis is possible in ticks (Metastigmata). Gynogenesis is present in several species of haplo-diploid Mesostigmata (some Dermanyssidae, Phytoseiidae), although it is usually considered in connection with thelytoky. Current studies of the effects of ploidy level on morphological variation indicate greater character variability in diploid females than in haploid males. In some species of ticks thelytoky is expressed differentially even on an intraspecific level. One geographic strain of a species may have the ability to reproduce thelytokously, but if mated produces males and females.
3883247|Knowledge of arthropod immune mechanisms has been based to a large extent on studies of non-medically important arthropod-microbial interactions. Investigations involving arthropods and their immune responses against helminth and protozoan parasites they transmit to vertebrate hosts are relatively limited. Data available strongly suggest that effective responses against these parasites are hemocyte mediated reactions, with blood cells involved in parasite recognition and effector mechanisms. It also is apparent that parasites are very successful in evading immune destruction in compatible arthropod-parasite associations by avoiding immune detection and/or by actively inhibiting the immune processes. However, an understanding of immune evasion mechanisms operating on behalf of the parasite is dependent on a more thorough understanding of parasite recognition, signal transduction, and effector mechanisms involved in arthropod immunity. Limited data are available on hemocyte recognition events, and nothing is known about the transduction processes whereby cells convert extracellular signals to intracellular messages that activate effector mechanisms. Any significant progress in these important areas of research will be limited until successful in vitro hemocyte cultures are developed. Convincing data are available from a variety of arthropod-parasite systems that phenol oxidases play a major role in effector mechanisms of the immune response. However, critical biochemical studies are needed to clarify their substrate specificities and the uniqueness of these enzymes. It is essential that we identify specific substrates involved in effector mechanisms, and their potential storage forms, if we are to begin to understand immune processes in arthropods. The sensitivity of HPLC with electrochemical detection provides a valuable tool for these investigations. The next several years should prove exciting in regard to our understanding of molecular/biochemical processes of arthropod immunity.
3882879|Fairly recent anatomical methods have made possible the mapping of neurobehavioral systems involving two types of reproductive hormones, gonadal steroids and the peptide luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH). Brain sites of steroid uptake are detected using autoradiography; LHRH is localized in cells and fibers using immunocytochemical procedures. Both hormone types are known to strongly influence sex behavior and it can reasonably be assumed that these effects are mediated in large part via systems identified using the anatomical procedures. Analysis of the comparative anatomy of these systems should therefore provide information useful in the construction of models concerning the evolution of neurohormonal control of reproductive behavior. The results of such a study are reported. Sex steroid and LHRH systems in cyclostomes, teleosts, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals are considered in detail. A synthesis of this information has led to the following ideas. Androgenic control of male reproductive systems has evolved in a number of nonhomologous motor systems controlling male reproductive behavior. Sex steroid and LHRH systems may interact at several different levels of the neuraxis but the most obvious overlap of the systems occurs in the septal and POA areas. The latter especially is a fairly constant and perhaps primitive feature. LHRH secretion into the systemic circulation was most likely the earliest means for LHRH modulation of both pituitary function and neural systems controlling reproductive behavior. Pathways for more direct delivery of LHRH to pituitary cells and brain nuclei probably developed in the early gnathostomes. The terminal nerve appears to be a rather conservative LHRH-containing pathway connecting olfactory systems with septal-preoptic nuclei. A function in pheromonal control of sex behavior is suggested. The general distribution of steroid concentrating cells and LHRH pathways in tetrapods seems to be rather constant. Absence of the systems in neocortical areas and their homologs is conspicuous.
3883509|We define an organismic biologist as one whose research is focused primarily on a single organism, or group of related organisms, and who investigates virtually the whole of nature as lived by that organism. We contrast an organismic biologist with a problem-oriented biologist, that is one who uses an organism, or a group of organisms, in order to investigate a particular question. In our view, the consummate organismic biologist has an outlook that allows her or him to conduct research on organisms with an open eye, to follow the cues offered by the organism, and to switch and learn new disciplines when the challenge to understanding the particular organism leads the investigator in those directions. We provide examples of the organismic approach of Abraham Trembley working in the eighteenth century and of the senior author working in the twentieth century. Both focused their investigations mostly on the freshwater hydra. While studying hydra, Trembley demonstrated that: (a) complete animals can regenerate from small, cut pieces of those animals; (b) animals can reproduce asexually by budding; (c) tissue sections from two different animals of the same species can be grafted to each other; (d) the materials oozing out of the edges of cut tissue have properties that fit the definition of protoplasm as described by Dujardin one hundred years later; (e) living tissues can be stained, and those stained tissues can be used in experiments; and (f) "eyeless" animals can exhibit a behavioral response to light. Some of the topics investigated in hydra by the senior author and his students are: (a) behavioral responses to the peptide reduced glutathione and to tryosine; (b) mechanism of activation of the receptor to glutathione; (c) migration of nematocytes; (d) algal-animal endosymbiosis; (e) an unusual disulfide-linked collagen of nematocyst capsules; (f) components and action of nematocyst venom; (g) intracellular digestion of radioactive protein; (h) composition of and role in cellular adhesion of the mesoglea; and, (k) a developmental mutant and role of nerve cells in promoting budding. We conclude with a proposal for one way to train future organismic biologists at the graduate and post graduate levels. This proposal grew out of our perception of the need to provide environments that nurture scientists who, by studying organisms, will find and define new experimental systems for the next waves of biological discovery yet to come when the specialists begin to investigate even more intensively the interactions between cells, tissues, organisms, and communities. Specifically, we propose that on the campuses of several major universities having a broad range of graduate programs, there be established year-round Institutes for Organismic Marine Biology focused on the investigation of organisms not previously amenable to systematic experimentation. We believe that if America's biology is to remain vibrant and innovative, organismic biology should be an integral component in any long term planning for research and training in the biological sciences.
3883758|Operative and standard operative temperatures ( T
3881963|While evidence is currently lacking for the agnatha and elasmobranchs, the release of pituitary gonadotropin by the teleost pituitary appears to be under stimulatory control by the hypothalamus. Gonadotropin has to date only been purified from teleost pituitary glands. Bioassay and biochemical data suggest that the teleost pituitary gland elaborates only one gonadotropin; however, there is some conflicting histological data on this point. Salmon gonadotropin has a molecular weight of approximately 29,000 at neutral pH and approximately 13,000 at low pH or after treatment with 8M urea or 1M propionic acid. Radioimmunossays have recently been developed for carp and salmon gonadotropin. Immunological techniques have also been used to identify pituitary gonadotrops. Pharmacological treatment of fish with methallibure has permitted inhibition of gonadal development while treatment with clomiphene citrate has stimulated ovulation. The role of corticosteroids and other steroid hormones in ovulation is still not fully elucidated. It is possible that the control of ovulation may differ between species. Experiments are described which aim to enhance natural stocks of pink salmon by endocrine manipulation of sexual development in the male.
3883448|Parker's theory of the origin of the nervous system is discussed along with later interpretations. Attention today has shifted from the cellular to the molecular level, and it has become clear that many of the molecules and mechanisms thought of as typically neuronal have homologs or counterparts in non-nervous cells and unicellular organisms. This applies to signalling chemicals, receptors, second messenger systems and ion channels, and also to the production of electrical events. Parker's view of sponges as a group lacking nerves but possessing independent effectors is still acceptable, but some sponges (and also higher animals) employ non-nervous signalling pathways to coordinate their effectors. Thus, nerves are not always necessary for coordinated behavior. Cnidarians like hydra have seemingly simple, two-dimensional nervous systems with little or no centralization, but even such systems can be surprisingly complex, and the more advanced cnidarians show neurophysiological specializations as sophisticated as those of many higher invertebrates. Examples of ingenious cnidarian solutions to behavioral problems are given. No existing animals have "elementary" nervous systems if that term implies the existence of crude or inefficient functional adaptations.
3881438|Observations on the behavioral development of a male timber wolf, hand-reared from the age of four weeks, have been continued for a period of three years. Data include the following: (1) Adjustment to human companionship has been successful even after sexual maturity. (2) Behavior towards strange persons and objects is cautious. (3) The animal remains more independent and aloof to persons than similarly reared dogs. (4) Interaction with dogs, including males and young puppies, is marked by gregariousness and lack of aggression. (5) Small domestic species have been attacked occasionally, the response depending largely upon the behavior of these animals. (6) Large species are avoided, chased, or ignored. (7) Numerous motor patterns, postures, and communicative signals are closely similar to siblings and other wolves and contrast with dog companions. (8) Sharp behavioral changes occurred at eight and 12 weeks, the former initiating aggressive tendencies, the latter extreme avoidance in the presence of new objects. Restlessness, then calming, followed in later months, and slight seasonal fluctuations have been noted. (9) Rudiments of many adult motor patterns occurred at an early age, e.g., small prey-pounces and pelvic thrusts seen by eight weeks. (10) Vocalizations include a wide repertoire of howls, squeaks, growls, and barks.
3882582|It is now possible to provide direct evidence for net removal of significant amounts of specific amino acids from naturally occurring dissolved organic material by a marine invertebrate. This demonstration serves to focus attention and invite reconsideration of the large body of less direct evidence supporting the general occurrence of this capacity among soft-bodied marine invertebrates.
3882561|Phagocytosis and related phenomena represent integral features of inflammation in all metazoans. Reviewed herein are the results of studies directed at understanding the role(s) of lysosomal enzymes synthesized and released from circulating hemocytes, especially granulocytes, of gastropods and bivalves as a result of challenge with exogenous, nonself materials. From what is known, most of the mechanisms underlying this inflammation-associated process parallel those of mammalian macrophages; however, immunoglobulins and most probably components of complement are not involved. The required energy for phagocytosis in molluscs appears to be derived from glycolysis alone. Furthermore, nitroblue tetrazolium reduction and the
3881570|The acoustic portions of the mammalian ear display greater morphological diversity in peripheral than in central portions. In many mammals the pinna is of negligible auditory significance. The tympano-ossicular system of all mammals sensitive to air-borne sounds must transform air vibrations to fluid vibrations in the inner ear by matching the acoustical impedances. Within the cochlea the energy of the fluid vibrations is transduced into nerve impulses. In highly specialized mammals the morphology of these transformer and transducer mechanisms is adapted for the reception of extreme frequencies. Echolocating bats and whales possess different, but effective, specializations for the reception of ultrasonic frequencies. Moles and kangaroo rats, on the other hand, have specialized ear structures for the reception of low frequencies.
3884088|Since the discovery of the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, in the Great Lakes in 1988 comparisons have been made with mussel populations in Europe and the former Soviet Union. These comparisons include: Population dynamics, growth and mortality rates, ecological tolerances and requirements, dispersal rates and patterns, and ecological impacts. North American studies, mostly on the zebra mussel and a few on a second introduced species, the quagga mussel, Dreissena bugensis, have revealed some similarities and some differences. To date it appears that North American populations of zebra mussels are similar to European populations in their basic biological characteristics, population growth and mortality rates, and dispersal mechanisms and rates. Relative to European populations differences have been demonstrated for: (1) individual growth rates; (2) life spans; (3) calcium and pH tolerances and requirements; (4) potential distribution limits; and (5) population densities of veligers and adults. In addition, studies on the occurrence of the two dreissenid species in the Great Lakes are showing differences in their modes of life, depth distributions, and growth rates. As both species spread throughout North America, comparisons between species and waterbodies will enhance our ability to more effectively control these troublesome species.
3882426| The postsynaptic actions of neurohumors on molluscan muscle may be exerted through control of force as well as by means of excitation and inhibition. The control of force may appear as potentiation of the response to excitation, as increased inotropism in spontaneous contractions, or as an increase in tonus. We have directed our attention to the alterations of force induced in aplysiid ventricles by applied postulated neurohumors. The results are interpreted in terms of the known effects of neurohumors on resting potential and action potentials of molluscan hearts. We recorded compound membrane potentials of aplysiid ventricles extracellularly, using a single sucrose gap apparatus together with a force-displacement transducer to measure force in contractions or contracture. Aplysia californica ventricle has a membrane potential of -52.5  9.4 mV. Ventricles of Aplysia dactylomela or Aplysia californica are depolarized by increased concentrations of external potassium ion, with an accompanying contracture. After incubation in calcium-free medium, KC1 contracture-force is directly dependent on calcium ion concentration. A depolarization of 8.3  2.14 mV in potassium-free medium is blocked by substitution of lithium for sodium in the medium, suggesting an electrogenic sodium pump. There is a sustained depolarization in low chloride medium, which suggests a significant chloride contribution to the resting potential. Ventricles of Dolabella auricularia or Aplysia dactylomela are depolarized by acetylcholine (ACh). Threshold for depolarization is lower than threshold for contracture-force. The ventricle of A. dactylomela is depolarized by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) with threshold at 10
3882782|The brain of Helisoma duryi contains several neurodendocrine centres. Factor(s) present in the cerebral ganglia are thought to be involved in normal shell growth while neurosecretory substances present in the visceral ganglion are involved in the repair of damaged shell. In Lymnaea stagnalis a growth hormone is produced by the cerebral ganglion which stimulates periostracum formation and the calcification of the inner shell layer. The second effect is thought to occur through the action of a mantle edge calcium binding protein. In Helisoma, mantle collar is able to produce the periostracum in vitro. The presence of brain from a fast growing donor increases the amount of periostracum produced by a mantle collar from a slow growing animal. This effect is further enhanced by the removal of the lateral lobes. The periostracum produced by fast growing animals has a higher glycine content than that produced by slow growing snails. The presence of dorsal epithelial tissue enhances the incorporation of calcium into periostracum formed in vitro. These findings suggest that a single factor is present in the brain of fast growing Helisoma which modulates shell formation rates in vivo and periostracum formation in vitro.
3882718|Evidence in support of and contrary to the hypothesis that rhesus monkeys possess a sexual pheromonal system is presented and discussed. New evidence demonstrates that solicitations of females given estradiol are more attractive to males in part because the females allow males to mount much more frequently only when the females have initiated the sexual interaction. In addition, evidence is presented which demonstrates that an odorous control substance stimulates sexual activity just as well as the purported "active component" of vaginal secretions under restricted conditions of evaluation. Finally, preliminary evidence suggests the possibility that odorous products from the vagina, unrelated to short-chain aliphatic acids, present qualitatively distinct cues to the male during the periovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle. However, only sexually experienced males, and not young adult "virginal" males nor adult isosexually-reared males, selectively attended to midcycle vaginal products when these were placed on environmental surfaces. It is concluded that male rhesus monkeys may utilize odorous cues from the female during sexual interactions, but these cues are neither necessary nor sufficient for the coordination of fertile matings. Furthermore, olfactory communication in this species does not fit the accepted definition of pheromone: the odors are not specific for one species; the behavior elicited is not specific to sexual arousal; and volatile materials other than vaginal products can stimulate sexual activity.
3883040|Extensive parental care is well developed in several genera of New World primates (genera Callicebus, Aotus, Callimico, Callithrix, Cebuella, Leontopithecus, Saguinus) including most of the indirect and direct paternal care behaviors described by Kleiman and Malcolm (1981). Paternal care is correlated with a monogamous (and perhaps polyandrous) mating system and a small group size. Additionally, in genera (e.g., Callithrix) which have a higher reproductive rate and tolerate a larger group size, subadult and juvenile offspring of the breeding pair and perhaps unrelated individuals may contribute substantially to the rearing of infants. Both within and across genera, there is considerable variability in the type, quantity, and distribution of care provided by the mother, father, and other individuals in the family group. The purpose of this presentation is to examine the basis of this variability and to evaluate the degree to which we can make statements about the evolution of paternal care in this primate radiation. There are few field studies of those species of monogamous New World primates which exhibit extensive paternal care. Thus, it is currently impossible to correlate the observed variability in paternal care with ecological factors. Also, the taxonomy of the New World primates is in flux which makes phylogenetic interpretation difficult (Rosenberg, 1981). As a result, the following discussion will be based mainly on results from captive studies, and will be concerned with defining those factors that create variability in observed levels of paternal care, both within and across genera.
3884384|Constraint theory has suffered from its many and varying definitions and from repeated confusion with the action of selection. Constraints are difficult to isolate, more difficult to quantify, and their consequences may be simulated by the action of agents such as stabilizing selection. This paper presents an alternative method of constraint analysis using a simple one-dimensional measurement. A total of 29 skeletal elements from 15 species representing 11 orders of mammals were measured for length and normalized for body mass, after which means, standard deviations, and variances were generated. A coefficient of variation analysis was performed to normalize for mean element length. The axial skeleton was found to be less variable than the appendicular. The appendicular demonstrated a trend where the more distal elements were the most variable, and variation decreased with more proximal positions. The three most variable of the 29 elements were finger V, toe V, and metacarpal V. In summary, the axial skeleton was found to be more conservative in the lengths of its elements, the more distal appendicular elements were less constrained than proximal ones and these constraints were probably the results of genetic, developmental, and mechanical factors. It is also proposed that stabilizing selection played some role in maintaining the curb on length variance in these structures, based on mechanical performance. The results of this study are intended to promote discussion of alternative methods of constraint analysis.
3882405|Sea birds with long incubation periods are identified, together with the features of their incubation physiology which distinguish them from birds in general. Most sea birds with prolonged incubation are members of the order Procellariiformes. The majority of Pelecaniformes and Charadriiformes with long incubation periods are tropical species. The total amount of water lost from the egg during incubation is a similar fraction of the initial egg weight in sea birds with prolonged incubation as in other birds. The oxygen consumption of the newly hatched chick is similarly related to the chick weight, regardless of the duration of incubation. Within the constraints imposed by these similarities, sea birds with prolonged incubation display a number of adaptations. The daily rate of water loss from the egg, the water vapor conductance of the egg shell, and the total functional pore area of the egg are all relatively low in sea birds with prolonged incubation. The eggs of sea birds with long incubation times are large in relation to the size of the adult bird; in the two species that have been studied, the high energy content of the egg is paralleled by the greater total amount of oxygen consumed during incubation. However, the growth of the embryo is relatively slow in at least one sea bird with a long incubation time, so that prolonged incubation probably entails a comparatively high allocation of energy resources to maintenance requirements. In some species with prolonged incubation, the interval between pipping and hatching is also long and it appears to be a period of great physiological importance. Ecologically, prolonged incubation is associated with either pelagic feeding habits or a tropical environment; both factors may be related to food supply.
3883531|Recent research has shown that neuromodulators play important roles in shaping simple behaviors. They act at many different sites within the animal in a coordinated fashion, modulating the motor circuits in the central nervous system, altering motoneuron excitability, and modulating muscle response to motoneuron input. Within the central circuits that co-ordinate simple movements, neuromodulators play a dramatic sculpting role, changing the cells that participate in the circuit, altering their intrinsic properties, and affecting the strength of synaptic interactions that form the "wiring diagram" of the circuit. As a result, they are able to shape a family of related circuits out of a single anatomically identified network, each driving a unique variant on the basic motor theme. Examples of these actions from the Crustacea are described in this paper, focussing on the modulation of posture in the lobster, and on modulation of rhythmic motor programs for stomach movements in the stomatogastric ganglion of lobsters and crabs.
3883198|For the past 20 years, our laboratory has been involved in studying the endocrine control of calcium balance in the killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus. We have surveyed almost all endocrine systems and discovered two main ones directly involved in plasma calcium regulation. They are the pituitary gland and the corpuscles of Stannius. When fish adapted to low-calcium seawater were hypophysectomized, hypocalcemia and tetany were observed. When fish adapted to high-calcium seawater were Stanniectomized, hypercalcemia was seen. In both cases, other electrolytes were unaffected and replacement therapy corrected the plasma calcium changes. We have tried to characterize the active principles in both glands. We discovered that prolactin is hyperacalcemic. The pituitary gland also seems to contain a second hypercalcemic factor which may be located in the PAS-positive pars intermedia cells. For the Stannius corpuscle factors, we developed a bioassay and named the active substance(s) hypocalcin. In collaboration with Dr. Hirofumi Sokabe at Jichi Medical School, Japan, we showed that the Stannius corpuscles also contain a renin-like substance capable of generating a hypocalcemic angiotensin-like substance. The exact chemical nature of the hypocalcemic substance is being investigated. Calcium balance in the whole fish was also studied with 47-calcium. These studies were carried out in collaboration with Dr. Nicole Mayer-Gostan at Villefranche-sur-Mer, France. We discovered that killifish depend on the environment rather than bone as a calcium reservoir. Hormones may be involved in the exchanges with the environment.
3884109|Risk-sensitive foraging may occur whenever feeding success has non-linear effects on fitness. Models of sensitivity to variation in amount of food obtained have concentrated on foraging in order to survive even though feeding during growth, migration, or reproduction can have strong and non-linear effects on fitness. I illustrate how risk-sensitive foraging for reproduction could differ from risk-sensitive foraging for survival using two simple models. Each model assumes that organisms must accumulate some threshold amount of resources before they can reproduce. In the first model, additional resources above the threshold lead to increased reproductive success. Here variance in feeding success can be advantageous even when the mean gain would allow organisms to reproduce. In the second model, early breeding is superior to late breeding because recruitment rate declines over time. Here a symmetrical distribution in foraging rates results in a skewed distribution of breeding times. Despite this, variance in feeding success may be advantageous even when the seasonal decline in recruitment is linear. The advantage of risk is much larger if foragers can switch freely between feeding options. These two models are united by "the bankruptcy effect" because all failures to reproduce carry the same consequences. These simple models suggest that risk-prone foraging may be likely when factors other than survival are important for fitness. Finally, I advocate using a mix of modelling techniques, note the implicitly risk-sensitive nature of stochastic dynamic programming, and speculate on potential connections between risk-sensitive foraging and theories of life histories in variable environments.
3882565|The least understood aspects of the cellular immune reactions of arthropods are the earliest events: the initial recognition of foreignness, and the resulting changes in hemocyte behavior and morphology. There are indications that the recognition of a surface as foreign is based primarily upon its electrostatic charge, but more specific criteria may be utilized in some situations. Phagocytes are capable of recognizing foreignness without the intervention of soluble opsonins but, in some arthropods, there is in vitro evidence that opsonins can increase the efficiency of phagocytosis. It has been hypothesized, on the basis of ultrastructural evidence that encapsulation, a multicellular immune response, is induced when labile hemocytes rupture upon encountering a foreign object. The released products may promote the formation of a sheath of ameboid hemocytes around the object. This hypothesis is now supported by the results of experiments performed on an in vitro encapsulation system. This system may prove useful in the purification of encapsulation-promoting factors; in determining the mechanism of their release from hemocytes; and in investigating the possibility that the various cellular immune reactions of arthropods have a common underlying mechanism.
3881745|Productive research with three amphibian orders has yielded numerous insights into the phylogeny of lymphoid systems, immunoglobulin production and structure, and transplantation alloantigens and the immune responses they elicit. In this review of amphibian transplantation biology, evolutionary significance has been placed on the differential survival rates of first- and second-set grafts in normal and immunosuppressed urodeles, apodans, and anurans. In the absence of a major histo-compatibility complex, apodans and urodeles typically reject skin allografts and xenografts chronically; median survival times range from 30 to 55 days. Many organs (heart, gonads, pituitaries, eyes) transplanted across the weaker histocompatibility barriers in salamanders survive for longer than a year. Two Diemictylus subspecies, however, reject skin grafts (but not heart grafts) somewhat more vigorously in a subacute fashion. Primitive anurans such as Xenopus also reject skin grafts in this fashion. Only representatives of the phylogenetically advanced Ranidae respond to skin and other organ allografts in an acute fashion comparable to the mammalian response elicited by strong histocompatibility antigens.
3883700|Recent years have seen an upsurge of interest in the study of ultraviolet vision in vertebrates. The presence of retinal photopigments that allow for ultraviolet vision appear to be relatively common among birds and fishes, and there is evidence that such pigments are to be found in some species from each of the following classes: amphibians, reptiles, and mammals. Following a review of the distribution and nature of ultraviolet vision in vertebrates the issue of the utility of this capacity is discussed.
3882669|There are some 36 families that are wholly freshwater or with representative species in freshwater. There are virtually no phylogenetic analyses for these families. Zoogeographic analyses of freshwater molluscan faunas are hindered by a lack of significant systematic studies of these faunas. Such studies are essential if one hopes to develop hypotheses about phylogeny or biogeography. It is clear from a phylogenetic analysis of the Pomatiopsidae that phylogenetic, vicariance, dispersal, and ecological factors all have significant effects on the patterns of distribution of this family. At one stage in history vicariance may be a dominant factor while during another stage of history, dispersal may be a dominant factor. At every stage, ecological considerations are necessary to understand the phenotypes seen and the spatial relationships among taxa. In examining the distribution patterns of dominant freshwater families with regard to their biological, ecological, and overall phylogenetic relationships it is evident that ecology plays a major role along with dispersal and vicariance. Clearly a synthesis is needed in biogeographical studies that incorporates vicariance dispersal, ecology, and geology-paleontology.
4620146|Pulmonary surfactant is a mixture of phospholipids (including disaturated phospholipids), cholesterol and proteins lining the air-liquid interface within the lung. Surfactant acts to reduce surface tension, thereby increasing lung compliance and also preventing edema. The saccular lungs, or other gas-holding structures, of nonmammals have 7-70% more
3882698|Computer simulation is a valuable tool to help solve some problems of morphogenesis. An embryo is shaped by the behavior of its cells, but in an embryo it is often impossible to sort out which cell behaviors are active in morphogenesis because attempts to isolate one cell behavior may affect others. Computer simulation of a model of morphogenesis provides independent evidence that putative driving forces can produce a change of form. The development of a computer simulated model requires that assumptions and steps in reasoning be stated explicitly. This process brings added rigor to analysis of the biological system, improved observations of the embryo itself, and suggestions for new experiments. An interplay develops between the two systems, the actual and the simulated, in which hypotheses and experimental results from each system can be used to modify the perceptions of the other. A successful simulation can be used to simulate experiments that may not be possible on the embryo. Specific examples of how computer modeling helped analyze the shaping of the newt neural plate are discussed, as well as the prospects of extending the models to analysis of neural tube formation.
3884163|The general process of neuromodulation in the skeletal muscles of various insects is accomplished via several different structural forms. In addition to motor axons, which may contain a modulatory substance as a co-transmitter, a second class of axons is found in close association with insect skeletal muscles. These axons typically contain dense cored vesicles. Some come directly into contact with the sarcolemma, but do not form a typical neuromuscular junction. Others have finely distributed branches within the muscle but only directly contact glial cells of the motor nerve branches. Immunocytochemistry has shown that these nerve types contain one or more of several potential transmitters: glutamate, octopamine, serotonin, leucokinin, proctolin, or insulin. While some of these substances are known to modulate muscle fiber contractile abilities directly, or to affect the mechanisms of neuromuscular transmission, others can be hypothesized to be involved in development, respiration, and other undiscovered functions.
3883349|This essay is in two parts. The first describes functional studies of the shoulder in modern vertebrates that led to the formulation of the hypotheses that motor patterns of homologous muscles have been maintained during the evolution of the tetrapod shoulder, and that a primitive organization of the neural control components has persisted in derived groups. The second part of this essay focuses upon a longstanding question in vertebrate evolution: what neuromuscular and musculoskeletal changes in the tetrapod shoulder accompanied the evolution of flight in birds? The lack of empirical data on shoulder function in extant birds limited our insight into this question, and prompted our initiation of experimental studies. Preliminary kinematics of the furcula and humerus of European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) flying in a wind tunnel, as revealed by high speed cineradiography, are presented. The two halves of the furcula, which contact the coracoids dorsally, are bent laterally during downstroke and medially during upstroke by as much as 60% of the intrafurcular resting distance. High speed film and electromyographic studies of free-flying pigeons (Columba livia) reveal that the supracoracoideus muscle is strongly activated during wing elevation and, as predicted from studies of Varanus and Didelphis, an additional activation burst occurs at mid-downstroke in 48% of the recordings.
3881518|Parathyroid glands of amphibians develop from the pharyngeal pouches and are located adjacent to the external jugular vein and hypoglossal nerve. They are composed of whorls of compact epithelial cells covered by a vascular capsule of connective tissue. Possibly two cell types are present: (a) peripheral clear cells, which are implicated in elaboration of hormone and contain secretory granules, and (b) dense reserve cells. During winter, the parathyroids undergo degeneration, characterized by morphological details which vary with the species; this is followed by regeneration in the spring. Parathyroidectomy may cause hyperexcitability, but rarely does tetanic death occur. Parathyroidectomized amphibians, like mammals, become hypocalcemic and hyperphosphatemic. In contrast to higher vertebrates, however, parathyroprivic anurans show an elevated urine phosphorus, which is presently interpreted as a reflection of the increased plasma load due to absence of a hormonally-induced, soft-tissue accumulation of phosphate. Further, parathyroidectomized frogs are hypercalciuric, possibly because of the lack of hormone-mediated mesonephric reabsorption. In both mammals and amphibians, treatment with exogenous parathormone induces hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, and hypophosphatemia. The absence of change in the urine phosphorus content of hormone-treated frogs, associated with its decline in plasma, may be a consequence of metabolic variations based upon the heterothermic nature of the Amphibia.
3884484|Phenotypes manifest a balance between the inherited tendency to remain the same (phenotypic stability) and the tendency to change in response to current environmental conditions (adaptation). This paper explores the role of functional integration and functional trade-offs in generating phenotypic stability by limiting the responses of individual characters to environmental selection. Evolutionarily stable configurations (ESCs) are systems of functionally interacting characters within which characters are "judged" by their contribution to system-level functionality. This "internal" component of selection differs from traditional "external" selection in that it travels with the organism wherever it goes and is maintained across a wide range of environments. External selection, in contrast, is by definition environment-dependent. The temporal and geographic constancy of internal selection therefore acts to maintain phenotypic stability even as environments change. Functional trade-offs occur when one character participates in more than one function, but can only be optimized for one. Participation of certain ("keystone") characters in a trade-off potentially causes stabilization of an entire system owing to a cascade of functional dependencies on that character. Phylogenetic character analysis is an essential part of elucidating these processes, but patterns cannot be used as prima facie evidence of particular processes.
3882579|This paper reviews song recognition in two congeneric species of sparrow-the swamp sparrow (Melospiza georgiana) and song sparrow (Melospiza melodia). Data from psychophysical studies of hearing, tutoring experiments with young birds, and field playback studies with adult birds are considered together in order to gain insight into the mechanisms of species recognition through song development. In aggregate, the evidence suggests a multi-stage process of song development consisting of an early perceptual preference for learning conspecific song, a sensorimotor phase of song development during which vocal output matches an auditory memory as if through trial and error, and a final phase of full song which functions in territorial defense and mate attraction.
3881803|Compensatory changes in the level of activity of intertidal organisms may occur in response to the thermal conditions which prevail in the habitat. These involve an increase in the activity of those animals subjected to low temperatures and a corresponding suppression of activity in those animals subjected to high temperatures so that organisms with a wide geographical range, or living over a range of shore levels, have comparable rates of activity. However, the rate of activity varies markedly with short-term fluctuations in temperature, as does the rate of respiration of active animals. Recent evidence suggests that the rate of respiration of quiescent animals is relatively independent of temperature over the normal environmental range, and thus the metabolism is well-suited to an environment where rapid fluctuations in temperature occur. Further, the extent of the thermal range over which metabolism is relatively independent of temperature is modifiable according to season and storage-temperature. Similar changes occur in the respiration of cell-free homogenates of certain intertidal organisms. Acclimation in such organisms involves not only a modification in the level of the active and standard rates of metabolism but also an alteration in the form of the rate/temperature curve such that the range of temperature-independent metabolism is appropriate to the thermal conditions prevailing in the habitat.
3882761|The epithelial cells involved in the movement of ions and water form a major subset of all epithelial cell types. Both the form and the functions of cell junctions present in these cells are essentially the same as those found elsewhere. Gap junctions are believed to regulate intercellular communication; desmosomes and hemidesmosomes provide mechanical anchorage to other cells and the extracellular matrix; septate junctions play roles in providing cell to cell anchorage, and perhaps in sealing the lateral surfaces of adjacent cells together to prevent paracellular fluid and solute movement; tight junctions (of limited distribution in insects) are seals between adjacent cells. They form a barrier to the paracellular movement of solutes and water. Examination of the junctions in salivary glands and midgut provide insight into the roles of these junctions in the development and function of ion transport systems. In Manduca sexta (Johannsen) the cells of the salivary gland are joined by pleated septate and gap junctions. Individual salivary cells have numerous folds and canaliculi. The walls of the canaliculi consist of extensively folded plasma membrane in intimate association with mitochondria. Gap junctions connect adjacent parts of the same cell across membrane folds, effectively shortening diffusion distances in the cells. Hemidesmosomes are present in the walls of developing canaliculi. They are attached to pore filaments that occupy the lumen of the developing canaliculi. The hemidesmosomes and pore filaments may have a morphogenetic role as they disappear after the canaliculi are formed. In Manduca sexta the midgut cells are joined by gap and septate junctions. These junctions differ in morphology from their counterparts in the salivary gland; physiological studies show the goblet cells are not coupled to neighboring tall columnar cells. We have shown the gap junctions joining them are typical of non-coupling junctions. Preliminary studies suggest that the gap junctions change form when the cells are coupled.
3881483|This paper reviews the results of research on the agonistic behavior of wild and tame strains of house mice (Mus musculus) and the Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus) and covers papers that have appeared since an earlier review (Scott and Fredericson, 1951). Various methods for observing, measuring, and eliciting fighting are described and their appropriate uses discussed. Measures of latency and frequency are more satisfactory than arbitrary rating scales. Situations involving competition over food present complex motivational problems. The basic agonistic behavior patterns (ethograms) of rats and mice are compared. Differences appear in the lack of playful fighting and weaning threats in mice, the dual "boxing" posture of rats, and the unique "tail rattling" in mice. Both species are alike in their inability to form complex dominance hierarchies in which fighting is reduced to threat and avoidance. As a general theory, each species has evolved behavior patterns and physiological mechanisms of behavior which are adaptively related to its own social organization and population dynamics. Mice and rats have evolved along different lines both from each other and other species of mammals.
3883741|The central question of macroevolution concerns the evolution of major morphological innovations (and major taxonomic groups). It is a matter of scale rather than simply rate of evolution or hierarchical level of mechanism. Through the history of microevolutionary theory there is a constant counterpoint of macroevolutionary questioning: are current versions of microevolution sufficient to explain the data concerning origins of major novelties? Thus, Simpson proposed the term "megaevolution" and "quantum evolution." Mayr partially separated micro- and gradual aspects by proposing "genetic revolution" as a mechanism for rapid change. Evolutionary theory in general suffers because different concepts have incompatible frames of reference. Key innovation and correlated progression are concepts that approach the problem in terms of evolutionary morphology. They have in common with quantum evolution and genetic revolution features such as threshold effect, preadaptation and smooth transition due to change in function and environment. One aspect of paleontology and morphology, however, is to show that some morphologies can only exist in binary states, with no intermediates. This leads us to look away from selection on graded series of phenotypes to development (developmental cascade/threshold models) for new levels of explanation.
3884162|Comparison of morphological and physiological phenotypes of representative crustacean motor neurons, and selected motor neurons of Drosophila larval abdominal muscles, shows several features in common. Crustacean motor nerve terminals, and those of Drosophila, possess numerous small synapses with well-defined active zones. In crustaceans, neurons that are more tonically active have markedly varicose terminals; synapses and mitochondria are selectively localized in the varicosities. Phasic motor axons have filiform terminals, sometimes with small varicosities; mitochondrial content is less than for tonic axons, and synapses are distributed along the terminals. Tonic axons generate small excitatory potentials which facilitate strongly at higher frequencies, and which are resistant to depression. The phasic neurons generate large excitatory potentials which exhibit relatively little frequency facilitation, and depress rapidly. In Drosophila, counterparts of crustacean phasic and tonic motor neurons have been found, but the differentiation is less pronounced. It is inferred that cellular factors regulating the number of participating synapses and the probability of quantal release are similar in crustaceans and Drosophila, and that advantage can be taken of this in future to develop experiments addressing the regulation of synaptic plasticity.
4620132|Except in ducks and geese (Anseriforms), aggressive or forced copulation in birds is rare. The rarity of forced copulation in birds theoretically is due to morphological and physiological mechanisms of female resistance that place fertilization most often under female control. Traits theoretically associated with resistance by females include: digestive epithelium lining the section of the cloaca receiving sperm and powerful cloacal musculature used to eject contents, including waste material and sperm. These traits suggest that the Immediate Fertilization Enhancement Hypothesis may be an inadequate ultimate explanation for forced copulation when it occurs. Ideas in Heinroth (1911) and Brownmiller (1975) suggested an alternative, the CODE Hypothesis, which says that aggressive copulation creates a dangerous environment for females. This, in turn, fosters male mating advantage via social monogamy, because selection sometimes favors females who trade sexual and social access for protection from male aggression. Thus, theoretically, "trades" of protection for copulation favor the evolution of social monogamy even in species with little or no paternal care. Individual males may accrue selective advantages through direct benefits, kin-selected benefits, or reciprocal altruism. The CODE hypothesis for social monogamy predicts variation in extrapair paternity from preferred mates, variation in male reproductive success, and variation among females' post-insemination resistance mechanisms as functions of variation among females' vulnerabilities (ecological and intrinsic) to aggressive copulation. Observers will base intraspecific tests on variation among females in their vulnerabilities to male aggression against them.
3882786|The organic matrix is thought to play an important role in controlling crystal growth during the formation of skeletal hard parts. The structural organization of the matrix macromolecular constituents can provide a key to understanding the nature of the control processes. Although the data are limited, both vertebrate and invertebrate organic matrices appear to be organized according to the same "basic motif," namely a core of relatively hydrophobic structural macromolecules (usually proteins) and surface layers of acidic proteins and polysaccharides. Analyses of the latter from different invertebrate phyla using reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography, reveal that the same two classes of macromolecules are present in each of the three cases studied, emphasizing the fundamental importance of these components in crystal growth. Substantial information, at the molecular level, on the conformations and orientations of matrix constituents in relation to the mineral crystal lattice, is available only for mollusk shells, and to some extent on vertebrate tooth enamel. In these cases the major matrix constituents are aligned with one or more mineral crystallographic axes. These observations suggest that the matrix performs active, specific roles in crystal growth. Although it is still premature to assess the importance of various basic crystal growth mechanisms, the data available do not preclude the possibility that epitaxial crystal growth is an important factor.
3882899|Previous studies indicate a tight correlation of predatory modes, morphology, and activity physiology in snakes. Active foragers like the coachwhip (Masticophis flagellum) exhibit great stamina and high rates of aerobiosis and anaerobiosis during intense exercise. The western rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis), a sit-and-wait predator, is capable of bouts of intense activity for limited periods of time before exhaustion. During maximal activity the rattlesnake has moderate powers of anaerobiosis and limited powers of aerobiosis. Superior blood buffering capacity in the coachwhip seems at least partially responsible for its stamina. New evidence presented here indicates that low endurance in the rattlesnake may be associated with exercise-related bone dissolution, resulting in hypercalcemia. Such hypercalcemia may function to further debilitate the already poorly developed blood buffering capacity of the rattlesnake.
3883846|The purpose of this paper is to describe our studies focused on the mechanisms by which hypothalamic neurons process multiple signals and produce an integrated response. We illustrate our research strategy by reviewing our work on two separate neural systems: the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). We have focused on different peptidergic subpopulations within these nuclei to address two issues. In the PVN, we concentrate on the population of neurons containing thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). These neurons are inhibited by thyroid hormones, but activated by cold exposure. Using a molecular approach, we have demonstrated that these conflicting signals simultaneously act on the same population of TRH neurons. This system will continue to be a productive model to study the mechanisms by which neurons process multiple signals. In the SCN, we concentrate on the population of neurons containing vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI) and gastrin releasing peptide (GRP). We have demonstrated that injection of all three peptides into the SCN of hamsters mimics the phase-delaying effects of light on circadian wheel running behavior. In addition, the genes encoding these peptides exhibit different 24-hour profiles of changes in neurons of the SCN. These data support the hypothesis that one mechanism by which these neurons produce an integrated response is by changing the concentration ratio of co-released peptides.
4620149|A diet that has high levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids enhances mammalian torpor. Polyunsaturated fatty acids are not synthesized by mammals, but are incorporated into both membrane and storage lipids when they occur in the diet. Polyunsaturated fatty acids also undergo autoxidation more readily than other fatty acids, thereby producing highly toxic lipid peroxides. Lipid peroxidation increases during torpor. Natural selec in mammalian hibernators should thus have favored the evolution of dietary preferences that maximize hibernation ability while simultaneously minimizing the degree of lipid peroxidation during torpor. This hypothesis was tested in laboratory experiments and field studies involving golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis). We found that the intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids is restricted during the fall and autoxidation in tissues occurs mostly during the later phases of hibernation.
3884518|In the mammalian kidney renal medullary cells use organic osmolytes such as sorbitol, myo-inositol, glycerophosphorylcholine, betaine, and taurine to adjust their intracellular osmolarity (and thereby their volume) to rapid and drastic changes in extracellular osmolarity. Using an immortalized cell line derived from rabbit thick ascending limb of Henle's loop (TALH cells) and primary cultures of rat inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD cells) the membrane transport systems activated during exposure to hypotonicity were investigated. In TALH cells an increase in sorbitol permeability of the (luminal) plasma membrane occurs by activation of a channel-like transporter involving a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. A similar system seems to operate in IMCD cells. In addition, the latter cells possess a swelling-activated anion channel that is also permeable for taurine and myo-inositol and inhibited by "anion channel" blockers, such as NPPB and DIDS. The sorbitol permeability of the plasma membrane appears to be furthermore regulated by a transient insertion of active transporters into the basolateral cell surface by a membrane recycling mechanism.
3883507|The functional boundaries of organisms may not be exclusive or discrete. The genomes of organisms include not only stable genes which replicate faithfully at each division but also transposable elements (jumping genes) and viruses which allow both dynamic variability within a genome and interspecific genetic interactions. All organisms (with the exception of specially maintained laboratory organisms) are in association with other organisms. In close heterospecific associations (symbioses) there are selective advantages for mechanisms which enable organisms to coordinate their activities. In very close, efficient symbioses, mechanisms to share the genetic control of essential, mutually used structures, may have evolved via the activities of movable genetic elements (e.g., transposable elements). Interactions across species boundaries will include examples on the genetic level, cellular level, and organismal level.
3881429|Observations of wolves on Isle Royale are reported for 1961-66, with interpretations including the earlier 3-year period described by Mech (1966). On this 210-square-mile island the fully protected wolf population varied from approximately 22 to 28 in midwinter. The major and minor foods were moose and beaver, respectively. The main pack varied in number between 11 and 22 with about three breeding pairs believed present. The population remained relatively stable; mating occurred every winter; and adult mortality appeared to be low. High mortality among pups seemed to be the point of population control. Socio-economic factors may have controlled the size of the large pack. Availability of food during the period of parturition and rearing probably was critical to survival of young. Recruitment of young appeared to take place in years of high production of moose calves. Numbers in the large pack probably were curtailed through the progressive exclusion of aged and socially subordinate individuals. Under harassment these animals separated and became pack-following scavengers, then probably true loners ranging outside the area used by the pack. Smaller aggregations of two or three non-breeders were seen each winter, as were the loners, some of which appeared thin and weak. The only known breeding outside the big pack was in a group of five present in the winter of 1965. This group was probably a family unit which separated from the main pack. A year later the male had disappeared, and remains of a pup, probably theirs, were found. In the winter of 1966 the alpha male of the large pack became lame and apparently was killed. This background appears favorable for further changes in social organization.
3883114|Anatomical evidence for the existence of a depressor nerve in reptiles was first reported 100 years ago. Electrical stimulation of the central end of the cut nerve, however, did not produce an unequivocal fall in heart rate and blood pressure, so it was thought not to function as a depressor nerve. This remained the state of knowledge for fifty years when Marco Fedele performed a superb anatomical and physiological study of the depressor nerves of turtles and lizards. He demonstrated that there were two depressor nerves from each vagus; the superior nerve originated from the jugular ganglion or superior laryngeal nerve in turtles and from the superior laryngeal nerve or vagus in lizards; the inferior nerve originated from the nodose ganglion or slightly caudad of this ganglion. The nerves were shown to terminate in the proximal truncus arteriosus. Unlike the earlier workers, Fedele obtained a clear depressor effect on stimulating the depressor nerves. In more recent times baroreflexes have been demonstrated in response to hemorrhage and body tilting in reptiles, with snakes receiving particular attention. The evidence indicates that aquatic snakes are less effective at maintaining blood pressure than terrestrial and arboreal forms. The sensitivity (gain) of the baroreceptor-heart rate reflex, when it is expressed as a percentage change in heart rate per unit pressure change, is approximately the same in reptiles, amphibians, and mammals. In addition, the ultrastructural appearance of the baroreceptors of lizards is similar to that of mammals. A quantitative assessment of the ability of reptiles to correct disturbances in blood pressure has not yet been made, but techniques for obtaining this information are now available.
3881410| Lipid is the predominant organic reserve of many crustaceans and is important in the metabolism of many of these animals. Ingested lipid is digested by gastric lipase and apparently absorbed into depot-lipid as -monoglycerides. The variation in the content and composition of the depot-lipid is a function of both the external environment and internal control systems. Evidence suggests that lipids from marine organisms contain more long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids than does the lipid of fresh water organisms which in turn have a high proportion of C
3882469|The American Society of Zoologists takes its origins from several preceding organizations, especially the American Society of Naturalists and the American Morphological Society. Leaders of these parent groups were prominent among the founders of the American Society of Zoologists. The development of our present Society from its predecessors, and the roles played by our early leaders are briefly described in this paper.
3881708|The salamander limb regenerate develops from a mesenchymatous bud of cells called the blastema. This review briefly considers the local origin and major features of blastemal cells and then discusses their role in the histogenesis of the regenerate. The capacity of blastemal cells to form the various cell types of the regenerate is first considered in general terms, with the discussion focusing on three major alternatives: blastemal cells form (a) cartilage only, (b) connective tissues only, or (c) essentially all internal tissues of the regenerate. The differentiative properties of blastemal cells originating from known cell types are then considered in detail. Cartilage is of particular interest in this regard, because it has been utilized as a pure cell type. Results from the study of mixed tissues, including muscle and connective tissue of the fin, are also presented. Information gained from the study of known cell types participating in regeneration is discussed in terms of the mechanisms responsible for the stability of cellular differentiation and in terms of the flow of cells from stump tissues into the regenerate.
3882177|The echiuroid marine worm Urechis caupo is uniquely suited for the study of oogenesis. A relatively large quantity of oocytes at various developmental stages can be obtained and subjected to coordinated cytochemical and biochemical analysis. Oocytes at the cluster, early diplotene, mid-diplotene, and diffuse diplotene or lampbrush stages are active in the synthesis and accumulation of ribosomal RNA, several proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and also, perhaps, yolk constituents. Only cortical granule formation, which occurs during later stages of oogenesis, appears to be stage specific. Ribosomal RNA genes are also transcribed in the nucleolus of the mature oocytes or unfertilized eggs. However, the rate of production in these eggs appears to be regulated at the level of maturation of rRNA precursor molecules.
3882283|To determine at what time in development the genetic capacity to make an antibody of a given specificity is present, we have looked for antigen binding cells (ABC) to a panel of five randomly selected and independently bound antigens during fetal life in the mouse, rabbit, chicken, and sheep. ABC are present for each of the five antigens in approximately equal frequencies at the very beginning of immune development, preceding the appearance of theta antigen and the ability to make a humoral antibody response. ABC in the thymus decline from an initially high level (1%) to adult levels during fetal life. The ABC are all positive for surface immunoglobulin, and antigen binding can be inhibited with rabbit anti-mouse mu chain serum. We conclude that most receptor specificities can be made without a need for somatic diversification.
3881543| The annual cycle of the White-throated Sparrow, Zonotrichia albicollis, is reviewed with brief references to facets of nutritional and energetic importance (1) illustrating the life of a small bird in a varying environment, and (2) showing that certain annual events in field populations can be compared with similar manifestations in caged individuals. Data from captives are employed in discussions of energetic variations related to (1) food, the source of nutritive input, (2) fat, the major form of caloric storage in birds, and (3) caloric expenditure. Metabolizable energy is partitioned by phase of the annual cycle into existence energy, including the costs of thermoregulation, and productive energy, including expenditures for nocturnal activity (Zugunruhe) and molt. Costs of vernal migration in field birds are compared with costs of nocturnal activity in captives to show that energetic estimates in each situation are compatible. This conclusion is supported by a metabolic estimate made for field birds that is within 6% of the estimated metabolism of captives under similar conditions. Data and statistics from seven additional species of buntings are used to examine several bioenergetic principles for homoiotherms. (1) Minimal metabolism measured by energy balance methods is proportional to the 0.7 power of body weight but is higher than standard or resting metabolism measured by gaseous methods. (2) Metabolized energy is inversely related to ambient temperature below 25C, the estimated ad libitum critical temperature. (3) Heat production and loss are proportionately higher in summer-acclimatized birds below the ad libitum critical temperature due to reduced insulation. Two summary plots, relating temperature, metabolizable energy, and body weight are given. Directions for future research in the study of avian nutrition are suggested. 
3881529|"Primary production" refers to energy fixed by plants. The total amount of energy fixed is usually called "gross production." A certain fraction of gross production is used in respiration by the plants; the remainder appears as new biomass or "net primary production." Thus for a single plant or a community of green plants: Net Primary Production = Gross Production - Respiration (of Autotrophs) Similar relationships occur in ecosystems except that the organic matter and respiration of heterotrophs must be included. The increase in total organic matter is "net ecosystem production"; respiration is the total respiration of the green plants (autotrophs) and the animal community and decay organisms (heterotrophs). Gross production is of course identical to that of the plant community. Thus for an ecosystem: Net Ecosystem Production = Gross Production - Respiration (of Autotrophs and Heterotrophs) Study of these attributes of terrestrial ecosystems is difficult, both because of the complex interrelations of the processes involved, and because of the problems of working with systems as large as whole forests. Three approaches are in use: (1) Harvest techniques measure weight increase (and caloric equivalent and chemical composition) of net production. A refinement of this approach based on "dimension analysis" has made possible important recent advances in the study of forests. Other techniques approach gross production and respiration through measurement of exchange of gases, especially CO
3883841|Songbirds show dramatic seasonal changes in their propensity to exhibit an endocrine response to environmental stimuli that regulate the timing of reproduction. There is a clear cycle in their ability to respond to changes in photoperiod but less is known about seasonal variation in their sensitivity to supplementary factors that augment the photo-induction of gonadal growth and fine tune the final onset of breeding. Such factors include behavioral interactions with a mate and the availability of a nest site. In birds, seasonal variations in the neural processing of photoperiod are mediated by substantial modifications in the availability of hypothalamic Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone (GnRH). There is also evidence that the activity of certain monoamines, such as norepinephrine and serotonin, changes in discrete parts of the hypothalamus as a function of the bird's photoperiodic condition. However, it is not known whether the response to supplementary factors involves similar changes. In this paper, I review what is known about how the avian central nervous system might integrate initial predictive information, such as photoperiod, and supplementary cues such as behavioral interactions. Photoperiodic information is perceived by an encephalic photoreceptor while supplementary stimuli are perceived by the visual and auditory systems. Both types of information seem to converge on the GnRH system of neurons in the preoptic area and the septum that regulate pituitary function. This suggests that future studies should concentrate on the connectivity of these GnRH positive cells to other parts of the central nervous system and on the regulation of GnRH activity in these cells by endogenous and exogenous factors.
3883456|The prolonged periods of continuous darkness and light in polar regions have resulted in a unique seasonal partitioning of primary and heterotrophic production. In McMurdo Sound for example, the biomass, size distribution and production by phytoplankton and bacterioplankton undergo distinct seasonal cycles. The seasonal pattern of primary production appeared to be regulated by light whereas the three order of magnitude change in phytoplankton biomass during mid- to late December was largely controlled by the advection of planktonic algae from the Ross Sea into McMurdo Sound. The size distribution of phytoplankton was highly seasonal; nano- and picoplankton were dominant from August through November while netplankton were more abundant in December and January. Seasonal variations of bacterial biomass and production were smaller than those of phytoplankton. During the late austral winter and spring, bacterial biomass and production exceeded those of phytoplankton. This implies that during this period, organic material from allochthonous sources sustained bacterial growth. During the late spring and summer, however, the pattern was reversed and autochthonous primary production was sufficient to support concurrent bacterioplankton production. The apparent temporal disequilibrium in autochthonous bacterioplankton and phytoplankton production was maintained by the seasonal input of allochthonous organic material into McMurdo Sound. The facts that a) bacteria were both abundant and highly active, b) bacterivory was common among many of the endemic protozoa and some planktonic metazoa and c) these bacterivores consumed >95% of the bacterial production strongly suggest that bacteria are a crucial component in the transfer of energy and material to metazoans in polar regions.
3881849|Although the cellular substrates of behavioral coordination are uncertain in the hydroid Tubularia, much is known about the strategies of behavioral control. The picture which emerges is that of an animal with diffusely distributed sites capable of initiating spontaneous activity, regional coordination of potential pacemaker loci to form pacemaker systems, and a loose hierarchical organization of pacemaker systems. At least one pacemaker system shows a short term increase in excitability and a longer duration depression of excitability following firing. The short-term excitability increase gives a tendency to fire in bursts, the long-term depression acts as an intrinsic inhibitory feedback to terminate bursts and to control output frequency. All the known interactions between pacemaker systems are excitatory. Exogenous stimuli can excite a conducting system which inhibits most of the pacemaker systems, and one pacemaker system specifically inhibits one set of muscles.
3883821|This paper offers a sweeping but very superficial review of the marine biology of polar seas. The marine systems in the Arctic and Antarctic have in common polar positions and cold temperatures, otherwise they are strikingly different. The Arctic has broad shallow continental shelves with seasonally fluctuating physical conditions and a massive fresh water impact in the northern coastal zones. However, it has a low seasonality of pack ice and little vertical mixing. In contrast, the Antarctic has over twice the oceanic surface area, deep narrow shelves, and, except for ice cover, a relatively stable physical environment with very little terrestrial input. The Antarctic has great pack ice seasonality and much vertical mixing. Primary productivity in the polar areas tends to be strongly pulsed with the zooplankton lagging behind; however there are many exceptions to such generalizations. Most recent research has focused on specific patterns and processes resulting in biological hot spots such as predictable leads in the ice, polynyas, oceanographic fronts, areas of intense mixing, and the marginal ice zone. This review attempts to weave these recent oceanographic studies into the geological history of each habitat in an effort to develop a holistic understanding of the biological processes.
3883600|Results from our field studies of the satin bowerbird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus) suggest that females choose males as mates based on their level of infection with the ectoparasite (Myrsidea ptilonorhynchi: Menoponidae). We evaluated predictions from three hypotheses for why this pattern of choice might evolve. The bright male and correlated infection models both suggest that females choose parasite free males because these males are more likely to sire parasite resistant offspring. The bright male hypothesis suggests that females are able to gauge infection based on plumage brightness. The correlated infection hypothesis claims that females assess resistance to endoparasites through a correlated effect on ectoparasites. In the parasite avoidance model female choice is shaped by the proximate benefits of avoiding infection. Six predictions from these models were tested using information on patterns of infection in satin bowerbirds. Of these models the parasite avoidance model was best supported by the available data.
3883837|Except for lions and cheetahs, members of family Felidae exhibit spatially and temporally dispersed social systems. However, this solitary existence does not preclude possession of a rich repertoire of communication signals. While patterns of communication have been examined in a number of the larger cats (e.g., lions, cheetahs, tigers), those of the smaller cats (<20 kg) remain virtually unstudied. The purpose of this study was to examine behavior in the smaller members of the Family Felidae to determine the level of behavioral uniformity within the family and to ascertain whether systematic behavioral observations could be used as an effective bioassay to monitor reproduction. A comparative examination of the occurrence and rate of scent marking, social behavior (especially behaviors associated with copulation), and other reproductive parameters was made in 20 species of captive, small felids. In general, small felids exhibited remarkable uniformity in their behavioral repertoire, both with respect to scent-marking and social behaviors. While the frequency of social behaviors differed among species, their appearance and general order of occurrence was similar. This was especially apparent with regard to the copulatory sequence. Detectable behavioral changes occurred in association with reproduction, supporting the concept of using systematic behavioral observations as a viable, non-invasive assay for monitoring reproductive activity. Reproductively active felids scent marked more frequently than reproductively inactive cats. However, no single scent-marking behavior was a good indicator of reproductive activity. Rather, the relative change in rates of behaviors over time was a better indicator of reproduction. As with scent-marking behaviors, a change in the relative rates of some social behaviors was the most reliable indicator of reproductive activity. Comparative behavioral data also show promise for understanding the phylogenetic relationships of three proposed lineages within the family Felidae (Panthera, ocelot, and domestic cat).
3881628| The principal oceanographic features of the Galpagos region are reviewed. The oceanographic conditions that obtained during the period of study are described. The study area is characterized by surface temperatures near 20C and a sharp thermocline at a depth of 40 m. The temperature below 1000 m is less than 5C. An episode of upwelling occurred during the period of study. The upwelled water was displaced by water characteristic of that found north of the Equatorial Front. The approximate position of the Equatorial Front during the study period was 00 15 S latitude. 
3882071|Radiochromatographic studies of
3882244|Scanning electron microscope and light microscope studies of the body wall in cyclostome stenolaemate ectoprocts show that this wall has a distinctive microarchitecture. The microstructures consist of a linear series of longitudinal canals in the central region. Adjoining regions on either side have laminae of overlapping calcareous tablets. In some cyclostomes at certain stages of growth, laminae may show a less orderly meshwork pattern near the canals. The laminate layers of calcareous tablets are enclosed in an organic matrix and are penetrated by tubuli which pass from the inner part of the body wall to the canals and also link the canals. The canals with organic and mineralized matrices open into pores in the body wall. This elaborate meshwork and canal and pore system provide the framework for growth and resorption of the body wall and facilitate transport of cellular materials from one zooid to another in a colony. Calcification at the distal part of a colony seems to proceed in a series of stages around sites of calcification. The pattern of the body wall of the cyclostome ectoproct does not parallel a molluscan pattern of skeletal growth as previously proposed. The hypothesis of a hypostegal coelom in some cyclostome ectoprocts is rejected.
3883082|Field studies have shown that animals often abandon territorial defense when food is abundant, but the causes of this behavior are controversial. Sometimes the cessation of defense is attributed to the food supply being so abundant that monopolization of the resource gains the defender nothing, even though defense would be energetically feasible. Other studies show that when the food supply is rich, such large numbers of competitors are attracted that defense is overwhelmed. Knowledge of the amount of food available relative to the numbers of consumers in the region can resolve the controversy. When food is limited throughout a region, a localized rich foraging area will attract competitors. Defense of such an area therefore may yield a large increase in net benefit to the defender, depending on whether or not so many competitors recruit that defense is too costly. However, when a localized foraging area is rich but food is also superabundant throughout the region, intruders may not recruit even if the area is undefended. Therefore the benefits of defense, if it were to occur, would be low. Field studies of nectar-feeding birds show that defense continued on rich foraging areas when floral nectar was limited to the population regionally, and resulted in enhanced food availability relative to that in undefended areas. However, under conditions of artificially rich food supplies (sugar-water feeders) and extremely limited food regionally, defense was sometimes overwhelmed by competitors. Cessation of defense on locally rich foraging areas also occurred when nectar was regionally superabundant. Therefore, both proposed causes of cessation of defense occurred in these systems and were easily distinguished by examining the degree to which food was limited in the surrounding region relative to localized foraging areas. I show that animals potentially can assess whether or not food supply is limited in the surrounding region by sampling and comparing standing crops in defended and undefended situations.
3882944|In all vertebrates gonadal secretions, through their actions on the central nervous system (CNS), control sex and sex-related behaviors and also regulate production of gonadotropin. Recently, major advances have been made in characterizing the molecular events which underlie these processes. Discussed in this paper are the nature and source of androgens and estrogens; their sites of action within the CNS as determined by steroid implant and autoradiographic studies; some manifestations of brain-steroid interactions, both "triggering" and "organizational"; evidence supporting a conventional genomic mechanism versus alternative modes of action; the critical role of androgen metabolizing enzymes in regulating the quality and quantity of active hormone in close proximity to targets; and some determinants of steroid access to the CNS. Information from non-mammalian vertebrates is reviewed in relation to the major body of knowledge derived from common laboratory species. The intent of this paper is to provide a biological perspective and to stimulate interest in the use of unconventional animal models for future studies.
3883723|The freshwater bivalves (Mollusca: Order Unionoida) are classified in six families and about 165 genera worldwide. Worldwide rate of extinction of freshwater bivalves is poorly understood at this time. The North American freshwater fauna north of Mexico is represented by 297 taxa in two families. There are 19 taxa presumed extinct, 44 species listed or proposed as federally endangered, and there are another 69 species that may be endangered. A number of these endangered species are functionally extinct (individuals of a species surviving but not reproducing). Extinction of North American unionoid bivalves can be traced to impoundment and inundation of riffle habitat in major rivers such as the Ohio, Tennessee and Cumberland and Mobile Bay Basin. Damming resulted in the local loss of the bivalves' host fish. This loss of the obligate host fish, coupled with increased siltation, and various types of industrial and domestic pollution have resulted in the rapid decline in the unionoid bivalve fauna in North America. Freshwater communities in Europe have experienced numerous problems, some local unionoid populations have been extirpated, but no unionoid species are extinct. Three taxa from Israel are now reported as extinct. Other nations such as China that have problems with soil erosion and industrial pollution or have numerous dams on some of the rivers (e.g., South America: Rio Parana) are probably experiencing problems of local extirpation if not the extinction of their endemic freshwater bivalve fauna.
3883260|This paper concerns the mechanism of mitosis. I briefly review the history of mitosis research, emphasizing the role of microscopic observation. The polymerization and depolymerization of microtubules play central roles in both the assembly of the spindle, and in the way it moves chromosomes. I describe recent advances in understanding the dynamic behavior of individual microtubules, and of microtubules attached to kinetochores. The kinetochore is able to hold on to microtubule ends while allowing them to grow and shrink, reactions that can be studied both in living cells and in the test tube. Experiments in which microtubules in living cells are marked and then followed allow us to relate these individual dynamic processes to the overall mechanism of chromosome movement. I end the review by speculating about biochemical mechanisms for producing force on chromosomes in anaphase, and for balancing chromosomes in the center of the metaphase spindle.
3884515|Organic osmolytes are small solutes used by cells of numerous water-stressed organisms and tissues to maintain cell volume. All known osmolytes are amino acids and derivatives, polyols and sugars, methylamines, and urea; unlike salt ions, most are "compatible," i.e., do not perturb macromolecules. In addition, some stabilize macromolecules and are "counteracting" towards perturbants, e.g., methylamines can stabilize proteins and ligand binding against perturbations by urea in elasmobranchs and mammalian kidney, and (our latest findings) high hydrostatic pressure in deep-sea animals. Methylamines appear to coordinate water molecules tightly, resulting in osmolyte exclusion from hydration layers of peptide backbones. This makes unfolded protein conformations entropically unfavorable (work of Timasheff, Galinski, Bolen and coworkers). These properties have led to proposed uses in biotechnology, agriculture and medicine, including improved biochemical methods, in vitro rescue of misfolded proteins in cystic fibrosis and prion diseases (work of Welch and others), and plants engineered for drought and salt tolerance. These properties also explain some but not all of the considerable variation in osmolyte composition among species with different metabolisms and habitats, and among and within mammalian tissues in development.
3884382|One of the most prominent characteristics of early vertebrates is the elongate caudal fin bearing fin rays. The caudal fin represents a fundamental design feature of vertebrates that predates the origin of jaws and is found in both agnathans and gnathostomes. The caudal fin also represents the most posterior region of the vertebrate axis and is the location where fluid, accelerated by movement of the body anteriorly, is shed into the surrounding medium. Despite the extensive fossil record of the caudal fin, the use of caudal characters for systematic studies, and the importance of tail function for understanding locomotor dynamics in fishes, few experimental studies have been undertaken of caudal fin function. In this paper I review two experimental approaches which promise to provide new insights into the function and evolution of the caudal fin: three-dimensional kinematic analysis, and quantitative flow measurements in the wake of freely-swimming fishes using digital particle image velocimetry (DPIV). These methods are then applied to the function of the caudal fin during steady swimming in fishes with heterocercal and homocercal morphologies: chondrichthyians (leopard sharks) and ray-fined fishes (sturgeon and bluegill sunfish). The caudal fin of leopard sharks functions in a manner consistent with the classical model of heterocercal tail function in which the caudal surface moves at an acute angle to the horizontal plane, and hence is expected to generate lift forces and torques which must be counteracted anteriorly by the body and pectoral fins. An alternative model in which the shark tail produces a reactive force that acts through the center of mass is not supported. The sturgeon heterocercal tail is extremely flexible and the upper tail lobe trails the lower during the fin beat cycle. The sturgeon tail does not function according to the classical model of the heterocercal tail, and is hypothesized to generate reactive forces oriented near the center of mass of the body which is tilted at an angle to the flow during steady locomotion. Functional analysis of the homocercal tail of bluegill shows that the dorsal and ventral lobes do not function symmetrically as expected. Rather, the dorsal lobe undergoes greater lateral excursions and moves at higher velocities than the ventral lobe. The surface of the dorsal lobe also achieves a significantly acute angle to the horizontal plane suggesting that the homocercal tail of bluegill generates lift during steady swimming. These movements are actively generated by the hypochordal longitudinalis muscle within the tail. This result, combined with DPIV flow visualization data, suggest a new hypothesis for the function of the homocercal tail: the homocercal tail generates tilted and linked vortex rings with a central jet inclined posteroventrally, producing an anterodorsal reactive force on the body which generates lift and torque in the manner expected of a heterocercal tail. These results show that the application of new techniques to the study of caudal fin function in fishes reveals a previously unknown diversity of homocercal and heterocercal tail function, and that morphological characterizations of caudal fins do not accurately reflect in vivo function.
3881678|Biological attack of carbonate-cemented sandstones and mudstones (Cretaceous and Eocene ages) and semi-consolidated calcareous muds (Holocene age) were studied near La Jolla, southern California. Rocks were collected from the intertidal zone to a depth of 40 m using SCUBA. The deeper samples came from Scripps and La Jolla submarine canyons. In order to learn of the borers and their preferred substrata, we studied the borers in situ as well as in aquaria, examined their borings with x-ray radiography, and analyzed the bored rocks by petrographic techniques. In preferred substrata a sequence of boring activities resulted in over half of the initial rock volume being excavated to depths of 10 cm. The major initial borers were bivalves (pholads, Lithophaga), which made straight smooth-walled holes up to 10 cm deep and at all angles to the rock surfaces. When abandoned, these holes were modified by other borers, and interconnected by smooth or roughhewn sinuous passageways 1 to 15 mm in diameter. The passageways were concentrated along bedding planes and in selected layers of rock, meeting at common points to form galleries. Many crustaceans and worms occupied the passageways, and several kinds of scrapings and/or etchings characterized the walls. Species accomplishing this have not yet been determined. A variety of borings 1 to 5 mm in diameter have single or multiple openings into the larger passageways. Rates of biological erosion of the rock were obtained from the depth of penetration of the borers and estimated length of life spans in years. Yearly attrition is estimated to range from 2 to 10 mm in some localities. Physical and chemical submarine weathering of these rocks alone seldom penetrates more than one cm from the exposed surface. Because biological penetration is much greater, it is an important factor in shaping the seabed. Borers attack fine-grained rocks more intensely than those that are coarse-grained, perhaps accounting for the dearth of mudstones on the seabed near La Jolla, except for the steep and more rapidly eroding walls of the submarine canyons. Most rocks presently exposed on the relatively flat upper continental shelf (10 to 30 m) appear to be remnants of highly indurated sandstone strata, less susceptible to biological attack.
3884188|Viviparous reproduction in fishes provides opportunities for maternal phenotypic modifications to influence offspring phenotype following fertilization. Various physiological adaptations associated with the maintenance and control of prenatal embryonic development may provide the means by which postnatal phenotype is impacted by maternal phenotype. It is widely recognized that postzygotic maternal influences may be mediated through the maternal-embryonic trophic relationship in matrotrophic species. I propose that 1) postzygotic maternal influences in viviparous fishes may also be mediated through immunological, respiratory, osmoregulatory/excretory, endocrinological, and thermoregulatory aspects of the maternal-embryonic relationship, and 2) any modification of embryonic and/or postnatal physiology through influence of the maternal physiological state should be regarded as a maternal effect that has potential ecological and evolutionary significance. This approach should help to identify trends and provide a framework, for comparing the evolution of adaptations for viviparity and their ecological impact across the vertebrate classes as well as to facilitate identification of selective factors contributing to evolution of various forms of viviparous reproduction.
4620201| To investigate the capacity of the myomeric muscles to actively change the stiffness of the body during bending, mid-caudal sections (spanning two to three intervertebral joints) of intact, freshly-killed American eels, Anguilla rostrata, were dynamically bent (3 Hz, 4% maximal muscle strain) using the whole-body workloop technique. Following unstimulated cycles, the left- and right-sides of the musculature were alternately stimulated at supra-maximal voltages and at eight different phases relative to the strain cycle of the muscle. The body's flexural stiffness (Nm) increased maximally by a factor of three relative to that when the muscles were unstimulated. The net external work (J kg) needed to bend the body decreased maximally by a factor of seven relative to that when the muscles were unstimulated. Both of these mechanical features varied sinusoidally with changes in the phase of the stimulus. Stimulus phase of caudal muscle in live swimming eels, taken from other studies, leads to the prediction that the caudal muscles increase body stiffness and produce net positive mechanical work simultaneously during steady forward swimming. The association of increased body stiffness and net positive muscle work, and the occurrence of maximal net muscle power output at a stimulus phase of 325 (as the muscle segment lengthens), suggests that net positive power is produced, in part, using an elastic strain energy mechanism. 
3882040|This paper comments on the induction of gametogenesis, on microscopical and electronmicroscopical aspects of spermatogenesis and oogenesis and on fertilization in the genus Hydra. Spermiogenesis does not present any peculiarities. The ripe sperm contains no detectable acrosome. Egg-formation involves phagocytosis of entire oogonia by growing oocytes. Several oocytes merge to a single oocyte, in which one nucleus becomes the germinal vesicle. The egg shell is formed only when the egg is fertilized. Various factors such as the synchronization of gametogenesis, the length of sexual periods, continuous release of sperm and the long life span of sperm are considered to guarantee the fertilization of the eggs.
3882608|The final level of development in the vertebrate nervous system concerns the patterning, or modelling, of the connections of the postmitotic neurons at target tissues. The growth of target tissue and the sprouting of newly-arrived axons is followed by a regulated distribution of the sprouts, and often the development of specific contacts (synapses). Usually there are more sprouts than can be accommodated; the result is competition for target sites and regression of unsuccessful endings, leading to the characteristic pattern of connections. Studies particularly of the reinnervation of denervated skin in salamanders and rats have revealed a number of conditions and processes that influence competition. Spatial and temporal constraints restrict the sprouting of certain nerves but not others. Substances conveyed to nerve terminals by fast axoplasmic transport can "neutralize" sprouting influences believed to derive from target tissues, and can "mask" target features that nerves recognize; other substances are needed for sprouting to occur at all. Increased impulse activity in certain nerves accelerates their sprouting. Intriguingly, regenerating nerves will recapture targets from sprouted endings. Most of the identified conditions and processes occur in the adult animal; they could therefore provide a basis for remodelling of neuronal connections. Remodelling occurs when the characteristic early hyperinnervation of target tissues converts after birth to the adult pattern; in cutaneous "touch domes" targets are eliminated in addition to endings. Perhaps remodelling plays a role in the development of behaviour even in mature animals.
3882532|The value of examining hummingbird foraging behavior in complex laboratory environments is discussed relative to decision theory and experimental components analysis, and an experimental system is described. The system provides control of metabolic, behavioral, and environmental variables, and allows automatic recording and efficient analysis of behavior. Specific research applications of the system are discussed, including studies of adjustment of food intake to changes in food concentration, discrimination and choice among food sources, and spatial memory organization.
3882902|Analysis of 1,063 stomach contents from 39 species of sea snakes indicates that about one-third of the shallow, warm, marine, Indo-Australian fish families are preyed upon by sea snakes. Families of eels and gobies are taken by the greatest numbers of snake species. Most species of sea snakes feed on fish families whose members are relatively sedentary, dwelling along the bottom, within burrows or reef crevices. With one exception, a fish egg-eating specialization found uniquely in the Aipysurus-Emydocephalus lineage, the dietary habits of sea snakes cannot be categorized according to the snakes' three phylogenetic lineages. Eels, mullet-like, rabbitfish-like and goby-like fish forms are taken by all three lineages. Two or three snake species are generalists, and numerous ones specialize on eels, goby-like fish or catfish. There are differences among sea snake species in the relationship between snake neck girth and the maximum diameter of the prey; in the relationships of both snake gape measurements and fang length, to the type of prey taken; and in the relationship of snake shape and body proportions to the prey selected. Several modes of feeding have been observed among sea snakes: feeding in nooks and crannies in the bottom or in reefs, cruising near the bottom, and feeding in drift lines. Analysis of percent digestion of stomach contents and projections backward to the times of prey capture provides evidence for feeding periodicity. The greatest amount of diet overlap is for two species of sea snakes which do not both occur at the same locality. Where species do co-occur, diet overlap index values are lower. The numbers of species present as well as their relative abundances vary among localities as does the relative importance of generalists, eel-eaters, egg-eaters and other specialized feeders.
3882098|Historical views of head segmentation are reviewed. The concensus is that the head is segmented essentially in terms of myomeres, and that other organs have responded in varying degrees to this. From the various lines of reasoning a model of the primitive vertebrate is generated. This model denies the tunicate origin of the vertebrates-rather it identifies amphioxus as most like the ancestral vertebrate. The vertebrate head is made up of a preoral segment plus four other segments. Because of sclerotomites, the head extends through five and a half segments. The nasal organs and eyes are preoral structures while the ear is located between segments three and four. The occipital portion of the head skeleton is formed from the posterior half of the fifth segment and the anterior half of the sixth; it is vertebra-like in structure. This "segment" is much altered as a result of the multiplication of the visceral pouches and is often viewed as the fusion product of several segments. Thus the idea of correspondence between somite and visceral segments posterior to the second branchial arch is rejected. In some fishes, additional vertebrae are added to the posterior part of the cranium and this can be observed in development. The bony cranium of the vertebrate appears to partially reflect segmentation; its components suggest a vertebra-like developmental influence in operation. Study of the shark head has contributed much to our knowledge of this area.
3882363|Biological adaptation is a property of phenotypic features of organisms relative to selection demands of the environment. Adaptive features are ones having properties of form and function which permit the organism to maintain successfully the synerg between a biological role of that feature and a stated selection force. The degree of goodness of the adaptation can be measured by means of the amount of energy needed to maintain the synerg with less energy indicating better adaptation. Adaptation does not apply to a close fit between different features or between the form and function of a feature or to the mutual interactions between features of a structural network. The state of being adapted is independent of the process of becoming adapted as adaptations need not evolve under the control of selection forces to which they are now adapted. Selection is here considered as the demands placed on the organism by the environment with which the organism must cope to continue surviving as an individual. Adapted features have been judged using three methods-the comparative, the correlative and the synthetic-of which only the last is valid. The synthetic method requires study of the forms and functions of the feature in the laboratory and of the biological roles of the feature and the selection demands of the environment in the field. It is suggested that the best approach for the study of adaptations is a team effort with constant feedback between the laboratory and field phases of study. It is urged that attention be given to the development of an ecological morphology to supplement functional morphology and provide the necessary foundation for proper elucidation of biological adaptations.
3884418| Photoreceptors undergoing target selection in the optic lobe of Drosophila express a nitric oxide sensitive soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC). At the same time, cells in the target region of the optic lobe express nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Pharmacological inhibition of NOS, NO or sGC leads to disruption of the retinal projection pattern in vitro, and the extension of individual retinal axons beyond their appropriate targets. The disruptive effects of NOS inhibition in vitro are prevented by adding a cGMP analog. Mutations in the sGC alpha subunit gene, Gc1, reduce sGC expression and attenuate NO-sensitive retinal cGMP production in the visual system. Although the retinal projection pattern is undisturbed in Gc1 mutants, they lack positive phototaxis as adults, suggesting inappropriate connections exist between the photoreceptors and optic lobe interneurons in these flies. Preliminary results show that heat-shock expression of wild-type Gc1 during metamorphosis can restore positive phototaxis in severe Gc1 mutants. These in vivo results support the in vitro findings that NOS and sGC activity are required to promote the appropriate retinal innervation of the optic lobe. 
3883167|Central to most models of population regulation is the idea that the degree of intraspecific competition is in some way proportional to the availability of limiting resources. Although laboratory research has demonstrated a number of proximate mechanisms by which behavior might affect population growth, little is known about the resources that are actually limiting population density in the field or about how animals might compete for them. Long-term field studies reveal that the white-footed mouse, Peromyscus leucopus, exhibits two types of pronounced changes in density: intra-annual (seasonal) and inter-annual. The former seem to be due ultimately to climate and the lack of winter breeding, but populations often decline sharply in late summer in the midst of plentiful food; fall recruitment of new animals is density-dependent and usually poor. Differences in peak densities from one year to the next as high as 13-fold have been recorded. Weather, shelter, and food are possible ultimate limiting resources. Food has received the most attention, but supplemental feeding experiments have yielded mixed results. A review of the social behavior of this polygnous species suggests that each sex is limited by different combinations of factors. Females may defend a food source and nest sites; males may search actively for females at low adult densities, covering large areas, and defend access to females at high adult densities. Additional long-term field studies are needed, both to provide direction to laboratory research on proximate mechanisms and to provide the data base for understanding the role of weather, food, and shelter as ultimate limiting factors. Enough short-term studies have been published to permit comparisons across habitats and through time which will give a better perspective on climate and habitat variables. Field experiments are necessary to demonstrate the operation of proximate behavioral, physiological, and genetic mechanisms of population regulation in natural populations.
3883633|Two topics on decapod larval biology are discussed: retention and recruitment of decapod larvae to the parental population and the ecological role of decapod larvae in the water column. Most decapods have retained a planktonic larval phase which is generally interpreted as a mechanism for increased dispersal. Evidence of restricted gene flow and biological/physical interaction research have suggested that larvae can be retained and recruited to the parental population via mesoscale processes. To fully understand recruitment processes improved estimates of mortality rates for planktonic larval stages will be required. Recent evidence suggests that mortality rates are not constant over the complete larval developmental period but decrease with time. During some seasons meroplankton including decapod larvae can constitute more than 50% of the plankton biomass. The quantity of energy transferred into the water column can be significant. Their role in planktonic ecology may be significant and additional research is required.
3883284| Evidence in support of the hypothesis that T
3882252|While the analysis of displays and communication in reptiles has accelerated during the past decade, much of the information has been anecdotal and gathered without focus. There are exceptions. In a few studies releasers and releasing mechanisms were analyzed. However, to date our understanding of the communication repertoire of even the best studied reptile, the lizard Anolis carolinensis is fragmentary. In a few other studies the quantitative nature of variation of particular display movements or acts has been elucidated but there are many more acts for all species whose quantitative and qualitative variations are unknown. Only a very few investigators have postulated adaptive reasons for observed patterns of variation between populations or species. There are no good tests of these hypotheses. Both broad comparative studies that rigorously measure environmental variables and in-depth studies on single populations are badly needed to relieve this deficiency. Despite the lack of good data, recent techniques, some from studies with objectives entirely different from that of studying behavior, are likely to further our knowledge significantly. The projection image technique will enable the rigorous dissection of the signal value of various visually oriented acts. For the study of adaptive significance of display variation within a lizard population is presented an in-depth empirical approach that utilizes demographic analysis, behavioral observation and field experimentation.
3883764|For the past 25 years we have used a comparative strategy designed to identify and describe the endocrine parameters of the oviparous-vivparous transition and subsequent gradual reduction in hepatic yolk protein precursor (vitellogenin) synthesis associated with placental viviparity. Our approach has been to study vertebrate groups in which both oviparous and viviparous modes are common (reptiles, elasmobranchs). We have provided evidence for the control of follicular (granulosa/theca) and luteal steroidogenesis, and the cellular basis of gonadal steroid hormone action on the key target tissues (oviduct, liver). Our results, some of which are summarized below, have led us to suggest that ovarian progesterone (follicular or luteal in origin) has a dual role in the evolution of viviparity: 1. To inhibit myometrial contractions, thus providing a primary condition for egg retention and viviparity. 2. To inhibit estrogen-induced hepatic vitellogenin synthesis as part of both normal oviparous cycles and as a concomitant of placental evolution.
3883021|Comparative Immunology includes an evolutionary approach to immunity revealing the immune system as widespread and necessary for survival. Although many immunology textbooks and courses are often oriented solely toward medicine or allied professions, comparative immunology is a unique beginning for advanced undergraduate students of biology, zoology, and immunology. A more biologic approach to immune competence causes mammalian immunologists to view comparative immunology as an introduction to numerous ectothermic vertebrates and invertebrates. Such exotic animals are sources of meaningful facts important for anyone viewing significant breakthroughs in immunology in phylogenetic perspective. Animals preserve their unique individuality by distinguishing between self and non-self to protect against infection and possible extinction. The earliest beginnings of immune reactions are best exemplified among the invertebrates by recognition, phagocytosis, graft rejection accompanied by specificity and weak memory, and the induction of agglutinins and lectins. Although vertebrates share these same responses, the main differences include more extensive evidence of specificity and memory and the unique capacity to synthesize immunoglobulins. Acknowledging the problem of recognition as the common basis for the immune response, certain members of the Ig superfamily, notably Thy-1 and 
3884521|Drought and salinity stress are the major causes of historic and modern agricultural productivity losses throughout the world. Both drought and salinity result in osmotic stress that may lead to inhibition of growth. Salinity causes additional ion toxicity effects mainly through perturbations in protein and membrane structure. In contrast to animals, which rely on Na
3883646|Disturbances have played major roles in shaping community structure in Great Barrier Reef coral communities in the period 1980-90. Major causes of coral death have been a coral bleaching episode in 1982, predation by crown of thorn starfish Acanthaster planci, and cyclone damage. A series of 30 permanent photo-transects was established on six reefs on the Great Barrier Reef in 1979-80. This is a very small sample, but nearly all transects were affected by one or other of these disturbances early in the decade. The changes are summarised as transitions among five stages identified in a model incorporating "normal" and "abnormal" patch dynamics of coral communities. The major disturbances of bleaching, crown of thorns and cyclones tend to cause high coral mortality over large areas, but nevertheless it was surprising that such a large proportion of photo-transects was affected. By the end of the decade, none of the damaged transects had "recovered," in terms of percentage coral cover or numbers of new colonies. Photo-transects and visual surveys showed sites deeper than 3 m had particularly poor recovery. Hydrodynamic models predict considerable patchiness in larval availability, an essential precursor for coral recolonization.
3882638|Tubular structure of the teleost testis can be divided into two basic types distinguished from each other by the distribution of spermatogonia. In most teleosts, spermatogonia occur along the length of the tubules, but in atheriniform fishes they are confined to the terminus of the tubule. Variations in these testis-types are discussed particularly in light of modifications leading to the production of spermatozeugmata or spermatophores. Teleost boundary cells are located immediately outside of the tubule basement membrane. Previous reports homologizing "lobule boundary cells" with Leydig or Sertoli cells are in error. Leydig cells have been described for species of teleosts wherein they have previously been thought to be absent and are a typical component of the interstitium. Sperm morphology reflects mode of reproduction. Nuclear elongation, coupled with possible elongation of the sperm midpiece, is characteristic of most species wherein fertilization is internal. Teleost sperm lack an acrosome.
3882948|Some aspects of prolactin and growth hormone biology in fishes and amphibians are considered, including the nature of the secretory cells, the regulation of their activity, the chemistry of the hormones, and their physiological activity in relation to hydromineral metabolism and to growth and development. Inasmuch as most of the information is derived from only a small number of teleost and amphibian species, a broad evolutionary biology is difficult to derive without information from other fish groups especially, and a survey must be confined largely to a comparative biology of some representative higher bony fishes with some representative anurans and urodeles.
3881674|All publications dealing with fungi described from marine calcareous substrates are discussed in this survey of the literature. Original investigations of fungi from lime tubes of teredinids are included. Wood-inhabiting marine fungi, especially in warm waters, grow within calcareous linings of teredinid burrows. Fruiting structures of the Ascomycetes, Halosphaeria quadricornuta and Remispora salina, and the Deuteromycete, Periconia prolifica, form cavities in the tube linings, making them brittle and soft. Representatives of Cirrenalia and Humicola sporulate on the surface of calcareous linings. The fungus, Pharcidia balani, sometimes referred to as a lichen, decomposes shells of barnacles and molluscs. Another Ascomycete, Lulworthia kniepii, parasitizes calcareous algae, probably living on the middle lamellae, not on the calcified cell walls.
3884254|Salt marshes and similar tide-dominated habitats present an unusual challenge for reproduction of resident aquatic organisms. Strong currents, siltation and hypoxia can potentially contribute to reproductive failure through mortality of the eggs or flushing of the eggs and larvae from the habitat. Fundulus heteroclitus, a small brackish water killifish, is a common resident of tidal marshes along the east coast of North America from Newfoundland to Florida. The reproductive strategy of this and related species is based on aerial incubation of eggs in the high intertidal zone. The eggs are resistant to desiccation and, when fully developed, hatch on immersion. Copulatory behavior and anatomy of accessory reproductive structures are adapted to placement of eggs in protected incubation sites. The gonads of both males and females mature rhythmically with an endogenous circasemilunar period, which is synchronized with the "spring" tides of new and full moons. Spawning occurs on high tides. Embryos develop in 9-15 days, and usually hatch on the succeeding spring tide series. Reproductive cyclicity in F. heteroclitus and related fishes ensures that spawning fish will have access to the high intertidal zone, thereby permitting aerial incubation of eggs.
3881885|The long held view that leopard frogs (Rana pipiens complex) are a single widely distributed species is not correct. Five sibling species are currently recognizable. These findings have important implications on the use of leopard frogs in experimental research.
3882588|Foraminifera are a ubiquitous and sometimes numerically important component of benthic communities. This paper discusses the role of free amino acids in the nutrition of Notodendrodes antarctikos, a large arborescent foraminifer from an oligotrophic embayment of the Ross Sea, Antarctica. The effects of temperature and substrate concentrations suggest a carrier mediated transport system which facilitates the accumulation of a wide variety of free amino acids at concentrations found in the interstitial waters of its sedimentary habitat. Involvement of isotopically labeled amino acids in the metabolism of this organism is discussed.
3884463|Evolutionary developmental biology is inevitably a comparative subject. However, the taxonomic level at which comparisons can be made varies widely, and this greatly affects the kind of information that can be gained from the comparison. Broadly speaking, high-level comparisons (e.g., between phyla) are more informative about phylogenetic pattern and homology, while low-level comparisons (e.g., between congeneric species) are more informative about evolutionary mechanisms, including speciation. However, so far evolutionary developmental biology has had a relatively minor input into the traditional territory of population genetics, namely comparisons within species-both within and between geographic populations. Yet this area is crucial, as all evolutionary novelties ultimately arise from intraspecific variation. Here, I address this issue, focusing on the question of how early in development novelties arise. To shed light on this question, I discuss two examples of developmental polymorphism within species involving two of the main body axes: anteroposterior segmentation in centipedes and left-right asymmetry (chirality) in gastropods.
3883406|The central problem in the history of animal behavior has been the inability to perceive the phenotype as the result of an interaction between genome and environment, despite the considerable lip service paid to the interaction. In North America the comparative study of animal behavior was overshadowed by the growth of an experimental psychology that produced the general-process view of learning, holding that the mechanisms underlying learning are much the same in all species. That made evolution irrelevant. During the same period ethology emerged in Europe as the study of naturally occurring behavior in an evolutionary context. Because evolution is fundamental to ethology, the genetic basis of behavior was a central precept. Ethology and psychology collided after World War II. After a vigorous exchange on the issues, a synthesis by Robert Hinde materialized, one that advanced the study of behavior and produced a sophisticated understanding of nature and nurture. A few decades later sociobiology appeared and was immediately assailed for making what were seen as unwarranted extensions from animal to human behavior, and for emphasizing genetic control of behavior. Much of the debate that ensued was distractingly political and threw little light on the scientific merits of the issues although it moderated the stance of sociobiologists; on the other hand, the politically inspired debates may have harmed the field of animal behavior.
3883158|The Johns Hopkins University offered the first modern, American, research-oriented program in biology when it opened in 1876. The program included both physiological and morphological work, so that students could choose either for their advanced degrees. Physiologists studied with Henry Newell Martin, morphologists with William Keith Brooks. Yet students took courses in both areas, and the unique exposure to two lines of research and to two very different sorts of teachers made the Johns Hopkins program exceptional. This paper outlines the dual character of biology at Hopkins, and the particular contributions of both Martin and Brooks. It also argues that the impact of that unique dual offering on four of the more famous students, E. B. Wilson, T. H. Morgan, E. G. Conklin, and R. G. Harrison, strongly influenced the successful and progressive program of research that each chose.
3883320|When peripheral nerves are cut, the axotomized nerves and denervated muscles undergo atrophic changes which are reversed only when functional connections are remade in the periphery. The restored interaction completely reverses the effects of axotomy and denervation and leads to rematching of the size of the motoneuron, muscle unit force, speed and histochemical properties, according to the size principle. Differences in unit force and fatigue characteristics between motor unit types are not fully restored in reinnervated muscles but do not obscure size relationships between the motoneurons and their muscle units. Although intact motoneurons will supply increased numbers of muscle fibers after partial nerve injuries, regenerating axons appear to be limited in their ability to enlarge their muscle units. Increased motor unit force in reinnervated slow motor units is accounted for primarily by an increase in fiber diameter; fast motor units do not increase their mean force output. As a result of the rematching of muscle unit properties with the size of the motoneurons that reinnervate them, motor unit properties are appropriate for fine control of movement after complete or partial nerve injuries. However, regenerating axons do not reinnervate their original muscle fibers and unless the fibers are injured close to the muscles, they often fail to reinnervate their original muscles. The mismatching of motor pools with inappropriate target muscles is probably the main factor responsible for poor recovery of motor function after complete nerve injuries.
3883062|Reptilian eggs previously categorized with respect to the flexibility of eggshells appear to fall into two groups: endohydric eggs are those that are invested, by the female parent at the time of oviposition, with all of the water necessary to complete embryogenesis; and ectohydric eggs which need to absorb water from the nest medium to complete embryogenesis. Eggs of the Galapagos land iguana are unusual among most lepidosaurians by having very permeable parchment shells, but containing a large albumen (apparently serving as a reservoir of water for the embryo). It appears that the eggs of Galapagos land iguanas can exploit an endohydric habit without the rigid, impermeable shell seen in other endohydric eggs. This ability appears to be mediated by two factors: eggs of Galapagos land iguanas are laid in dry soils which are essentially impermeable to water, and the very large eggs of land iguanas have a relatively small surface area to volume ration which results in a relatively small exchange of water across the eggshell. It appears too that the water relations of Galapagos land iguana eggs will effect the energetics of both the contained embryo and the subsequent hatchling. Without adequate water, land iguana eggs will produce hatchlings that are both smaller and possess less fat to sustain the juvenile during the first year of life.
3881462|A review of the literature on the structural, physiological, and pharmacological properties of insect neuromuscular systems (excluding those concerned with flight) is presented. The membrane properties of insect muscle fibers are discussed in relation to the varied ionic environment of insect muscle. Attention is given to recent developments in insect neuromuscular pharmacology and speculative comments on the identities and properties of the chemical mediators at excitatory and inhibitory nerve-muscle synapses are made. Finally, the functional significances of inhibitory and excitatory axons innervating insect skeletal muscles are discussed in the light of new information obtained from studies of free-walking locust preparations.
3884397|Evidence indicates that small heat-shock proteins (Hsps) are involved in stress tolerance, but the specific cell components or functions that small Hsps protect or repair are mostly unidentified. We recently showed that the chloroplast small Hsps of higher plants (1) are produced in response to many environmental stresses (e.g., heat, oxidative, and high-light stress); and (2) protect (but do not repair) photosynthetic electron transport in vitro during stress, specifically by interacting with the oxygen-evolving-complex proteins of Photosystem II (PSII) within the thylakoid lumen. However, in vivo evidence of the importance of these Hsps to photosynthetic stress tolerance is lacking. Here we report positive relationships between chloroplast small Hsp production and PSII thermotolerance in (1) a heat-tolerant genotype of Agrostis palustris (bentgrass) and a heat sensitive genotype which lacks one or more chloroplast small Hsps produced by the tolerant genotype; (2) ecotypes of Chenopodium album (lambs quarters) from the northern vs. southern U.S. (New York vs. Georgia); and (3) nine Lycopersicon (tomato) cultivars/species differing in heat tolerance. These in vivo results are consistent with our previous in vitro observations and indicate that genetic variation in production of the chloroplast small Hsp is an important determinant of photosynthetic and, thereby, whole-plant thermotolerance. Recently, we showed that the mitochondrial small Hsp of plants protects respiratory (specifically Complex I) electron transport in vitro during heat stress, and here we present evidence for previously unidentified small Hsps in mitochondria of mammal (rat) cells which also protect Complex I during heat stress. These results suggest that the mitochondrial small Hsps, like the small chloroplast Hsps, are general stress proteins that contribute significantly to cell and organismal stress tolerance.
3882912|A number of superficially similar evolutionary phenomena are often lumped together as "alternative reproductive behaviors (ARBs)." Several authors have previously organized the broad array of reproductive alternatives by their relation to ESS theory. Because such an organizing scheme begs the question of how much ESS models can contribute to our understanding of ARBs, I suggest a different scheme-devoid of ESS connotations-which classifies alternatives according to whether they represent genetic differences between individuals (genotypic versus phenotypic alternatives), whether the alternatives can be expected to manifest equal or unequal fitnesses (isogignous versus allogignous alternatives), and whether individuals may switch back and forth between alternatives (reversible versus irreversible alternatives). I point out that plausible selective regimes other than frequency-dependence can maintain genotypic alternatives, and that explanations for the maintenance of phenotypic alternatives usually can be examined only theoretically. I also urge more rigor in the field-testing of ESS models, review criteria which putative ESSs should meet, and suggest a statistical approach for evaluating evidence with regard to equality of fitnesses of reproductive alternatives.
3883626|Comparison of the circulating steroids in the blood of crabs lacking neurosecretory eyestalk centers and crabs with those centers intact (but lacking several walking legs) has revealed differences in vivo that can be attributed to eyestalk factors. It is concluded that eyestalk factors (including the putative molt-inhibiting hormone, MIH): 1) exert control in vivo over production of 25-deoxyecdysone by the crab Y-organ, 2) control cyclic steroid production throughout anecdysis and parts of proecdysis and 3) are not solely responsible for the increased steroid production that occurs during late proecdysis. Using the data presented here and previously published data, a simple feedback model for the control of Y-organ activity is proposed. The model suggests that the Y-organs of the crab Uca pugilator are modestly active during anecdysis but become further activated during late proecdysis. The increased activation requires more than eyestalk removal and may involve additional extra-eyestalk factors.
3882166|With the exception of the agnathan fishes, a prolactin cell has been identified in all vertebrates in which it has been sought. This review examines the structure of the prolactin-producing pituitary cell in non-mammalian vertebrates, the manner in which it responds to natural and artificial stimuli, and its control by neural and humoral factors. Fundamental similarities and differences are described in an attempt to understand better its method of operation. Given our present state of knowledge, there is, among all the apparent diversity, a similarity in the basic structure and morphological response of this cell in teleosts, amphibians, reptiles, and birds. One can identify and speak with relative certainty about a specific adenohypophysial cell called a "prolactin cell." More profound differences may be found at the level of control mechanisms, chemistry of the hormone(s), and the nature of receptivity and response of target tissues. It appears that although there are basic similarities in the design of the prolactin cell, the systems that control its activities may differ and the similar products produced by the cell may be used toward different ends.
3881974|The social systems of New World species of jays are compared behaviorally and ecologically. Two lines leading to sociality are identified, one connecting the pair-in-territory system with the colonial system and a second connecting the pair-in-territory system with the communal system. Ecological factors in the evolution of communal breeding and its associated altruistic behavior are considered mainly in the genus Aphelocoma, but other birds are treated briefly. Three principal origins of communality and altruism in birds are identified: from colonies, from a surplus of males, and by retention of young in the family, the latter being of greatest importance. The theory proposed for the evolution of communal breeding and altruism emphasizes three main processes: 1) K-selection, (2) kin selection, and (3) kin-group selection in the same chronological order.
3882073|As a continuation of studies of the regenerative capacities of the scyphistoma of Cassiopea, a series of experiments was undertaken in which (i) regenerating fragments were cultured in the presence of various antimetabolites and (ii) Feulgen-stained nuclei from control animals and regenerating fragments were measured by scanning, integrating microspectrophotometry. The results of the antimetabolite experiments were complex and variable but nonetheless suggested that normal regeneration of functional heads from fragments requires the synthesis of DNA, RNA, and protein. Regardless of the type of antimetabolite, the most frequently observed morphological effect was prolonged or arrested development. None of the antimetabolities produced characteristic or unique abnormalities, although variation was observed in the ability of the inhibited fragments to recover from the various antimetabolites. Microspectrophotometric measurements of Feulgen-stained nuclei from control animals revealed that approximately 25% of the nuclei contained more than the diploid amount of DNA and thus were in either the S or G
3882199|Nine active neurohypophysial peptides have been identified among the vertebrates. Arginine-vasotocin appears to be the most primitive. It occurs in cyclostomes and among representative species from all major branches of vertebrate phylogeny. The eight other neurohypophysial principles are presumed to have evolved from arginine-vasotocin after one or more reduplications of the primitive arginine-vasotocin gene. Arginine-vasotocin cannot be detected in the adult mammalian neurohypophysis but it has been found in the pineal and subcommissural organs of adult mammals. Arginine-vasotocin may be released into the cerebrospinal fluid and influence functions mediated by hypothalamic hypophysiotropic factors. The primitive functions of arginine-vasotocin are not clear. They may relate to cardiovascular regulation since vascular responses to arginine-vasotocin can be demonstrated in species representing all major branches of vertebrate evolution.
3881871|Character displacement involving a single, diallelic locus in each of two competing species is investigated via computer simulation. The niche, as the sum of the utilization efficiencies of the population for combinations of environmental variables, is distinguished from the resource peak, which is a set of combinations of environmental variables actually present at exploitable frequencies in the environment. The two populations compete for a single resource peak made up of five subunits. Each genotype in each species has an optimum peak subunit, but survives in all of them. The intermediate subunit is optimal for a genotype in each species. Movement is restricted between subunits, which are thus treated here as microhabitats. The simulation covers a geographical range with each species occurring alone where its birth rate is high, with the birth rate declining as the range of the other species is approached; sympatry occurs in a region of intermediate birth rates for both species. The character displacement involves characters determined by the genotypes at the competition locus. The shape of the resource peak has a profund effect on the form taken by character displacement. A "steep" peak (one with the intermediate subunit much more frequent than the rest) results in a sharp step in the morphoclines, with two stable equilibrium points at the point of equal birth rates. A "bimodal" peak (one with equally frequent subunits, each optimum for a genotype for one species only) leads to a gradual change. Other peak types also have characteristic effects, showing that ecological inferences can be drawn from the form taken by character displacement.
3882836|Patterns of stress were analyzed in the mandibular symphysis of Macaca fascicularis using rosette strain gages. During jaw opening, the mandibular symphysis is bent due to medial transverse bending of the mandibular corpora. Levels of stress and strain are relatively low at this time, and the source of this stress is the medially-directed component of force from the lateral pterygoid muscles. During the power stroke of mastication, the symphysis is maximally stressed. At this time the symphysis experiences dorsoventral shear and bending due to lateral transverse bending of the mandibular corpora, i.e., "wishboning." The dorsoventral shear is due to the vertical component of the balancing-side adductor muscle force; the "wishboning" is due to the laterally-directed components of the bite and jaw adductor muscle forces. Unlike dorsoventral shear, "wishboning" results in considerable levels of stress and strain, particularly along the most lingual aspect of the symphysis. The most effective way to counter this stress is to increase the thickness of the symphysis in the labio-lingual direction. The stress analysis and an allometric analysis of mandibular dimensions in female cercopithecine (Old World) monkeys indicates that allometric changes in the symphysis are readily understood if the mandible is modelled as a curved beam. With increasing body size, symphyseal thickness in cercopithecines must increase in a positively allometric fashion so as to prevent the occurrence of dangerously high levels of stress along the most lingual aspect of the symphysis. This is because increasing body size is associated with three factors that have important consequences within the context of the biomechanics of curved beams: (1) jaw length is positively allometric to body size, (2) mandibular-arch width is negatively allometric to body size, and (3) there is a tendency to use relatively greater amounts of balancing-side jaw muscle force with increased body size because of dietary changes and allometric constraints on total jaw muscle force.
3881679| Shells of the sea scallop, Placopecten magellanicus Gmelin from Newfoundland waters were examined for borers by direct stereomicroscopic and X-ray radiographic means. Young shells are first attacked by the boring sponge, Cliona vastifica, and the spionid polychaetes, Polydora websteri and Polydora concharum. The former settles almost exclusively on the lower valve, but as it grows it often spreads to the upper valve via the hinge region. The spionids settle on the upper valve or occasionally on the periphery of the lower valve. Older shells are bored by the cirratulid polychaete, Dodecaceria concharum, which usually settles in empty Polydora burrows and enlarges them as they grow. The bivalve, Hiatella arctica, settles in Cliona holes. The burrows formed by the borers can be recognized on the radiographs. However, the identity of the present inhabitant cannot be predicted with accuracy because the original borer is often replaced by nestlers. The rate of growth was documented by making sequential radiographs at monthly intervals from May to October 1968. Rate of growth in all forms appears to be temperature-dependent. The water temperature increased from 1C in May up to 18C in August. Polydora concharum and P. websteri grew more rapidly from July to October than in May and June, while Cliona and Dodecaceria only grew during the months of July to October. 
3881809|The physiological and morphological responses of various littoral algal species to the stresses imposed upon the adults and sporelings by a number of interrelated factors in different latitudes are discussed in so far as there is experimental evidence that they delimit the vertical range of a species. The upper limits of algal zones in the eulittoral region are primarily determined by the resistance of the species to loss of water during mid-day exposure, by the effects of desiccation upon metabolism, by the ability to adjust their osmoregulatory processes during the periods of exposure to the rapid changes of salinity, and by the degree of tolerance to diurnal and seasonal changes of air temperatures. Low intensity of light reduces the metabolic efficiency and affects the resistance to desiccation and to variations in temperature and salinity. The lower limits of the eulittoral algal zones are primarily controlled by the intensity of light, by the competition with algae and invertebrates for space and light, and by grazing animals. The primary factors controlling the upper limits of the sublittoral algae are the depth of the wave base; the ability to utilize the submarine illumination as affected by turbidity and wave action in the layers of surface water; and the resistance to hydrostatic pressure. The lower limits of the sublittoral algae and both the upper and lower limits of the elittoral algal zones are controlled by the illumination and its effect upon the compensation-depth, the hydrostatic pressure, and the availability of nutrients.
3882673|The geographical distribution of animals is affected by both historical and present-day ecological factors. It is of great interest to distinguish between their effects. Unfortunately, both major classes of factors can yield similar biogeographic patterns, making it difficult to know which factor is more important. In addition, it is very important to examine all of the consequences of a particular hypothesis, as well as alternatives. Two examples age given: the Pleistocene forest refuge hypothesis and vicariance biogeography. The refuge hypothesis yields three predictions, but only one is upheld-concordance of centers of diversity; the distribution of positions and widths of contact zones is inconsistent with the hypothesis. The two alternative hypotheses, current ecology and current peripheral isolation, yield predictions which are upheld. The major prediction of vicariance biogeography, that concordant cladograms should indicate common vicariant sequences among the lineages, is rejected. Concordant cladograms can only result from common patterns of shared selection regimes and thus do not reflect vicariant patterns. More work needs to be done in distinguishing historical from ecological factors in species distributions.
3884504|Aquatic feeding strikes on agile prey in snake-necked turtles involve fast neck extension, bucco-pharyngo-oesophageal expansion, and head retraction. The ultimate, rectilinear acceleration of the head towards the prey requires complex vertebral rotations, that vary widely from strike to strike. This poses complex motor control issues for the numerous intrinsic neck-muscles, which are the sole neck extensors. Mathematical modelling reveals that extensor activity might be superfluous for this phase of the strike. The ultimate acceleration of the head at the end of the strike always coincides with forceful oropharyngeal expansion. The momentum of the induced flow of water is sufficient to pull the head (and the neck) straight towards the prey. This buccal expansion proceeds identically to that observed in primary aquatic feeders: a rostro-caudal expansion sequence characterized by an optimal timing of the functional components supporting the expansion wave. Yet distinct structural solutions, both at the skeletal, and muscular level, are involved. This points towards prominent hydrodynamic constraints. Head and neck are retracted by extrinsic neck muscles. Given the high number of degrees of freedom, this musculo-skeletal system is obviously under-determined, which compromises control. We propose that erroneous folding of the neck (i.e., diverging from the highly persistent retracted configuration) might be avoided through the presence of a subtle click system at the level of the joint between cervical vertebrae 5 and 6.
3884556|The early life cycle of brachyuran crabs has a planktonic dispersal stage consisting of a variable number of zoeal larvae followed by the molt to the megalopa stage. Megalopae undergo horizontal transport to the settlement site where they settle out of the water column and metamorphose to the first crab (juvenile) stage. This review provides an overview of recent laboratory studies of cues that shorten or lengthen the time to metamorphosis (TTM) of the megalopa stage. Megalopae cannot delay metamorphosis indefinitely and have a temporal threshold beyond which metamorphosis occurs without habitat cues. The TTM can be shortened about 15-25% upon exposure to acceleration cues, which include chemical cues and odors from adult substrate, aquatic vegetation, biofilms, conspecifics, estuarine water, humic acids, related crab species, and potential prey. Cues shown to delay metamorphosis include ammonium, hypoxia, predator odor and extreme temperature and salinity conditions. There is no evidence that structural mimics of natural substrate affect TTM.
3883857|A life cycle alternating between a microscopic larva (mm-sized) and macroscopic adult (cm-sized) occurs commonly among invertebrates. The pattern of occurrence of such a biphasic life cycle among lower metazoans like the Porifera and Cnidaria, as well as ultrastructure of larva and adults of many invertebrates, suggests that the earliest phases of metazoan evolution also had such a cycle. Only the dispersive larvae in the original metazoans could be characterized as "small and mobile" if we follow this model to its logical conclusion; the adults, by contrast, evolved into larger-bodied organisms to maximize reproduction and were non-motile filter feeders for the most part. The biphasic life cycle arose early in evolution, then, shortly after the first multicellular organisms evolved as clones of flagellated cells linked together by interactions through ECM; selective pressures acting independently on the two phases of the life cycle led to the origin of the different metazoan tissue types-epithelial, connective, nervous, and muscle tissues. For the Bilateria, this suggests that extant acoelomate and pseudocoelomate forms evolved through progenesis of larvae and juveniles in a manner like that known for the radiation of the interstitial annelids. A better understanding of larval biology and of mechanisms for heterochrony is crucial for hypotheses of metazoan evolution.
3884534|Almost forty years ago, Ehrlich and Raven (1964) hypothesized that the great diversity of plants and the herbivores that feed on them arose from a process of coevolution. Plants do possess an amazing diversity of traits that are easily imagined as having arisen from an antagonistic interaction between plants and herbivores. Two basic assumptions lie at the root of most theories of coevolution between plants and their herbivores. First, herbivores are agents of natural selection on plant resistance traits. Second, plants incur a significant fitness cost for possessing these resistance traits. An ecological genetic approach can provide rigorous evidence for these coevolutionary assumptions. In this paper, I present new experimental work on the subject of costs of resistance and review and discuss my own previous work bearing directly on these questions. Using both field experiments on natural populations of the mouse-ear cress (Arabidopsis thaliana) and laboratory experiments using genetically modified plants, I demonstrate that herbivores are exerting selection on both a chemical and physical resistance trait and that there are significant fitness costs to possessing these two traits. These results provide direct confirmation that our current models of the evolution of plant defenses are appropriate.
3882499|Most parthenogenetic animal taxa which have been investigated electrophoretically, cytologically, or with tissue grafting techniques are clonally diverse. I have examined data on multiclonal parthenogenetic populations using ecological diversity measures to elucidate patterns of clonal coexistence. Analysis of a discrete population cage experiment on clones of Drosophila mercatorum revealed monotonic decay of clonal diversity and evenness; however, in a continuous generation cage, clonal diversity appeared to stabilize. Clonal diversity and evenness fluctuated widely over time in several multiclonal populations of Daphnia magna although no clonal extinction was observed. There were few spatial trends in clonal diversity and evenness within parthenogenetic taxa. It is suggested that the degree of clonal differentiation, determined by the mode of clonal origin, is important in determining whether or not selection occurs among sympatric clones
3883412|This essay completes Science as a Way of Knowing, an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists and eleven cosponsoring organizations. It is also the third part of my attempt to produce a "Conceptual Framework for Biology." The discussion of Evolution continues and is followed by Classification, Ecology, Geographic Distribution, Biology and Human Welfare, and the Nature of Science. The intended audience is those who teach the first-year biology courses in colleges and universities as well as biology teachers in the precollege grades.
3882927|This essay is part of an educational project of the American Society of Zoologists that will make proposals for improving the first-year biology course in the universities. The detailed suggestions emphasize the importance of the conceptual framework of the biological sciences. The topic for this year is Evolutionary Biology and it is developed largely by the hypothetico-deductive method emphasizing that science, in addition to its store of information, is a way of knowing. Other topics will be considered in future years in the ongoing project.
3881386|Certain supracellular aspects of embryonic differentiation, illustrated by studies of young chick blastoderms, are discussed. Specifically, the following principles and guidelines seem to be involved in early development of the chick: egg organization, relative movement, differential growth, regulation, restriction of regulative capacities, synonomy of regulation and growth, gradients and fields, developmental centers, dominance, integration, environmental control, and induction.
3884149|The regulation of food intake is a complex process involving both a central feeding drive and a peripheral satiety system. The endogenous kappa opioid dynorphin, is an important central stimulator of feeding. Opiates are involved in feeding regulation of a variety of species including amoeba, molluscs, mammals and birds. Opioids appear to regulate a variety of behaviors necessary to allow the animal to successfully obtain food. Some species lack an opioid feeding system. Cholecystokinin (CCK) is the prototypic satiety agent which decreases feeding in multiple species from molluscs to humans. CCK also enhances memory and thus may play a role in allowing the animal to remember the details of a successful hunt. Alterations in the photoperiod can alter the response to satiety peptides raising the possibility that these peptides may play a role in pre-hibernation anorexia. Other important neurotransmitters involved in generating the feeding drive are neuropeptide Y and nitric oxide. Studies across species suggest that the central feeding command system is the basic feeding system, which with the organism's development of the need for satiety periods is held in check by the introduction of a variety of peripheral satiety systems.
4620167| The anterior (ileum) and posterior (rectum) segments of the locust hindgut constitute the reabsorptive regions of the excretory system, which conserves or eliminates body water and solutes as required for osmotic homeostasis. Hindgut transport mechanisms in the desert locust have previously been well described but the neuropeptide hormones that may naturally control these processes are only now being identified. Ion Transport Peptide (ITP) has been isolated from locust corpus cardiacum (CC) and its full sequence of 72 amino acids deduced from its cDNA. Native ITP has the same actions as crude CC extracts in stimulating Cl, Na, K, and fluid absorption and inhibiting H secretion (i.e., influencing pH regulation). The deduced amino acid sequence of ITP was confirmed by showing biological activity of expressed and synthetic forms of this peptide. ITP has high sequence homology with a large family of crustacean hormones that include hyperglycaemic (CHH) and moult-inhibiting hormones (MIH) and is the first member reported outside crustaceans. 
3881369| Recent advances in biochemical techniques have resulted in considerable progress in the comparative qualitative analysis of non-mammalian vertebrate steroids. The literature surveyed herein suggests that a number of C21, C19, and C18 steroids occur throughout the subphylum, although there may be important qualitative differences even among closely related forms. The potential importance, from a phylogenetic or a physiological standpoint, of new steroids recently characterized in fishes cannot be evaluated at present. Three widely used techniques-tissue extraction or incubation without added precursors, tissue incubation with exogenous steroid substrates, and the histochemical visualization of 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases-are discussed, and their application to the study of steroidogenic tissues is illustrated. The adrenocortical homologue (interrenal), the ovary, and the testis appear to function as sources of steroid hormones in those vertebrates which have been examined. However, the existence of additional steroidogenic tissues, or of tissues which may modify the steroid composition of the body fluids in other ways, is also suggested. 
3884443|Living members of Phylum Chordata are divided into three groups: the Urochordata, the Cephalochordata (amphioxus) and the Craniata (vertebrates). These animals are united by a common body plan, a key component of which is the development of a neural tube dorsal to a notochord. Studying the genetics and embryology of these animals allows evolutionary comparison to be made between the mechanisms controlling the development of homologous body parts in different taxa. This paper focuses specifically on the evolution of dorsoventral pattern in the neural tube. In vertebrate embryos external inductive signals, originating from the notochord and the dorsal ectoderm, initiate a program of cell differentiation that subdivides the neural tube into a stereotyped pattern of neurons and glia. To understand the evolution of this pattern I have been characterising amphioxus members of the gene families involved, including genes from the HNF-3, Msx, Hh, Gli and Netrin families. Coupled with similar analyses of urochordate development, analysis of these genes shows that the signalling functions of the notochord and lateral ectoderm seem to predate vertebrate origins, and have not increased in complexity in vertebrates despite duplication of the gene families involved. Conversely, expansion of gene families downstream of these signals has increased the complexity of gene expression and function in vertebrate embryos. These data therefore provide an indication of how gene duplication and divergence may have provided the raw material for the evolution of the complex pattern of cell types that develops in the vertebrate neural tube.
3883489|The phylogenetic position of the Ganges Gharial (Gavalis gangeticus) among the living Crocodilia is reconsidered in the light of new biochemical and morphological data. The anatomical data suggest a sister group relationship between Gavialis and all other living crocodilians. In contrast the biochemical evidence indicates a sister group relationship between Gavialis and the false gavial, Tomistoma schlegelii, and the rest of the living Crocodilia. The new morphological data from the dissections of the caudal musculature clearly favor the phylogenetic relationship for Gavialis as proposed by the comparative anatomists. In this regard the findings of this study are concordant with those concerning the skull construction of the living crocodilians.
3882268| The cyclostomes, hagfishes and lamprey, represent modern agnathans, the most primitive vertebrates. They are therefore of special interest from the phylogenetic view point with regard to proliferative activities of epithelial and of lympho-hematopoietic tissues. The animals, kept in aquaria at 15 C, were given 1.0 Ci of
3881923|Intact, developing chick embryos (stages 9+ to 14) incorporate sugars from sugar nucleotides in patterns which vary according to the sugar nucleotide used, the area of the embryo, and the age of the embryo. Radioautographs of the notochord-somite-lateral plate mesoderm vicinity, the optic vesicle-skin ectoderm junction, and the area vasculosa are presented. It is possible that these patterns represent localized cell surface glycosyltransferase-glycosyl acceptor complexes. However, other possibilities have not been ruled out. The potential role of enzyme-substrate complexes in intercellular interactions is discussed.
3882381|The region of the prospective eye vesicle of the F1 generation from parents known to be heterozygous for the gene e, which produces eyeless embryos in the homozygous condition was grafted under the epidermis of host embryos. Donor and host embryos were randomly selected at the stage of fusion of the neural folds to form pairs. Donor and receptor embryos were operated at their right side only so that the left side could serve to identify the phenotype of each operated embryo. The experimental results obtained in the four classes of donor-receptor combinations, can be described as follows: 1) The prospective eye vesicle of phenotypically wild type donors, grafted under the flank epidermis of receptor embryos of the same type, developed pigmented retina at a rate of over 90%, and a lens was found in this combination in about one third of the cases. 2) Surprisingly, the prospective optic vesicle from eyeless embryos, grafted to normal hosts, also developed pigmented retina at a frequency which was not statistically different from that obtained with prospective optic vesicles from wild type embryos. The developing optic cups from eyeless embryos also induced a lens in some cases. In the class of experiments in which optic vesicles from wild type embryos were grafted under flank epidermis of eyeless hosts, significantly fewer grafts developed pigmented retina as compared to wild type controls. Prospective optic vesicles grafted from eyeless embryos under epidermis of eyeless hosts, in one case, produced pigmented retina. In a complementary set of experiments, epidermis from the flank was grafted upon the prospective eye region of host embryos. The result of the four classes of experiments corroborated the previous results: Wild type epidermis may cure the eyeless situation, whereas epidermis from eyeless embryos suppresses eye formation in the wild type host.
3883549|The abundance and great diversity of life on coral reef ecosystems provides many good opportunities for studying the evolution and specializations of neurophysiological systems and behavior. Crucial stages in the evolution of nervous systems appear to have occurred in the Precambrian, as revealed in Ediacaran fossils and their closest living relatives. By the Ordovician, when Chazy "reefs" exemplify some of the earliest complex animal communities fixed in one place, more elaborate neurological mechanisms for orientation, predation, and escape reactions are indicated. With the evolution of fish, the behavioral richness of reef communities became further enhanced. Elaborate specializations of feeding, defensive, aggressive, signaling, schooling, and reproductive behaviors are common in fish. Several examples of behavioral studies on reef organisms are used to illustrate research methodologies and the types of conclusions which may be drawn. These examples include: (1) analysis of symbiotic behavior of an invertebrate and a vertebrate-sea anemone and clownfish; (2) signaling behavior of a fish-the sailfish blenny; and (3) a combined electrophysiological and behavioral analysis of orientation and feeding/attack behavior-sharks. An almost endless number of possibilities for similar analysis makes the organisms of coral reefs especially useful, and challenging, for teaching purposes as well as further research.
3881841|Hormonal effects on selected indicators of neural activity are reviewed with reference to neuroendocrine mechanisms. The nature of brain recordings and their advantages and disadvantages in neuroendocrine applications are discussed. The problems of localization of neuroendocrine mechanisms in place and time are presented, with indications of which processes may be best suited to neurophysiological analysis.
3883136|The beginnings of professional natural history in Seattle date from 1879. In this year a group of young men who were completely untrained in the sciences formed the Young Naturalists' Society. The society quickly grew to eventually become a major institution for natural history investigations in the Puget Sound area at the end of the nineteenth century. The activities of the Young Naturalists included collecting a large and impressive cabinet, exchanging specimens with naturalists throughout the United States, organizing expeditions for marine investigations, and providing educational opportunities for the public through lectures, public exhibits, newspaper reports, and summer Chautauqua. As the society became more professional in its work, it developed strong ties to the University of Washington. In fact, by the mid-1890s it was difficult to separate the natural history work sponsored by the University from the studies under the aegis of the Young Naturalists. Eventually the society disbanded and became absorbed by the various natural science departments of the University and by the Washington State Museum. The importance of the Young Naturalists' was through its critical role in providing the foundation for the development of a professional natural history community in Seattle.
3883743|The tempo and mode of morphological evolution are influenced by several factors, among which evolutionary transformations in developmental processes are likely to be important. Comparing the embryos of extant species in an explicit phylogenetic framework allows the estimation of minimum average rates of evolution in quantitative developmental parameters. It also allows delineation of the maximum time that complex qualitative transformations in developmental mechanism take to evolve. This paper analyzes rates of quantitative and qualitative developmental evolution using examples drawn primarily from echinoderms. The results demonstrate that rates of developmental evolution can be comparable to rates of morphological evolution. There is no indication that rates of evolution in development are lower for earlier stages, contrary to the prediction of "tree" models of epigenetic interactions. In particular, rates of evolution in oogenesis can exceed rates of evolution in adult body size. Rates of developmental evolution can vary by up to two orders of magnitude within a clade. Whether such large scale variation in evolutionary rates of developmental processes is a general phenomenon can only be answered by further study.
3882726|The ability of different sex hormones to activate social signals can provide important clues to the biochemical mechanisms underlying these signals. A pattern of hormone specificity in which testosterone (T) and estradiol (E), but not dihydrotestosterone (DHT), are effective suggests that conversion (aromatization) of T to E in the brain may be involved or required; a pattern in which T and DHT, but not E, are effective suggests that conversion of T to DHT may be involved. The hormone specificity of social signals in diverse species of vertebrates is reviewed. Aromatization seems to be of widespread behavioral significance in mammals and birds. A role for conversion of T to DHT is suggested for some signals. Aromatization of T may also be important for the activation of adult female behavior in mammals and lizards, and for the early organization of behavior in mammals and birds. Patterns of hormone specificity differ both across species for a given social signal, and within a given species when different signals are compared. An attempt is made to integrate these findings by relating patterns of hormone specificity to hormone levels, steroid receptor and enzyme concentrations and distributions, signal function and dimorphism, and phylogenetic status.
3882359|Cenozoic reptiles are characterized by physiological, morphological, and ecological systems with low energy requirements compared to those of mammals. Ectothermy and low resting rates of metabolism are the primary physiological adaptations of reptiles that produce low energy demand. Adjustments of the oxygen-transport system to different thermoregulatory characteristics among reptiles may be reflected in blood viscosity, oxygen capacity, oxygen affinity, and the temperature sensitivity of oxygenation. Other adaptations reduce the energy cost of oxygen transport. Reptiles have low hematocrits and large, widely spaced capillaries that contribute to a low fluid resistance in the vascular system, but also limit the oxygen-transport capacity. The low oxygen affinity characteristic of the blood of most reptiles appears to facilitate diffusion of oxygen to the tissues, overcoming the intrinsic limitations imposed by the morphological specializations of the cardiovascular system. The low blood oxygen affinity permits virtually all of the oxygen carried by the blood to be delivered to the tissues during periods of stress. It may also help to maintain a relatively high arterial Po
3883219|Many physical factors vary widely and rapidly in residual water bodies left on the shore by the receding tide. Whereas variations of temperature and salinity depend on climatic conditions, the changes of oxygen and carbon dioxide are mainly governed by biological activities. Typically, such waters become hypoxic-hypercapnic at night and hyperoxic-hypocapnic during the day at low tide. According to findings in single-factor laboratory experiments, all these variables can potentially disturb acid-base balance in tidepool animals. However, the whole response of the organism to the complex natural situation can hardly be predicted and must be approached in the field or in simulated environments. Measurements on crabs Carcinus maenas acclimated to an artificial tidepool show only moderate hemolymph acid-base changes, due mainly to counteracting influences of the concerted variations of water oxygen and carbon dioxide. The pH-temperature slope for these crabs was -0.016 pH
3883010|During the twentieth century, geneticists have dramatically changed their assessments of the biological and social consequences of human race differences and race crossing. In the first quarter of the century, most geneticists thought that human races differed hereditarily by important mental as well as physical differences and that wide race crosses were biologically and socially harmful. The period from 1925 to the outbreak of World War II saw no change in geneticists' views on hereditary mental differences between human races, but a shift to agnosticism on the issue of wide race crosses. By the early 1950s, geneticists generally argued that wide race crosses were at worst biologically harmless, but still held to earlier beliefs about hereditary mental differences between races. The final period from 1951 to the present has witnessed the shift to agnosticism on the issue of hereditary mental differences between races. The changes in geneticists' assessments of race differences and race crossing were caused by increased understanding of the complex relationship between genes and environment and by cultural changes.
3883598|Coevolution between parasites and host is a sufficient although not necessary condition for the evolution of secondary sexual characteristics. I review evidence supporting the role of parasites in the maintenance of lek behavior in Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). Males bearing avian malaria (Plasmodium pediocetii) or lice (Lagopoecus gibsoni or Goniodes centrocerci) have significantly lower reproductive success than noninfected males. Malaria-infected males attend leks significantly less frequently and lek attendance is highly correlated with male reproductive success. In addition, males with malaria secured copulations later in the breeding season with hens that were younger, in poorer condition, and less successful than mates of malaria-free males. Lice create hematomas on the air sacs of males which females can detect to avoid lousy males. Results of our field studies are reinforced by experiments; captive males given antibiotics to reduce parasite loads are chosen more often by females in arena trials. Our results lend empirical support for Hamilton and Zuk's (1982) interpretation of the Red Queen's hypothesis, although many unknowns remain in our understanding of the interaction between parasites and Sage Grouse.
3882249|Comparisons of life-cycles of entoprocts, ectoprocts and phoronids indicate that the ectoprocts probably have evolved from entoproct-like ancestors, whereas the phoronids are of a quite different type. A review of our knowledge of structure and development of the three groups lends support to this idea. The Entoprocta and Ectoprocta should accordingly be united into the phylum Bryozoa, which is related to the Annelida and Mollusca. The Phoronida are probably more related to the deuterostomes.
3881371|In recent years the field of invertebrate endocrinology has witnessed considerable progress in certain areas while little or no advancement has been made in others. The great majority of work continues to be done with insects. In this brief review attention is focused primarily on three areas of insect endocrinology: intermediary metabolism, osmoregulation, and growth and development. Some comments are made about the intimacy of the neural and endocrine systems of invertebrates. The apparent production of hormones throughout the nervous system of arthropods is noted, and evidence is cited that direct delivery of neurosecretory hormones to target organs may be common.
3883142|In order for photoperiodic phenomena to be expressed by any animal, the organism must possess some sort of photoreceptor. This may be in the form of an eye or an extraocular receptor, and the invertebrate phyla illustrate fantastic diversity in design of either receptor type. While all the major invertebrate phyla possess photoreceptor organs of one type or another, the best-studied groups are those with highly complex eyes. These include the crustaceans, the molluscs, and some polychaete annelids. Many species in these groups possess eyes having extreme sensitivity, good spatial resolution, and in some cases multiple spectral channels. In a few taxa, the eyes are known to provide input to circadian oscillators, which suggests that they may also be employed for measurement of photoperiod. Extraocular photoreceptors include dermal and ganglionic sense organs, which also feed into circadian systems in numerous invertebrates, from cnidarians to molluscs and arthropods.
3884048|In their intraspecific communication females of the grasshopper Chorthippus biguttulus are able to detect minute gaps in songs. Males of this species can lateralize sound with less than 1 dB difference between the two ears. Behavioral experiments suggested that separate pathways exist for song recognition and sound localization. As for the neurophysiological basis, auditory receptors respond tonically and necessarily carry all information explaining behavioral performances in their spiking responses. However, for pattern recognition as well as for coding of directional information, it seems necessary for the animal to evaluate a whole set of parallel receptor fibres to achieve the precision observed in behavior. The information of receptors converges onto thoracic neurons which drive neurons ascending to the brain. Some of these ascending neurons exhibit dramatic response differences either for various temporal patterns or for sound from different directions and therefore may represent pathways specialized for song recognition or for sound localization.
3884041|Neighboring males in rhythmically calling insects and anurans often chorus in a synchronizing or alternating fashion. Neuroethological investigations of chorusing species reveal that their rhythms are maintained by pacemakers and that a basic interactive algorithm, common to many species, yields the collective synchrony or alternation observed. Traditionally, synchrony has been viewed as a cooperative event. However, recent evidence suggests that a collective synchronous display can also be an incidental outcome of signal "jamming" activities between neighboring males competing to attract females. This arises when female phonotaxis is influenced by a precedence effect in which the first of two or more closely synchronized calls is preferred. Under such circumstances, males are selected to adopt a timing mechanism averting following calls. If males happen to call at comparable rates, the adopted mechanism can yield synchrony as a by-product. Alternation, too, may be produced by a similar mechanism and also represent an epiphenomenon. That alternation, as opposed to synchrony, results may be a mere artefact of the species' solo calling rate, but perceptual constraints may select specifically for alternation in some species.
3883102|Combining injection techniques with ultrastructural observations, and relating these findings to the more traditional physiological and morphological studies have shed new light on the excretory mechanisms underlying the processes of ultrafiltration, secretion and reabsorption in some bivalve molluscs. These basic processes are further elucidated by comparing normal excretory tissues with those in bivalves that have been subjected to stress by pollutants in either the natural environment or under laboratory experimentation. The process of ultrafiltration is size and charge dependent and occurs at the filtration barrier at the base of the podocytes in the pericardial gland. Primary urine may be modified by secretion (primarily from the kidney cells but also from the podocytes), reabsorbtion in the kidney, and by the addition of hemocytes passing from blood spaces through the epithelium into the lumen of the kidney. Numerous concrements (granules, concretions and membranes) that result from lysosomal activities in the podocytes, kidney cells and hemocytes along with the fluid are excreted into the mantle cavity.
3882132|Many of the significant events that occur in the life of an animal are regulated by hormones. Because lipids are the principal energy reserve, it is axiomatic that the regulation of fat synthesis and mobilization would be closely interrelated with the regulation of physiological and behavioral events. The circadian rhythms of prolactin and the corticosteroid hormones have important roles in regulating daily and seasonal changes in body fat stores and in organizing the total animal so that metabolism, reproduction, and behavior are fully integrated.
3882697|The role of development in constraining the directionality and patterns of morphological evolution is examined. The nature of morphological variation and appearance of morphological novelties is determined by the epigenetic properties of the organism. Consideration of these properties has profound implications for current theories of morphological evolution. Developmental constraints impose severe limitations on the gradualistic action of directional selection. Evolution is viewed as the result of differential survival of morphological novelties. However, the production of morphological novelties by developmental programs is not random. This non-randomness in morphologically expressed genetic mutations-an epigenetic property-can result in phyletic trends, parallelisms and convergences.
3883172|This paper offers a conceptual scheme dealing with the way environmental factors influence reproduction in muroid rodents. The combination of small size, short life span, and the fact that most environments are relatively unpredictable for short-lived animals, suggests that opportunism must be a key element in the reproductive strategies of most of these animals. Flexibility is assured by the use of dynamically changing multiple reproductive strategies within populations, simultaneous multiple cueing in individuals, modification of an individual's responses to these cues by earlier experiences, and the use or lack of use of predictors of different kinds.
3882335|Electron microscopy of dividing green algal cells has demonstrated that there are two quite separate phyletic lines in the Ulotrichales and Chaetophorales, groups that are considered classically to have provided the progenitors of the green land plants. These groups are distinguished by whether their mitotic spindle is "open" or "closed," and whether their cytokinetic apparatus at telophase contains a persistent interzonal spindle in which the microtubules are oriented perpendicular to the plane of cytokinesis (including the phragmoplast), or a "phycoplast," in which the microtubules are coplanar with the plane of cytokinesis. The majority of genera of these two groups are related and have the closed spindle and phycoplast, and so they are allied with the Volvocales, Chlorococcales, and the Oedogoniales. A few genera from each group have the open spindle and the persistent interzonal telophase spindle or the phragmoplast (the derivative of the persistent spindle), as do the Conjugales (Zygnematales) and the Charales. That these latter plants are related phyletically to the land plants is clearly demonstrated by the structure of their motile cells (where formed): these are intrinsically asymmetric and possess a single band of cytoskeletal microtubules, just as do the sperm cells of bryophytes, ferns, cycads, and the gymnosperm tree, Gingko. In contrast, the motile cells of genera which have the phycoplast are derived from a much more symmetrical (Chlamydomonad) cell-type with 2-4 bands of cytoskeletal microtubules emanating from 2-4 basal bodies.
3884488|Across major phylogenetic comparisons, the evolution of Hox clusters generally parallels the evolution of axial complexity. Sponges lack a fixed primary body axis and regional axial differentiation. Correspondingly, sponges appear to lack a Hox cluster. Bilaterian animals are characterized, at least primitively, by the presence of an anterior-posterior axis. In many bilaterians, the anterior-posterior axis is finely subdivided into morphologically distinct regions; e.g., consider the many distinct vertebrae of the human vertebral column or the many distinct body segments of the fruitfly. This axial complexity is encoded in part, by the genes of the Hox cluster. Bilaterians possess from seven to upwards of forty Hox genes which sort into four monophyletic classes (anterior, group-3, central, and posterior). Cnidarians (e.g., sea anemones) display an intermediate stage of axial complexity. Unlike sponges, they possess a fixed primary body axis, known as the oral-aboral axis, with a distinct head, body column, and foot. However, the primary axis of cnidarians lacks the degree of axial differentiation found in vertebrates or insects. Cnidarians possess distinct anterior and posterior Hox genes. Cnidarians appear to lack group-3 or central Hox genes. Southern mapping experiments in the sea anemone, Nematostella indicate linkage between an anterior Hox gene, an even-skipped ortholog, and a posterior Hox gene. The linkage of eve to a Hox gene, a condition previously described in a coral, is found in vertebrates but apparently absent in insects. Cnidarians hold the potential to reveal important intermediate stages in the evolution of Hox clusters and axial complexity.
3882688|Ascidian sperm are simplified by omission of the midpiece and proximal centriole with the single mitochondrion located next to the nucleus in the head. Small acro-some-like vesicles appear in some species but their distribution is unclear. Sperm structure correlates well with the location of fertilization; members of the orders Phlebobranchiata and Stolidobranchiata with external fertilization have sperm with short heads and long tails, while sperm from the exclusively internally fertilizing Aplousobranchiata have relatively longer heads and shorter tails. The mitochondrion swells when the sperm contacts the chorion, then translocates along the tail as it enters the chorion to be discarded when the tail disappears inside. Structural changes also occur in the anterior sperm head that have been interpreted as an acrosome reaction. Proteolytic enzymes are involved in penetration of the chorion. The mitochondrial transformation is under control of intracellular pH and Ca
3882919|Yearling male bullfrogs often attempt to intercept and mate with females attracted to older, larger males (male parasitism) instead of defending a territory and attracting their own mates. Mating behaviors like male parasitism are thought to occur only when individuals suffer some strong disadvantage in using the behaviors that are more typical of their species. In this paper, I consider the relative benefits and costs of territoriality vs. male parasitism for yearling males. Yearlings employing male parasitism are only occasionally successful at mating, and in years of reduced male-male competition, they produce significantly fewer young than territorial males of their age. Yearling males that vary in the degree to which they employ territorial behaviors instead of male parasitism do not differ measurably in growth rate or chances of mortality; however, indirect information suggests that territoriality should entail a greater chance of mortality. A computer simulation based solely on observed demographic parameters predicts that yearling males should be territorial whenever they can compete as effectively as two-year-old males. This condition appears to provide little restriction on the breeding tactics of yearling males; however, data on male-male aggressive encounters show that the size differences between one-year-old and two-year-old males are usually sufficient to preclude yearling males from competing successfully. Thus, the observed behavioral plasticity of yearling males may be best interpreted as a means of adjusting their behavioral tactics to levels of male-male competition that can vary within and between breeding seasons.
4620147|The major lipids that have a direct role in buoyancy of marine fish are wax esters, squalene, and alkyldiacylglycerols. Wax esters are stored extracellularly in certain fishes, such as the orange roughy (Hoplostethus atlanticus), and therefore buoyancy appears to be their sole function. Some myctophid fishes have wax-invested swimbladders, where the non-compressible wax esters may aid in diurnal vertical migration, by replacing compressible swimbladder gases. Squalene is metabolically inert in the livers of certain sharks, and therefore probably has buoyancy as its only function. Alkyldiacylglycerols (DAGE) are abundant components of liver oil of certain deep sea sharks and holocephalans, where they may have an important role in buoyancy. Triacylglycerols and cholesterol are lipids that have an indirect role in buoyancy of marine fish. Many fishes in the ocean have oil-filled bones (mostly triacylglycerols). Although this oil aids buoyancy, its major function is as an energy storage lipid which can be utilized during starvation. Cholesterol, which is found in high amounts in the lipid-rich membranes of the swimbladder of deep sea fishes, may aid buoyancy by combining with oxygen gas in the swimbladder membranes to facilitate gas secretion in fish at great depths in the ocean. Further research is needed to understand the physical state of lipids, such as wax esters at deep sea temperatures and pressures, and more evidence is needed to clarify the role of cholesterol-rich membranes in swimbladders of deep sea fishes.
3883496|Crocodylus porosus is a mound-nesting crocodilian in which incubation temperature influences the rate of embryonic development, the probability that embryos will survive to hatching, post-hatching growth rates and the probability of hatchlings surviving to 2 yr of age. Similar responses have been described in Alligator mississippiensis (Joanen et al., 1987) and C. niloticus (Hutton, 1987), and they reflect a suite of "non-sexual" effects of incubation temperature. Temperature-dependent sex determination allocates sex on the basis of these "non-sexual" effects. In C. porosus, it results in maleness being assigned to embryos with high probabilities of surviving and good potential for post-hatching growth. Within the limits of survival, effects of the moisture environment on embryological development rate and hatchling fitness seem minor relative to those of the temperature environment. Reptilian orders have either obligate oviparity (chelonians, crocodilians and rhynchocephalians) or facultative oviparity (squamates), depending on the extent of embryonic development within the oviducts. The distinction is equally one between embryos which are buffered from thermal effects within a female's body (facultative oviparity) and those that are not (obligate oviparity). Facultative oviparity and internal thermal buffering may be the primitive condition within the Class Reptilia, and the "shell-less" eggs of extant squamates may reflect the original amniote egg. Obligate oviparity, which also exists in birds, appears to have been a specialized development, and is a blind end in the evolution of viviparity among vertebrates. The significance of thermal buffering being lost in obligate oviparous reptiles remains unclear.
3883620|Extracellular and intracellular acid-base balance is necessary for the maintenance of normal metabolic processes. The primary source of acid is metabolically produced CO
3884473| The Y-organs of crustaceans secrete ecdysteroids (molting hormones) and are regulated (negatively) by a neurosecretory peptide, molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH). Signaling path(s) in Y-organs were explored that connect MIH receptors ultimately with suppression of receptor number for the uptake of cholesterol (ecdysteroid precursor) and of gene expression of steroidogenic enzymes. Experiments were conducted in vitro with Y-organs of crabs (Cancer antennarius, Menippe mercenaria) and crayfishes (Orconectes sp.). It was confirmed in all species that steroidogenesis occurs in the absence of external calcium
3884537|After opisthobranch molluscs dislodge from the substrate during onset of swimming, the ensuing flexion or undulatory motions are usually not well oriented with respect to predators, prey or suitable substrate. Swimming motions are effective in launching animals off the substrate and elevating them into the water column where they are primarily transported passively by ambient waves and tidal currents. Both active swimming and passive transport on ambient currents may provide escape from predators, search for food and mates, and dispersal to new and potentially adaptive locations. However, loss of contact with the substrate and launching into the water column may also bring a high cost in terms of exposure to diverse risks. I illustrate several forms of opisthobranch swimming and describe their mechanisms and roles. In addition, adaptations of some opisthobranchs to reduce the risks of exposure to predators during swimming are suggested. These adaptations include small size, transparency or inconspicuous color to reduce predation while swimming, and neurobehavioral mechanisms of rheotaxis and geomagnetic sensitivity.
3882661|The brain of actinopterygian fishes can be subdivided into five principal parts, rhombencephalon, cerebellum, mesencephalon, diencephalon and telencephalon, each of which contains a number of separate morphological entities: nuclei, areas or zones. Analysis of the origin and termination of the cranial nerves and their components reveals that many of the morphological entities distinguished in the actinopterygian brain can be interpreted in terms of elementary sensory and motor functions. Experimental anatomical and physiological studies on the fiber connections of the entities thus defined have led to a functional interpretation of many other parts of the brain. Thus, the central circuitry related to such sensory functions as hydrodynamic pressoreception, electroreception, vision, gustation and olfaction are well-known, and the same holds true for the motor systems related to feeding and locomotion. However, there are still many regions in the actinopterygian brain the functional significance of which is poorly understood, and it should be emphasized that most of our knowledge on the organization of the brain of this group rests merely on observations in teleosts. One of the most interesting aspects of actinopterygian neurobiology is that the telencephalon in this group develops in a way which differs fundamentally from that found in all other craniates, and that the telencephalon shows a marked progressive differentiation in the series: polypterids-chondrosteans-halecomorphs-teleosts.
3881959|This article reviews the development of knowledge of physiological and morphological color change in fishes. Emphasis is placed on research in the last three years. Although direct evidence may not be available at present, an attempt is made to show a unifying theme. It is apparent that those circumstances that lead to pigment dispersion as a physiological color change also favor the development of a dark morphological color and vice versa for pigment aggregation. There is ample evidence that control of color change in fishes ranges from fully nervous to fully hormonal. It may be that both neural and endocrine agents exert their effects upon the melanophore by causing changes in the amount of cyclic AMP in the cell. Rhythmic color change, which appears to be a special instance of physiological color change is discussed, but no conclusions are drawn. A tentative scheme for the unification of physiological and morphological color change is advanced with the note that direct evidence is not currently available to support all of it.
3883972|Mitochondrial ATP production is influenced by many factors, including the adenylate status of the cell, the supply of reducing equivalents to the electron transport chain, the supply of oxygen to cytochrome oxidase, and the demand for ATP to do cellular work. Hydrogen sulfide, which is naturally produced in marine sediments, is a poison of aerobic ATP production mainly because it inhibits cytochrome oxidase in the electron transport chain. However, most animals from high sulfide environments exhibit aerobic respiration, and may avoid sulfide poisoning with detoxification reactions that may be useful sources of energy. Sulfide stimulates ADP phosphorylation in mitochondria isolated from gills of Solemya reidi, a sulfide-oxidizing symbiont-harboring bivalve, and a P/O ratio near unity indicates that electrons from sulfide enter the electron transport chain at the level of cytochrome c. Current investigations into the effects of sulfide on oxygen consumption rate, ATP level, cytochrome reduction state and ciliary beat frequency of symbiont-free gills of the mussels Geukensia demissa and Mytilus edulis indicate that animals from high sulfide environments may gain sufficient energy from sulfide oxidation to support cellular work.
3881653|Some birds can fly for more than 1000 kilometers without feeding. Are these distances compatible with the fuel reserves and the power requirements that flying birds are thought to have? The fuel for flight is primarily fat, which can make up 50% of the total body mass of a bird prior to a long distance flight. As the bird uses up fuel during the flight and becomes lighter, the power requirements of flight probably decrease. However, a constant power requirement can be assumed throughout the flight without introducing serious errors into the estimate of maximum flight distance at a given flight speed. Various methods that have been used to estimate the power requirements of flight are reviewed. Estimates based on indirect calorimetry indicate that the maximum flight distances of birds, when a given proportion of body mass is used as fuel, are directly proportional to body mass raised to the 0.227 power. Calculated values of range suggest that birds have small margins of safety in long, over-water flights unless they are aided by winds or vertical air currents.
3883499|The reproductive cycle of the American alligator, Alligator mississippiensis, was studied using blood and tissue samples from wild alligators, and blood samples drawn from a captive breeding stock at the Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge in Louisiana. Generally the cycle commences in March as air and water temperatures increase. By early April the seminiferous tubules are full of actively dividing spermatocytes and maturing spermatids. Testis mass is greatest at this time and plasma testosterone is at a peak (>50 ng/ml), but mature spermatozoa do not appear until late April and mid May when mating takes place. Plasma testosterone levels decline rapidly in June after spermiation, and are low to nondetectable in July and August when the testes are fully regressed. A second small peak in testosterone occurs in September without any obvious changes in testicular histology. In the female a similar temperature dependent initiation of the ovarian cycle occurs in late March. Plasma estradiol levels reach a peak (>600 pg/ml) in mid April, and ovarian follicles increase from 5 mm to 45 mm in diameter at ovulation in May. Plasma testosterone is also high in preovulatory females (ca. 1.5 ng/ml). Plasma progesterone shows a periovulatory surge to levels as high as 16 ng/ml, but declines rapidly during the 3 1/2 wk between ovulation and oviposition. During egg incubation (66 days) when the female remains close to the nest, ovarian steroids remain undetectable.
3883118|Two models are presented for mechanisms leading to the formation of layers during the development of the chick neural retina. The first proposes that the different cells possess intrinsic characteristics that allow them to self sort into specific patterns. The second suggests that the cells migrate, or are moved, along a substrate which guides them into specific locations. Supporting evidence is presented for both hypotheses, suggesting that the overall process is highly complex, using elements of each mechanism.
3882828|In order to account for the known phenomena of the crustacean molt cycle, at least six factors must be postulated: a molting hormone (20-OH-ecdysone), a molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH), an anecdysial limb autotomy factor, a proecdysial limb-autotomy factor, a limb growth-inhibiting factor and an exuviation factor. Only the molting hormone and its derivatives have been chemically well defined. The various factors interact in complex ways to maintain not only a coordinated proecdysial period in preparation for exuviation but also a proecdysial period with the flexibility to respond to such interim hazards as the loss of partially regenerated limbs.
3884561|Bioseismic studies have previously documented the use of seismic stimuli as a method of communication in arthropods and small mammals. Seismic signals are used to communicate intraspecifically in many capacities such as mate finding, spacing, warning, resource assessing, and in group cohesion. Seismic signals are also used in interspecific mutualism and as a deterrent to predators. Although bioseismics is a significant mode of communication that is well documented for relatively small vertebrates, the potential for seismic communication has been all but ignored in large mammals. In this paper, we describe two modes of producing seismic waves with the potential for long distance transmission: 1) locomotion by animals causing percussion on the ground and 2) acoustic, seismic-evoking sounds that couple with the ground. We present recordings of several mammals, including lions, rhinoceroses, and elephants, showing that they generate similar acoustic and seismic vibrations. These large animals that produce high amplitude vocalizations are the most likely to produce seismic vibrations that propagate long distances. The elephant seems to be the most likely candidate to engage in long distance seismic communication due to its size and its high amplitude, low frequency, relatively monotonic vocalizations that propagate in the ground and have the potential to travel long distances. We review particular anatomical features of the elephant that would facilitate the detection of seismic waves. We also assess low frequency sounds in the environment such as thunder and the likelihood of seismic transmission. In addition, we present the potential role of seismic stimuli in human communication as well as the impact of modern anthropogenic effects on the seismic environment.
3882184|In the first polar lobe of the egg of Bithynia tentaculata there is a cup-shaped mass of small vesicles rich in RNA, called the vegetal body. It is passed to the CD blastomere with the polar lobe and then its contents are distributed to C and D. When the polar lobe is removed, embryos form neither mesentoblast nor mesoderm bands. They fail to establish bilateral symmetry or to form eyes, foot, operculum and shell. AB half embryos develop only the structures found in lobeless embryos, while CD halves develop lobe-dependent adult structures such as eyes, foot and shell. AD- and BC-2/4-embryos develop similarly and both have lobe-dependent structures. Three-quarter embryos develop as in other molluscs except that ABD (-C) develops poorly and ABC (-D) develops all lobe-dependent structures. Thus, all evidence available indicates that C receives cytoplasm usually restricted to D in molluscs and therefore has the capacity to exert a similar morphogenetic influence on development.
3883383|Spread-winged behavior is observed in a variety of avian species, and a number of different functions have been ascribed to it. Anhingas and Double-crested Cormorants, representing closely allied avian families, share a spread-winged behavior that is superficially identical. This paper examines the behavior and energetics of these two species to determine whether the primary function of this behavior is wing drying or the supplementation of metabolism. Double-crested Cormorants and Anhingas differ both in the frequency and the contexts in which spread-winged behavior is displayed: Double-crested Cormorants display the behavior sparingly and without relation to ambient temperature or solar radiant intensity, whereas Anhingas exhibit the behavior often, particularly when ambient temperatures are low and solar radiant intensity is high. Similarly Double-crested Cormorants show no significant reduction in metabolic rate at ambient temperatures below thermoneutrality when provided with incident simulated solar radiation, whereas Anhingas significantly reduce their rates of metabolism when exposed to ambient temperatures below thermoneutrality in the presence of incident simulated insolation. Despite the apparent similarities between these two species taxonomically, ecologically, and behaviorally, spread-winged behavior has quite different functions and energetic/ecological consequences for Anhingas as opposed to Double-crested Cormorants. This example illustrates the risks of generalizing from superficialities and of relying on inference and speculation as opposed to data.
3884420|The basic elements of the NO/cGMP signaling pathway have been identified in the nervous systems of animals from nearly all of the major phyla. In crustaceans, the NO/cGMP pathway is associated with certain fundamental neuronal processes, including sensory integration and the organization and production of motor behavior. Here I review the evidence for NO synthesis and action in crustacean neural networks, with an emphasis on the rhythmic motor circuits of the crab stomatogastric ganglion (STG). In the STG, NO appears to be released as an orthograde transmitter from descending projection neurons. NO's receptor, a cytopasmic isoform of guanylate cyclase (sGC), is expressed in a subset of the cells that participate in the gastric mill and pyloric central pattern generating networks. In spontaneously-active, in vitro preparations of the STG, pharmacological inhibitors of the NO/cGMP pathway cause the two rhythmic motor patterns to collapse into a single conjoint rhythm. Parallel motor output is restored when the ganglion is returned to normal saline. Although precise mechanisms have yet to be determined, these data suggest that NO and cGMP play an important role in the functional organization of STG networks. The STG, as well as other crustacean models, provides a promising context for studying the physiological and behavioral aspects of NO-mediated signaling in the nervous system.
3882146|There are three processes in the development of Drosophila which may be studied independently but which are a manifestation of interdependent events which result in the formation of the adult phenotype. These processes are determination, specification and differentiation. The mutant phenotype Abnormal-abdomen is characterized by a loss of abdominal tergites and is controlled by a major mutant gene,
3882604|The proposition that pattern formation across the antero-posterior axis of the developing chick limb is controlled by a special signalling region has prompted many experiments. No result is inconsistent with the basic hypothesis, and much evidence supports the notion of a graded signal from the zone of polarizing activity. We describe the location in space and time, the size, the graded nature of the signal and the distance over which it acts; but despite increasing interest the molecular mechanism remains unknown. A major change in our understanding of the interaction between the polarizing region and the responding limb field is that growth as well as pattern is involved.
3881618|The endocrine basis of gonadal development, reproductive processes, and many peculiarities related to reproduction in females of the highly diversified teleosts can not yet be described satisfactorily. Although estrogens have been extracted from ovaries and peripheral blood of several species and various steroids were found to be produced by ovarian tissue in vitro, there is an almost complete lack of knowledge about their physiological role. It is beyond any doubt that hormones of the pituitary have a marked influence on ovarian maturation but many problems await further clarification. It is not yet clear whether gonadotropic hormones might have a direct influence on certain traits of behavior in females. Biochemical work and a large number of histophysiological studies are at variance with regard to the question whether one or two gonadotropic hormones exist in teleosts. Technical difficulties (e.g., shortage of hormonal material from various sources, species specificity of gonadotropic hormone (s), widely scattered data from a large array of species with considerable differences in reproductive biology) hamper comparative analysis. Investigations on the hypothalamic control of endocrine events are just in their beginning. The unique occurrence of ambisexual species in teleosts raises many questions which remain to be solved.
3882536|Assemblages of neotropical hummingbirds are organized according to parameters of available resources and morphological-behavioral attributes of particular hummingbird species. We distinguish five types of flowers relative to hummingbird foraging, and we define six community roles for hummingbirds in exploitation of various flower types. These roles are: high-reward trapliners, which visit but do not defend nectar-rich flowers with long corollas; territorialists, which defend dense clumps of somewhat shorter flowers; low-reward trapliners, which forage among a variety of dispersed or nectar-poor flowers; territory-parasites of two types (large marauders and small filchers); and generalists, which follow shifting foraging patterns among various resources. Simple communities on islands usually contain one species of low-reward trapliner or generalist and one territorial species, and sometimes support one high-reward trapliner; often these species are sexually dimorphic. More complex mainland communities support varying numbers of species in different roles, depending on the relative importance and constancy of different flower types. High-reward trapliners are particularly important in forest under-stories, while forest canopies and open habitats support large numbers of shorter-billed, mobile birds filling the other five roles. We conclude by pointing out the many parallels that exist with other consumer groups.
3881676|It has been shown that the force required to detach the holdfasts of Fucus vesiculosus depends upon the nature of the substratum; adhesion is less to barnacle shells. The lower adhesion appears to be due to a partial dissolution of the shell by acidic material, probably exudates. Growth of germlings on various substrata indicates that thalli and primary rhizoids develop better on calcareous substrata. Some ecological consequences of the phenomena are examined.
3882627|Juvenile hormone, JH-I was identified as the major juvenile hormone of a primitive insect, the firebrat, Thermobia domestica (Thysanura, Lepismatoidea). Since the same molecule is also present in Orthoptera, Lepidoptera and Diptera, its presence in Thysanura indicates that the juvenile hormones are ancient molecules and have undergone little variation during the evolution of the class Insecta.
3882063|Proboscidactyla flavicirrata is a commensal hydroid whose stolons elongate rapidly in the absence of its host. Growth pulsations comparable to those of other hydroids originate endogenously in each stolon tip, although influenced by the to and fro movements of the hydroplasm. Neither growth pulsations nor elongation appear to depend upon cellular proliferation, because the distal ends of stolons lacked mitotic figures and since irradiation sufficient to halt mitosis failed to stop stolon elongation. Cellular migration is also apparently unessential for elongation because severed stolon tips, isolated from potential sources of reusable cells, nevertheless elongated. Marking experiments suggested that cells changed shape rather than location as severed tips advanced. In old preparations the stolons became attenuated because the tips continued to progress without adequate recruitment of cells. Stolons deprived of their tips failed to elongate although they were still connected to the remainder of the colony and contained mitotic cells. Cytochalasin B simultaneously halted growth pulsations and stolon elongation in a reversable manner. Apparently stolon tip locomotion in Proboscidactyla is essential to the elongation process.
3881548|Lungfishes and amphibians have bimodal gas exchange, but various species employ airbreathing with lungs to different degrees. An increased use of pulmonary breathing is correlated with progressive structural and functional separation of the pulmonary and systemic vascular circuits. Representatives from all genera of lungfishes and several anurans and urodeles utilizing pulmonary breathing, show a preferential distribution of blood tending to minimize recirculation to the systemic and pulmonary circuits. The degree of shunting between the two circuits is variable and may express normal shifts in regional blood flow. The most important structural and functional features influencing the preferential circulation through dipnoan and amphibian hearts include: (a) Dynamics of inflow in the pulmonary and systemic veins; (b) The extent and localization of atrial septation; (c) The partial ventricular septum in lungfishes and the massive ventricular trabeculation in both amphibians and lungfishes; (d) A laminar ventricular outflow pattern; (e) Structural guidance of flow in the partially separated bulbus segment of the heart; (f) Vasomotor reactions in the various outflow vessels from the heart.
3883368|The neuromuscular system of the cockroach contains motor neurons and muscles that can be identified in all individual insects. When the axons of these motor neurons are damaged, they regenerate and eventually reform synapses only with the original target muscles. However, at early times after axotomy transient inappropriate functional connections are made between regenerating neurons and muscles that they never normally innervate. Later, the inappropriate synapses are inactivated, the inappropriate axon branches eliminated and the original innervation pattern reformed. A cell-cell recognition between identified motor neurons and muscles is required to explain these observations, particularly in light of experiments demonstrating the absence of competition between appropriate and inappropriate axon terminals within the muscle. A minimum biochemical requirement of such a cell-cell recognition is the existence of molecules whose presence in muscles correlates with the innervation by identified motor neurons. Using fluorescein labelled plant lectins to detect muscle surface glycoproteins such molecules have been identified. In addition, there should be molecular differences among the surfaces of the axon terminals of the various identified motor neurons. Hybridoma techniques have enabled us to obtain monoclonal antibodies that bind to surfaces of axon terminals of some motor neurons and not others. These lectin receptors and antigens are good candidate recognition macromolecules. Other molecules essential for axonal regeneration have been identified by their presence in embryonic and adult regenerating neurons and their absence from intact adult neurons.
3881467| In rectus abdominis muscles of the frog the active shortening provoked by 15-40 mM K was supported by Ca, Sr, and Ba, but not by Ni, Co, Mn, Cd, or Zn ions. Addition of the latter cations to a solution containing Ca decreased the responses in a manner suggesting competitive inhibition. The shortening of the rectus muscle found in divalent cation-free, low K solutions is abolished by Ni, Co, Mn, and Mg. In rat muscles a transient increase in the contractural responses to elevated potassium was observed when Ni was applied following partial washout of Ca. In single muscle fibers of the barnacle, development of tension was supported by Ca and Sr, and the other divalent cations were without effect. Retention of Ca
3883028|Immune function in higher vertebrates is mediated primarily by multimeric glycoproteins found in the serum and on the surfaces of lymphoid cells. These molecules possess common structural features suggesting that they belong to a supergene family which may have originated from a common ancestral gene. Some multigenic members of the supergene family undergo unique forms of chromosomal rearrangement during somatic development. We have identified immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region
3881430|Information on Alaskan wolf populations was obtained from examination of bounty records, 4,150 wolf radii and ulnae, 1,262 wolf carcasses, and from observations of wolves inhabiting an area of 20,000 square miles where wolves were protected. Pregnant adult female wolves averaged 6.5 fetuses; two-year-old females averaged 5.3 fetuses; female pups were not sexually mature. In Alaska, wolves conceive from late February through early April but most females breed in March. Multiparous females breed earlier than first breeders. Multiparous females produce an average of 7.3 ova and 6.5 implanted fetuses. The loss of ova from ovulation to implantation is significant. Multiparous females produce more ova than first breeders; the difference is highly significant. Mortality of pups rather than the lack of initial production of pups is believed to be the reason for the observed variations in the porportion of pups in wolf populations. Wolf packs include members in all categories of sex and age during the breeding season. Size of the pack is an indicator of abundance. Wolves in an area where they were protected increased at an average rate of 20-30% per year during an 11-year period.
3882111|The fifteen papers presented at a symposium, organized by Dr. R. Glenn Northcutt, entitled "Recent advances in the biology of sharks" are briefly summarized. Comments are made where appropriate and fruitful areas for future research recommended.
4620168|Epicuticular lipids play a critical role in allowing arthropods to thrive in terrestrial environments, by reducing transpiration of water through the cuticle. These lipids consist of a diverse array of compounds, especially long-chain hydrocarbons. Rates of water loss are correlated with hydrocarbon structural features, including chain length, unsaturation and methyl-branching. The water-proofing abilities of cuticular lipids appear to depend largely on their physical properties. In most arthropods, rates of water loss increase rapidly above a "transition" temperature. A widely accepted model proposes that this transition is due to melting of the surface lipids to a fluid, permeable state. Evidence for this hypothesis has primarily been correlative, due to experimental limitations. Recent technical advances in lipid biophysics and water loss measurements have made it possible to test the lipid melting model more directly. Experiments using model cuticles, in vitro preparations and intact arthropods support the idea that the phase behavior of cuticular lipids is a major factor determining cuticular permeability.
3883863|The primitive form of the vertebrate nephron consists of a vascular filtration surface overlain with podocytes, a specialized coelomic cavity to receive the ultrafiltrate, and a tubule for modification to final urine. Although previously thought to be unique to the vertebrates, this design is now known to be widespread among invertebrates, including most of the protochordates, and especially their larvae. Goodrich's rejection of the homology of invertebrate nephridia and the vertebrate nephron, based on a lack of germ-layer correspondence, is shown to be either unsupported by facts or logically dubious. Comparative morphology of adult and larval invertebrates suggests that filtration excretory organs, as protonephridia and metanephridial systems, evolved in the lineage to the bilaterally symmetrical animals and each consisted minimally of a filtration cell, a urinary compartment, and tubule joined to the exterior. Invertebrate metanephridial systems and protonephridia are discussed as homologous structures composed of homologous cells (podocytes, terminal cells; also nephrocytes). The ontogenetic and phylogenetic distribution of nephridia is correlated with body design, especially body size.
3884094|The prolific reproductive capabilities of the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, have facilitated the rapid spread and high densities of this biofouling organism since its accidental introduction into North America less than 10 years ago. Research on its reproductive mechanisms and capabilities may be valuable not only in predicting its further spread, but also in investigating basic mechanisms of reproduction and development and in developing new strategies to mitigate its impact. Since zebra mussels are dioecious and fertilization occurs externally, coordinated maturation, spawning, and other mechanisms have evolved to increase the probability of successful fertilization. The zebra mussel undergoes an annual cycle of gonadal growth and gamete maturation, culminating in one or more spawning events in late spring or early summer. Temperature, rates of temperature change, food availability, and effects of neighboring mussels seem to be critical variables that determine reproductive responses. Serotonin is a biogenic amine which is implicated in spawning behavior and can reliably trigger spawning. Serotonin is present in the gonad in neural varicosities that encircle groups of gametes, and specific serotonergic ligands can mimic or block spawning caused by serotonin. In females, serotonin reinitiates meiosis causing maturation from prophase I to metaphase I prior to spawning. Spawned oocytes contain substances that are species specific sperm chemoattractants. The sequence of binding, entry, and subsequent nuclear movements have been observed with fluorescence and scanning microscopy. Despite their negative ecological and economic impacts, zebra mussels have also provided a new and easily obtainable resource for studies of reproductive mechanisms.
3882651|Development is not a gradual but a saltatory process. A combination of qualitative changes in form and function-thresholds-creates boundaries between a succession of quantitative intervals-steps. Thresholds can be modified by an altered time of appearance of structures and functions (heterochrony), especially during early ontogeny, to form an operational basis for the prolongation of juvenile characters and adaptability into later ontogeny. Whereas such prolongation enables juvenilization in phylogeny, analogous principles may operate on a much shorter time scale to produce the r-selection-like altricial and the K-selection-like precocial trends in ontogeny. The inherited capacity to adjust constantly to the environment (heterochrony) selects for structural, biochemical and behavioral improvements. The tendency is toward the precocial but the way back to altricial forms is left open. The heterochronous adaptations in early ontogeny can "reverse" the vulnerable specialization, should the environment become less stable and/or the community less competitive. Juvenilization, capable of turning gerontomorphosis into paedomorphosis in evolution, and heterochronous shifts of character anlagen, capable of turning a precocial trend into an altricial trend in ontogeny are both part of the same biological process which operates during early ontogeny.
3881989|The socializing functions of nonhuman primate play behavior are discussed. An evolutionary perspective of play behavior is presented to provide a concise view of its importance in primate phylogeny. Some of the major variables influencing play behavior's socializing functions, i.e., gender, age, group structure and population dynamics, and the econiche, are reviewed. It is concluded that the major socializing functions of play behavior include proper social development, setting the basis for the adult dominance hierarchy, social integration of individuals into the group structure, and learning the social communicatory matrix.
3884546|Postinhibitory rebound (PIR) is an intrinsic property of many neurons but the underlying mechanism is not well understood. We studied PIR and its relationship to spike adaptation in B-cells isolated from the buccal ganglia of Aplysia. These neurons exhibit PIR following inhibitory synaptic input and following direct membrane hyperpolarization. Hyperpolarizing and depolarizing voltage clamp pulses from the resting potential evoke slow changes in membrane current that persist in the form of tail currents following the pulses. A substraction method was used to isolate slow tail currents for study. Current-voltage measurements indicate that slow outward tail currents following depolarizing pulses result from increases in membrane conductance, while inward tail currents following hyperpolarizations to -50 and -60 mV result from conductance decreases. The reversal potential of both outward and inward tail current is between -60 and -70 mV. Tail currents activated by pulses more positive than -60 mV are sensitive to the external K
3881957|The structure and distribution of the adrenal gland in fishes is reviewed. Studies on the in vitro and in vivo biosynthesis of adrenocortical steroids and their occurrence in the blood of fishes are evaluated in the light of modern techniques for the identification and quantification of steroids. There follows an appraisal of some literature dealing with the adrenocortical control of intermediary metabolism and ion transport in fishes.
3881717|McCord and Allen (1917) found that extracts of mammalian pineal glands contain a potent contracting agent of larval amphibian melanophores. Lerner and his co-workers determined the chemical structure of this principle and named it melatonin. This agent contracts dermal melanophores at a concentration as low as 10
3883166|Maturational delay of young female mice as the result of exposure to grouped female odors and reproductive inhibition as the result of exposure to isolated adult females have both been observed (Drickamer, 1974; Skryja, 1978). Each has the potential to reduce the growth rate of populations. Reductions in a female's reproduction facilitated by social stimulation from other females, while effective in reducing population growth, may in the case, of maturational delay and reproductive inhibition be an epiphenomenon or exadaptation of selection for improved relative reproductive success in the females possessing these abilities. The ultimate outcome of these selective processes may be the buffering of population numbers, but the selective forces may operate to maximize a female's relative reproductive success. A females' relative reproductive success can be maximized by either increasing her own reproduction or decreasing the reproductive output of other females. A body of evidence exists to suggest that in Peromyscus maniculatus and Peromyscus leucopus, females are physiologically constrained and unable to increase their own reproduction. If the assumption of physiological restraint is correct, then the most effective way for females to maximize their relative reproductive success is to reduce the reproductive output of their competitors. In this paper, maturational delay and reproductive inhibition as they affect both the adult female and young females are discussed. Examination of these effects reveals that while they can be effective in population regulation, their main function and the selective process that produced them is at the level of individual reproduction.
3882558|Successful plant colonizers are characterized by the attributes of weediness but exhibit a variety of life-history traits and genetic systems. Colonizing success would depend on the ability of exploiting niches in competition with earlier inhabitants. Within-population genetic variation plays a role in adaptation to new habitats. An experiment with hybrid derivatives from a cross between wild and cultivated soybean species proved that the ability to establish seedlings in semi-natural conditions was genetically controlled, and was loosely correlated with various traits. A wild rice species, Oryza perennis, shows a perennial-annual continuum among populations. The populations markedly differed in life-history traits and niche dimension, as conditioned by seasonal water regime and man's disturbance of the habitats. Intra-populational differentiation was also observed. The data suggested that various life-history traits are selected as a set.
3883346|The evolution of the tetrapod limb is examined from two perspectives: structural and functional. Rosen et al. (1981) argued that lungfishes are the sister group of tetrapods, with limb characteristics comprising an important subset of their evidence. A re-analysis of the limb characters advocated by Rosen et al. does not support their contention, but instead suggests that rhipidistian fishes of the family Osteolepidae are the closest relatives of the tetrapods. In order to understand the probable selective pressures leading to evolution of the tetrapod limb, a functional analysis of the fins of antennariid anglerfishes was performed. Antennariids use their limb-like fins to traverse underwater substrates. The analysis reveals a large number of functional and morphological convergences between antennariid fins and tetrapod limbs. It is suggested that tetrapod limbs were evolved for underwater transport rather than for locomotion on dry land.
3883331|The lamprey, a lower vertebrate, has recently become a very useful model system for studying motor control, including the organization of neural networks, and for examining the relation between kinematic patterns and underlying neural mechanisms. This aquatic animal displays a number of interesting locomotor behaviors, including flexure reflexes, forward locomotion, backward locomotion, turning, withdrawal, and equilibrium reflexes. A valuable property of the lamprey preparation is that the nervous system survives under in vitro conditions for several days and generates well-coordinated locomotor activity that underlies some of the above behaviors. Thus, the neural control of basic locomotor behaviors can be studied in an isolated nervous system in which the ionic or pharmacological make-up of the bath can be altered and in which stable conditions are provided for intracellular recordings. In addition, recent data indicate that the lamprey preparation is a valuable model system for studies of axonal regeneration and recovery of locomotor function following spinal cord injury. This article will focus on three aspects of locomotor behavior in the lamprey: kinematics and motor activity of locomotor behaviors, descending control of locomotion, and regeneration of descending brainstem command pathways that initiate locomotion.
3882556|Two subspecies of the tiger salamander, Ambystoma tigrinum, have a distinctive polymorphic life history that can include four adult morphs as well as typical and cannibalistic larval morphs. We evaluated the effect of environment on development of larval morphology in two laboratory experiments. In Experiment I, 180 larvae were raised in individual 3-liter containers and fed one of three food levels. Larvae in Experiment II received one of two levels of food, and were raised at three densities: one larva per 3 liters of water (50 containers), three larvae per 22 liters of water (18 containers), or seven larvae per 22 liters of water (18 containers). Cannibalistic morphs developed only in nine containers at the highest density, and their occurrence was independent of the two food levels. Our results suggest the typical and cannibalistic larvae which occur in some populations of Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum is an environmentally induced developmental polymorphism that results from some individuals responding to the environment differently than others. This difference in response may or may not be associated with genetic differences between these morphs. Based on our results we cannot discriminate between two models that differ in their assumptions about the genetic background of individual larvae.
3882399|Interest in the gaseous microclimate of the avian nest during incubation has greatly intensified in recent years because of the potentially important effects of microclimatic factors upon embryonic respiration and hydration. Few data are available describing levels of carbon dioxide and oxygen surrounding the eggs. What information is available, however, suggests that in most species levels of CO
3881440|A detailed analysis was made of the process by which the wolf comes from a state of unfamiliarity and fear of humans to a state of familiarity and friendliness. The nature of the process was found to depend on the age of the animal as well as the technique employed by the experimenter. Although young cubs were found to respond positively to almost any form of human contact, the older cubs and juveniles required much more time and effort to socialize, and fully matured adults offered very special problems which required specialized techniques to overcome. Periods beyond which no socialization could occur were not found. Wolves socialized as cubs had to be reinforced repeatedly in order to maintain their social bond with humans; however, adult wolves retained their socialized behavior even after being left with unsocialized animals and not handled for 18-22 months. Wolves socialized with the aid of tranquilizing drugs (chlorpromazine, librium, and reserpine) did not retain their socialization when the drugs were withdrawn on a variety of schedules. The development of fear responses as the animals grow older, and the association of fear with the unfamiliar, closely parallel the increasing difficulty of acquiring socialized behavior as well as the decreasing difficulty of retaining that behavior once it is acquired. Socialization is viewed as a conditioning process which must take place after the development and in the presence of the free expression of the subjective components of fear, a separable aspect of the general phenomenon of genetic wildness.
3882389|Most of the known mutants of the axolotl were uncovered by R. R. Humphrey through inbreeding laboratory stock or wild animals imported from Mexico. All are spontaneous in origin. We believe that chemical mutagenesis may be useful for increasing both the frequency and variety of new mutations. For our experiments, we have chosen the alkylating agent ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS), because its mode of action is reasonably well understood. Though we were unable to establish a lethal dose of EMS by intraperitoneal injection, we were successful when we administered the compound directly in the water. In the weeks immediately after treatment, females administered sublethal doses did not ovulate, except in response to large injections of follicle stimulating hormone. Recovery took several months. Treated males showed more normal performance, in terms of courtship and the number of spermatophores produced. At low doses, and short intervals after treatment, embryos from spawnings with treated males survived nearly as well as controls. Survival reached a minimum about a month after the male had been treated, then improved again. This depression and recovery may be correlated with the stage of sperm maturation at the time of treatment. Treatment of mature sperm from spermatophores affected only their ability to fertilize eggs in an artificial insemination; fertile eggs developed normally. The most promising procedure would, therefore, seem to be treatment of the male. Following mutagenesis, we propose that gynogenesis be used to aid in the rapid identification of new recessive mutations.
3883644|Six coral reef locations between Miami and Key West were marked with stainless steel stakes and rephotographed periodically between 1984 and 1991. The monitored areas included two photostations in the Looe Key National Marine Sanctuary, two photostations in the Key Largo National Marine Sanctuary, and two photostations in the Biscayne National Park. Stations were monitored for species number, percent cover, and species diversity of the scleractinian and hydrozoan stony corals. Monitoring began in 1984 for photostations in the National Marine Sanctuaries and in 1989 for stations in the National Park. All six areas lost coral species between the initial survey year and 1991. Survey areas lost between one and four species; these losses constituted between 13% and 29% of their species richness. Five of the six areas lost live coral cover. Based upon photographs taken repeatedly at these locations, net losses ranged between 7.3% and 43.9%. In the one station showing an increase in coral cover, the increase was only for the canopy branches of Acropora palmata; understory branches of this same species lost surface area at the same rate as canopy branches gained area. For most of the common species, there was a reduction in the total number of living colonies in the community, and a diminution in the number of large, mature colonies. Throughout the study period, there was no recruitment to any of the photostations by any of the massive frame building coral species. Mortality of this magnitude is often associated with hurricane damage, but in this survey the losses occurred during a period without catastrophic storms. Sources of mortality identifiable in the photographs include (1) black band disease and (2) "bleaching"; other potential sources of mortality are also considered. We conclude, for our survey areas, that loss rates of this magnitude cannot be sustained for protracted periods if the coral community is to persist in a configuration resembling historical coral reef community structure in the Florida Keys.
3883332|This paper reviews nineteen different classes of neuron present in the nervous system of late embryos of the amphibian Xenopus laevis to see how far the behaviour of these animals can be explained in terms of the properties of these neurons. Movements can be initiated by light sensitive neurons in the pineal vesicle and touch sensitive neurons innervating head and trunk skin. Swimming can be stopped by activity in neurons innervating head skin and the cement gland. A trigeminal pathway allows the skin impulse access to the nervous system to initiate movement. Central pathways exist in the hindbrain and spinal cord to carry excitation and inhibition to the opposite side following sensory stimulation. Two classes of spinal neuron appear sufficient to coordinate motor neuron activity in simple reflexes and the basic alternation in swimming. However, the longitudinal coordination in swimming and struggling movements is not understood. For some of the cell classes described there is no evidence on function. I conclude that the Xenopus embryo nervous system and its relation to behaviour is better understood than any other but still leaves us with many questions to answer!
3881941|The limited studies on chondrichthyean islet function are discussed and evaluated. The only certain effect is that of insulin-induced hypoglycemia in all species studied. Bovine and chondrichthyean insulin preparations both have pronounced effects. The evidence also indicates that glucagon is hyperglycemic in some species, but the source of the mobilized glucose is unknown. Blood glucose levels in the Chondrichthyes show wide variations, even within a species, and are apparently not closely regulated. To the present time the effects of pancreatic hormones on carbohydrate metabolism have been investigated, but other possible effects of these hormones on intermediary metabolism (e.g., protein and lipid) have not been studied. The sparse information on the immunology of chondrichthyean insulins is also discussed.
3883287|Considering thyroid hormone levels in the chicken, we should keep in mind that these concentrations are the integrated result of production and release on one hand and elimination, tissue utilization or peripheral interconversion on the other. Moreover all these processes can be and are probably influenced by the relative amounts of thyroxine ( T
3882710|Conventional cladistic analyses of phylogeny can be interpreted as operating at the level of phylogenetic trees. They assume that all "evolutionary steps" (transitions from one character state to the next, along a morphocline) are independent and equal, and, on that basis, select the cladogram which is consistent with the most parsimonious trees. Evaluation of the assumptions of independence and equality requires consideration of hypotheses at the level of scenarios. In some cases, arguments based on functional analysis can suggest revised interpretations of either homology or polarity. If properly formulated, these arguments can alter the evaluation of parsimony for trees to the extent that even the choice of cladogram is affected. The structure of scenario level arguments is identical to that of arguments operating at tree level. Examples of phylogenetic inference in the context of xiphosurans (horseshoe crabs), using both comparative morphological and functional analysis, illustrate this approach. In different cases, orthodox interpretations of relationship are either challenged or corroborated. Although the introduction of functional analysis into the process of phylogenetic inference may appear to compromise the usefulness of the reconstructed phylogeny for testing hypotheses concerning the role of natural selection in evolution, it actually increases the strength of such tests.
3882451|Species of at least 5 orders of insects, 6 families of birds, and 2 orders of mammals, in various combinations, can exploit the cones and seeds of most species of conifers. Lodgepole pine is the exception to this pattern of broad taxonomic diversity of seed predators in that only pine squirrels and coreid bugs attack its serotinous cones. The contrast between lodgepole pine and other conifers demonstrates that large intrinsic variation in the abundance of a resource fosters the evolution of a broad range of taxonomic groups to exploit the resource. The diverse groups are limited by different predators and alternate resources when conifer seeds independently decrease in abundance.
3882811| This paper compares the ultrastructure, development, and functional morphology of the stylet apparatus in monostiliferous hoplonemerteans (Phylum Nemertea: Class Enopla). The apparatus occurs in the middle region of the worm's eversible proboscis and consists of two main components: 1) a central stylet that is attached to an anchoring device called the basis; and 2) reserve stylet sacs that contain nail-like reserve stylets. The knob-shaped proximal piece of the central stylet is embedded in the anterior end of the basis, and the tapered shaft of the stylet is directed anteriorly. When the proboscis is fully everted, the central stylet is used to stab such prey as polychaete worms and small crustaceans. Wounds inflicted by the stylet allow the introduction of paralytic neurotoxins that are produced by glandular cells in the epithelial lining of the proboscis. Reserve stylets form intracellularly within the reserve stylet sacs and serve to replace the central stylet when it becomes lost or damaged. Fully developed stylets typically measure 50 to 250 m in length and comprise an organic core surrounded by an inorganic cortex that contains calcium phosphate. In juvenile worms that are four days to several weeks old, reserve stylets are assembled before other components of the stylet apparatus are fully differentiated. Subsequently, a reserve stylet is transferred to the central region of the proboscis and placed on the basis. Stages in the process of stylet attachment are described, and the probable sequence by which the stylet apparatus co-evolved with toxin-producing cells is discussed. 
3882139|During the course of insect evolution lipids have assumed a significant role in facilitating several important morphogenetic and physiological strategies. Stored glycerides provide a convenient reservoir of metabolic energy for periods of prolonged energy demand, while cuticular lipids are of profound importance in enabling terrestrial insects to resist dessication. The present review identifies the lipid classes of fat body, haemolymph and cuticle, and summarises the contribution of lipids to insect development, migration, diapause, protection, reproduction and flight. The release, transport and uptake of lipid during flight is discussed.
3883399|Most animal phyla lack specialized respiratory surfaces and all phyla contain groups that, for some part of their life history, depend entirely upon integumental diffusion of respiratory gases. Animals that are diffusion-limited, yet function aerobically are generally small with large surface areas and there has been convergence for this among all phyla including the coelomate invertebrates. Acoelomates lack specialized respiratory structures but have highly modified integuments, functional specializations, and features ranging from symbioses to air gulping that compensate for diffusion limitation. The diversity of structures functioning for integumentary respiration is much greater among invertebrates than vertebrates. Among the higher invertebrates with respiratory surfaces, accessory integumentary O
3884554|We present an overview of the isolation and characterization of three hormones (or hormone families) important for the growth and development of decapod crustaceans. These hormones include the ecdysteroids (steroid molting hormones), the hyperglycemic hormone neuropeptide family, and the terpenoid methyl farnesoate. Using examples primarily from our laboratory, we describe work on these hormones using various life stages of the lobster (Homarus americanus) as the principal model.
3881973|Approximately 45 species of kangaroos and their smaller relatives occupy virtually every terrestrial habitat in Australia. The most social macropod is the whiptail wallaby, which lives in permanent, discrete mobs of up to 50 individuals of mixed age and sex. Group formation is facilitated by their grazing habits, open forest and pasture habitat, partly diurnal activity, and low level of intraspecific aggressiveness. Pressure from cursorial predators, plus the whiptail's non-seasonal breeding and brief estrus, make group living adaptive. Ancestral macropods are believed to have been rabbit-sized inhabitants of dense forest, omnivorous, nocturnal, and essentially solitary. The major evolutionary trends in the family have been toward larger size and grazing habits; the trends toward diurnality and group living have had more modest results. Progressive stages in macropod social evolution may be represented by the present-day musk rat-kangaroo, the quokka, and the whiptail wallaby.
3884042|Typically, anuran amphibians communicate in a complex acoustic environment to which the calls of many males contribute. Although research has demonstrated that male vocal behavior is responsive to changes in this environment, a more thorough understanding of male-male interactions should benefit from the use of computer based systems for data acquisition and interactive playback. I discuss how I have used such systems in studies of note timing behavior, unison bout singing, aggressive behavior and female choice. In addition, I indicate how energetic constraints may be involved in shaping the temporal dynamics of chorusing.
3884531|The Cactus-Microorganism-Drosophila Model System of the Sonoran Desert represents an excellent paradigm of the role of chemistry in plant-animal interactions. In this system, four species of endemic Drosophila feed and reproduce in necrotic tissue of five species of columnar cacti. Studies over the past 35 yr have characterized a myriad of interactions between the three major components of the model system. The cacti contain a variety of allelochemicals which are primarily responsible for the highly specific pattern of host plant utilization exhibited by the desert Drosophila. Plant chemistry, through its effect on the microbially produced volatile patterns, is further involved in host specificity because the flies use the volatile pattern to cue in on necroses in the appropriate species of cactus. The metabolic activities of microorganisms (bacteria and yeasts) living in the necrosis can affect the substrate chemistry in both positive and negative ways (i.e., acting to increase or to decrease the toxicity of the substrate). Finally, cactus chemistry may affect drosophilid mating behavior since larval rearing substrate has been shown to influence adult hydrocarbon epicuticular composition. In D. mojavensis, adult hydrocarbon profile has been implicated as a determinant of mate choice leading to premating isolation between geographically isolated populations that use chemically different cactus substrates. Current research is focused on the evolution and regulation of genes whose products (cytochrome P450 enzymes) are involved in the specific insect-host plant relationships which exist between the Drosophila species and the cactus species. There are many reasons why investigators choose to focus their research efforts on what are referred to as "model systems." Typically included among these would be the idea that model systems are easier to study because they are less complex than other scientific situations. At the same time, model systems should be representative of more complex, natural systems so that information that is obtained from their study is broadly applicable. For almost a century, the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has served as a model organism for the study of genetics. As a genetic paradigm, Drosophila is more tractable to scientific investigation than most organisms and has provided important insights into a wide variety of human maladies from alcohol abuse to neurological brain disorders (Bellen, 1998). Similarly, the interrelationships of the columnar cacti and the cactophilic Drosophila species of the Sonoran Desert have, for the past 35 yr, provided an excellent model system with which to study relevant questions in evolution, ecological genetics, and chemical ecology. The intent of this article is to briefly review and characterize the chemical interactions between the plants (cacti) and animals (Drosophila) of this model system, and, in addition, provide some thoughts on possible future directions for integrative approaches in this research area.
3882437|Fever, an elevated thermoregulatory "set-point," occurs in vertebrates from fishes through mammals in response to infection with appropriate pathogens. The long phylogenetic history of fever supports the hypothesis that fever has an adaptive or beneficial role (i.e., fever is a component of the host's immunological defenses). Besides providing insight into determining the role of fever in disease, ectothermic vertebrates have also served as excellent animal models to specifically answer many questions relating to fever and disease. For example, survival studies using goldfishes, lizards, and newborn mammals (which are also virtually ectothermic) have shown that an elevated body temperature increases the survival rate of the infected organism. Furthermore, by using ectotherms it has been possible to demonstrate that the reduction in serum iron which accompanies most infections is not directly attributable to an elevation in body temperature. Nevertheless, a rise in body temperature, coupled with a fall in serum iron, appears to constitute a coordinated host defense mechanism in response to at least some bacterial infections in reptiles and mammals, and perhaps other groups of vertebrates.
3881950|Several active principles (urotensins) have been isolated from teleost caudal neurosecretory systems. The original classification of these substances has been recently modified: There are at least two mammalian hypotensive factors (with no effects yet known in fish), possibly two smooth muscle contractants, arginine vasotocin, and factors affecting Na+ movement. A factor affecting lymph heart frequency has not yet been compared with other peptides. Evidence for the hormonal nature of some of these substances includes subcellular localization in granules and calcium-dependent release by depolarization. The physiology of the system is still not clear. The best evidence for an osmoregulatory role includes effects of extracts on renal diuresis and Na+ movement and changes in firing rates of caudal neurosecretory neurons by altered ionic composition of the blood. Most other evidence is subject to alternative explanation. Several observations suggest a role for this system in reproduction.
3884378|The nucleus of the intervertebral disc in humans shows the most dramatic changes with age of any cartilaginous tissue. It originates from the notochord. In the foetus and infant, the nucleus contains actively dividing and biosynthetically active notochordal cells. The proteoglycans and other matrix components produced have a high osmotic pressure, imbibe water and maintain a hydrated structure which, though it has little mechanical strength, has a high swelling pressure which maintains disc turgor. In some species, the notochordal cells and the mucoid nucleus pulposus persist throughout adult life. However by about 4 yr of age in humans, the notochordal cells have disappeared to be replaced by those of chondrocytic appearance but of unknown origin. These cells continue to produce proteoglycans but also synthesize significant amounts of collagen. The nucleus becomes firmer and less hydrated and loses its transparent appearance. The cell density of the adult nucleus is very low with cells occupying less than 0.5% of tissue volume; each cell thus has to turn over and maintain a large domain of extracellular matrix. The density of living cells decreases with age, possibly because of problems with nutrient supply to this large avascular tissue. Proteoglycan concentration also falls, and nucleus hydration decreases markedly, the disc discolours and in many cases clefts and fissures form. In most adults, the disc nucleus degenerates eventually to a stage where it can no longer fulfil its mechanical role.
3882422|The bilateral paired heart tubes of the leech Hirudo medicinalis are controlled, via excitatory synapses, by a set of bilaterally paired segmental heart motor neurons (HE cells) which are in turn controlled, via inhibitory synapses, by a set of bilaterally paired segmental heart interneurons (HN cells). The HE cells produce rhythmic impulse bursts because their inherent steady discharge is periodically inhibited by the HN cells, most of which produce impulse bursts endogenously. The known synaptic interactions among the HN cells and HE cells can account well for the observed behavior of the hearts. The HE cells are coordinated by the HN cells such that the segmental heart tube sections on one side constrict in a caudorostral sequence (peristalsis), while the segmental heart tube sections on the other side constrict nearly synchronously (non-peristalsis). This difference in the coordination modes of the two hearts is not permanent; reciprocal coordination mode transitions occur every 10 - 50 heartbeat cycles. Only one member of HN(5) cell pair (the HN cells of the fifth segmental ganglion) is rhythmically active at a time, the other being completely inactive. By coordinating the front and rear HN cells the active HN(5) cell produces non-peristalsis ipsilaterally and peristalsis contralaterally. Reciprocal changes in the activity-inactivity pattern of the HN(5) cell pair are responsible for the reciprocal changes in the coordination mode.
3884444|Recent discoveries of similarities in the developmental genetics underlying the formation of insect and vertebrate eyes, hearts, segments, and other structures have fueled new speculation and debate about the origins of these features and the morphological complexity of early bilaterians. The pivotal issue concerning these developmental similarities is whether they represent convergence of pattern-forming mechanisms or reveal developmental regulatory mechanisms or even physical characteristics derived from a common ancestor. Here, we set forth an explicit hierarchical set of criteria for assessing developmental genetic similarities among animals. We suggest that interpretations of convergence versus descent from common ancestors should be weighed by the number, type, and phylogenetic distribution of genetic regulatory similarities. We then apply these criteria to the analysis of appendage evolution. We conclude that there has been no continuity of any structure from which the insect and vertebrate appendages could be derived, i.e., they are not homologous structures. However, there is abundant evidence for continuity in the genetic information for building body wall outgrowths and/or appendages in several phyla which must date at least to the common, potential appendage-bearing pre-Cambrian ancestor of most protostomes and deuterostomes. In order to further trace the origin of this genetic information and of appendages, it will be essential to analyze more primitive taxa such as the Cnidaria and to obtain a much better fossil record of pre-Cambrian animals.
3884192|Egg size and nest site selection are two potential effects that can have a persistent influence on the phenotype of offspring. In this paper, I develop the maternal condition-dependent choice hypothesis for the maintenance of environmental sex determination. The hypothesis stipulates three conditions: 1) there must be variation in the maternal effect, 2) the variation in the maternal effect must influence fitness of the offspring differently between the sexes, and 3) female reproductive behavior is determined by her condition or how her condition will influence her offspring's fitness. Females with the ability to recognize environments that have a higher probability of producing the sex that would benefit the most from maternal condition will have an advantage. Using egg size as a maternal effect, I test this hypothesis in the diamondback terrapin, an emydid turtle with temperature-dependent sex determination. Terrapins have large variation in egg size among clutches and little variation within clutches. Egg mass is the primary determinant of hatchling mass and can result in as much as a three year difference in reaching minimum size of first reproduction in females, but may not affect age or size of first reproduction in males. Finally, terrapins select open nesting sites with warmer incubation conditions and place larger eggs there. Females place smaller eggs in cooler sites. Terrapin reproduction is consistent with the prediction of the maternal condition-dependent nest site choice hypothesis. The model and supporting data demonstrate how maternal effects can be an important factor to consider in studies of environmental sex determination.
3882712|Functional morphological analysis has revealed the existence of three functionally and morphologically different mechanisms underlying the tongue-parasphenoid and pharyngeal-parasphenoid bites in advanced teleost fishes. The bite is specialized differently in Pristolepis and the Anabantoidei, and in a primitive condition in both the Nandidae and Channiformes. These taxa belong to at least three unrelated lineages and do not share a common ancestry as was previously postulated. It has been possible to show how an originally primitive character can acquire a new biological and phylogenetic meaning by being integrated into a specialized functional complex. Based on functional data on the pharyngeal jaw apparatus, a new hypothesis is proposed stating that the Cichlidae, Embiotocidae, Labridae, Odacidae and Scaridae represent a monophyletic assemblage. This case study has demonstrated that reciprocal illumination of functional morphological and phylogenetic findings can lead to: (1) better tested and more precise phylogenetic hypotheses; (2) the construction of new hypotheses on the basis of specialized character complexes which were unrecognized by the use of a purely descriptive morphological approach.
3883939|Grasshoppers exhibit a diversity of ventilatory patterns depending on activity status. For each pattern, the mechanism and control of gas exchange is analyzed in terms of a two-step model, consisting of tracheolar and trans-spiracular steps in series. During the intermittent gas exchange that characterizes the most quiescent grasshoppers, spiracles open and close in response to changing carbon dioxide, and trans-spiracular resistance controls gas exchange. In resting but alert grasshoppers, abdominal pumping occurs, and gas exchange is controlled equally by tracheolar and trans-spiracular resistances; tracheal oxygen and carbon dioxide are regulated by variation in abdominal pumping and spiracular opening. During hopping, abdominal pumping does not occur, and bulk gas flow is driven by cuticular deformations associated with locomotion. Increased cellular oxygen consumption depends on use of internal oxygen stores and increased partial pressure gradients. After hopping ceases, abdominal pumping increases dramatically and restores tracheal gas composition; however, the rise in abdominal pumping after hopping is not affected by tracheal gas levels. During flight, bulk flow to the flight muscles is driven by tidal thoracic auto-ventilation, while the remainder of the body is ventilated by abdominal pumping. During both hopping and flight, the greatest resistances to gas transport exist in the tracheolar rather than the trans-spiracular step.
3884190| The degree to which a female partitions resources between fecundity and per offspring investment is a central question in life-history theory. Maternal effects may influence the nature of this tradeoff through their effect on per offspring investment and subsequent offspring fitness. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of female age and size on brood size (number of offspring), per offspring investment, and fitness in the polychaete Streblospio benedicti. Early stage embryos were collected from brooding females of known age and size over a period of 100 days; these embryos were counted and analyzed for their C and N content. Female size had a positive effect on brood size; larger females produced larger broods. However, brood size decreased with female age (females did not increase in size after reaching sexual maturity). Brood size declined 20-46% between 60 and 160 days of age. During this same age period per offspring investment, measured in terms of C and N, increased by 25%. Offspring survivorship and size at two weeks post-release from the female were used as measures of offspring fitness. Offspring survivorship increased 28% between 60 and 160 days of age. Increased growth in offspring from older females resulted in a 23% increase in offspring size at two weeks. Including the maternal age effect in two population models for S. benedicti increased population growth rate (). Population growth was increased to a greater degree when the maternal effect was modeled by enhancing offspring survival compared to when fecundity was increased by the same proportional amount. This suggests that the maternal effect may be adaptive, particularly when conditions for offspring survival and growth are poor. 
3883614|The goals of this paper are twofold. One is to provide a means to access the literature that reports most aspects of crustacean chemoreception. The intent is not to provide a review or to assign credit for original discoveries. Several references appear in the literature section that are not cited in the text. These references are in important areas that are rapidly growing but not discussed here due to lack of space. The second goal is to outline my perspective on how chemicals affect the daily lives of crabs. I have taken liberty with the term crab and have included information from studies on true crabs, lobsters, shrimp, crayfish and hermit crabs. The message is that chemosensory input, when placed in the context of the environmental and physiological status of crabs, is a means of modulating daily activity.
3881681|Current investigations of the three principal families of ectoproct bryozoan burrowers has shown that while two of the families, the Terebriporidae and the Immergentiidae, belong to the minor Order Ctenostomata, the third family, Penetrantiidae, previously considered a ctenostome, actually belongs to the major Order Cheilostomata. The implications of this are important; we have considered the burrowing bryozoans to be a small obscure group, specialized for the burrowing mode of existence. We must now consider the possibility that there may be many more species of burrowing bryozoans as yet undiscovered, that they occur in at least two of the three bryozoan orders, and that burrowing constitutes an important ecological niche or mode of adaptation for the bryozoans. While such a change may seem to be merely a taxonomic maneuver, it may also serve to emphasize the diversity of the ectoproct bryozoan groups which do burrow, and perhaps encourage research on them. At present we are making progress describing the living species, their anatomy and histology. We still know almost nothing about how they penetrate the substrate, nothing about possible effects upon the host organism, and nothing about their means of geographical distribution, although they seem to occur worldwide, burrowing primarily in molluscan shells.
3882522|Muscles shorten, stay the same length and are stretched while they are active during normal modes of terrestrial locomotion. The relative importance of these different types of muscular activity changes as animals change gait. Energy is conserved during a walk by an alternate storage and recovery of gravitational potential energy within each stride, as in an inverted pendulum. In order for this transfer of energy to take place, muscular activity is required to hold the limb rigid while the animal rotates over it. Energy is conserved by a spring mechanism during running, trotting, galloping, and hopping. Energy is stored when active muscles and their tendons are stretched and recovered as they subsequently shorten. The recruitment patterns of motor units as a function of speed therefore, depends on the type of muscular activity as well as the force exerted. Discontinuities in the cross sectional area of active fibers with increasing speed have been observed at the trot-gallop transition. It is suggested that at this point the trunk is recruited as an additional spring enabling more energy to be stored elastically. It is concluded that we must consider what muscles are doing during normal modes of locomotion before we become too involved in designing schemes of motor unit recruitment.
3882267|The least explored areas in the phylogenetic development of immunity are the primitive chordate subphyla. The limited studies on tunicate internal defense mechanisms are presented and discussed. Primary and secondary immune responses and immunological maturation to vertebrate erythrocytes in Ciona intestinalis suggest that its internal defense mechanisms may be closely allied to both the invertebrates and vertebrates.
3881814| Red chromatophores (erythrophores) of the prawn, Palaemonetes vulgaris, are controlled by pigment-dispersing and -concentrating hormones. Recent experiments on the modes of action of these hormones are described, followed by a theory which satisfactorily explains the data. Red pigment-concentrating hormone is dependent upon sodium ions for a strong response to occur. There is a similar dependency of red pigment-dispersing hormone upon calcium ions. Ouabain inhibits the response to red pigment-concentrating hormone; tetrodotoxin enhances it. Erythrophores with maximally dispersed pigment had a transmembrane potential of 5515 mv inside negative in one series of experiments and 564 mv in another. No appreciable changes in permeability occur when depolarizing and hyperpolarizing currents are passed through a microelectrode within the chromatophore. Red pigment-concentrating hormone causes hyperpolarization of the transmembrane potential. The magnitude of hyperpolarization is directly related to the degree of pigment concentration. Adenosine 3, 5-monophosphate (cyclic AMP) causes dispersion of the red pigment but has no pigment-concentrating effect. The primary action of red pigment-concentrating hormone is most likely stimulation of a pump which exchanges sodium ions from inside the chromatophore with potassium ions from the outside, whereas red pigment-dispersing hormone quite likely stimulates entry of calcium ions into the chromatophore. 
3882228|Istock (1967) argued on theoretical grounds that "complex life cycles are inherently unstable over evolutionary time," yet the vast majority of frogs have distinct adult and larval forms. The maintenance of complex life cycles in anurans seems related to the unusual morphology and feeding ecology of the larval stage. An argument is presented that tadpoles are highly specialized suspension feeders adapted for utilizing rapid rises in primary production as a food source. Such resources are likely coupled to environmental fluctuations and available for only a limited amount of time during any year. In being adapted to feed on a temporary resource, tadpoles are obliged to change their feeding habits after a certain length of time. From a general consideration of matters such as predator susceptibility, feeding behavior, and growth patterns for suspension feeders, a case is made for why neotenic tadpoles have never been found and are unlikely to occur. The argument presented here links complex life cycles with short term environmental perturbation. Frog species with direct development tend to occur in relatively aseasonal environments, supporting this conclusion. The oldest known fossil frog is found in a seasonal rock formation. There has been a gradual trend toward increased seasonality since the early Mesozoic, apparently due to continental drift. This phenomenon may have some indirect and long-term bearing on the general maintenance of complex life cycles through evolutionary time. Understanding larval ecology is fundamental to understanding the process of metamorphosis and the maintenance of complex life cycles.
3882120|When AVT (arginine vasotocin) was given neonatally during the period when the brain is undergoing sexual differentiation, increased growth of the reproductive organs was observed in adulthood. Injection of AVT after this neonatal period in immature animals led to diminished growth of the accessory organs and in some cases the gonads themselves. The hypertrophic response of the in situ ovary in adult mice following unilateral ovariectomy (UO) was inhibited in a dose-related manner by a single intraperitoneal injection of freshly prepared AVT. Much less AVT was required for this response when injected into the third ventricle. After intraperitoneal injection, arginine vasopressin (AVP), lysine vasopressin (LVP), and 4-leucine vasotocin (4-leu-AVT) also inhibited compensatory ovarian hypertrophy whereas oxytocin did not. The commonality in the structure of these antigonadotrophic peptides include a closed ring and a basic amino acid in position 8. After opening the disulfide bond of these nonapeptides with mercaptoethanol, a single injection of the reduced AVT, AVP, LVP, or 4-leu-AVT into UO mice causes exaggerated hypertrophy of the remaining ovary. When added with leuteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LRH) to culture medium containing hemipituitaries from castrated estrogen-progesterone primed female rats, AVT significantly increased the release of radioimmunoassayable LH above that due to LRH alone. AVT might interact at all levels of the hypothalamo-hypophysealgonadal axis.
3882642| Mechanism of locomotion of deep cells of Fundulus heteroclitus was studied in vivo during gastrulation with the aid of time lapse cinemicrography (Nomarski differential interference contrast optics), scanning electron microscopy of cells known to be moving at the time of fixation, and cell culture. These are our findings. 1) Deep cells usually move rapidly, at about 10-15 m/min, regardless of whether they move by blebbing or spreading. Evidence suggests that this high speed is associated with weak adhesion of the trailing edge: it remains rounded, without large retraction fibers, and it advances continuously with advance of the leading edge, not sporadically, as it would if it adhered strongly. 2) In contrast, when stationary cells in close contact separate, they remain connected by retraction fibers, suggesting strong punctate adhesions. 3) Locomotion by shortening of a long lobopodium is really a form of spreading movement; the tip of a lobopodium always spreads. Also, since speed of shortening decreases with continuance, it may depend primarily on elastic recoil rather than active contraction. 4) Fundulus deep cells appear to move in two ways: a) protrusion of blebs, followed by much cytoplasmic flow; b) protrusion of lamellipodia, accompanied by filopodia and frequent cell shortening. 5) Filopodia were not found except at the leading edge of a spreading lamellipodium and often spread themselves; perhaps filopodia and lamellipodia are interconvertible. 6) A lamellipodial margin may form undulations in vivo that move backward like ruffles in vitro. 7) At all times, whether stationary or moving, the surface of deep cells is smooth, raising unanswered questions concerning the source of surface for their rapid protrusive activity. 
3882518|An investigation of developing skeletal muscle necessitates the study of three categories; the derivation of muscle cells or fibers, myofilament synthesis and interactions, assembly of myofilaments into functional sarcomeres of striated myofibrils. With few exceptions, skeletal muscle cells are of mesodermal origin, and consist of rounded mononucleated cells which elongate and fuse with one another to become myotubes. Within the sarcoplasm, myofibrillar proteins are synthesized and grouped into interacting thick and thin filaments. Crude, non-striated myofibrils result from linear arrangements of thick and thin filaments which are horizontally aligned by the invaginating sarcotubular system. After Z-lines form, providing attachment sites for thin filaments, a typical banding pattern follows. The newly formed Z-lines pull apart, followed by the attached thin filaments, and repeating "relaxed" sarcomeres are the resulting striated myofibrillar pattern.
3883168|Changes in generation time can have a major impact on population dynamics in small, rapidly breeding rodents. The onset of puberty in female house mice (Mus musculus domesticus) can vary from the age of 4 wk to 8 wk as a function of male acceleratory or female inhibitory urinary pheromones in laboratory experiments. In field studies, puberty inhibition has been demonstrated to vary directly with natural and experimental increases in population density. A model is developed suggesting that the sexual maturation of juvenile females residing in a dense population is inhibited by a pheromone produced by crowded females. The signal among females in a dense population seems to be mediated by the vomeronasal organ.
4620199|Post-activation potentiation is a phenomena that occurs only in fasttwitch muscle fibers. Its main effect is to enhance muscle force at sub-maximal activation levels for a short duration of time following previous muscle activation. We characterized this phenomenon in feline caudofemoralis (CF) muscle (composed of 100% fast-twitch muscle fibers) to understand its importance during physiological patterns of activation. During such patterns (e.g., 43 pps, 8 pulse trains delivered at 1 sec intervals) CF potentiated rapidly and apparently maximally. When CF was allowed to relax, potentiation decayed slowly with a time constant 20-40x slower than the rise-time. The level of potentiation reached during the potentiating paradigm was stable in response to a wide range of stimuli, including various stimulation rates (15-120 pps) and various inter-train intervals (up to 10 sec). The shape of the twitch force-length curve for potentiated CF was similar to that of the tetanic force-length curve in either the potentiated or unpotentiated state. In contrast, the shape of the twitch force-length curve for unpotentiated CF was shifted markedly to the right accompanied by a narrowing of the curve's peak. We conclude from our observations that fast-twitch muscle fibers operate and should be modeled in a state of full potentiation, and that modeling the potentiated state may actually be simpler than modeling the unpotentiated state.
3882845|Major ecological problems of our polluted troposphere include airborne toxic chemicals, acid rain and photochemical smog, all three of which are now recognized as being closely related chemical phenomena. We also recognize that in order to develop cost-effective strategies for their control, which protect public health and the environment, there must be close scientific interactions between chemists and biological scientists. For example, of rapidly emerging importance is the development of risk assessment evaluations for specific aspects of each of these problem areas. In preparing such assessments, chemists must define the "exposure," and biological scientists the "effects." In this paper, I discuss an example of how such close interactions proved indispensible in our search for atmospheric mutagens and carcinogens. Thus, an integrated chemical/microbiological procedure for the isolation and identification of particulate chemical mutagens in respirable diesel soot and ambient particles is described. Emphasis is placed on our use of the short-term, Ames Salmonella typhimurium bacterial mutagenicity test as a rapid, and relatively inexpensive, means of following the biological activities of these environmental mutagens through the chemical steps of their separation, isolation and identification from highly complex environmental samples. Possible mechanisms of formation of these particulate mutagens are discussed. They include the reactions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons present on the surfaces of combustion-generated particles with gaseous co-pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide plus nitric acid, and ozone. In discussing this research on a societally "relevant" problem, we illustrate the importance of "Science as a Way of Knowing." We further suggest that this integrated approach to scientific problem solving by chemical and biological scientists might serve as an example of a discussion topic on human ecology for undergraduate courses in the natural sciences.
4620174|Morphological and physiological plasticity is often thought to represent an adaptive response to variable environments. However, determining whether a given pattern of plasticity is in fact adaptive is analytically challenging, as is evaluating the degree of and limits to adaptive plasticity. Here we describe a general methodological framework for studying the evolution of plastic responses. This framework synthesizes recent analytical advances from both evolutionary ecology and functional biology, and it does so by integrating field experiments, functional and physiological analyses, environmental data, and genetic studies of plasticity. We argue that studies of plasticity in response to the thermal environment may be particularly valuable in understanding the role of environmental variation in the evolution of plasticity: not only can thermally-relevant traits often be mechanistically and physiologi linked to the thermal environment, but also the variability and predictability of the thermal environment itself can be quantified on ecologically relevant time scales. We illustrate this approach by reviewing a case study of seasonal plasticity in the extent of wing melanization in Western White Butterflies (Pontia occidentalis). This review demonstrates that 1) wing melanin plasticity is heritable, 2) plasticity does increase fitness in nature, but the effect varies between seasons and be years, 3) selection on existing variation in the magnitude of plasticity favors increased plasticity in one melanin trait that affects thermoregulation, but 4) the marked unpredictability of short-term (within-season) weather patterns substantially limits the capacity of plasticity to match optimal wing phenotypes to the weather conditions actually experienced. We complement the above case study with a casual review of selected aspects of thermal acclimation responses. The magnitude of thermal acclimation ("flexibility") is demonstrably modest rather than fully compensatory. The magnitude of genetic variation (crucial to evolutionary responses to selection) in thermal acclimation responses has been investigated in only a few species to date. In conclusion, we suggest that an understanding of selection and evolution of thermal acclimation will be enhanced by experimental examinations of mechanistic links between traits and environments, of the physiological bases and functional consequences of acclimation, of patterns of environmental variability and predictability, of the fitness consequences of acclimation in nature, and of potential genetic constraints.
3882319|There are advantages to be gained when an animal abandons its ancestral home, the ocean, and advances across the littoral zone to the land. But along with the advantages come the inevitable problems. How a land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis, has solved its problems of life on land is the subject of this paper. Its use of dew as a source of moisture and of its burrow as a refuge from predators and a hostile environment; its ability to collect moisture from a damp substrate and conduct this moisture to its branchial chambers and its gills; its capacity to retain large amounts of water before ecdysis and to use this water to stretch its new soft exoskeleton and attain its proper shape after ecdysis are only a few of the crab's special adaptations for terrestrial life. Its feeding and reproductive behavior are equally adaptive, as is its propensity for tree-climbing when danger threatens-or at other times. During the past several decades, much interesting and important research has been done on G. lateralis, as well as on other land crabs-but much remains to be done. Land crabs are and will undoubtedly continue to be promising objects of scientific research.
3881746|A state of immunological tolerance, or specific unresponsiveness to foreign antigen, can be induced in amphibians by joining two nonsibling embryos in parabiotic union. The induced tolerance is immunologically specific; the co-partners are tolerant of each other's antigens but do respond to unrelated antigens from third parties. The parabionts are blood-cell chimeras; each contains blood elements of the type proper to the other. The degree of chimerism wanes in the later life of the parabionts, which may be the consequence of the appearance of a new clone of uninhibited reactive cells derived from the bone marrow. Tolerance to a particular antigen is interpreted as arising by the deletion of the population of competent lymphocytes capable of responding to that antigen. The breakdown of tolerance occurs through the emergence of a new population of antigen-reactive cells. In essence, a tolerant cell as a discrete entity does not exist.
3883601|We studied blood parasite infections in relation to aspects of sexual selection and mate choice in 10 species of birds of paradise. Across species there was a significant, positive correlation between relative parasite intensity and showiness in males. Parasite infections also correlated across species with the degree of sexual dimorphism and varied with mating systems. Promiscuous species were showier and had significantly higher parasite prevalences than monogamous species. Within one species, Lawes' Parotia (Parotia lawesii), parasite intensity was negatively correlated with all phenotypic traits examined, a pattern significantly different than random. The mating success of males with low parasite intensities varied, but males with high intensities did not mate. Sampling of individual males on repeated occasions revealed large temporal differences in parasite counts which spanned the range believed to affect behavior and mating success. Whereas the interspecific correlations support one prediction of the Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis on parasites and sexual selection, the intraspecific data are equivocal with respect to a second prediction of this hypothesis. Parasites appear to influence the behavior of Lawes' Parotia, but alternative explanations to that of Hamilton and Zuk for this effect are equally plausible and there is no evidence of a link between female choice and the traits in males indicative of parasite loads. We suggest that female Lawes' Parotia may be avoiding highly infected males rather than actively choosing parasite-resistant males.
3881569|A functional explanation is presented for the shift of the reptilian articular and quadrate into the mammalian middle ear to become the malleus and incus. Modification of the masticatory apparatus of therapsids results in reduction of stresses on the jaw joint and consequently in reduction of posterior elements of the jaw. In the late therapsid, Bienotherium, the quadrate and post-dentary jaw bones resemble the mammalian malleus and incus which together form a lever. The therapsid articular possesses a downturned retroarticular process (for insertion of M. depressor mandibulae) homologous with the manubrium (force lever arm) of the malleus. About the time of origin of the mammalian (dentary-squamosal) jaw joint and following the origin of the mammalian depressor, the reptilian depressor is lost. This allows the enlarging reptilian tympanum to become attached to the retroarticular process. The new lever system thus formed by articular and quadrate increases the sensitivity of the ear and the reptilian one-bone system is replaced. In early mammals the reflected lamina of the angular migrates posteriorly with the angle of the dentary so that it contacts and assumes support of the tympanum. Non-homology of the monotreme and therian depressors indicates a multiple origin of the mammalian middle ear.
3884044|Acoustic signals transmitted over large distances differ significantly from those emitted by the signaler. Acoustic signals degrade in amplitude, spectral and temporal structure as they propagate through the environment. A great deal of work on acoustic communication is aimed at understanding the selective forces imposed by the environment on animal signals. I will discuss the physical constraints the environment puts on acoustic communication, and then discuss similarities in communication by anurans and insects that relate these environmental constraints to their signaling systems. Lastly, I show how changes in signals during propagation relate to changes in signal perception during phonotaxis, and thus, how propagation relates to mate choice and sexual selection.
3884092|In 1989, zebra mussels received national attention in North America when they reached densities exceeding
3881372|The widespread occurrence of neurosecretory neurons in the animal kingdom suggests a functional significance that is basic and special. The explanation of the need for this unusual cell type lies in the fact that it forms a link between the nervous and the endocrine systems whose functional interdependence forms the basis for the effectiveness of regulatory mechanisms in the animal world. These two integrative systems function in different ways. The neurosecretory cell, with its dual characteristics, and this cell alone, seems capable of receiving messages in "neural" language, and of transmitting this information in modified "endocrine" language to glandular cells. The neurosecretory neuron occupies a central position in neuroendocrine interactions, not only because it is geared for communication with the endocrine apparatus, but because it serves as a singular channel ("final common path," E. Scharrer, 1965) through which a multitude of afferent stimuli, after being processed, are channeled to a variety of endocrine way stations and thus exert control over their effector organs.
4620125|Studies of reproductive behavior in amphibians have been especially successful in synthesizing data produced from molecular and physiological research with evolutionary parameters, such as measures of reproductive success. In particular, two relatively new areas of amphibian research are highly amenable to synthetic studies. One area is the nature of chemical communication by pheromone delivery in terrestrial salamanders. Male courtship pheromones, for example, are delivered to the female during mating. These pheromones typically are received by the accessory olfactory system and act (presumably via the hypothalamus) to increase female receptivity. At an evolutionary level, pheromone delivery can increase male courtship success and thus the likelihood that a given male will sire offspring. Variation in pheromone composition and effectiveness will permit us to trace the evolution of the male pheromone on a phylogeny of related populations and species. At a proximal level, salamander courtship pheromones are being chemically analyzed in order to identify specific protein components that affect female receptivity. It also will be possible to determine whether chemical variation among males is related to behavioral effectiveness. Thus, courtship pheromone delivery is a behavior that has invited scrutiny from a combination of evolutionary and mechanistic perspectives. The second research area that is gaining from a synthetic approach is the investigation of relationships between hormonal mechanisms and reproductive behavior in field populations of anurans and salamanders. Amphibians are an understudied group, and the area of hormone-behavior relationships is inspired by testable hypotheses based on studies of other terrestrial vertebrates. The ability to correlate physiological measures with estimates of reproductive success identifies areas of amphibian research that will profit from continued attention.
3884462|Morphometric approaches facilitate the analysis of quantitative variation in form, typically becoming most useful for the study of organisms that have completed morphogenesis and are at differing stages of growth. Recent conceptual and technical refinements in the characterization and comparison of forms have joined methodological innovations in molecular biology, embryology, and phylogeny reconstruction to advance the study of the evolution of development. Among the phenomena that have recently been examined morphometrically are developmental integration and heterochrony, discoveries that in turn raise deeper questions about the connections among disciplines and among levels of description: the relationship between morphometric variables and characters, between phenomenology and process, and the interplay (and evolutionary relevance) of genes and phenotypes. Morphometrics can continue to play a vital role in evolutionary studies of development as its results generate questions both for its practitioners and for other sorts of biologists to explore.
3881791|Exocrine secretions of social insects are often characterized by extraordinarily complex mixtures of natural products. Thus, chemical communication in social insects must be interpreted in terms of signals generated by multicomponent systems, the individual constituents of which can affect the informational content of the message. Alarm pheromones have been identified chiefly in three subfamilies of ants and their distribution appears to be chemosystematically significant. Myrmicine genera emphasize 3-alkanones as alarm releasers, whereas methyl ketones, primarily of terpenoidal origin, are widely utilized as alarm pheromones in the subfamily Dolichoderinae. Formicine species may employ formic acid as an alarm pheromone in addition to the compounds produced in the mandibular and Dufour's glands. The mandibular gland pheromones are chiefly acyclic monoterpene aldehydes (e.g., citronellal) which are relatively low boiling compounds. Higher boiling n-alkanes are produced in the Dufour's glands and may serve as more persistent releasers of alarm behavior. Alarm pheromones, as well as the caste-specific pheromones of male bees and ants, probably also serve as defensive products. In many cases it is likely that pheromones were originally utilized as defensive compounds and their communicative function is a secondary development.
3883432|The decline of mass specific aerobic metabolic rates with increasing animal size has a long history of study in zoology. Attempts to explain this phenomenon have generally been concerned only with aerobic metabolism and with estimators of muscle and skeletal strength. Our finding of tremendous increases in mass-specific glycolytic enzyme activity in locomotory muscle with size in some species of pelagic fishes indicates that this approach has been too narrow. It is necessary to consider total metabolic power in any consideration of metabolic scaling in relation to skeletal strength or muscle power, since the anaerobic component of muscle power is usually greater than the aerobic and often scales differently. We show that scaling of glycolytic power appears to be much more variable among species than is scaling of aerobic power, and we suggest that the different glycolytic power scaling patterns reflect selection for different sprint swimming abilities in fishes of different habits. The rather narrow range of variation in aerobic scaling patterns suggests that they are the result of natural selection acting in the context of geometric constraints on maximum aerobic gas uptake and transport. The glycolytic scaling data emphasize that the role of natural selection has usually been neglected in considerations of scaling of metabolism while the role of the scaling of solids has been overemphasized.
3884430| The Y-organs of crustaceans secrete steroid hormones (ecdysteroids) which are responsible for molting and regeneration. The Y-organs in turn are controlled (negatively) by the eyestalk peptide, molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH). We are exploring the signaling paths in Y-organ cells that lead to ecdysteroid generation when activated by the absence of MIH. The objective is to understand the connections between MIH-receptor occupancy and the depression of genes that express ecdysteroidogenic enzymes. MIH action is mediated by a rise in cyclic 5 adenosine monophosphate (cAMP); cGMP also is involved in some species. That a cyclic nucleotide is a central regulatory component is indicated by the following selection of results: dibutyryl cAMP, activators of adenylyl cyclase or inhibitors of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase each mimic the inhibitory action of MIH. Cyclic AMP inhibits the receptor-mediated uptake of cholesterol (the obligate ecdysteroid precursor), by decreasing the number of receptor sites for the lipoprotein carrier of cholesterol. MIH via cAMP also depresses de novo protein synthesis upon which ecdysteroidogenesis depends in part. A role for cellular free calcium ( Ca
3882933|Almost all major phyla of invertebrates and lower vertebrates display a direct sensitivity of their chromatophores to light by either dispersing or-in rare cases-aggregating the pigment granules within the cell. This "primary response" of color change is an accessory component of the "dermal light sense" and characterizes the chromatophores as an independent receptor for light and effector of the chromomotor response. Photosensitivity does not seem to be restricted to certain parts of the pigment cell but is rather supposed to be a ubiquitous property of the chromatophore. Experiments on partially illuminated chromatophores show that the photopigment, whose chemical composition is still unknown, is localised within the plasma membrane or the cytoplasmic ground substance. Threshold responses for a just visible reaction are much higher than for background responses and have for some pigment cells been determined to be in a range between 0.2 and
3884429| Various methods for the quantification of stress in crustaceans have been developed in our laboratory. An ELISA was developed for the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH) from the lobster, Homarus americanus. It is sensitive to as little as 0.2 fmol of peptide. Increases in hemolymph CHH were observed following emersion. Significant levels of hemolymph CHH were also measured in lobsters that had been eyestalk-ablated. It was observed that these animals continued to produce CHH, even though the heretofore only known source of CHH had been removed. Portions of the central nervous system, from both intact and eyestalk-ablated lobsters were observed to contain significant amounts of CHH. A cDNA library was constructed from eyestalk neural tissue of H. americanus. With the use of PCR, a 171 bp probe was isolated and purified. This probe was labeled and used to examine levels of CHH expression in the central nervous system (CNS) and in eyestalk neural tissue at different periods of the lobster molt cycle. CHH mRNA is present throughout the CNS. In the eyestalk, it is undetectable in postmolt, low in intermolt, and high in premolt. Stress proteins, also known as heat shock proteins (HSPs), are a highly conserved class of proteins which show elevated transcription during periods of stress in organisms as phylogenetically divergent as bacteria and humans. Using RT-PCR we have partially cloned the lobster HSP90 gene. A 380 bp probe was
3881640| Actomyosin was extracted from skeletal muscle of Coryphaenoides, a benthic fish living at 2,200 meters depth, at a temperature of 2C, or less, and at pressure of 3,000 psi. On SDS-urea electrophoresis on acrylamide gel, the actomyosin extracts yield components of apparent molecular weight 210,000 (myosin heavy chains), 47,000 (actin), 35,000 (tropomyosin and/or troponin subunits), and 13,000 (myosin light chains). The Mg
3883580|We adopt the position that metabolism originated at (or near) mineral surfaces prior to the origin of the first cells. Based on current views of the organization of contemporary animal cells we speculate that the metabolism of the immediate ancestors of eukaryotic cells required these non-biological surfaces, but that the latter were subsequently replaced by membranes, and nuclear and cytoplasmic matrix proteins which, we argue, remain as required participants in the intermediary metabolism of contemporary eukaryotic cells. The idea that such an intracellular organization could have provided a fundamental means by which to control metabolic rate at the level of the intact animal is considered next. In the case of vertebrates we suggest that the organismic level of control might operate through the rate of capillary blood flow, as proposed in the Flow Theory of Coulson (1986): by controlling the rate at which the organized enzyme arrays within the cells are perfused with substrate, cellular metabolic rates could be set throughout the organism in an integrated fashion. Although there are problems with this linkage the interesting possibility arises that the metabolic rate of individual cells may be subservient to the organism, being driven not so much by the well known intracellular controls of concentration-based-biochemistry as by the flow of nutrients through the cells.
3884280|The plumage of birds provides a critical thermal buffer between the animal and its environment. Rates of energy expenditure are strongly influenced by the thermal properties of the environment or the microclimates the animal occupies. Current data suggest that the addition of solar radiation is equivalent to three to four-fold changes in wind speed and that solar heat gain can be extremely sensitive to changes in wind speed. Dry heat transfer through the plumage occurs by three avenues 1) conduction and free convection through air 2) conduction along the solid elements of the plumage and 3) radiation. Overall, about 95% of the total heat flow is evenly divided between the first two avenues. Radiative heat transfer accounts for only about 5% of total heat flow. Plumage color, as well as the microstructure and micro-optical properties of plumage elements, when combined with environmental properties (e.g., wind speed), determine the radiative heat loads that birds acquire from solar radiation. Although plumage color or reflectivity determines the fraction of incident solar radiation that is absorbed by the plumage and generates heat, the fraction of this heat that contributes to the thermal load on the animal can vary greatly. In a fibrous coat such as a plumage, there is some variable penetration into the coat, with absorption over a range of coat depths. Factors such as feather micro-optics and structure are critical determinants of radiation penetration into avian coats. Significant differences in solar heat loads can also result from behavioral adjustments in plumage thickness.
3881927|Frog sounds involve expulsion of air through the larynx. In mating, release, rain, and territorial calls, the air vibrates vocal cords and/or arytenoid cartilages. Sound is amplified and radiated by the distended buccal cavity and vocal sacs. Distress calls are emitted with open mouth, with minimum laryngeal modulation. The trunk is filled by inflation cycles, but air is driven out by synchronized contractions of the body wall musculature. The pressure levels are more than five times those during ventilation. In the release call of Bufo valliceps the dilatators and constrictors of the larynx fire simultaneously keeping the larynx closed. As the pulmonary pressure reaches a peak they cease firing. The arytenoids then separate and vibrate, as do the vocal cords. The dilatators terminate the sound pulse by pulling vibrators out of the air stream, hence the very sharp termination. Prolonged release call sequences include interpulse reinflations that return air from buccal cavity to lung. Frogs apparently evolved from amphibians too small to use aspiration breathing. Vocalization represented a critical factor in their social organization and its importance locked these animals into reliance upon pulse-pumping rather than the more efficient aspiration breathing.
3882946|The adenohypophysis in early head fold stage hagfish embryos is at first a distinct differentiated thickening of the archenteric roof where it contacts the developing infundibular portion of the brain. This portion of the archenteron eventually becomes the dorsal epithelium of the nasopharyngeal duct. The later development of the adenohypophysis involves formation of multiple acinar outgrowths of the dorsal nasopharyngeal epithelium which together form a layered mass of follicular tissue adjacent to the neurohypophysis. This mode of origin of the adenohypophysis by endodermal polyinvagination and delamination differs from all other vertebrates, including the lampreys. The pertinence of this new information for considerations of monophyletic versus diphyletic evolutionary origins of the modern cyclostome groups is pointed out. The unusual development of the hagfish adenohypophysis presents some new and unanticipated puzzles within the general question of pituitary evolution.
3883073|Previous empirical and theoretical work has focused on how feeding territory size is governed by average levels of food availability and intrusion pressure; the potentially important effects of variability have not yet been studied in detail. Here I incorporate variation in food availability and intrusion pressure in some simple optimality models of territory size. The results show that the possible effects of variability are diverse, including both increase and decrease in territory size. And in some cases, variation in food availability produces qualitatively different effects than variation in intrusion pressure.
3882834|Comparison is the key to biological study and both similarities and differences aid in sharpening our understanding of structures and processes. The initial comparison represents an observational level; followed by decisions about possible homology, analogy and homoplasy which represent levels that have less certainty. Analogous homoplasies are presumably the most useful conditions for characterizing functional constraints. Operational criteria are discussed, as are minimal technical standards for procedures permitting characterization of functions and roles in the masticatory system.
3882513|Cell surface sugar chains extend away from the cell membrane and offer a first line of contact with approaching cells and substrates. These sugars are candidates for mediating cell-cell adhesion and migration. Here, I review experiments that implicate carbohydrate-containing molecules in cell-cell adhesion of ascites tumor and embryonic cells and that correlate the mobility of carbohydrate-containing receptor sites in the membrane with cellular migratory activity. The experiments show that L-glutamine is required to form complex carbohydrates implicated in mediating intercellular adhesion and that a controlling factor in determining cellular adhesiveness may be the specific activity of intracellular glutamine synthetase. Molecules that promote ascites tumor cell adhesion have been isolated. These molecules are large, appear to contain terminal D-galactose residues that bind to cell surface receptor sites and consist of more than one component on DEAE cellulose. Studies with sea urchin embryonic cells, utilizing plant lectins that bind to surface carbohydrates, indicate that cell surface sugar-containing receptor sites change during development. In addition, only the micromeres, that become actively migratory, possess mobile cell surface lectin receptor sites. Other sea urchin embryonic cell populations (mesomeres and macromeres) do not exhibit lectin receptor site mobility. Cell surface sugar-containing receptor sites potentially mediate adhesion and migration in embryos and tumors.
3882672|Recent contributions to the theory of biogeography suggest that biogeographical hypotheses can potentially be derived from intraspecific patterns of morphological variation among populations. Morphological differentiation is demonstrated for meristic (serially repeated) and morphometric characters among populations of the euryhaline fish, Menidia beryllina, from the Mississippi Valley, an area for which the geological history is well known. Meristic and morphometric variation are associated with environmental variation, and meristic differences are noted between size classes within an isolated population. The results suggest that attempts to reconstruct historical area relationships will fail to the extent that geographical patterns of morphology are influenced by an exogenous component, when the direction of influence is unrelated to the true pattern of vicariance. Furthermore, temporal instability of characters will confound biogeographical hypotheses.
3884111|Frequently, animals must choose between more immediate, smaller rewards and more delayed, but larger rewards. For example, they often must decide between accepting a smaller prey item versus continuing to search for a larger one, or between entering a leaner patch versus travelling to a richer patch that is further away. In both situations, choice of the more immediate, but smaller reward may be interpreted as implying that the value of the later reward is discounted; that is, the value of the later reward decreases as the delay to its receipt increases. This decrease in value may occur because of the increased risk involved in waiting for rewards, or because of the decreased rate of reward associated with increased waiting time. The present research attempts to determine the form of the relation between value and delay, and examines implications of this relation for mechanisms underlying risk-sensitive foraging. Two accounts of the relation between value and delay have been proposed to describe the decrease in value resulting from increases in delay: an exponential model and a hyperbolic model. Our research demonstrates that, of the two, a hyperbola-like discounting model consistently explains more of the variance in temporal discounting data at the group level and, importantly, at the individual level as well. We show mathematically that the hyperbolic model shares fundamental features with models of prey and patch choice. In addition, the present review highlights the implications of a psychological perspective for the behavioral biology of risk-sensitive foraging, as well as the implications of an ecological perspective for the behavioral psychology of risk-sensitive choice and decision-making.
3884248|Two common types of egg masses rely on differing routes of supply of oxygen in water. When embryos are embedded in a gelatinous matrix, oxygen is supplied by diffusion through the gel, and thicker masses require more gel per embryo. When an adherent mass of eggs lacks a gel matrix, oxygen can be provided from water flowing through the open interstices between eggs, and larger eggs provide larger channels and thus less resistance to flow. Both types occur intertidally, where they are periodically exposed to air. Exposure to air can have a greater effect on oxygen supply via interstices than on supply via gel. Oxygen diffusing in interstices drained of water provides increased rates of supply to masses of adherent eggs. In contrast, diffusion through gel is similar for masses in air and water. Effects of emersion on desiccation also differ for the two types of egg masses. Additional gel matrix can reduce salinity change from desiccation while enhancing oxygen supply, whereas draining of interstices, though necessary for oxygen supply, may increase risk of desiccation.
3883643|This paper reviews significant discoveries and interpretations made for Paleozoic tetrapods over the past twenty-five years. In that span twelve significant, new localities have been found, including the oldest ever at about 370 million years in age. About 60 new genera have been described; five providing important insight into the early evolution of land vertebrates. The number of exceptionally well known taxa with multiple, excellently preserved specimens has doubled to eight from four. The very earliest tetrapods have been discovered to have been polydactylous, the ear region to have had a complicated early evolution and the specialized tooth type found in Recent amphibians has been found in a group of Lower Permian temnospondyl amphibians, indicating an evolutionary relationship. Perhaps the most significant advance in understanding the evolution of early tetrapods is that the basal amniote groups have become better characterized and a start has been made in providing a defensible hypothesis for their relationships. The ascendancy of cladistics, functional morphology and plate tectonics has changed the way paleontologists view fossils resulting in more defensible phylogenies and behavioral and biogeographical scenarios. These approaches to understanding have, perhaps, had a more profound impact than any of the new fossil discoveries.
3881406|Agglutination of cells, degranulation, and loss of cellular membranes compose the major form of coagulation in the hemolymph of Gecarcinus lateralis. It is only after agglutination of the formed elements of the hemolyph that fibrin-like strands appear. Sodium citrate, in a concentration of 10% or more to prevent coagulation, is always inadequate to prevent cell agglutination. Multiple studies by protein electrophoresis failed to reveal any differences between plasma and serum, nor did they allow us to identify a soluble protein in plasma that did not appear in serum. Crab hemolymph changes in its capacity for clotting during the molt cycle, with the most rapid clotting occurring in the premolt period. A new protein appears in the premolt period, but its relation to the whole clotting mechanism is unknown. In contradistinction to vertebrate systems, citrated hemolymph does not clot when calcium is added. There is no relationship that can be demonstrated between activating systems in vertebrate plasma and clotting in the crab. It would seem that, rather than the vertebrate coagulating system evolving from the crustacean type of clotting system, the development of these clotting systems has run in parallel. The crustacean cell, in addition, appears to be more potent than vertebrate cells in clotting systems. The comparison of human lymph to crustacean hemolymph would indicate that, for a given amount of cells, crustacean hemolymph clots 2 to 20 times faster than human lymph. On the other hand, agglutination of cells is a fundamental initiating step in coagulation of both human blood and crustacean hemolymph.
3881760|The discovery of parthenogenesis in reptiles came about through the casual observation of the lack of males in several species of lizards. Nineteen all female species and subspecies from five genera and three families of lizards have been named or recognized. Actual proof of parthenogenesis, however, has been demonstrated for only seven of these. Studies in variation of parthenogens versus the variation of sympatric bisexual species have been made on six species. In general the parthenogens are much less variable than bisexual species. Males have been found in most of the parthenogens studied. At least some of these seem to result from crosses between parthenogens and males of sympatric bisexual species. In a few instances, however, this seems unlikely. The evidence supporting the hybrid origin of these males rests on a few studies which show that these males have one more genome than the female parthenogens they resemble. The evolution and origin of parthenogens probably is through hybridization followed by further hybridization in some genera leading to triploidy. Evidence for these hypotheses is provided by a number of karyotype studies, skin transplants, and studies of various proteins. One study indicates that the somatic chromosome number is restored during oogenesis by an endoduplication immediately preceeding meiosis. Cnemidophorus uniparens, the species in which this phenomenon was demonstrated, is a triploid. Evolutionary aspects of parthenogenesis are discussed.
3884136|Two main defense strategies against hypoxia tolerant animals have been identified in earlier studies: (i) reduction in energy turnover and (ii) improved energetic efficiency of those metabolic processes that remain. Two model systems were developed from the highly anoxia tolerant aquatic turtle-(i) tissue slices of brain cortex (to probe cell level electrophysiological responses to oxygen limitation) and (ii) isolated liver hepatocytes (to probe signalling and defense). In the latter, a series of mechanisms underpinning hypoxia defense is initiated with an oxygen sensor (probably a heme protein) and a message transduction pathway leading to the specific activation of some genes (increased expression of several proteins) and to specific down regulation of other genes (decreased expression of several other proteins). The pathway seems similar to oxygen regulated schemes in other cells. The main roles for the oxygen sensing and signal transduction system appear to include coordinate down regulation of energy demand and energy supply pathways in metabolism. By this means, hypoxia tolerant cells stay in energy balance as they down regulate to extremely low levels of ATP turnover. The main ATP demand pathways in normoxia (protein synthesis, protein degradation, glucose synthesis, urea synthesis, and maintenance of electrochemical gradients) are all depressed to variable degree during anoxia or extreme hypoxia. However,
3883893|While chewing is not unique to mammals, it is one of their most distinctive characteristics. Historically, studies of food processing in mammals were intended to provide evolutionary insights, but more progress has been made in understanding mechanistic aspects. Mastication is considered under five headings. (1) Interaction of teeth with food. Knowledge of comparative dental anatomy and function is advanced in comparison to understanding of foods and how they are broken down. (2) Chewing force and its resistance by the skull. The traditional assumption that occlusal force is maximized is not always justified, and experimental results suggest that skull loading is far more dynamic and variable than had been envisioned from theoretical analyses. (3) How the jaw moves. The most important masticatory movement is that of the power stroke, and in most but not all species this is influenced more by the inclined planes of the teeth and jaw joints than by the musculature. (4) The role of muscles in producing both force and movement. The most fundamental distinction among jaw muscles is whether they have a rostral or caudal direction of pull, as this determines their role in transverse jaw movements. Reliance on anatomical names tends to obscure functional similarities and differences among species. (5) Intraoral structures. Because they are difficult to study, the actions of the tongue and pharynx are still debated. Even the fundamental question of whether mammals can breathe and swallow at the same time has not been definitively answered.
3882185|The in vivo mitotic apparatus (MA) of clam, worm and sea urchin eggs may be augmented or dispersed by application of specific antimitotic agents. Glycols, which are antimitotic at concentrations of 1-3% in sea water, cause a rapid massive increase in MA volume and retardation as seen in the polarizing microscope. Caffeine and dinitrophenol (DNP) cause a rapid disappearance of the MA by shrinkage. Glycol effects can be balanced by DNP or caffeine if the agents are applied at the proper time and concentration although normal cleavage does not ensue. Analysis of DNP and caffeine shrinkage suggests that they act indirectly by causing release of calcium from intracellular stores, calcium causing inactivation of polymerizable tubulin. DNP could cause release of calcium either from mitochondria (if egg mitochondria have a calcium uptake system) or by causing a decrease in ATP levels which would inactivate calcium uptake systems such as the Petzelt Ca
3883874|The poecilogonous polychaete Streblospio benedicti (Webster) exhibits both planktotrophic and lecithotrophic modes of larval development. The alternative trophic modes are associated with differences in age and size at maturation, offspring number, size and energetic investment, larval planktonic period, morphology and survivorship. This paper reviews a decade of research into the control and consequences of the traits associated with planktotrophy and lecithotrophy in S. benedicti. The dominant control on reproductive and developmental characters is genetic. Significant additive genetic variance has been detected for egg diameter, fecundity, larval planktonic period and aspects of larval morphology. However, environmental factors such as temperature, food quality and photoperiod, and intrinsic factors such as maternal age, exert considerable influence on non-trophic developmental traits (e.g., offspring number, size and energy content). Demographic consequences of development mode are reviewed for field and laboratory demes of S. benedicti dominated by individuals exhibiting either planktotrophy or lecithotrophy. Similar population size structure, fluctuations in abundance, P:B ratios, and estimated population growth rates are achieved through trade-offs between survivorship and fecundity. Development mode may best be viewed as a complex set of traits that are intimately linked developmentally and evolutionarily to other aspects of an organism's life history. Greater insight into the control and consequences of development mode should result from further investigation of these linkages.
3882805|Systematic problems associated with nemerteans at most phyletic levels result from the large number of inadequately described species. The importance of adopting a standardized approach to taxonomic descriptions of nemerteans is demonstrated by reference to the phylogenetic relationships of the Heteronemertea. An evaluation of the systematic significance of several anatomical characters leads to the suggestion that the primitive heteronemertean organization included a proboscis with three muscle layers (outer longitudinal, middle circular, inner longitudinal), a foregut with neither splanchnic muscles nor subepithelial glands, and a blood system not developed into a vascular plexus around the foregut. A new classification of the Heteronemertea proposed on the basis of proboscis morphology recognizes seven families: Cerebratulidae, Gorgonorhynchidae, Lineidae, Mixolineidae, Panorhynchidae, Polybrachiorhynchidae, Valenciniidae.
3881914|The evidence supporting the idea that microfilament-mediated cell shape changes produce morphogenetic movements of the salivary epithelium is reviewed. The correlations between microfilaments and morphogenesis and microtubules and morphogenesis, as revealed by experiments with cytochalasin B and colchicine respectively, are compared and contrasted. On the basis of a correlation between microfilament integrity and epithelial morphogenesis, and an actin-like nature of microfilaments to bind heavy meromyosin, it is proposed that microfilament contraction is required for cleft formation in the epithelium. Several ways in which microfilament activity might be regulated during morphogenesis are discussed in the framework of experiments that may comment on such regulation.
3884278|The avian epidermis is composed of unique sebokeratinocytes that elaborate and secrete sebum-like lipids as they cornify. In addition to the lipid droplets, the avian epidermis elaborates, but rarely secretes, lipid-enriched organelles, the multigranular bodies. The multigranular bodies are analogous to the lamellar bodies of mammals (Menon et al., 1991), the secretion of which results in formation of occlusive lipid bilayers characteristic of mammalian stratum corneum and providing the permeability barrier. However, in contrast to mammals, the avian multigranular bodies form the reserve barrier mechanism. In the basal state, when multigranular bodies are not secreted, the avian cutaneous barrier is deficient, but allows evaporative cooling for thermoregulation. However, under conditions of water deficit, multigranular body secretion allows for rapid facultative waterproofing, as shown in zebra finches (Taenyopygia guttata). In certain glabrous regions of the skin, such as the maxillary rictus, interdigital web, and combs and wattles in the domestic fowl, there is a high degree of epidermal lipid secretion. Also specialized feathers such as powder downs elaborate lipid rich material, which can be classified as secretion. Additionally, an inverse relation between epidermal lipogenesis and the degree of feathering has been demonstrated, as in temporarily bare areas (e.g., brood patches) and following permanent feather loss from the head accompanying attainment of maturity in certain ibises and storks. In the latter, the neo-apteria often hold large reserves of carotenoids dissolved in the lipid droplets, possibly related to an altered gradient of retinoids influencing feather morphogenesis. Unusual secondary functions of epidermal lipids include cosmetic coloration (e.g., in the Japanese Crested Ibis) and chemical defense (e.g., in the Pitohui).
3882165|This paper is cast in the form of answers to pertinent (sometimes impertinent) questions which a reader might ask of persons devoting the better part of a scientific career to studying the eye of a snail. Two structures in the eye of Helix aspersa are emphasized: the microvilli and microvesicles of type I photosensory cells. Evidence is presented to support the conclusions that the microvilli are the light-sensitive organelles and that the microvesicles, termed photic vesicles, bring to the microvilli substances needed in photoreception, such as photopigment and perhaps calcium. The evidence consists of: uptake of radioactive vitamin A by the villi and vesicles, formation of a black precipitate by both structures upon prolonged staining with osmium tetroxide, the effects of light and dark upon the microvilli and photic vesicles, a comparison between the photic vesicles of a light-tolerant slug and those of a nocturnal slug, and a preliminary finding of a high concentration of calcium in the somatic layer of the retina. The movement of the photic vesicles from the Golgi centers, where they are formed, to the microvilli is attributed to rhythmic, light-dependent pulsations of the eye caused by contractions of smooth muscle cells embedded in the optic capsule.
3883386|Current evolutionary theory predicts that energy expenditure will be adjusted in contest situations to the value of the disputed resource and the relative probability of winning it. Estimates of energy expended in contest situations support this prediction. I report on the energetic costs of display relative to other contest costs to individual fitness (e.g., risk of predation, losses in feeding time, injury and mortality) in territorial disputes of the spider Agelenopsis aperta. Cost estimates obtained in terms of decrements to milligrams wet-weight of future egg production resulting from single contests indicate that actual energy expenditure in these territorial disputes represent insignificant costs. These costs are, in fact, 5-6 orders of magnitude smaller than the costs associated with injury, potential predation and even loss in food as a result of time spent in the interactions. Review of the literature indicates that in most instances, energy expenditure may be correlated with some other factor upon which selection is acting (e.g., short contests where predation risk is high, variation in levels of escalation exhibited). Two exceptions include the tremendous losses of workers to reproductives in ant, termite, and bee colony territorial disputes and the production of specialized agonistic organs exhibited by some corals, sea anemones and corallimopharians when encountering neighbors within "territorial" boundaries.
3883130|The Lewis and Clark Expedition was the culmination of a series of efforts by Thomas Jefferson to explore the American West. The journey began at Wood River, Illinois, on May 14, 1804, and concluded with the return of the party to St. Louis on September 23, 1806. During its two years, the expedition went up the Missouri River to its sources, crossed the Rockies, wintered on the Oregon coast, and retraced most of its original route back to St. Louis. Lewis and Clark devoted much of their energy along the way to the observation, description, and collection of botanical and zoological specimens. The principal zoological results of this exploration were the discovery of more than 100 new types of animals, the presentation of these finds to the world of Western science, and the stimulation of subsequent exploratory trips into the Louisiana Territory. The most lasting consequences of the expedition were its opening of vast territories to settlement, the introduction of exploitative activities like fur-trapping, and the conversion of large tracts of forest and prairie to farmland.
3883998|Labriform locomotion is the primary swimming mode for many fishes that use the pectoral fins to generate thrust across a broad range of speeds. A review of the literature on hydrodynamics, kinematics, and morphology of pectoral fin mechanisms in fishes reveals that we lack several kinds of morphological and kinematic data that are critical for understanding thrust generation in this mode, particularly at higher velocities. Several needs include detailed three-dimensional kinematic data on species that are pectoral fin swimmers across a broad range of speeds, data on the motor patterns of pectoral fin muscles, and the development of a mechanical model of pectoral fin functional morphology. New data are presented here on pectoral fin locomotion in Gomphosus varius, a labrid fish that uses the pectoral fins at speeds of 1-6 total body lengths per second. Three-dimensional kinematic data for the pectoral fins of G. varius show that a typical "drag-based" mechanism is not used in this species. Instead, the thrust mechanics of this fish are dominated by lift forces and acceleration reaction forces. The fin is twisted like a propeller during the fin stroke, so that angles of attack are variable along the fin length. Electromyographic data on six fin muscles indicate the sequence of muscle activity that produces antagonistic fin abduction and adduction and controls the leading edge of the fin. EMG activity in abductors and adductors is synchronous with the start of abduction and adduction, respectively, so that muscle mechanics actuate the fin with positive work. A mechanical model of the pectoral fin is proposed in which fin morphometrics and computer simulations allow predictions of fin kinematics in three dimensions. The transmission of force and motion to the leading edge of the fin depends on the mechanical advantage of fin ray levers. An integrative program of research is suggested that will synthesize data on morphology, physiology, kinematics, and hydrodynamics to understand the mechanics of pectoral fin swimming.
3881709|This discussion briefly reviews some of the most important literature concerning the effects of electrical currents upon regeneration in the Metazoa, including results of experiments upon both invertebrate and vertebrate forms. In addition, a brief description is presented of an original experiment demonstrating the orientation of stolonal growth in an electric field in Perophora viridis (Protochordata). In general, the effects may be divided into two categories: those associated with polarity and orientation of growth, and those associated with the state of differentiation of the cell. The modes of action of the electric current are considered to be probably twofold: transfer of information-bearing molecules from cell to cell; and direct effect of current upon membrane-permeability, cellular movement, and metabolic state. In addition, the hormonal state of the organism, at least in the vertebrates, is probably important in modulating the effect.
3884316|The developing organism is particularly sensitive to exposure to estrogenic chemicals during a critical period in the induction of longterm changes in female reproductive organs, and persistent molecular alterations induced by the perinatal estrogenic agents. The perinatal mouse model can be utilized as an indicator of possible longterm consequences of exposure to exogenous estrogenic compounds including environmental endocrine disruptors. Attention should be paid to abnormalities in female genital organs exposed to estrogenic endocrine disruptors during fetal and early postnatal development in mammals including humans.
3882378| Unfertilized eggs of the axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, contain a pool of soluble tubulin accumulated during oogenesis. After initiation of cleavage the tubulin pool decreases somewhat and then remains constant through early development. Some properties of tubulin alter during development, but at least some of these changes are not due to changes in tubulin per se. However, the tubulin in axolotl oocytes, eggs, and embryos differs in some electrophoretic properties from tubulin in adult axolotl brain and testis. Equivalent differences were observed in Necturus maculosus tubulins. Heterogeneity of axolotl tubulins was confirmed by peptide mapping: Different patterns of peptides were formed by specific limited proteolysis of soluble tubulin from eggs and testis. The heterogeneity was more marked in the  than in the  subunit. Mobilization of soluble tubulin into the mitotic apparatus depends on the functioning of microtubule organizing centers after activation of the egg at fertilization. In eggs of the nc mutant axolotl there is a lesion in some step of activation, one effect of which is that even though the eggs contain an essentially normal pool of tubulin, microtubules fail to assemble, no mitotic apparatus forms, and embryonic development does not begin. These eggs can be partially corrected by injection of heterologous microtubule fragments, which elicit the mobilization of nc tubulin into arrays of microtubules, followed by initiation of cleavage and development to a partial blastula stage. The results of these experiments are discussed in comparison with other reports in the literature about the function of microtubule organizing centers during amphibian egg development. 
3883330|The lamprey, an anguilliform fish, swims using lateral undulatory movement; a transverse wave passes backward, from head to tail, the amplitude of the wave increasing as it moves tailward. The wave of muscle activity producing this movement travels down the body faster than the mechanical wave. The way in which certain features of anguilliform movement contribute to its efficiency have been described. The neural activity underlying swimming is characterized by: 1) rhythmical alternation between the two sides of a single segment; 2) a burst duration that remains a constant proportion of the cycle time and is independent of the cycle frequency; 3) rostrocaudal phase lag that is constant and also independent of the cycle frequency. Local circuits in the lamprey spinal cord can generate this locomotory pattern in the absence of sensory feedback following activation of excitatory amino acid receptors; the pattern is centrally generated. It has been hypothesized that the spinal central pattern generator for locomotion consists of a series of segmental burst generators coupled together by an intersegmental coordinating system. The intersegmental coordinating system functions to keep the frequencies of the oscillators along the cord constant and to provide the appropriate rostrocaudal phase lag. Mechanosensitive units within the spinal cord are sensitive to movement of the spinal cord/notochord and movement of the spinal cord/notochord can entrain the burst pattern. Entrainment occurs through movement-related feedback onto neurons at the local level. The possible roles this movement-related feedback plays during locomotion are discussed.
3883433|Pelagic aquatic environments differ from terrestrial environments in being three-dimensional and relatively homogeneous, rather than two-dimensional and heterogeneous. The present paper examines the causes and consequences of these differences in the context of their influence on the interactions of animals with environmental light. Particular emphasis is placed on light as a determinant of effective modes of crypsis in the two different habitats. The terrestrial world has selected for the expression of crypticity in the form of superficial color patterns. The heterogeneity of this habitat has resulted in evolutionary divergence of these superficial color patterns, often in very closely-related animals. In contrast, in the homogeneous pelagic aquatic habitats, evolutionary convergence on three main forms of crypsis is evident: (1) transparency; (2) reflection of most, if not all visible wavelengths; and, (3) ventral bioluminescence as counterillumination; thus, to be cryptic most animals in these habitats use one or a combination of these modalities to variously transmit, reflect or mimic environmental light. In the present paper, special attention is given to transparency as the most prevalent, yet least understood, of these mechanisms that are used in predator-prey interactions.
3882186|A morphological study of Ilyanassa embryogenesis was made from sections of several stages and the nucleic acid content was measured throughout the course of development. The kinetics of uptake and incorporation of radioactive precursors into RNA was determined. The RNAs synthesized at different stages of embryogenesis were fractionated by methylated albumin kieselguhr chromatography, and the polyadenylation of RNA during development was measured. From these studies it was concluded that the Ilyanassa embryo, beginning with the 4-cell stage, synthesizes dRNA, rRNA, 4S RNA, and 5S RNA throughout all stages of development. The extensive synthesis of dRNA and the higher proportion of RNAs polyadenylated by the pregastrula embryo was considered to be of particular significance. The localization of nucleic acids and nucleic acid precursors in the polar lobe and the effect of removing the polar lobe on nucleic synthesis was reviewed. Recent work on the ultrastructure of the Ilyanassa egg was reviewed in relation to the problem of ooplasmic segregation. The discovery of a new cytoplasmic organelle in the Ilyanassa oocyte was reviewed.
3881481|Intracranial stimulation was used as a reinforcer to condition fighting in paired rats. Stimulation for an implanted animal was made contingent upon responses which successively approximated those typical of attack. A stable pattern of aggression developed, the maintenance of which was possible on intermittent reinforcement schedules although at depressed frequencies. An implanted rat also readily initiated contact with a cat and made consistent, aggressive approaches toward a squirrel monkey. The aggression observed appeared to be a function of operant reinforcement since extinction occurred when the intracranial stimulation contingency was removed.
3881947|The current state of our knowledge of the morphology and histo- and cytophysiology of the teleost pituitary gland is presented. The zonation that characterizes the adenohypophysis is based on the regional distribution of specific cell types. As a result there is also a functional zonation indicated by specific hormones emanating from clearly identifiable parts of the gland. These observations make the teleost hypophysis ideal for the study of problems that may be basic to all vertebrates. The ultrastructure of hypophysial cells is presented and related to observations at the light microscope level. The manner in which secretory granules are released from specific cells is compared, and the problem of evaluating "cell activity" discussed. The application of immunohistochemical techniques to the study of the teleost pituitary gland is reviewed, and its use as a tool of investigation for future studies evaluated. These methods have helped to elucidate the cellular source of teleost pituitary hormones and have confirmed the findings of the histophysiologists.
3883468|Although the presence of geomagnetic sensitivity has been suspected for a long time in a variety of marine and terrestrial animals, many responses reported in the literature have been based on extensive statistical analysis of orientation results or rely on obscure behavioral activities (like cetacean strandings or honey bee waggle dances.) None of these reports have yet approached the level of clarity and simplicity displayed in experiments with the magnetotactic bacteria, which is the best example of geomagnetic sensitivity in any living organism. Furthermore, claims of magnetic effects on living organisms pervade the literature of biomagnetism, but many have failed subsequent attempts at replication. We need to develop simple and easily replicated experiments for marine and terrestrial animals which can be modified to answer basic questions concerning the psychophysics of any geomagnetic sensory system which might be present. In this paper, we report the first replication of the Walker-Bitterman magnetic anomaly conditioning experiment in honey bees, as well as one of our attempts to slightly alter their basic protocol. We also report our attempts to condition honey bees to magnetic direction in simple maze experiments, and the initial results of a pulse-remagnetization experiment designed to test the ferromagnetic transduction hypothesis. We conclude honey bees are sensitive to the geomagnetic field, that the signal processing for it is more complex than previously thought, and that a ferromagnetic transducer is compatible with all known behavioral data.
3883107| The performance of the cardiorespiratory gas exchange system of the turtle, Pseudemys scripta, at rest and at three body temperatures (15, 25, 35C), was assessed in reference to theory and experimental data. The primary processes governing gas exchange (ventilation, perfusion, diffusion) were found to be uniformly balanced in regard to CO
3883074|A set of optimization models in two variables of choice, territory size and time spent patrolling for intruders, is presented for energy maximizers. Models vary in the curvilinearity of the relationship between territory circumference and both intrusion rate and cost of expelling a single intruder. Models are analyzed both with and without constraints; constraints are on processing rate and on the time spent patrolling, feeding and actively defending. The models all include the concept of "intruder equilibrium," an equilibrial density of intruders in a territory resulting from a balance between intrusion rate and expulsion by the defender. This equilibrial density can be considered a measure of territorial exclusiveness. The two-variable models predict effects on territory size and patrol time of variation in food density, intrusion rate, costs of expelling a single intruder in energy and time, food-consumption rate of an intruder, area of detection while patrolling, total time available for territorial and feeding activities, time to eat a unit of food energy, energy cost of patrol per time, and processing-rate capacity. With increasing intruder rate, optimal territory size usually decreases, whereas optimal patrol time behaves much more irregularly. With increasing food density, optimal patrol time usually decreases, whereas optimal territory size behaves irregularly. In particular, when intrusion rate and expulsion costs accelerate sufficiently with increasing territory size and no constraints exist, the higher the food density the smaller the optimal territory size. When food density is large enough for a constraint to be effective, the opposite relation can hold and will always hold for a processing constraint. When a particular parameter changes, optimal territory size and optimal patrol time may covary or one may increase while the other decreases, depending on the parameter and model. A new set of one-variable models is suggested by the two-variable models; models optimizing patrol time while holding territory size constant could correspond to a tightly packed system of territories initially determined by settlement patterns. A unified one-variable analysis suggests that how food density affects territory size when patrol time is constant depends upon whether a constraint is operating: Provided that invasion rate does not vary with density of intruders on the territory, time minimizers and constrained energy maximizers decrease territory size with increasing food density; unconstrained energy maximizers do the opposite. The addition of a second optimization variable to a one-variable model can change qualitative predictions about variation in particular parameters (e.g., food density) and can increase the number of parameters predicted to affect optimal territory size and patrol time.
3882913|The comparative study of reproduction at the level of population and individual is a relatively recent development in spider research. Such study is necessary to describe and examine alternative reproductive tactics. Female spider tactics are related to adaptations for a carnivorous mode of feeding. Being the larger of the sexes, the female has the alternative of mating with or preying upon attending males. In web building spiders, which are generally solitary, other female alternatives are related to characteristics of a web used in prey capture. These alternatives include different responses when defending the web, and individually building the web so that it does or does not contact another. Tactics may vary in communal species which build a sheet-like structure, as females may remain in the colony or emigrate and establish a small web. Male spiders usually search for females, and mating occurs on or near a female retreat or web. A male may show different alternatives in mate searching, demonstrate various courtship and copulatory tactics, copulate or feed on the female's prey while she feeds, and guard the female after mating or depart and search for another female. Certain characteristics of females are related to these male alternatives, these characteristics being: larger size and longer life expectancy as compared with the male, carnivorous feeding, and sexual receptivity. Male web spiders may also use alternatives while defending position on the female web. These alternatives are related to the design and placement of the web, and occasional web abandonment by the female. Relevant literature is reviewed and research suggested.
3881601|Control of mosquitoes is based at present primarily on the use of chemicals. Certain larvivorous fish such as the mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, have also been used to some extent; a bibliography of 719 references was recently compiled on them. Unfortunately, some of these fish feed just as readily on the eggs of economically important fresh-water fish as on mosquito larvae. Malarial control rests on the use of a persistent, synthetic organic pesticide (usually DDT) sprayed solely on the inner walls of all dwellings in a malarial eradication zone. The current feelings regarding the hazards of using DDT recklessly should not be allowed to ban its use in regions where such banning might lead to widespread distress and a great many deaths. We would certainly prefer biological control of mosquitoes to the use of insecticides, but such methods are not yet perfected. A pilot control project in the Tokelau Islands against the vector for filariasis, Aedes polynesiensis, using the fungus, Coelomomyces, gave rather indeterminate results. We still lack a single technique involving a biotic agent commercially available in standardized formulations and properly cleared for field use by agricultural and health authorities, which will give a predictable level of control against even one specific mosquito vector.
3882934|The crustacean pigment-translocating hormones, the red pigment-concentrating hormone (RPCH), an octapeptide, and the light-adapting distal retinal pigment hormone (DRPH), an octadecapeptide, are the first invertebrate neurohormones to be fully characterized. Studies with both purified and synthetic hormones show that, in certain decapods, RPCH is a general pigment-concentrating hormone (PCH), affecting the pigments of all kinds of chromatophores (erythrophores, xanthophores, leucophores and melanophores); the DRPH seems to serve not only light-adapting function, but also act as a general chromatophore pigment-dispersing hormone (PDH). The two hormones thus function as antagonists when regulating the color-adaptation of the decapod crustaceans. PCH activity is widely distributed within the arthropod endocrine systems. The first characterized insect neurohormones, the locust adipokinetic hormones (AKH I and AKH II), show close structural similarities to the crustacean hormone, indicating a common evolution of some of the arthropod neurohormones. Physiological studies of the three hormones (RPCH, AKH I, and AKH II) and their synthetic analogs show that they cross-react, i.e., they all exhibit pigment-concentrating activity when tested on decapod crustaceans, adipokinetic activity when tested on locusts, and hyperglycemic activity when tested on cockroaches, although each of the hormones is more potent in its own system. Structure-function studies show, however, that quite different binding-site requirements exist for the hormones in activating their receptors on the various target tissues. The physiological specificity in their action therefore seems to depend on a differential evolution of the hormone receptors.
3883464|Patterns of seabird species' distributions differ between the Antarctic and the Arctic. In the Antarctic, distributions are annular or latitudinal, with strong similarities in species composition of seabird communities in all ocean basins at a given latitude. In the Arctic, communities are arranged meridionally, and show strong differences between ocean basins and, at a given latitude, between sides of ocean basins. These differences between the seabird communities in the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere reflect differences in the patterns of flow of major ocean current systems. At smaller spatial scales, in both hemispheres the species composition of seabird communities is sensitive to changes in watermass characteristics. The distribution of avian biomass is affected by both physical and biological features of the ocean. In the Antarctic, much seabird foraging is over deep water, and within-season, small-scale patchiness in prey abundance and availability in ice-free waters is likely to be controlled primarily by the behavior of the prey, rather than by physical features. Thus, prey availability may be unpredictable in time and space. In contrast, in the Northern Hemisphere, most seabird foraging is concentrated over shallow continental shelves, where currents interact with bathymetry to produce predictable physical features capable of concentrating prey or making prey more easily harvested by seabirds. Ice cover appears to be the most important physical feature in the Antarctic. An entire community of birds is specialized to use prey taken near the ice edge. These prey consist of a variety of species, some of which are normally found much deeper in the water than the birds taking them can dive. The open-water portion of the marginal ice zone is also an important foraging habitat for Antarctic marine birds. In the Arctic, a food web based on underice algae is used by marine birds, but few if any data exist on avian use of the open water segment of the marginal ice zone. Recent simultaneous surveys of birds and their prey indicate that only rarely does the small-scale abundance of birds match that of their prey; correlations between predators and prey are generally stronger at larger scales. Evidence is accumulating in the Antarctic that the largest aggregations of krill may be disproportionately important to foraging seabirds.
3882382|The spastic mutation induces swimming coordination and equilibrium deficiencies in the Mexican axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum). Behavioral ontogeny studies determined that spastics fail to develop behavior trains of sinusoidal flexures necessary to mediate escape swimming at the time of onset of cerebellar function. Behavior analysis, after lesioning different cranial nerve roots and CNS areas in wild-type animals, confirmed the "behavioral focus" of the mutation to lie in the auricle or vestibulo-cerebellum. Single unit recordings in the cerebellar auricle and adjacent brainstem vestibular zone (area acoustico-lateralis) of mutants revealed a full complement of vestibular unit types found in wild-type. However, the gene appears to alter the physical location of vestibular units in both areas, including a ventral "translocation" of cerebellar units responding to sustained ipsilateral tilt. Correlated with this unit translocation, mutant Purkinje cells and allied afferent tracts are malpositioned ventrally, i.e., "crowded" into an ectopic zone in the ventro-posterior cerebellum. Studies on cerebellar structure at the time of onset of spasticity (early feeding stage) confirmed the ventral malpositioning of cerebellar cells and fiber tracts seen in adults. In conjunction with these larval studies, mutant larvae injected with tritiated thymidine during early cerebellogenesis and assayed at the early feeding stage revealed a medio-ventral malpositioning of labelled cells; in wild-type, labelled cells were positioned laterally. Interestingly, the neuropathology of the reeler mutation (rev., Mariani et al., 1977) found in the mouse is remarkably similar to that of the spastic axolotl. Both cerebella are reduced in size, misshapen, and lack fissures. Purkinje cells appear ectopically in the granular layer, white matter and deep cerebellar nuclei. Although both cerebella lack structural integrity, no individual cell type shows marked or progressive degeneration, and cellular untrastructure appears intact; thus, both genes appear to act independently of the genesis of cerebellar elements. Instead, they appear to influence morphogenetic movements by which presumptive cerebellar cells attain their proper positions during the neurogenetic sequence.
4620121|Science is driven by productive hypotheses and technology, but these may sometimes limit the questions posed. For instance, Fisherian runaway sexual selection and related hypotheses have helped us understand the evolution of exaggerated visual sexual dimorphism. Species with indistinguishable sexes, however, may use different behavioral mechanisms when pairing and thus possess different adaptations. In the monomorphic Midas cichlid (Amphilophus citrinellum), females chose large aggressive males in a restrained situation, as sexual selection predicts, but males did not choose. The nuchal hump of males swells coincidently with pair formation. However, overly large humps were shunned by females while the normal-size hump facilitated sex recognition. This species is polychromatic, and pairs mate assortatively by color in Nicaragua. Some have suggested the Midas cichlid might therefore show how sexual selection produces explosive speciation of cichlids in Africa. All females, however, are biased toward normal-color males. The color of gold morphs modulates aggressive responses of the other fish. All else equal, the benefit to gold in a fight equals 15% more weight than the opponent. Pair formation succeeds best when the typically smaller female of a pair is relatively more aggressive than the male. The pair combination, gold male with normal female, is difficult to produce; making the female the same size as the male removes the disability. Pair formation is a negotiated process in which the male tests the aggressiveness of the female relative to self. That puts the behavioral mechanisms of the male and female in conflict.
3882151|The imaginal discs are groups of proliferating cells that are present in larvae of Drosophila melanogaster but which are not essential for larval functions. During metamorphosis these discs evaginate and differentiate giving rise to the external adult structures. We have identified genes which are essential for normal imaginal disc development by isolating lethal mutants with imaginal disc abnormalities. These mutants have been classified according to the kinds of abnormalities which they express and whether they are expressed in all of the discs, some of the discs, or only in a single disc pair. Of 66 mutants only 5 cannot be placed in a single phenotypic class. Most of the mutants (64%) affect all of the discs. Among these are two groups (discless and small-disc) which block the proliferative phase of development that normally occurs during larval life. Complementation analysis of those two groups of mutants indicates that a large number of genes can give rise to mutations causing either of these phenotypes. Detailed analyses of five of the small-disc mutants suggest that this phenotype can result not only from changes in imaginal disc specific functions but also from changes in functions common to larval and imaginal cells and even in functions which don't occur in imaginal disc cells. At the same time in development that many genes required for all imaginal cells are functioning, some genes not required by all of the discs are also functioning. One of these has been identified by a heat-sensitive mutation which causes a wide variety of defects. Using heat pulses we have shown that each abnormality characteristic of the mutant has a discrete temperature sensitive period during the larval stage.
3883397|The amphibian skin possesses a wide variety of physiological functions in that it constitutes not only the major organ for respiratory CO
3883685|Littoral lentic and shallow lotic freshwater habitats are unpredictable in periodicity and duration of shore emersion. As a result, freshwater bivalves have evolved extensive capacities to withstand prolonged emersion. Valve movement behaviors allow emersed bivalves to control rate of water loss while maintaining at least partial aerial gas exchange; these behaviors are affected by environmental variables such as temperature and relative humidity. Aerial oxygen uptake is associated directly with valve ventilatory behaviors and mantle edge exposure. Such behaviors are often phasic, indicative of oxygen "debt" payment. Lacking effective hemolymph buffer, respiratory acidosis during emersion is compensated by shell carbonate stores allowing hemolymph P
3881161|Fine structural details of the cells and processes of the hydra nervous system are reported in this paper. Ganglion cells are small bipolar or multipolar cells situated above the muscular processes of epitheliomuscular cells. An elaborate Golgi apparatus consisting of parallel lamellae and small and large vesicles is present in these cells. Some cells are poor in ribosomes while others contain numerous free ribosomes. In the ribosome-rich cells, small membranous microtubules originating from the nuclear envelope extend into the cytoplasm and neurites. The neurites also contain vesicles and mitochondria and terminate at the bases of cnidoblasts and on the muscular processes of epitheliomuscular cells. Specialized synapses were not observed. A second cell type contains many membrane-bounded dense granules, 1000 A in diameter, and these are considered to be neurosecretory cells. Neurosecretory granules on cnidoblasts and epitheliomuscular cells. Sensory cells are small elongated cells originate in the Golgi apparatus and are abundant in neurites which also terminate situated between the apical surfaces of epithelial and digestive cells. These cells are characterized by an apical specialization which appears to be a modified cilium. Neurosensory cells were also observed. The intimate connection of the nervous system with cnidoblasts suggests a role in nematocyst discharge. The finding of neurosecretory material supports the hypothesis that the neural control of regeneration in hydra is regulated by material released at nerve endings.
3882533|To a hummingbird, clusters of flowers on inflorescences represent patches and provide an ideal situation to test prediction of optimal patch-use. The basic question is what decision rule should a hummingbird use to decide whether or not to leave an inflorescence? The hypothesis is that hummingbirds will adopt the decision rule that maximizes their net rate of energy gain while foraging. This hypothesis leads to an analogue of Charnov's marginal value theorem which determines an optimal decision rule. The optimal decision rule is then used to predict aspects of the hummingbirds' foraging, and these predictions are compared with field data. The optimal decision rule is a function of how much information is used by the hummingbirds. Data indicate that a decision to leave an inflorescence is a function of the number of flowers visited, the number of flowers available on the inflorescence, and the amount of nectar obtained at the last flower. The optimal decision rule was calculated assuming no additional information is used.
3883200|Four sympatric species of Fundulus (F. heteroclitus, F. majalis, F. diaphanus, and F. luciae) are distributed along tidal height and salinity gradients such that F. heteroclitus co-occurs with each species, while the remaining species rarely occur together. Feeding habitats of all the species are similar, and food has been shown to limit population size of F. heteroclitus. This paper examines whether competition is an important structuring force within this guild by addressing two questions: 1) is the spatial separation exhibited by three of the species due to physiological barriers or due to competitive exlusion? and 2) when F. heteroclitus occurs with other Fundulus species does competition for resources take place? Laboratory studies indicate that all four species are tolerant of a wide range of environmental conditions; available evidence suggests that physiological barriers are an unlikely explanation for spatial segregation among some members of this guild. Competitive exclusion seems a likely alternate explanation, but is supported only by studies of diet overlap. Similarly, only inference from diet overlap is available to answer the second question. A field experiment is presented here in which F. heteroclitus and F. majalis were placed in enclosures separately and together. Competition between these species appears to be important, and similar field experiments are recommended to investigate competitive interactions among other species pairs within the genus.
3882423|Bivalve and gastropod molluscs undergo large changes in external environmental conditions, as well as in internal state. Cardiac responses to these changing conditions have been recorded in a variety of species. There is a general tendency for heart rate, and presumably cardiac output, to increase in response to situations that would increase the load on respiratory and excretory systems. Changes in molluscan heart function in many cases appear not to be mediated directly by cardiac nerves, but rather by such indirect mechanisms as changes in blood constituents or mechanical, hemodynamic effects on heart muscle. Three types of cardiac response in Aplysia have been shown to be mediated, at least in part, by the heart regulator nerves. The neural circuits that regulate heart rate in Aplysia and in Helix have been partially described in cellular detail. In Mercenaria, Aplysia and other molluscan species there is evidence that cyclic adenosine monophosphate has a role in mediating the excitatory effects of serotonin on heart muscle. There appears to be, in fact, a general tendency in the Aplysia nervous system for neurons that exert tonic, modulatory effects within neural networks that control a variety of behaviors to use serotonin for a transmitter. In each case there is evidence to suggest that changes in cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels may mediate some of the modulatory effects of serotonin.
3883606|The growth and development of the American Society of Zoologists (ASZ) came in an era of rapid expansion among the life sciences, as well as during a period when biologists were seeking to provide themselves with a united and effective voice. In ASZ's early years it usually remained subsidiary, overshadowed by larger organizations like the American Society of Naturalists or the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and constrained by its small enrollment to hold meetings in conjunction with these larger societies. As ASZ's numbers increased, however, new members entered from many specialized fields, and it became a focal organization for associations dedicated to such studies as ecology, genetics, animal behavior, or systematic zoology. Much of ASZ's success in achieving its integrative status can be attributed to the formation of divisions within the Society, each dedicating itself to the specialized interests of its own members under the larger umbrella of zoology. This development, of course, paralleled the interaction between ASZ and the larger social issues that have arisen during the century of the Society's history. ASZ has consistently concerned itself with just treatment for all, regardless of race or sex; with government support of science; with the education of science teachers and of young and talented biologists; and with all those issues that improve the productivity of zoologists and enhance their capacity for reaching an ever deeper understanding of animal biology.
3883932|Research on the sensory inputs regulating ventilation and perfusion in vertebrates has slowly moved from studies of receptor cells to studies of the receptor proteins on receptor cells involved in signal transduction. With this new emphasis and the insights gained from this work, questions arise about the significance of specific transduction mechanisms and their link to whole animal responses to various stimuli. This is illustrated in the present chapter using two examples. The first describes pulmonary mechanoreceptors in identical locations but with different orientations. As a result of the differences in their orientation, although the receptors have identical signal transduction mechanisms and identical roles in terms of the reflex effects they elicit, they respond to different stimuli at the whole animal level. The second example suggests that different populations of O
3881788|Using the typical mouth opening response (MOR) as the index of chemoreception, several amino acid constituents of natural food for Aplysia were effective in eliciting MOR in concentrations as low as
3882808|The phylum Nemertina, with more than 800 described species, occupies a wide range of habitats and figures prominently in theories of bilaterian evolution. Integuments of nemertines, from a number of habitats and representing the major orders, are compared and the general cell types constituting the epidermis are reviewed and defined. The general construction and cell demography of the integument are more or less characteristic for each order, but are not readily generalized to lower taxonomic levels. Similarly, the general structure of the integument has correlations with broad environments, but there are few conspicuous, uniquely adaptive, morphological specializations; e.g., the adhesive plate and ciliary bristles of interstitial nemertines, the tube-forming cells of Carcinonemertes epialti and various palaeonemertines, the epidermis of the pilidium larva. It is proposed that there are three generalized types of integumentary glandular cells, mucous, serous and bacillary, and that these and the ciliated cells vary only modestly across taxonomic and environmental lines. However, it is also proposed that the major structural variations of the integument not only are diagnostic for the orders but also suggest and correlate with two major evolutionary radiations of the extant nemertines, one epibenthic, the other infaunal-in that sequence. Similarities of the nemertine integument to that of turbellarians are superficial or at best plesiomorphous; i.e., they are also found in other taxa.
3881920|The first collagen recognizable in the embryo is in the form of an incomplete basal lamina under the epiblast and hypoblast. We suggest that this collagen acts as a railroad track to guide the migration of the primitive streak mesenchyme. The mesenchyme aggregates into chordamesoderm, a layer which is said to "induce" the overlying epiblast (now ectoderm) to develop into neural folds. This tissue interaction may be mediated by the formation of complete basal laminas separating the two tissues and by deposition of sulfated mucopolysaccharides in the intervening extracellular space. At the very least, the collagenous basal lamina serves to give the elongating cells of the developing neural tube a firm foothold. The fully formed neural tube and adjacent notochord are said to induce the sclerotome of the somite to migrate medially and differentiate into cartilage. Notochord and neural tube basal lamina and collagen fibrils may play a role by guiding the migrating cells and stabilizing the already existing chondrogenic bias of the cells. We were unable to prove this hypothesis directly (by adding collagen to somite cultures), because in our hands the somites died in vitro even in the presence of neural tube and notochord. We did obtain direct evidence, however, that the basal lamina of the lens can promote the differentiation of the cornea in vitro.
3883718|Benthic marine invertebrates with planktonic larvae may exhibit Allee effects in reproduction or recruitment. Hydrodynamic considerations and experimental evidence suggest that species broadcasting gametes suffer greatly reduced fertilization efficiencies as densities decline. There is also evidence for some species, including the red sea urchin, that post-dispersal recruitment success declines at low densities of adults, if adults provide shelter from predators or other sources of mortality. Species displaying strong Allee effects may be susceptible to catastrophic population collapses with slight increases in mortality due to harvesting or natural causes. A simple two patch logistic model suggests that the establishment of a harvest refuge is necessary to prevent collapses and maintain sustainable catches at high levels of harvesting effort. A more detailed, age structured model based on the biology of the red sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus franciscanus produces similar results. Effects of harvesting strategies are sensitive to Allee effects caused by both fertilization efficiency and the disruption of adult spine canopies. Theoretical requirements for the size and spacing of marine reserves depends upon the dispersal abilities of the target species. Multiple reserves, spaced more closely than the average larval dispersal distance, appear to be an effective and conservative strategy for maintaining healthy populations and sustainable levels of harvest.
3884481|Identifying when homoplasy is due to convergence requires confidence in trees and precise analysis of potentially convergent characters. Some features of mammals that eat mostly ants and termites are used as examples of convergence; the most speciose assemblages of these mammals are in the orders Xenarthra and Pholidota. My studies on cranial muscles in xenarthrans and pholidotans aim to 1) precisely describe the anatomy in ant-eating and non-ant-eating lineages, 2) assess variation among ant-eating lineages, and 3) compare the most derived conditions (in xenarthran anteaters and pholidotan pangolins). These data clarify the nature of morphological adaptation in ant-eating mammals, and when combined with accumulating phylogenetic studies, allow us to distinguish features that have evolved convergently from those that are variable but not correlated with diet. Interpreting the extreme similarity in anteaters and pangolins remains problematic due to lingering disagreement among phylogenetic hypotheses. Prevailing opinion favors interpretation of these similarities as convergent.
3883564|Strain gauge analysis can provide tremendous benefits to functional morphologists by accurately assessing the performance of a particular hard tissue structure in the mechanical loading environments in which it functions. This method replaces estimated calculations of skeletal stresses or strains with empirical measurements, and thus allows explicit testing of predictions derived from theoretical mechanical analyses or models. This direct measurement is particularly useful and important when the assumptions of mechanical models are violated in the biological world, such as when the geometry of the element of interest is complex and/or when the loads applied to a structure are either poorly known or dynamically changing. In many, perhaps most, systems of interest to functional morphologists, the assumptions of simple shape and well-defined loading necessary for most theoretical analyses are untenable; in these situations, strain gauge analysis can provide considerable crucial information not obtainable any other way. Although there are important limitations to the use of this approach, it can be applied to a variety of kinds of functional analyses and may supply information about skeletal performance that can contribute to meaningful functional interpretations of morphological design.
3883044|This review examines the influence of hormonal stimulation on paternal care in selected species of fish, birds and mammals. Correlational studies of hormonal changes and the occurrence of paternal behavior as well as experimental studies are considered. Understanding the influence of hormones on paternal behavior is complicated by whether the species studied shows maternal, paternal or biparental care and by the interactions among hormonal changes, prior experience and responses to external stimuli. It is evident that hormonal changes may be the result as well as the stimulus for paternal care and that stimuli from nests, eggs and young may be important for inducing the hormonal conditions which maintain paternal care. Hormonal determinants of sexual differentiation and the neuroendocrine control of paternal behavior are discussed. Although there are few theories which include the role of hormones in paternal care, some hypotheses relating to the "association hypothesis" of Gross and Shine (1981) are considered and suggestions are made for future studies.
3882018|There are now many examples in insects of axons which elicit hyperpolarizing junctional potentials in the muscle fibers they innervate. With the muscles bathed in haemolymph, electrical stimulation of these axons causes a decrease in the magnitude of slow contractions. This property allows them to be defined as inhibitory. Although inhibitory axons have the ability to regulate the magnitude of maintained slow contractions, there is little evidence that this is their normal function. The inhibitory axons supplying at least three insect muscles function to increase the rate of relaxations following each contraction of a rhythmic sequence. Moreover, when the haemolymph potassium concentration is high, some inhibitory axons probably ensure complete relaxation between rhythmic contractions by preventing potassium contractions in tonic muscle fibers. There is no convincing evidence that inhibitory axons can facilitate muscular contractions by becoming active immediately before the excitatory input.
3881435| Three wolf cubs ( and 2 ) taken blind from their den were studied in captivity. When the cubs were 20-22 weeks old, their behavior was studied in the presence of individuals of two breeds of dogs (German Shepherd and Samoyed). The wolf cubs had seen no canine individuals before the experiments and vice versa. The sexes and ages of the German Shepherds (they resemble European forest wolves in appearance) tested were as follows: female (3 years), male (17 months), female (21 weeks; the same height as the wolf cubs) and female (12 weeks). The two female Samoyeds were 2 years old. All the tests were performed in the pen of the wolf cubs and filmed. The main results are as follows: (1). Investigative behavior was observed during all the tests carried out. (2). No aggressiveness was observed between the wolf cubs and those German Shepherds which were as tall as the wolf cubs or taller. By contrast, the wolf cubs tried to kill the smallest German Shepherd (12 weeks old). (3). Great aggressiveness was observed between the wolf cubs and the Samoyeds from the moment of confrontation. (4). No difference was observed in the movements and behavior patterns of these two species. (5). The results are discussed. 
3884560|An amazing variety of mammals produce seismic vibrations by drumming a part of their body on a substrate. The drumming can communicate multiple messages to conspecifics about territorial ownership, competitive superiority, submission, readiness to mate, or presence of predators. Drumming also functions in interspecific communication when prey animals drum to communicate to predators that they are too alert for a successful ambush. The diversity of mammals that drum in varied contexts suggest independent evolution in different lineages. Footdrumming, as with other signals, probably originated by ritualization of older forms of behavior not associated with communication such as running and digging. Footdrumming patterns are species specific and range from single thumps to individual footdrum signatures. Although mammals communicate above ground with airborne drumming signals, they can also transmit sound seismically into the burrow where the signals become airborne and are received with ears especially adapted to hear low-frequency sound. Footdrumming has been studied the most extensively in kangaroo rats, Dipodomys. A comparison of species of different body mass shows that smaller sized, non-territorial species have no ritualized footdrumming; medium-sized species drum a simple pattern in limited contexts; while larger-sized species communicate territorial ownership with complex patterns. Future studies should examine the mechanics and energy requirements of drumming to test hypotheses about body size limitations on the evolution of footdrumming. Our understanding of drumming as communication is limited until investigators conduct field tests of responses to drumming signals in the contexts in which the signals are generated.
3884395|The heat shock response in kinetoplastid protozoa is distinguished from the stress response of the metazoa and yeasts by a lack of regulated transcription and by the failure to respond to stresses other than heat. The heat stress encountered by the parasites during transmission into mammalian hosts is a key trigger for their stage differentiation and may be a factor in the tropism of Leishmania species. While the major heat shock proteins are highly abundant both in the arthropod stage and the mammalian stage of the parasites, the 100 kD heat shock protein of L. major and L. donovani, Hsp100, appears to be expressed and required primarily in the mammalian stages of these parasites. Gene replacement mutants deficient in Hsp100 expression fail to express certain proteins specific for the amastigote and display markedly reduced virulence and aberrant morphology in infection experiments. However, the effects of leishmanial Hsp100 on general thermotolerance, induced or uninduced, are marginal at best. We conclude that the role of Hsp100 has been adapted to the specific needs of a parasite which has to enter stage conversion under heat stress and which has no need for tolerance against extreme stress.
3884106|This paper presents new results of risk-sensitive foraging studies of the carpenter bee, Xylocopa micans, and reviews the work to date on risk sensitivity in nectarivores. In the field, nectarivores choose among alternative food sources (flowers) that differ in the variabilities of their nectar rewards. In the lab, the foraging situation for carpenter bees was experimentally simplified by offering the bees a choice between either "low variance" or "high variance" artificial flowers. The two flower types differed in their variabilities but offered the same expected short-term rates of net energy gain to test the predictions of the short-term rate maximization mechanism. Foragers were tested under two energy budget conditions, hungry and well-fed, to test the predictions of the z-score model. Individual carpenter bees were indifferent to variability in both nectar volume and nectar sugar concentrations, and their risk-indifference was unaffected by energy budget. These findings of risk indifference support neither the variance discounting nor the z-score model of risk sensitivity. Since the low and high variance flower types are equivalent for carpenter bees in short-term rate of energy gain, there can be no selection on carpenter bees to be sensitive to variability based on differences in rate of gain. Studies of risk sensitivity in honey bees and bumble bees using variance in nectar concentration support this contention. These findings are compared with other nectarivore risk sensitivity studies in order to highlight the most likely mechanisms underlying aversion to variation in nectar rewards (short-term rate maximizing, the Weber-Fechner law of perception and learning non-empty flowers) and to suggest future research in the interplay of these three mechanisms.
3884211|The association of the sepiolid squid Euprymna scolopes with its marine luminous bacterial symbiont Vibrio fischeri is an emerging model system to study the initiation and development of bacterial symbioses in higher animals, in particular the influence of bacteria on the ontogenic development of symbiotic-specific host tissues. Experiments comparing the development of juvenile squid infected with symbiotic V. fischeri with that of uninfected juveniles suggest postembryonic development of the light organ requires cell-cell interactions with the bacterial symbionts. The presence of symbiotic bacteria induces specific morphological changes by affecting such fundamental processes as cell death and cell differentiation. The surface of the juvenile organ is largely composed of ciliated cells that appear to facilitate infection of the light organ. These cells begin to undergo cell death within hours of infection with symbiotic V. fischeri. Within three days the epithelial cells that form the bacteria-containing crypts of the light organ increase in size; these cells do not appear mitotically active, and may represent a terminally differentiated state. The light organs of uninfected juvenile E. scolopes, however, do not exhibit any of these early postembryonic developmental events but remain in a state of arrested morphogenesis.
3883041|A critical reexamination of the empirical data on male-infant interactions among baboons and macaques reveals a number of significant contrasts between them. On an absolute and relative scale, the frequency of occurrence among baboons is rare. When male baboons do interact with infants, only a small proportion of all available male actors do so, and even fewer still (less than one-quarter) account for any substantial percentage of all interactions. In contrast, macaque males are very frequently and commonly involved with infants; all males of the group interact with infants to some degree, and a greater proportion of all the group's males can be characterized as "heavily involved" with infants. The rejection of the role of kinship in interpreting this phenomenon, especially as it occurs among baboons, has rested almost exclusively on the pattern of estimated paternity between male and infant from behavioral (consort) criteria. These behavioral-based data are incomplete at best, possibly incorrect in some instances, and in fact, in many studies kinship appears to be a predominant factor. Until patrilineal data are derived from independent cytogenetic studies, these evolutionary interpretations must be viewed with extreme skepticism.
3881554| The dipteran salivary gland is considered from several points of view. Its development in relation to chromosomal puffing suggests that this tissue, perhaps more than any other, represents major evidence for differential activation and inactivation of genes during development. From studies of this tissue we have gained further insight into concepts of tissue and stage specificity. Factors regulating puffing during development include the natural hormone, ecdysone, as well as a host of other substances and environmental factors which affect cellular metabolism. Breakdown of the salivary gland seems ultimately to be controlled by chromsomal puffing. In this case one of the first detectable biochemical alterations in the gland is the accumulation of the enzyme DNase. This enzyme may play a rle in digesting the chromosomes themselves, thus accomplishing regulated self-destruction of the cell's synthetic machinery. 
3882739|The role and function of theoretical ecology are examined. The case is made that theory must be recognized as an activity closely tied to, but separate and independent in objectives and perspective, from field observation and experimentation. Too literal interpretation of models, and rigid insistence on immediate congruence between theory and observation, have led to abuses and distortion of the role of theory. Examples are given to illustrate the partnership between theory and experiment, with emphasis on the partitioning and exploitation of space. The role of theory in guiding understanding and experimentation in the rocky intertidal community of the West Coast (Paine and Levin, 1981) is discussed. Models of individual movement based on random walk assumptions are summarized, with special attention to recent work by Kareiva (1982a, b, c) designed to test the applicability of diffusion models. Such models are shown to provide an excellent foundation for the study of the foraging movements of phytophagous insects: Extensions hold great promise as descriptors of movement for much wider classes of organisms and in the presence of complications such as taxis, grouping behavior, etc. Finally, some brief discussion is given on recent efforts to develop a theory of the evolution of dispersal and dormancy in heterogeneous environments.
3883037|The contribution of the male to the care of the young varies greatly within the class Aves. In this paper we use canonical correlation analysis to provide a quantitative framework for assessing the ecological and life history correlates of male involvement in five parental activities. The avian subfamily was used as the unit of analysis. Data were obtained from the existing literature. Four significant dimensions of relationship between the behavioral outcome variables and the ecological/life history predictors emerged from the analysis. Together, these dimensions accounted for 38% of the variability in the five paternal behaviors. The analysis indicated that the most powerful predictors of paternal behavior include mode of development, mating system, certain habitat characteristics, and clutch weight as a percentage of female body weight. The approach described here makes it possible to conduct formal quantitative tests of specific hypotheses widely discussed in the literature and to explore the existing data for important relationships that may have been overlooked in earlier work. The model also generates predictions about the behavior, ecology and life history of taxonomic groups about which little is currently known.
3883058|An animal's nutritional status depends on (1) nutrient accessibility, (2) nutrient demand, and (3) physiological, metabolic, morphological, and behavioral compensations that avert or minimize discrepancies, if any, between the first two. The main thesis of this essay is that the diversity and potency of such compensatory mechanisms have often been underrated, and hence the frequency and intensity of nutritional stress in free-living animals have often been exaggerated. This theme is explored in conjunction with an inventory of the modes of compensation for actual or potential dietary deficiencies.
3882835|A survey of biomechanically significant aspects of the jaw apparatus in 13 orders of recent and fossil ungulates indicates that an expanded angular process evolved independently at least 12 times. Temporal fossa size is reduced in most ungulates of modern aspect, but not in many early ungulates. Expansion of the masseter and internal pterygoid musculature (inferred from the expanded angular process) may represent an adaptation for enhanced control of grinding action in mastication.
3881655|Two groups of fishes, the tuna and the lamnid sharks, have evolved counter-current heat-exchange mechanisms for conserving metabolic heat and raising their body temperatures. Warm muscle can produce more power, and considering the other adaptations for fast swimming in these fish, it seems likely that the selective advantages of greater speed made possible by the warm muscle were important in the evolution of this system. Some tunas such as the yellowfin and skipjack are at a fixed temperature difference above the water, but bluefin tuna can thermoregulate. Telemetry experiments show that the bluefin tuna can maintain a constant deep body temperature during marked changes in the temperature of its environment.
3881919|The concept that extracellular matrix materials are involved in the morphogenetic process is supported by substantial indirect evidence. Essential morphogenetically active materials are obscure with regard to their nature, their mode of action, and whether they are causally involved in tissue interactions. Studies are presented indicating that glycosaminoglycans are components of embryonic epithelial basal laminae, and that materials within the basal lamina which are, at least in part, glycosaminoglycan are required for establishing and maintaining branching epithelial morphogenesis. The tissue of origin and molecular nature of basal laminar glycosaminoglycan are described and speculations are made regarding its possible mode of action in the context of a model for branching morphogenesis.
3884187|Maternal effects comprise a class of phenotypic effects that parents have on phenotypes of their offspring that are unrelated to the offspring's own genotype. Although biologists have known about the importance of these effects for decades, maternal effects have only recently been studied widely by evolutionary ecologists. Moreover, the impact of maternal effects on the rate and direction of evolution of other components of the phenotype has only recently been fully elucidated by theoretical genetic models. This paper provides a brief overview of maternal effects research, focusing on research conducted in animal systems. First, I review and summarize definitions and theoretical treatments of maternal effects. Then I survey the diversity of maternal effects and some of the kinds of ecological and evolutionary impacts that maternal effects have been shown to have on offspring performance. Third, I discuss some of the ecological and evolutionary implications of maternal effects in ecological research. In this context, it is argued that the kinds of maternal effects that have been studied, and some of the potential implications of maternal effects that have not been explored are both artifacts of research effort. Hence, I identify several fruitful areas for future maternal effects research. Lastly, I describe the necessity of explicitly incorporating maternal effects in ecological research, whether or not the researcher is focusing on them as the topic of the research.
3884097| The filtration mechanics of the gill of the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, allow this organism to capture particles less than 1 m. The organization of gill cirri and the architecture of the cirri appear to be important in providing the organism with the ability to filter small particles. Bacteria may provide a useful nutrient source for these animals as bacterial proteins can be digested and assimilated into mussel proteins. Laboratory experiments indicate that D. polymorpha is capable of filtering and assimilating a wide range of bacteria ranging in size from 1-4 m. Unionid species appear to be at least an order of magnitude less efficient at filtering bacteria than D. polymorpha. Because of its relatively smaller gill size, C. fluminea also filters bacteria less efficiently than D. polymorpha. We suggest that bacterial utilization by freshwater mussel species has important population and evolutionary implications. 
3883903|Lepidopteran juvenile hormone (JH) esterase appears to have a functional role in the regulation of embryogenesis, larval growth and development, and adult reproduction. In preovipositional and newly laid eggs of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, JH esterase activity was elevated presumably to metabolize maternal JHs, and then declined after blastoderm formation. Also, a single peak in hemolymph JH esterase activity was found prior to ecdysis in the second through the fourth instar of M. sexta, the function of which is unclear. However, in the last instar, elevated hemolymph JH esterase activity was noted prior to wandering and again prior to ecdysis to scavenge the last traces of JH necessary for normal development. The hemolymph JH esterase is likely of multiple tissue origin for the prewandering peak with the fat body excluded as a source for the prepupal peak; an inhibitory factor from the brain and JH regulate JH esterase biosynthesis. In adult cabbage loopers, Trichoplusia ni, elevated hemolymph JH esterase activity appeared to be important in reducing the JH titer and preventing egg maturation. Structure/activity data with trifluoromethylketones were incorporated into the design of a novel, JH esterase inhibitor, the sulfone and hydrate of octylthio-1,1,1-trifluoropropan-2-one, with selective and persistent, in vivo inhibitory activity. The topical application of this compound to last instar larvae and virgin adults of T. ni produced juvenizing effects (delayed pupation and induced egg maturation/oviposition, respectively) providing direct evidence of a functional role for JH esterase in lepidopteran development.
3881418|Study of the visual displays of more than 30 species of crabs allows some generalizations on the Brachyrhyncha. The displays fall into two groups, the Lateral Merus and the Chela Forward. Each group contains three major subtypes of display, which originated as discrete signals of intensity. Several special ritualizations of the Lateral Merus have evolved in certain genera. The Lateral Merus seems to be the primitive type of display in the Brachyura and still exists in most crabs. It is speculated that the Chela Forward arose from a specialized courtship display but has been adopted for general agonistic use in some genera.
3883026|Current research reveals that the somewhat separate subdisciplines ethology, zoosemiotic and sociobiology function together in clarifying animal behavior. Ethology is taken as the study of individual behavioral patterns, zoosemiotic as the study of animal communication, and sociobiology as the study of social organization. The explosive progress in all research areas cannot be summarized briefly but examples are drawn to provide the flavor of each subdiscipline and their interactions. Among the illustrative topics selected are behavioral development, animal orientation, signal structure, the context of communication, language, mating systems and cooperative breeding. At junctures some possible paths toward future study are identified, but the concluding examples point to the principal theme and prediction: the integrated study of behavior combining historically distinct approaches-which promises to help clarify not only the lives of our fellow earthly inhabitants but our own lives as well.
3884495|The colinear, anterior to posterior expression domains of the Hox genes in vertebrate embryos is strongly correlated with regional changes in vertebral morphology. The limbs of tetrapods are consistently aligned with specific areas of the vertebral column. However, control of limb development is apparently situated in the lateral plate mesoderm, and has been experimentally shown to be independent of an axial Hox code (Cohn et al., 1997, Nature 387:97-101). We have used experimental manipulation of chick embryos to test the causal role of Hox genes in patterning derivatives of the paraxial mesoderm. Hox expression in heterotopically transplanted segmental plate responds in a manner consistent with a patterning role for these genes in the morphological behavior of the transplants. Expression is maintained in dorsal paraxial regions where patterning is also intrinsic to the donor site of the graft. However, expression is apparently lost in somite cells that migrate into the host lateral plate environment and form appropriate host-level muscles. This arrangement could enable increased plasticity in the evolution of transpositional variation in the vertebrate body plan.
3881491|The location and function of the five or six sets of silk glands of Araneus diadematus (Cl) are discussed. The structure and function of the three major parts of the ampullate gland indicate a synthesizing, collecting, and possibly structuring section. Two methods of stimulation of the ampullate gland, namely emptying the gland and cholinergic stimulation, are known. In both cases there is an initial secretory stage followed by rapid synthesis of new protein. The sequence of events following stimulation by both methods is described, based on studies of the incorporation of labeled protein and RNA precursors and on autoradiographic studies. Characteristic changes occur in the fine structure during the stimulatory cycle. Several experiments show that the spider has information on the amount of silk available to it for use in web-building. A structure which may act as a biological transducer has been located in the ampullate gland.
3882034|A variety of animals are now known to be facultative anaerobes, capable of utilizing molecular oxygen when it is present and capable of sustained anaerobiosis when it is absent. During anoxia these organisms rely upon the simultaneous catabolism of carbohydrate and amino acids. In probing the mechanisms utilized, this essay accounts for (1) the maintenance of redox balance during anoxia, (2) the sources of energy in the form of ATP, and (3) the formation of a multiplicity of anaerobic end products.
3882837|The actions of the masticatory muscles of a variety of mammals in which feeding behavior and the configuration of the masticatory apparatus differ have been reported. The most common approach used in these studies involves (1) obtaining a good anatomical perception of the musculature, (2) deriving a theoretical model of the actions of these muscles during jaw movement, and (3) testing this model by recording muscle activity and jaw movements simultaneously. A catalogue of the activity patterns in eleven species of mammals during food reduction reveals certain trends in the actions of the masticatory muscles. Horizontal jaw movements are generated primarily by differential activities of the deep temporalis, superficial masseter, and medial pterygoid. Vertical movements and the maintenance of tooth to food contact apparently are produced by action of the superficial temporalis, deep masseter, and zygomaticomandibularis. Thus, horizontal movements are seemingly generated by muscles having fibers arranged in marked anteroposterior direction, whereas vertical movements are generated by muscles having more or less vertically arranged fibers. The asymmetry of jaw movement and the muscular activity generating it suggest that mastication involves an interaction between an unbalanced and flexible functional unit (muscles) and a balanced and stable structural unit (skull and teeth). Thus, any unbalancing of the structural unit results in a further unbalancing of the masticatory process.
3884535|Host shifts and subsequent host-race formation likely play a more common role in the speciation of herbivorous insects than has generally been recognized. Our studies of the interactions of goldenrod host plants (Solidago: Compositae), the gall fly Eurosta solidaginis (Diptera: Tephritidae), and the stem- and gall-boring Mordellistena convicta (Coleoptera: Mordellidae) provide behavioral, ecological, and genetic evidence of insect host races that may represent incipient species formed via sympatric speciation. Eurosta solidaginis has developed genetically differentiated and reproductively isolated host races that are associated with the ancestral host Solidago altissima and the derived host S. gigantea. Conventional wisdom suggests that shifts even to closely related host plants are limited by host preferences or the inability to utilize a chemically and developmentally distinct host. However, our preliminary work with Eurosta from S. gigantea implies that host choice and gall induction do not deter a shift to S. canadensis. The galling of Solidago by Eurosta created a new resource that has led to a subsequent host range expansion by the stem-boring beetle. Mordellistena convicta from stems and galls are genetically distinct and likely shifted from stems to galls. Beetles from S. altissima versus S. gigantea galls exhibit assortative mating and higher preference for and/or performance on their natal host. The present-day distributions of the Eurosta host races and their behavioral isolating mechanisms do not suggest that geographic isolation was required for their formation; rather these characteristics suggest a sympatric mode of differentiation. Our findings lend credence to recent assertions that sympatric speciation may be an important source of biodiversity.
4620220|Certain issues of metazoan phylogeny remain difficult to resolve even with advances in phylogenetic theory and molecular tools. This lack of resolution might be due to limited phylogenetic signal in regions of the metazoan tree. For example, 18S rDNA data are consistent with a rapid radiation early in the history of bilaterian animals. Despite this lack of resolution, our understanding of metazoan evolutionary history can be furthered by extracting phylogenetic signal from data with more appropriate evolutionary models and by explicitly testing alternative hypotheses. I examined 18S rDNA data across a diverse number of phyla to identify potential problems with using genetic data to reconstruct metazoan history. Although the 18S performs well at the most general level of metazoan phylogeny, it has shortcomings particularly among the non-arthropod protostomes. Examples of parametric bootstrap simulation are given to illustrate how we may begin to address methodological issues when there is limited phylogenetic signal. These simulations suggest that we are more likely to understand the bilaterian radiation event by increasing the length of nucleotide sequences collected than by employing faster genes.
3881759|Two genera of fishes, Poecilia and Poeciliopsis, both in the family Poeciliidae, have established unisexual populations. One "species," Poecilia formosa, is a diploid form that relies upon sperm from Poecilia latipinna or P. mexicana to initiate parthenogenetic development (gynogenesis). Triploid individuals of P. formosa have also been discovered but the mode of reproduction and the significance of such fish to natural populations have yet to be established. In the genus Poeciliopsis three gynogenetic triploids are known. Each is superimposed on a different bisexual host: Poeciliopsis lucida, P. monacha or P. viriosa. Five diploid hybridogenetic forms also have been identified. These are fertilized by either P. lucida, P. latidens, or P. occidentalis. In hybridogenetic forms, sperm actually fertilizes the egg. A hybrid with maternal and paternal characters is produced, but only maternal genes are transmitted through the egg to the next generation. Because of their sperm dependency, all unisexual fishes must reside with at least one of the parental species. They are forced to compete with them for sperm, space, and other limited resources. The ability to produce two females for every one that bisexuals produce suggests that the unisexuals have the potential to win this competition; but in so doing, they would lose their sexual support and eliminate themselves. A density-dependent mate selection system plays a role in establishing a workable balance between the competing elements. Unisexual forms of both Poecilia and Poeciliopsis are of hybrid origin. For most of them, the parental precursors and the proportion of genetic material that each contributed to the unisexual is known. The various genomes that make up the unisexuals are adapted to a variety of habitats. Once these genomes are combined in a unisexual hybrid, potential for adaptation to multiple niches exists; this coupled with heterosis contributes greatly to the success of gynogenetic and hybridogenetic fishes.
3882596|I have reinvestigated the "classical" Hydra transplantation phenomena, using experiments of simple design and large sample sizes. All experiments involved transplanting small tissue fragments from a donor hydra to a host. Both of the effects which are considered to demonstrate "head inhibition" in hydra (removing the head of the host, and placing transplants at different distances from the host's head) can be explained by assuming a diffusible inhibitory substance produced in the head; the apparent half-life of the substance is 2 hr and the apparent diffusion constant
3882711|The phylogeny of the major groups of deuterostome coelomates-the chordates, hemichordates and echinoderms-is discussed based on a mechanical-functional analysis of the hydrostatic skeleton and associated structures. The basic approach is to first establish transformation series of individual features and of functional complexes of features and second to determine their "Lesrichtung" by showing the direction of increased economy (i.e., better adaptation) with respect to environmental factors. It is argued that a metameric coelom is primitive with respect to an oligomeric one and that the ancestral form of the deuterostome coelomates is a metameric, coelomate worm-like animal with a complex set of circular, transverse and longitudinal body muscles. The coelom plus the complex body musculature formed the hydrostatic skeleton. The sequence of structural modifications leading to chordates is: (a) appearance of the notochord; (b) specialization of the dorsal longitudinal muscles with a reduction and disappearance of the transverse and circular muscles; (c) simultaneous appearance of the dorsal hollow nerve cord; (d) development of a postanal tail; and (e) appearance and specialization of the branchial basket with gill slits as a filter feeding apparatus. The primitive chordate would be most similar to the lancelet (Acrania). Tunicates are advanced chordates specialized for sessile life and lost most chordate features in the adult, but retained them in the larvae as adaptations for active dispersal. Enteropneusts (acorn worms) are another advanced group specialized for burrowing in fine sediments and that evolved the anterior proboscis as a peristaltic burrowing organ. The notochord was lost as was the dorsal nerve cord and segmented condition of the coelom. A collar originated as a means to prevent discharged water from re-entering the mouth. Pterobranchs arose from enteropneustlike forms; their major structural changes are reduction of the branchial basket and modification of the collar into tentacles which are associated with life in a closed tube. Finally, echinoderms arose from a pterobranch-like ancestor by specializing for sessile life and feeding with tentacles and by final loss of the branchial basket. Groups such as the tunicates, hemichordates and echinoderms could be eliminated as ancestral forms within the deuterostome coelomates because the evolution of acraniates and vertebrates from each of these groups would involve the appearance of gill slits before the notochord and/or the evolution of a metameric coelom from an oligomeric one, both of which are exceedingly improbable. Central to the methods used to establish the transformation series of features and their direction of evolutionary change (Lesrichtung) are functional (mechanical) analysis and adaptive interpretation of features; hence, functional-adaptive analyses are an integral and essential part of the methodology of phylogenetic investigation.
3882769|Use of isolated cell preparations have been a powerful approach to understanding cellular and biochemical processes of a wide variety of tissues, including transporting epithelia. A method for isolating the extra-renal organ or salt gland from a larval brachiopod crustacean, the brine shrimp, has been developed. This preparation is unique as it is the first isolated epithelial cell preparation from a crustacean and is derived from an early stage of development. As both the removal and purification protocols differ markedly from previous cell isolation methods, details of their development have been described. This preparation has allowed measurement of the Na+K ATPase specific activity in the salt gland and intestine for the first time. Use of the isolated salt glands will facilitate cellular and subcellular studies of both the structure and function of this ion transporting epithelium.
3882680|Budding of colonial ascidians was reviewed from three different viewpoints. First, budding was classified into two functional types, propagative and survival. The former type is supposed to occur in all colonial ascidians; it is active and functions during colony growth. The latter type is passive and occurs in some ascidians under adverse environmental conditions to ensure the survival of the animal. Second, a comparative study was made on the development and budding of ascidians of the subfamily Polyclininae. Third, some morphological problems concerning the asexual development of ascidians were discussed. Special attention was paid to 1) morphological differences between oozoids and blastozooids, 2) establishment of bud polarity, and 3) transmission of bilateral asymmetry to the next asexual generation. The evidences cited in these discussions show that colonial ascidians have a great promise for the study of morphogenesis, especially pattern formation.
3881980|The tradition with which both male and female Uganda kob return to permanently located territorial breeding grounds (TG's or leks), along with the dispersion of individuals in relationship to a home TG and morphological variation between individuals associated with different TG's, indicates that the total population of kob in the Toro Game Reserve and its vicinity is subdivided into relatively closed breeding units. Mathematical analyses of linear body measurements show significant differences in morphological features between three demes, not only in averages but also in the inter-relatedness of body characteristics, suggesting an underlying genetic integrity within demes. Interdemic gene flow through individuals appears to be inconsequential, but there may be significant gene flow through the formation of temporary TG's. Altruistic behavior among territorial males may contribute to kinship selection, and the individual kob behavior in response to predation suggests that altruism may have a bearing on the regulation of predation. The lek system of social organization may be significant in maintaining genetic heterogeneity in the kob antelope, which lives in geographically isolated populations throughout its range.
3882534|Food competition among coexisting nectarivorous birds is conspicuous and often intense, affecting patterns of flower choice, daily behavior budgets, and timing of successful reproduction. Exploitative competition involves loss of accumulated nectar to other individuals that visited a flower first. Preliminary data support the use of Poisson models of the frequencies of point-source visitation and overlap for determining the probabilities of actual competitive events. Nectar losses from monitored flowers can be estimated in terms of time intervals between visits weighted by flower-specific nectar production and bird-specific nectar removal capabilities. Foraging time budgets then provide a meaningful common denominator for assessing the impacts of competitive nectar losses, because compensatory increases in foraging time are required to maintain a balanced energy budget. Flexibility in foraging time budgets made possible by high efficiency foraging and predictably low competitive losses may be an important determinant of reproductive timing and success in nectar feeding birds. Aggressive displacement of competitors and territorial defense of flowers are common forms of interference competition in nectar-feeding birds. Aggression has definable caloric costs that ultimately must relate to caloric gains. Defense of flowers increases the aggressor's exclusive use of nectar, increases the predictability of a nectar supply, and increases the average amount of nectar obtained per flower. Simple cost-benefit models of territoriality define conditions when net benefits of territoriality are greater than those of alternatives.
3884445|Arthropods exhibit highly diverse limb morphologies ranging from unbranched walking legs to multibranched swimming paddles. Understanding morphogenesis in structurally diverse limbs can be useful for ascertaining homologies between limbs. Structurally similar limbs have been produced by different evolutionary modifications of morphogenesis in certain cases. Whereas it is easy to support the claim that whole arthropod limbs are homologous structures, I demonstrate that it is not always possible to draw well-founded homologies between parts of different limbs. This result is important with regard to general models of appendage development and evolution in arthropods because it clarifies contradictory explanations based exclusively on gene expression data.
3882630|During larval life the insect epidermis makes a larval cuticle and certain pigments due to the presence of juvenile hormone (JH) at critical times during the molt cycle. The presence of JH also permits growth of imaginal discs and maintains strictly larval epidermis. At metamorphosis the lepidopteran epidermis responds to a low level of 20-hydroxyecdysone (20HE) in the absence of JH by becoming pupally committed, then later it forms a pupal cuticle when more 20HE appears, even though JH is present. During the change of commitment, DNA synthesis occurs but is not essential, whereas both RNA and protein synthesis are. The major changes in the translatable mRNA population at this time are threefold: a decline in most larval cuticle mRNAs, a transient increase followed by a disappearance of a few larval cuticle mRNAs, and an appearance of at least one "pupal commitment" mRNA and two to three mRNAs for small pupal cuticular proteins. Similar changes are seen in the protein synthetic patterns. Thus, a pupally committed cell is one which can no longer make larval products but which is not yet able to make most pupal products. Juvenile hormone prevents the change to pupal commitment by directing some of both the primary and the secondary actions of 20HE on the genome.
3883003|Some of the major features of nucleic acid structure and replication are reviewed in respect to their constancy and variability. These two qualities of conservation and change are broadly discussed in terms of the roles that genetic informational molecules play in biological evolution.
3883056|Operative and standard operative temperatures, T
3881357|A shedding substance, found in the radial nerves of 14 species of starfish, induced the release of gametes from intact animals as well as from whole or fragmented gonads. The shedding substance was not sex-specific, being present in the radial nerves of both males and females throughout the year, and, in general, was not species-specific. This neurosecretory-like polypeptide appeared to function by stimulating ovarian muscle to contract, and was calcium-dependent; it also stimulated the maturation of immature eggs. The shedding substance has been purified and its amino acid composition investigated. A second physiologically-active material, termed "shedhibin" because it inhibited shedding activity, was also found in the radial nerves of ripe sea stars. In the presence of shedhibin, normally-adequate quantities of shedding substance would not cause the release of gametes from isolated ovarian fragments. It appeared that although the level of shedding substance was constant throughout the year, the level of shedhibin fluctuated, possibly controlling the natural release of gametes from sea stars. The precise chemical nature of shedhibin has yet to be determined.
3882515|Alterations in tumor cell surface properties are thought to be important in the survival and metastasis of malignant cells. In vivo selection procedures have been used to enrich melanoma and fibroblastic tumor cell populations of variant cells which possess greater potential for arrest, survival and growth at specific secondary sites. Determining the surface properties of these metastatic variants should aid in the development of effective controls over malignant cancer spread.
3883736|Mate choice has been observed in many species of non-human primates. There are few definitive studies, however, due to the long life spans, complex social behavior, and cognitive abilities of these animals. Here I review the current literature on mate choice in primates. Females typically prefer complex behavioral traits such as social status, familiarity, personality, and parental care abilities. This tendency to prefer behavioral traits is consistent with the non-primate mammalian data. A female's ability to express preferences, however, is often constrained by her social environment-in particular male mating tactics and female-female competition. Males exhibit preferences for high-ranking females. In several species, high-ranking females produce more offspring than low-ranking females. In addition, females may also influence male dominance rank and in doing so reduce male-male competition and increase male mating success.
3883988|The integration of craniofacial elements during development in mammals is studied in a phylogenetic approach. Developmental series of four metatherian (marsupial) and five Eutherian (placental) taxa are examined, and the sequence of emergence of major characters of the central nervous system, the cranial skeleton and the cranial musculature is reconstructed. These sequences are transformed into a series of characters that are then mapped onto the phylogeny of the taxa. This phylogenetic approach makes it possible to distinguish between characters that are uniform across all mammals, and those that differentiate marsupials and placentals. The most significant difference between the two groups involves the relative timing of the development of the central nervous system and the somatic system. The central nervous system differentiates far in advance of the bones and muscles of the head in eutherians. In metatherians, somatic elements, particularly of the face, are accelerated. Additional other differences between the two groups of mammals are discussed. Many elements, however, are unchanged, and develop in a consistent relation despite overall shifts in development. These data are used to test several hypotheses on the ways that cranial development in mammals is integrated.
3881498|The common house spider, Achaearanea tepidariorum, has a sensitive vibration receptor on each of its eight legs. This receptor is the tarso-metatarsal lyriform organ, and while it may not be the only vibration receptor the spider has, it appears to be the most sensitive. The 10 receptor units of which the sense organ is composed are all sharply tuned to specific frequencies between 60 and 1400 cps, but the sensitivity of each receptor unit depends upon the tension of the slits of the lyriform organ. Physiological experiments have shown that the tuning of the receptors occurs only in response to air-borne sound; no discrimination is made of frequencies of web-borne vibration. One can speculate that the high sensitivity to air-borne sound is a consequence of the relatively poor transmission of vibration through Achaearanea's web.
3883702|Chemical engineering theory proves useful in predicting selective constraints on algal-cnidarian symbioses. Scleractinian corals are used as a model for understanding how the architecture of polyps and colonies affects the transport of material between the host and symbiotic algae, and the environment. Transport properties of the symbiosis are described by mathematical functions involving molecular diffusion and forced convection (water motion). Metabolic rates (photosynthesis and aerobic respiration) measured under manipulated regimes of water motion provide evidence that the physical state of the boundary layer (laminar or turbulent) surrounding the symbiosis directly affects both symbiotic algae and coral. However, the algae's photosynthetic rate is affected by changes in the ambient flow regime to a lesser degree than the symbiotic association's aerobic respiration rate, indicating a buffering effect of the host tissue. Two mathematical models presented explore the relationship of size and shape of contracted and expanded polyps on maximal rates of gas or nutrient exchange: the size/shape spectrum of scleractinian polyps is understandable in terms of how diffusion limits delivery of metabolites to coral and algae. Polyps of differing size are not geometrically similar; the shape changes observed are consistent with keeping fluxes of dissolved substances to these symbiotic associations "diffusionally similar." Expanded polyps possess diffusive boundary layers of considerable depth which limit delivery of metabolites to the algae. The mass transfer characteristics and size range of scleractinian polyps lie within the range where theory predicts an optimal polyp wall thickness should occur.
4620221|Traditional views on the interrelationships of the major animal groups are based on morphological characters, but molecular data of various types have in the last decade given indications of new and sometimes quite puzzling phylogenies. This should be an incentive not only to reevaluation of the available morphological characters but also to new studies to fill the voids in our knowledge. Modern morphology is not concerned only with traditional studies of structure and ontogeny of organ systems, but also with newer methods, such as SEM, TEM, immunocytochemistry, and cell marking. This has given morphology new dimensions, but it also has shown that vast areas of the animal kingdom remain very poorly known even through traditional studies. Phylogenetic trees built on morphology (and molecular trees with morphological characters added) demonstrate morphological characters that are in conflict with the phylogeny, and therefore should be reinvestigated; they also indicate areas where new research can contribute significantly to our understanding of the pathways of the evolution. Morphological phylogeny has the distinct advantage that characters of ancestors can be inferred and the evolutionary changes checked in terms of functional continuity and hypotheses of adaptation.
3883038|The literature on paternal behavior in rodents includes reports of many species; however, paternal behavior appears more prevalent among muroid and hystricomorph rodents than in the sciurids. Many reports of paternal behavior are based on small numbers of animals observed under special conditions. Where systematic studies have been conducted, the most salient feature of rodent paternal behavior is its lability. The occurrence varies with observer constraints, genotype, experience, social conditions during observation, and stimulus characteristics. This intraspecific variability renders application of the comparative method in understanding evolution difficult but may provide a key in the remarkable adaptation of rodents to diverse habitats. Although species differences exist the evolution of rodent paternal behavior appears to entail changes in the thresholds and conditions for the occurrence of a relatively few basic motor patterns of paternal care.
3881675|Penetration of calcareous substrates by algae involves different micro-environments. Endolithic algae include two different life forms: (1) algae colonizing existing spaces within the rock, and (2) algae actively boring within the carbonate substrate. Two species of boring Cyanophyta were studied, and their borings were compared in exposed calcite (Island spar). The size and pattern of borings reflect the corresponding properties of the algae and show taxonomic distinctions. The direction of the tunnels and their wall sculpture are determined by the planes of crystal cleavage and twinning. Algal boring is a dissolution process performed by the terminal cells of endolithic filaments. The space dissolved away by an alga has the shape of a miniature calcite crystal. Dissolution proceeds along the crystal twinning lines diagonally to the previous microcrystal space. The tunnel represents a sequence of such microcrystal-shaped spaces. Both biological and mineralogical determinants should be considered in the interpretation of algal boring patterns.
3882160| Dopa decarboxylase (DDC) in the Diptera is an enzyme involved in sclerotinization of the cuticle in the epidermis and the production of neurogenic amines in the central nervous system. Its appearance in the epidermis at pupariation is induced by the molting hormone ecdysone. The dietary administration of the analog inhibitor -methyl dopa ( MD) was used to isolate resistant and hypersensitive mutants. Two of three dominant resistant strains isolated increase DDC activity 35-70%. For both the increase is due to mutations between rdo (53) and pr (54.5) on the left arm of the 2nd chromosome (2L). The very highly resistant strain which does not affect DDC in any way is located at 54.0 on 2L. Twelve dominant,
3884409|The evolutionary history of marine mammals involved marked physiological and morphological modifications to change from terrestrial to aquatic locomotion. A consequence of this ancestry is that swimming is energetically expensive for mammals in comparison to fish. This study examined the use of behavioral strategies by marine mammals to circumvent these elevated locomotor costs during horizontal swimming and vertical diving. Intermittent forms of locomotion, including wave-riding and porpoising when near the water surface, and prolonged gliding and a stroke and glide mode of propulsion when diving, enabled marine mammals to increase the efficiency of aquatic locomotion. Video instrumentation packs (8-mm camera, video recorder and time-depth microprocessor) deployed on deep diving bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus), northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris), and Weddell seals (Leptonychotes weddellii) revealed exceptionally long periods of gliding during descent to depth. Glide duration depended on depth and represented nearly 80% of the descent for dives exceeding 200 m. Transitions in locomotor mode during diving were attributed to buoyancy changes with compression of the lungs at depth, and were associated with a 9-60% reduction in the energetic cost of dives for the species examined. By changing to intermittent locomotor patterns, marine mammals are able to increase travelling speed for little additional energetic cost when surface swimming, and to extend the duration of submergence despite limitations in oxygen stores when diving.
3883842|Melatonin, a hormone of the pineal gland, exerts multiple effects upon the brain-pituitary axis of vertebrates. Among mammals, the best documented physiological roles of melatonin involve the photoperiodic induction of reproductive and other seasonal adjustments. Day-length regulates the effects of gonadal steroids upon gonadotropin secretion and sexual behavior as well as the frequency of a neural generator of GnRH pulses. In hamsters, these effects are paralleled by changes in GnRH, AVP and beta-endorphin immunoreactivity, and in opiate receptor density in the medial amygdala. Autoradiographic studies indicate a high concentration of
3883132|Limnology was not recognized as a distinct science at the time of the great post-Civil War western explorations of Hayden, Wheeler, King, and Powell. However, these and some earlier explorations made observations in certain branches of natural science that would become integral parts of limnological science. In keeping with what was known at the time, some exploring parties made observations and collections, such as water temperature or water samples and larger invertebrates, which could be readily accomplished by hand or with simple equipment. The inconvenience of carrying or expending time to build boats for offshore use may have seriously deterred limnological work.
3882953|Calcium regulation in lower vertebrates appears to be a continuum. The predominant hypercalcemic hormone in reptiles, birds and mammals is parathyroid hormone, while the major hypercalcemic control in fishes is a pituitary factor, probably prolactin. In the amphibians dual controlling mechanisms are at work, so that both the pituitary and parathyroids exert their influence. Prolactin may still retain some hypercalcemic potency in the higher vertebrate groups, either directly or indirectly by influencing the secretion of other hypercalcemic hormones. On the other hand, parathyroid hormone does not occur in, nor does it elevate blood calcium in fishes. It thus seems to be a new invention of tetrapods, or possibly to have evolved from a pituitary factor of fishes. The ability to lower blood calcium seems to be very important in seawater fishes, in which the corpuscles of Stannius exert major control. In terrestrial forms, the corpuscles of Stannius are not present, and hypocalcemic factors assume a minor role in overall calcium regulation.
3883814|In the last thirty years systematics has transformed itself from a discipline concerned with classification into a discipline concerned with reconstructing the evolutionary history of life. This transformation has been driven by cladistic analysis, a set of techniques for reconstructing evolutionary trees. Long interested in the large-scale structure of evolutionary history, cladistically oriented systematists have recently begun to apply "tree thinking" to problems near the species level. In any local ("non-dimensional") situation, species are usually well-defined, but across space and time the grouping of organisms into species is often problematic. Three views of species are in common use today: the biological species concept, the evolutionary species concept, and the phylogenetic species concept. Each of these has strengths and weaknesses, but no matter which is applied, exact counts of the number of species in any extended area will always be ambiguous no matter how much factual information is available. This ambiguity arises because evolution is a historical process, and the grouping of organisms into species always depends to some extent upon expectations of the future behavior of those organisms and their descendants, expectations that cannot be evaluated in the present. The existence and special character of the species problem is itself one of the central pieces of evidence for the fact of evolution.
3884421|This paper reviews comparative and evolutionary aspects of nitric oxide (NO) signaling in major systematic groups such as prokaryotes, plants, fungi and invertebrate animals. It appears that NO-mediated signaling can be as old as cellular organization itself. Both non-enzymatic and enzymatic (in addition to NOS) synthetic pathways can contribute to NO formation in living systems. The evolutionary roots of this means of gaseous signaling can be traced back to the role of NO in non-immune defensive mechanisms and the role of NO in control of gene expression, chemical ecology and, perhaps, symbiotic interactions in the ancient prokaryotic world. These functions of NO can be preserved in practically all modern taxons and be widely expressed in the nervous system. However, it is hypothesized that neuronal NO signaling is a relatively new evolutionary invention and it is likely to have happened several times during animal evolution. Although a comparative analysis of neuronal NO signaling is still in its early stages, the hypothesis is proposed that in many invertebrate lineages one of the primary neuronal functions of NO was regulation of feeding patterns, chemosensory processing and neurodevelopment.
3882380|As a homozygous recessive, gene e in the Mexican axolotl prevents optic vesicles from forming, thus producing an eyeless animal. Previous experimental evidence has indicated that the gene acts by affecting the ability of anterior medullary plate ectoderm in the eye field to respond to inductive mesodermal signals. Other possible mechanisms of gene action are described. The hypothalamus is also affected and "eyeless" animals are sterile. The absence of eyes results in increased levels of circulating MSH and thus the animal is also highly pigmented. Eyes may be grafted into the heads of "eyeless" axolotls. These eyes become functional and lead to normal pigmentation. When present as a homozygous recessive, gene r acts to allow the penetration of heterozygous e (E/e r/r). This results in abnormal eye development.
3884077|The neuroendocrine system of crustaceans, crayfish in particular, has been extensively studied. As among vertebrates, a wide variety of processes are hormonally regulated, including reproduction, growth, carbohydrate metabolism and color changes. The sinus gland, a neurohemal organ in the crayfish eyestalk, is the major neuroendocrine center. Herein, crayfish reproductive cycles and their hormonal control, particularly by the gonad-stimulating and gonad-inhibiting hormones, are a major focus. In addition, the aminergic and peptidergic neuroregulators identified in crayfish central nervous organs that either have been or likely may be shown to have neurotransmitter/neuromodulator roles in controlling hormone release are discussed with respect to localization and identified roles.
3884130|Amniotes undergoing oviparous development are exquisitely accessible to physiological measurement and mainpulation. Further, interpretation of data obtained from studying these embryos is less complicated than that obtained for placentals, where maternal regulatory actions may account, at least in part, for fetal homeostasis. Nevertheless, surprisingly little is known about the developmental physiology of hydromineral balance in bird and reptile embryos, especially when compared to information gleaned from mammalian concepti. The data are even more scarce for specific homeostatic mechanisms which involve embryonic or maternally deposited hormones. Published reports fall into three general categories, the majority of which concern direct or indirect evidence for hypophyseal actions: (1) Classic endocrine organ-deletion experiments involving hypophysectomy (partial decapitation) of chicken embryos. The data strongly suggest that one or more pituitary factors normally act to reduce fluid volumes and electrolyte concentrations of the allantois and to maintain the relatively high sodium and chloride gradients between the allantois and the other embryonic or extraembryonic compartments. Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), prolactin (PRL), and arginine vasotocin (AVT) have been implicated as potentially important pituitary hormones involved in these actions. (2) Treatment of embryos with a variety of exogenous hormones, including PRL, growth hormone, and 1, 25 dihydroxycholecalciferol (the hormonal form of vitamin D). These hormones have their most profound effect on the allantoic compartment as well as the yolk sac (vitamin D), resulting in altered fluid volumes and/or perturbations of the fluid electrolytes. (3) Ontogeny of synthesis of hormones with suspected osmoregulatory functions and the subsequent appearance of these hormones in embryonic plasma. This latter group includes synthesis and release of embryonic hormones in response to osmotic challenge during development. The data from these three related areas, combined with basic developmental physiology work, suggest that the target organs for the hormones involved in hydromineral regulation in bird embryos are likely to include the embryonic kidneys as well as the membranes of the extraembryonic compartments, especially the allantois.
3883581|Myosin is a molecular motor that through its interaction with actin, produces the movement characterized by such diverse cellular functions as muscle contraction and cytokinesis. The myosin molecules responsible for these movements are encoded by complex multigene families in higher organisms. Genes in these families show tissue-specific as well as developmentally regulated expression. In mammals, it has not been possible to dissect the precise functional contributions of individual members of the myosin heavy chain gene family. This manuscript discusses the information that can be gained from the molecular cloning of mammalian myosin heavy chains and how those cloned sequences can be used to study their function in vitro and in vivo.
3883986|Studies of intra and interspecific variability of urodele mesopodia have revealed biases in the production of novel phenotypes; observed patterns of variability represent a small subset of the possible arrangements. The major trend in the phylogenetic diversification of the salamander limb is the reduction or loss of carpal or tarsal elements, and these patterns are often highly homoplastic. Mesopodial arrangements that are homoplastic are commonly encountered in studies of intrapopulational variation. Patterns of variation, when integrated with developmental biology, inform about the relationships between morphological integration and homology. The extensive conservation of primitive developmental and genetic interactions suggest that the individuation of structures may not be complete and that homologies, themselves, may be partial.
3883392|The skin is a heterogeneous, multimembrane system with multiple diffusion pathways and potentially numerous rate-limiting barriers for specific molecules that are exchanged with the environment. A broad survey of animals indicates that integumentary coverings are morphologically, biochemically and embryologically diverse but with common themes of adaptation. The evolutionary proliferation of intercellular junctions, fibrous or mineralized protective barriers, and lipoid waterproofing barriers emphasize the generality of diffusion limitations. However, the regulation of specific exchange processes such as the flux rates of respiratory gases entails a complex interaction of multiple factors affecting both diffusion and perfusion limitations. Consideration of specific pathways and rate limitations for diffusion of various substances suggests that the permeation of skin by specific molecules can be partially independent of other exchange processes. Our understanding of regulated permeability is, however, lacking in mechanistic and integrated analysis in most cases. Comprehensive understanding of the integument as a regulatory pathway of communication with the environment will require comparative studies of specific transport pathways, their rate-limiting resistances, and the interactions as well as individual regulation of transported molecules.
3883319|Most vertebrate skeletal muscles consist of a heterogeneous array of muscle fiber types that are distinguishable, in part, by differences in their contractile protein isoform content. It is often suggested that the information necessary for directing the development of these fiber types is derived from interactions with factors outside the muscle fibers themselves and, in particular, with innervating motoneurons. However, recent data from this and other laboratories indicate that the emergence of fiber specialization within developing muscle is not dependent on innervation at all. These studies recognize two periods of embryonic fiber specialization. The first occurs during early embryonic development as individual muscles are formed from primary generation fibers expressing different myosin isoform types. The formation of these "early" muscle fiber types and their characteristic distributions within and among different muscles are not dependent on interactions with innervating motoneurons. Furthermore, myoblasts isolated from "early" embryonic muscle tissue and cultured in vitro display the same heterogeneity of myosin expression as the primary generation fiber types in ovo, suggesting that the differences in expression among early muscle fiber types are preprogrammed within their myoblasts. The second period occurs "late" in development after the major morphological events of limb formation are complete and the initial pattern of fiber types has been established. It is during this period that massive growth of most muscles occurs which is due, in part, to the formation of a secondary generation of muscle fibers. These secondary generation fibers in ovo and the cultured myotubes derived from "late" embryonic myoblasts exhibit a single myosin phenotype (e.g., fast). The transition from "early" to "late" embryonic phases is accompanied by a change in fast myosin heavy chain expression and is blocked by agents that disrupt neuromuscular contacts.
3882416| The ultrastructure of the single-chambered hearts of selected arthropods is compared with that of the multi-chambered hearts of three molluscs. I used the following four systems to make the comparison: (1) contractile apparatus, (2) sarcoplasmic reticulum and surface invaginations, (3) cell to cell junctions, and (4) nerves. The contractile apparatus is composed of thin and thick filaments. While the thin filaments have the same diameter, the diameter of the thick filaments differs from one heart to another. Evidence is presented to indicate that this is due to varying amounts of paramyosin in the thick filaments. The arthropod cardiac cells have an extensive system of sarcoplasmic reticulum, the terminal vesicles of which are coupled to the plasmalemma and to the invaginations of the plasmalemma, the T-system. The molluscan cardiac cells lack a typical T-system, which is presumably due to their small cell size (about 10 m). They possess, however, an elaborate system of sarcoplasmic reticulum which extends from just under the plasmalemma to the middle of the cell. In addition to elaborate sarcoplasmic reticulum, the heart of the whelk (Busycon canaliculatum) possess many small invaginations of the plasmalemma, called sarcolemmic tubules. These invaginations of the cell surface are not found in the hearts of the few bivalves examined. All arthropod and molluscan hearts have intercalated discs which can be seen in the light microscope. Two types of junctions can be distinguished in the electron microscope. The mechanical junction is at the level of the terminal sarcomere where the thin filaments are embedded in the cell wall and dense granular material appears to cause the two adjacent cells to adhere to each other. The electrical junction is found along the lateral borders of cells of both the molluscan and arthropod hearts. Finally, while nerves appear to be absent in the myogenic moth heart, they are abundant in the myogenic cockroach heart and in the neurogenic lobster heart. Furthermore, two types of nerves appear very prominently in the myogenic molluscan hearts. 
3883193| Reproduction in Fundulus heteroclitus is adapted to the temperate climate and the tidal environment of the coastal marshes which are its primary habitat. Egg deposition and spawning are closely linked to the tidal cycle. Concentration of spawning on spring tides gives the fish access to sites in the high intertidal zone. Eggs are deposited near the high water mark, usually in sand in New England populations and in Spartina alterniflora or empty Geukensia demissa shells in Middle Atlantic and southern populations. Aerial incubation of eggs appears to be essential for their survival in the salt marsh. Loss of eggs due to lack of fertilization, mortality during development and predation was always less than 30 percent in our observations. Hatching occurs only when the eggs are inundated, usually on spring tides. An endogenous semilunar gonadal cycle appears to be involved in control of spawning, but an effective environmental synchronizer has not been found. Cyclic changes in estradiol-17 accompany the gonadal cycle, while spawning behavior is stimulated by neurohypophyseal hormones. Both temperature and photoperiod have been implicated in the control of seasonal reproduction in F. heteroclitus. Early workers focused on males and concluded that increasing temperature was the stimulus that initiated gonadal recrudescence in spring. These experiments were not rigorous tests of the effects of photoperiod. We have shown that in females both warm temperatures and long photoperiods are involved. In female F. heteroclitus, as in most mammals and birds, it is the timing rather than the duration of the light exposure which determines its effectiveness in stimulating gonadal maturation. Maintenance of gonadal maturity in female F. heteroclitus depends on long photoperiods, but the ovary may become refractory and regress even when stimulatory photoperiods are sustained in the laboratory. Ovarian maturity can be stimulated with gonadotropin injection in refractory animals, indicating that the brain-pituitary axis is the site of refractoriness. The pathway by which light influences ovarian maturity may involve an encephalic photoreceptor, since neither the eyes nor the pineal gland is necessary. 
3881990|Data were collected on play behaviors occuring within a single troop of rhesus monkeys in two environments. Observations were regular and covered a total of almost 2 years. The three categories of play-object, activity, and social play-tended to occur together, typically within the same recording session. Thus, the attending conditions-including satiation and maturity-which permitted the occurrence of one category of play behavior, permitted the occurrence of the other categories as well. Maturity seemed to account for the appearance of a particular behavior within a category (e.g., manipulation rather than touching; climbing rather than active hanging; romping and wrestling rather than contact or touching). The social context, determined by such factors as maternal dominance, the identity of nearby animals, and the overall social tension of the troop, and reflected in the extent of inhibitory control of the target animals by their mothers, seemed to determine the frequency with which these elements in the infant monkey's repertoire could be displayed during any given period in the ontogeny of the individual.
3883819|The importance of the organisms and processes that occur in forest canopies is becoming increasingly recognized in relation to understanding biodiversity. The upper tree canopy of many forest ecosystems fosters extremely diverse communities, particularly of vascular epiphytes and arthropods. Epiphytes also contribute to the diversity of birds because they add to the total amounts of resources, provide opportunities for resource specialization, and temporally spread available resources in the canopy throughout the year. Epiphytes also contribute to ecosystem processes such as nutrient cycling because they gain access to nutrient sources originating outside the ecosystem and transfer them to other members of the forest, thus functioning as a "keystone" resource.
3883849|The amino acid transmitters can be placed in two general categories, excitatory and inhibitory. This discussion focuses on the role of the inhibitory transmitter GABA and the excitatory amino acids aspartate and glutamate in the control of gonadotropin secretion and reproductive behavior. GABAergic neurotransmission in the preoptic area inhibits gonadotropin secretion via direct synaptic contact with LHRH neurons and possibly through presynaptic inhibition of noradrenergic fibers that stimulate LH release. In the arcuate-median eminence, GABA acting at GABA
3881719|The current status of knowledge concerning the mammalian pineal's endocrine effects and the possible mechanisms for their mediation is reviewed and discussed. The diversity, physiological relations, and variability of the pineal's peripheral effects, and the constancy, rapidity, and homeostatic nature of its central and behavioral effects are consistent with the view that the pineal's primary action is on brain tissue. It remains probable that on a seasonal basis, the pineal's vegetative and homeostatic effects may contribute to the adaptive physiological changes in particular mammalian species under the influence of changes in photoperiod and possibly other environmental factors.
3883033|In spite of an early history of interaction, progress in the fields of ecology and evolutionary biology during most of this century has been made largely in parallel, with little creative exchange until the past two decades. In contrast, recent history in the two fields shows an exciting and productive trend toward a unified effort in understanding the ecological and evolutionary forces and constraints that together produce the phenomenon of adaptation. Common themes that have drawn the two fields together in the past decade include an intensified appreciation of discontinuities in time and space, an increased awareness of the interaction of history and mechanism, a greater concern for tradeoffs and constraints, and a renewed exploration of the role of hierarchy in producing pattern.
3881806|Intertidal crabs are subjected to marked fluctuations in environmental factors. Temperature and salinity influence the distribution of organisms both on a latitudinal basis and along a subtidal to terrestrial gradient. These factors are operative on all stages of the life history. Resistance-adaptations. Adult fiddler crabs (genus Uca) from the temperate zone are more resistant to low temperature than tropical species. Also, the tolerance to low temperature of crabs from the temperate zone is greatly influenced by thermal acclimation, i.e., cold-acclimated crabs are more resistant than warm-acclimated animals. In contrast, tropical species have limited adaptive ability. At elevated temperatures no consistent difference in the lethal limits of crabs from tropical and temperate zones is observed. In contrast with the adults, larvae of tropical species are cold-resistant. However, the larvae of all species tested are more sensitive to reduced salinities than are the adults. Capacity-adaptations. Subtidal species of crabs tend to have a lower level of respiratory performance, as measured by various indices, than crabs from the intertidal zone. The metabolic response of fiddler crabs from the temperate zone is more labile at low temperature than in species from the tropical zone. At elevated temperature the reverse response is observed. On an interspecific basis, differences in the metabolic-temperature patterns of acclimation of latitudinally separated populations of U. pugilator are observed when based on the hypothetical schemes of Bullock, Precht, and Prosser.
3883844| The ovarian steroid hormones, estradiol and progesterone, act in the guinea pig brain to regulate the expression of sexual behavior. In studies of the cellular mechanisms of steroid hormone action, we have used an immunocytochemical technique to study the regulation of these receptors in different neuroanatomical regions. We have observed that progestin receptor-immunoreactivity in cells in certain neuroanatomical regions are more responsive to particular steroid hormone treatments than are cells in other regions. Similarly, we have observed selective regulation of progestin receptor-immunoreactivity in neurons identified on the basis of their neuropeptide content. Finally, in the rostral part of the ventrolateral hypothalamus, a site involved in hormonal regulation of female sexual behavior, estrogen receptor-immunoreactive neurons that have dopamine--hydroxylase varicosities closely-associated have higher levels of immunostaining for estrogen receptors than neurons without this relationship. Taken together, these studies demonstrate the possibility of studying the microregulation of steroid hormone receptors in subsets of neurons defined by neuroanatomical location, neuropeptide/neurotransmitter content, afferent input and projection sites. The ability to study interactions among different systems at the cellular level may help us to understand more clearly the cellular processes involved in hormonal regulation of fundamental neuroendocrine processes, including the neuroendocrine regulation of sexual behavior. 
3881639| Studies are described on the adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) properties of myosin isolated from skeletal muscle of Coryphaenoides, a benthic fish captured at 2,200 meters depth. Ca
3883296|While form and function are always together in organisms, the studies of morphology and physiology often take place in different places by different people. In the 20th century some zoologists have re-united the two into a point of view called "functional morpholgy." The concepts a student should know in order to set about a study in functional morphology include: (1) the scales of size and time, (2) structural hierarchy, (3) permission and constraint of function, (4) properties as descriptors of structure and function, (5) analogy and homology. The structural phenomena that a student will see in any organism include: (1) pattern, especially polarity and symmetry, (2) dimensions that signify the size scale, (3) heterogeneity, which includes the concepts: (4) composite materials and (5) anisotropy resulting from the preferred orientation of fibers and crystals. Rather than being a discipline, functional morphology is the combination of structural and physiological thinking that invites other points of view, especially those of development and evolution, to be added.
3883447|Biologists are integrating studies of morphology, development, physiology, and other disciplines in order to understand how species and lineages diversify and cope with their environments. An evolutionary perspective in such studies, including those of cells, tissues, and organs, is potentially useful for the structure and analysis of such problems. Evolutionary biology is the study of the history of evolution and the elucidation of its mechanisms. Comparative biology is the comparison of a trait or traits in selected taxa, and may be, but need not be, evolutionary in approach. A phylogenetic hypothesis is necessary for reconstruction of pattern in morphology, ecology, behavior, and other areas. Acquaintance with evolutionary and phylogenetic perspectives can guide selection of taxa for study and open new approaches to analysis of data. Such an approach is not always appropriate to problems in biology, but it could be utilized beneficially more frequently than is currently practiced. Studies of cells, tissues, and organs may contribute to the construction of new phylogenetic hypotheses and to analysis of patterns and mechanisms of change when pursued from an evolutionary perspective.
3883173|Many population phenomena are driven by the behavior of individual animals. The effects of behavior on differential reproduction vary with the mating system and with ecological factors; understanding of the complex interactions requires both laboratory and field research. Ecologically-relevant laboratory research should be designed using generalizable behavioral patterns with animals of appropriate species, meaningful genotypes, and known early experience that are studied in carefully-designed situations. Three exemplars of research of potential relevance to population phenomena are discussed. Studies of dominance and differential reproduction in deer mice in seminatural enclosures suggest that dominant males make disproportionately large contributions to gene pools and that dominance may be heritable. Laboratory studies of reproductive function in individuals bearing different alleles, determined electrophoretically, appear relevant to population processes reported correlated with changes in gene frequencies at these loci. Patterns of mate choice in two species of Microtus may be important in generating their contrasting mating systems in the field. Well-designed laboratory research can help reveal behavioral processes critical to population phenomena.
3882932|Recent advances in our understanding of the mechanism of intracellular transport in unicellular chromatophores are reviewed. Emphasis is placed on the possible role(s) of the three major cytoskeletal components microtubules, intermediate filaments, and actin filaments. A comparative analysis of different chromatophore types suggests that these cytoskeletal fiber systems may play different roles, or at least seem to be involved to a varying degree, in intracellular pigment translocation. Ultrastructure, transport characteristics, and responses to pharmacological agents of a wide variety of vertebrate and invertebrate chromatophores do show sufficient variation to make one consider the possibility that the underlying mechanisms also vary to some extent. It is hoped that the increased use of new methodological approaches, including microinjection of single cells and the development of reactivatable cell models, will greatly aid us in our exploration of the physical-chemical basis of chromatophore motility.
3883791|Broadly speaking, "epigenetics" refers to the entire series of interactions among cells and cell products which leads to morphogenesis and differentiation. Thus all cranial development is epigenetic, by definition. Among the numerous epigenetic factors influencing the vertebrate face is mechanical loading. Loading seems to be particularly significant for formation and growth of skeletal tissues. As a first approximation, bone grows in the direction of tensile loading, while the shapes of growing cartilages are modulated by axial compression. One of the many sources of loading is function (defined, before birth or hatching, as muscle-controlled movements). For example, muscle activity is a source of tension for bones of attachment, and differences in muscle anatomy may thus be responsible for differences in bony anatomy. A possible instance involves a new addition to the masseter muscle in pigs and an associated unusual process of the zygomatic bone. Changes in the mammalian mandibular condyle in paralyzed fetuses provide a dramatic illustration of how function regulates cartilage growth. Such ontogenetic processes may account for species-specific variations in mandibular shape that are conventionally regarded as the direct adaptive results of natural selection. In general, mechanical loading is a relatively late-acting epigenetic factor and affects primarily quantitative features of facial structure. However, loading appears to be involved in at least one more fundamental ontogenetic event, the transformation of the primary jaw joint into the mammalian middle ear.
3882207|Although phylogenetic studies of neurohypophysial principles are well advanced, studies of their development are rare. Fetal mammals have been shown to have unusually high vasopressor/oxytocic ratios in their pituitaries. Paper chromatography of extracts from pituitaries of fetal sheep and fetal seals (Callorhinus ursinus) indicated the presence of AVT, in addition to AVP and oxytocin. This was confirmed by the pharmacological and chemical analysis of AVT, purified from fetal seal pituitaries. The presence of AVT suggested a "recapitulation" of a principle previously known only in sub-mammalian vertebrates. Studies of ammocoete larvae and adult lampreys (Lmapetra richardsoni) showed the presence of AVT, but there was no evidence for any "recapitulation" of an "early" neutral principle. It seemed possible that an apparent recapitulation might occur only when the principle had a use in fetal life. Therefore the possible actions of AVT (and AVP) in the mammalian fetus (guinea pig) were studied. AVT and AVP were shown to act on the isolated amnion to slow, and even reverse fetal-maternal water movement. AVP acted on the yolk sac, the fetal skin and the fetal bladder to increase water flow inwards, towards the fetus. These actions suggested an extraplacental mechanism for supplying water to the fetus and its environment, through the extraembryonic membranes. These actions were reminiscent of those known in the anurans. The apparent success of the concept of recapitulation, in both the molecular and functional fields, may have been fortuitous. However, the results suggest that phylogenetic considerations may well be useful in understanding the physiology of the mammal during fetal life.
3884158|The phylum Cnidaria arose early in metazoan evolution and, assuming monophyly, is regarded as being close to the ancestral metazoan. The simplicity of structure in the cnidarian nervous system is not reflected in the physiology of neurons. The motor neurons that control swimming in the jellyfish Polyorchis penicillatus epitomise this operational complexity. Synchrony in the contraction of the swimming muscle sheets is achieved by compensating for the conduction time of motor APs propagating to distant parts of the motor network. This depends on motor APs continuously decreasing in duration as they propagate through the network which in turn leads to a decrease in the delay of muscle action potential initiation. Two membrane currents are critical for this mechanism, a fast, transient K
3882875|The phylogenetic origins of the lateral line electrosensory, lateral line mechanosensory, and auditory components of the octavolateralis system are unknown but each of these sensory modalities appears to have evolved early in vertebrate history. The octavolateralis terminal field occupies a large area of the dorsolateral wall of the medulla and among agnathids, cartilaginous fishes, non-teleost bony fishes and, with modifications, urodeles, consists of a dorsal electrosensory nucleus, a medial mechanosensory nucleus and a ventral octaval nuclear complex. This arrangement of medullary octavolateral nuclei, which differs from that of non-electroreceptive and electroreceptive teleosts, is considered the primitive plan and is retained in that phyletic line leading to tetrapods. Separate and parallel pathways are known, in elasmobranchs and a few teleosts, to ascend from each medullary lateral line center to the midbrain and presumably from midbrain to telencephalic levels via thalamic relays. There is no evidence, with the loss of lateral line senses among some amphibians and all amniotes, that the central neural pathways and nuclei are retained and used to process information from other sensory modalities. The anatomy of the central auditory system of fishes is unknown but is required for an understanding of whether auditory nuclei and pathways are retained during the fish-amphibian transition, or whether new ones arise, to process information from independently evolved peripheral receptors.
3882785|The organic matrix of calcium carbonate structures can be involved in the formation of the biomineral by regulating various stages of crystal growth. The preponderance of evidence suggests that matrix can act as an initiator of crystal growth at the mineralizing front. The mechanism for this initiation is not known. However, the matrix may provide a template for the crystal lattice, or more likely, a surface that can simply stabilize the critical nucleus of calcium and carbonate. The degree of specialization of the nucleation sites is uncertain; however, they are hypothesized to be a class of soluble, acidic, calcium-binding polymers which are present in matrix extracted from biomineral. Recent studies have revealed that similar soluble components of extracted matrix have the capability of inhibiting nucleation and crystal growth in vitro and biomineralization in organisms exposed to the extracts. Further, crystals grown in vitro in the presence of extracted matrix have a morphology distinct from those of crystals grown without matrix. These findings generally support the hypotheses generated either a priori or from morphological observations which suggest that matrix must limit crystal growth and may well influence structure of biomineral. Hypotheses which explain a dual function of the soluble matrix have these components periodically released to the mineralization front where they can associate with more insoluble forms of matrix and sequentially initiate or inhibit growth. There also exists evidence to suggest that soluble regulatory components are intra-crystalline in orientation and thus may be released continuously.
3884424|Rich redox chemistry of the diatomic NO gives this molecule the functional flexibility to interact with both metal and non-metal components of biological molecules. This important biological signaling and allosteric control has become evident in such varied applications as brain/nervous system function; immune response; growth and development; behavior; and gas transport. Many of the basic discoveries linking NO to biological systems have arisen from structure-function relationships in hemoglobin. For example, by analogy with hemoglobin, Lou Ignarro, in a now-classic paper on NO, proposed that the activation of soluble guanylate cyclase occurs via a NO-driven planar shift in the enzyme's heme iron (Ignarrow et al., 1984). Many other proteins involved in NO biology are heme proteins where NO coordination plays an essential function. In this regard, we may view hemoglobin as a microcosm of NO biology. Invertebrates provide rich examples in which to explore alternate functions, or even perhaps the original functions, of the globins. Oxygen-carrying proteins could well have evolved from metalloproteins that primarily functioned in nitrogen metabolism rather than reversible oxygen binding. Newly discovered aspects of Hb function relate to the signaling and control processes that nitric oxide shows in biological systems. The comparative approach to these processes has played an important role in their elucidation as well as providing rich, intellectual stimulation to those scientists interested in them.
3883185|Whether herbivores are food limited and compete interspecifically for food has been debated by population/community ecologists. To examine this proposition, a mechanistic approach based upon autecological observations is employed: 1) 45 foraging studies of 20 species of generalist herbivores indicate that the herbivores behave as energy maximizers in their diet selection, as determined by a linear programming model. 2) The constraints that determine the forager's energy maximizing diet can be used to determine whether a food item should be consumed, based upon a minimum digestibility that determines energy value and a minimum item size or abundance that determines cropping rate. 3) Population densities of a number of herbivore species depend upon the biomass of plants in the environment that satisfy the minimum characteristics sought by the herbivore. 4) Using experimental populations for several herbivore species that are known to be food limited, it can be demonstrated that these species compete with each other. The competitive isoclines are non-linear and arise from the fractions of each forager's food resources that it shares and exclusively uses, which depend upon each species' minimum food characteristics. The results indicate that a mechanistic approach can provide considerable insights into herbivore community structure. The foraging constraints underlying the entire analysis may be body size dependent, providing a more general view.
3881402|The permeability of the foregut of the land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis, to tritiated water (THO), Na
3881460|The structure and function of the transverse tubular system (TTS) in two types of crustacean muscle fibers are examined. Giant fibers from the barnacle, Balanus nubilus, which are gradedly contracting, are compared with all-or-none twitch fibers from the crab, Carcinus maenas. Both fiber types were found to have deep sarcolemmal invaginations which serve both to increase the fiber surface area and to keep the length of the tubules short enough for electrotonic propagation. The ultrastructure of the tubular system in both types of fiber is compared. The system is better developed in Carcinus than in Balanus, but the slow Balanus fibers do have a relatively well developed TTS and sarcoplasmic reticulum in contrast to slow vertebrate fibers. The apparent high, membrane-capacitance values of crustacean fibers are the result of investigators not taking into consideration the large increase in surface area due to the sarcolemmal infoldings. The tubular membranes in Carcinus fibers were found to be permselective to chloride ions, and could be made to swell (as confirmed by electron microscopy) by establishing an outward gradient for chloride across them. The capacitance of the tubular membrane relative to the plasma membrane was found to increase when the tubules were swollen. The implication of a fiber having two spatially separated, differentially permeable membranes on excitation-contraction coupling is discussed.
3882125|This article reviews those factors other than light that affect the activity of the pineal gland. Both testosterone and dihydrotestosterone were shown to have tissue-specific inhibitory effects on pineal MAO activity concomitant with an increased activity of the gland. Estradiol stimulated pineal MAO activity and decreased the activity of this gland. This effect also was tissue-specific. Bilateral and unilateral experimental cryptorchidism also decreased pineal MAO activity 3 to 4 weeks after surgery. Acute stresses appear to increase adrenal catecholamine output (epinephrine and norepinephrine) as well as to stimulate local adrenergic pathways, while chronic stress, such as starvation, appears to act through the adrenal corticosteroids by decreasign pineal MAO activity thereby indirectly increasing melatonin synthesis. Thusly, both components of the adrenal gland appear to act in concert to increase effectively melatonin synthesis by the pineal gland. Irradiation and histamine have also been reported to affect pineal function-the latter specifically inhibits HIOMT activity. These observations indicate that many factors other than light affect pineal morphology and melatonin synthesis. The pineal appears to be a true neuroendocrine organ that is affected by hypophysectomy and is responsive to feedback and control from other organs within the mammalian organism.
3881711|The present paper is concerned mainly with studies from my laboratory on regeneration of the lizard's tail. Over the past five years my students and I have focused our attention on: (1) a careful description of the histology of tail regeneration: (2) the role of neural elements (nerve and ependyma) in the initiation of regeneration; (3) the role of the ependymal epithelium in the guidance of regenerating central fibers; and (4) the development of techniques of tissue culture applicable to this system.
3882483|Sea turtles are not confined to the tropics but may experience and tolerate widely different temperatures. This paper discusses the role of temperature in determining sexual differentiation of the embryos, incubation duration, emergence from the nest, activity, growth, survival, hibernation, internesting interval and distribution of sea turtles. Methods of measuring temperatures of adult turtles are considered in detail. Particular attention is devoted to the question of sex ratio and whether temperature determination of sexual differentiation has adaptive value.
3881555|The existence of an epithelio-mesodermal interaction in the embryonic chick thyroid has been tested by reaggregation of 8- and 16-day epithelial monolayers with capsule, mesentery, heart ventricle, and perichondrial cells. Establishment of the histological and cytological pattern of the thyroid occurred only in the presence of capsule. The loss of endoplasmic reticulum which occurs in monolayer culture was shown not to be a result of spreading, since organ cultures of immediately reaggregated cells undergo the same degenerative changes. Dissociation itself also cannot be the explanation for the loss since membrane destruction and recovery occur at different times in raft cultures and in chorio-allantoic grafts. The similarity of the results after immediate reaggregation and in combinations of epithelial cells with capsule after monolayer culture suggests that the role of the mesodermal component is to support the specialized cytoplasmic structure and function of the epithelial cell type.
3884108|Group foraging is rare in spiders, occurring only where prey availability is high. If colonial web-building increases individual prey capture rates as shown, why does group foraging not occur more often where prey are scarce? Risk sensitivity may explain this paradox, as variance in prey capture is reduced in groups; risk-averse spiders should join groups only when prey exceed a threshold level. Field studies show that group foraging varies as predicted between species, between populations of a single species, and between sites within a population. However, recent models suggest the necessity of examining variance within individuals over time rather than between individuals within populations. Additionally, mechanisms responsible for variance reduction in colonial webs may be less effective than previously assumed. New field data suggest that while prey variance over time may be somewhat less for individual spiders in groups than for solitaries, the relationship between colonial web-building and variance in prey capture is far more complex than originally thought. The influence of risk sensitivity on reproductive success and the evolution of colonial web-building is discussed.
3882218| This paper summarizes the major pertinent findings of previously published work and includes new experimental data. Culture conditions have been defined for long-term maintenance of basic testicular structure, primitive type A spermatogonia, and Sertoli cells. The primitive type A spermatogonia grown for 8 weeks in organ culture were capable of restoring complete spermatogenesis after the cultures were transplanted into the testes of sexually mature homologous hosts. Since the primitive type A spermatogonia were the only germinal elements present in the organ cultures at the time of transplantation, they probably represent the spermatogenic stem cells. Differentiation of gonocytes or spermatogonia to spermatocytes in late pachytene stage required presence of vitamins A, C, and E or 4 mM concentration of glutamine in the medium but was not affected by hormones. The replication of Sertoli cells in vivo and in organ culture was shown to be age related and hormone independent. The Sertoli cells possess specific FSH binding receptors and respond to FSH with increased synthesis of c-AMP and androgen-binding protein. The biologic function of FSH in the Sertoli cells remains to be clarified. Other cellular components of the testis, the germinal, or peritubular cells do not bind FSH. In organ cultures of testicular tissue or Leydig-cell cultures all enzymes in the steroid biosynthetic pathway, leading from progesterone to testosterone, remain active for several days. In older cultures, the conversion of progesterone to testosterone becomes impaired primarily due to loss of two specific enzymes: 17 hydroxylase and 17-20 lyase. Addition of HCG to monolayer cultures of Leydig cells stimulated both the synthesis and release of testosterone. 
3881713|Entire muscles in vertebrate extremities can regenerate from minced muscle fragments implanted into the bed of the removed muscle. The histological course of regeneration of muscle fibers in this system is the same as that described in damaged mammalian muscle. This type of regeneration has been called the tissue regeneration of muscle, and entire muscles have been regenerated by this mode in urodelan and anuran amphibians, birds, and mammals. Entire muscles are also formed in a regenerating limb (an epimorphic regenerative process). It is postulated that there are two fundamentally different modes of regeneration of muscles. Epimorphic regeneration is relatively slow, and the blastema seems to play an important role. The end product is morphologically and functionally perfect. Morphogenesis seems to be controlled in a manner analogous to that in the embryonic limb. The tissue regeneration of muscles is rapid, occurring without the mediation of a blastema. The end product is smaller and less well organized than a normal muscle, and its morphogenesis seems to require the function of the limb. A possible parallel reaction of skeletal elements is discussed.
3884381|Movements of the pelvis have recently been found to contribute to ventilation in both crocodilians and birds. Alligators have a kinetic pelvis in which the ischiopubic and ischiotruncus muscles rotate the pubic bones ventrally to increase abdominal volume and thereby facilitate inspiration. In birds, the entire pelvis rocks on the axial skeleton to produce ventilation. Although the mechanisms of pelvic aspiration are very different in crocodilians and birds, it is unusual among vertebrates for the pelvic musculoskeletal system to play an active role in inspiration. This observation raises the possibility that the pelvic musculoskeletal system may have played an important role in the ventilation of basal archosaurs. Based on the mechanism of pelvic aspiration in crocodilians and the structure of gastralia in basal archosaurs, we suggest that an ischiotruncus muscle pulled the medial aspect of the gastralia caudally, and thereby helped to produce inspiration by increasing the volume of the cuirassal basket. The proposed mechanism of cuirassal breathing in non-avian theropods leads us to suggest that the phase relationship of the ventilatory and locomotor cycles in running theropods was the opposite of that observed in running birds. Furthermore, we suggest that the ventilatory cycle of flying pterosaurs was entrained to the locomotor cycle with a phase relationship that was the opposite of that observed during flight in modern birds.
3881533|Though the primary development of principles of energetics was pioneered in aquatic studies, considerable information has accrued from more recent investigations of terrestrial species. Studies of soil organisms-particularly arthropods-have given us some understanding of the applicability of principles of energetics to terrestrial communities. Data from soil communities have yielded an annual energy budget for oribatid mites, ecological efficiencies for two trophic levels, and a series of herbivore:carnivore ratios for a number of communities. Energy-flow analyses of the problems of species abundance in community organization, the relationship of population production and maintenance, and the energy relationships of the soil to above-ground communities have also been attempted. As data accumulate, however, the inadequacy of the Lindeman model becomes apparent, and there are prospects for change in this conceptual scheme.
3884503|Based on studies of a few model taxa, amphibians have been considered stereotyped in their feeding movements relative to other vertebrates. However, recent studies on a wide variety of amphibian species have revealed great diversity in feeding mechanics and kinematics, and illustrate that stereotypy is the exception rather than the rule in amphibian feeding. Apparent stereotypy in some taxa may be an artifact of unnatural laboratory conditions. The common ancestor of lissamphibians was probably capable of some modulation of feeding movements, and descendants have evolved along two trajectories with regard to motor control: (1) an increase in modulation via feedback or feed-forward mechanisms, as exemplified by ballistic-tongued plethodontid salamanders and hydrostatic-tongued frogs, and (2) a decrease in variation dictated by biomechanics that require tight coordination between different body parts, such as the tongue and jaws in toads and other frogs with ballistic tongue projection. Multi-joint coordination of rapid movements may hamper accurate tongue placement in ballistic-tongued frogs as compared to both short-tongued frogs and ballistic tongued-salamanders that face simpler motor control tasks. Decoupling of tongue and jaw movements is associated with increased accuracy in both hydrostatic-tongued frogs and ballistic-tongued salamanders.
3881828|The current genetical theories regarding the effects of environmental changes in shaping new species are first reviewed briefly; Matthew's concept based upon paleontological and zoogeographic data is then compared and found in accord with the genetical set. This theory proposes that changing climates, whether of an annual or long-term nature, induce speciation. Accordingly the north temperate continental land-masses are viewed as the main arenas of vertebrate evolution, especially temperate Eurasia. A more recent concept from biogeographic sources, that of Darlington, proves discordant to all the foregoing but agrees more closely with observed facts of recent distribution and the geologic record. Its major premises are that speciation proceeds most rapidly under tropical conditions and in regions of vast extent; hence, the Old World tropics are pointed to as the principal theater of speciation. These two zoogeographic concepts are then harmonized by showing that, during the period in which most of the evolution of the vertebrate taxa occurred, the tropical belts were much more extensive than at present and included what are now north temperate regions. The genetic theories are shown to be especially valuable in elucidating the changes involved in the life cycle of a species rather than the effects of major climatic changes.
3882813|The feeding biology of nemerteans is reviewed, new information is presented, and the role of nemerteans in natural communities is discussed and evaluated. Most nemerteans are carnivorous, the majority feeding on live, often specific, prey, while some are scavengers. Macrophagous feeding is found in the Palaeonemertea, Heteronemertea and some of the Hoplonemertea; the more specialized suctorial feeding is limited to five of the hoplonemertean families, and suspension feeding (omnivorous diet) occurs only in the highly specialized symbiotic monogeneric Bdellonemertea. Feeding adaptations seem to be related to the nature and employment of the proboscis, the dilatability of the mouth, and the structure of the anterior part of the digestive tract. The transport of dissolved organic materials from seawater has been demonstrated, but its role in nemertean nutrition is just being contemplated. Present meager information on predation has shown nemerteans to have actually and potentially large effects on prey populations and thus on the communities in which they live. As the feeding biology of only a relative handful of species has been studied, much basic comparative research is needed before we can corroborate or refute our present ideas concerning the ecological roles of nemerteans.
3882436|The pineal complex may be a part of the sensory and central neural system controlling thermoregulatory behavior. The pineal and parapineal organs of some ectotherms appear to function as radiation dosimeters, regulating exposure to sunlight. Physiological thermoregulation may be influenced by the pineal complex through cardiovascular adjustments or metabolic rates. Additionally, the pineal organ may exert thermoregulatory effects through the control of brain electrolytes. While the precise mechanisms of action remain to be defined, it is clear that pineal-parapineal organs participate in thermoregulatory adjustments by acting upon the central nervous system.
3881731|The pigmentation of poikilotherms is based upon the presence of dermal chromatophores: melanophores, iridophores, and xanthophores. The form, function, and composition of each chromatophore type is discussed, and variations in melanosome composition are described. Recent theories about the mechanism of melanosome movement are discussed. The role of iridophores in pigmentation processes is described and their importance in structural coloration is evaluated. Interrelationships of the pigmentary organelles of all three chromatophores are discussed, and evidence is presented that they have a common origin. Associations of pigment cells with themselves or with other elements of the integument are described as a basis for chromatophore function.
3882148|The posterior polar plasm of Drosophila melanogaster may provide a model for understanding processes involved in cellular determination during early embryonic development. The presence of germ cell determinants in the posterior tip of the egg has been demonstrated by transplanting this material to new locations and showing that cells, induced at the site of transplantation, can function as germ cells. Furthermore, by utilizing similar procedures, the posterior polar plasm of late stage oocytes has been shown to be functional in inducing germ cells, thus demonstrating that the active components are formed during oogenesis. A number of maternal effect mutations affecting germ cell formation have been analyzed ultrastructurally and the mutant phenotype described. Ultrastructural studies have focused on polar granules, the unique organelle of the polar plasm, and these studies indicate that they are nonmembrane bound structures containing RNA and protein. Although ultrastructural observations have suggested that the protein components of polar granules may be continuous in the cytoplasm of germ cells during the whole life cycle, nucleo-cytoplasmic hybrid pole cells indicate that the structure of the polar granule is dependent upon the nucleus in each new generation of oocytes. Finally, attempts are being made to obtain a purified polar granule fraction in order to test their role in germ cell determination. Initial results indicate that clusters of ribosomes are attached to polar granules. Pole cells have recently been isolated as an enriched source of polar granules. These isolated cells will also provide an opportunity to analyze the unique traits of these cells at the time that they become segregated from the remaining cells of the embryo.
3884437|The exoskeleton of crustaceans and insects is formed by cells of the hypodermis, but several hemolymph proteins contribute to the synthesis of the new exoskeleton. These hemolymph proteins share a surprising degree of sequence similarity and are members of the hemocyanin gene family. Copper-containing prophenoloxidases of crustaceans and insects are directly involved in cross-linking and hardening of the exoskeleton during molting and repair. Crustacean cryptocyanin and insect hexamerins lack copper and have probably evolved from a copper-free product of an early hemocyanin gene duplication. These proteins have been implicated in transport of hormones and phenols, and may be used directly as structural components of the new exoskeleton. They are synthesized elsewhere in the body, transported in the hemolymph, and probably taken up by the hypodermis via specific receptors. Hemocyanins have some residual phenoloxidase activity, in addition to their primary role of supplying oxygen to the metabolizing tissues. Thus multiple members of the hemocyanin gene family play vital roles during molting, and a molecular phylogeny of these proteins will contribute to our understanding of the evolution of form and function of these molecules from oxygen transport to molt-related activities. Further studies on the expression of prophenoloxidase, cryptocyanin, hexamerins and hemocyanin, potential marker proteins, may extend our understanding of the relationship between other molting animals in the proposed clade, Ecdysozoa.
3882622|Three yolk polypeptides (YPs) are major constituents of eggs. YPs are synthesized in the fat body and in ovary associated cells, secreted into the blood and sequestered into developing oocytes. YPs are translated as precursors which can be processed to lower molecular weight polypeptides by dog pancreatic microsomes, suggesting signal peptide removal. YP synthesis in both ovary and fat body is stimulated by juvenile hormone (JH), but 20-hydroxyecdysone (20HE) only stimulates YP synthesis in fat body. JH also induces YP sequestration into oocytes. The amount of RNA translatable into YPs increases sevenfold in the first day after eclosion. The increase can be blocked by ligating the abdomen to isolate it from anterior endocrine organs, and it can be restored by injecting these preparations with 20HE. Using electrophoretic variants, the YPs have been genetically mapped to the X chromosome: Yp1 and Yp2 are adjacent and Yp3 is distantly linked. Two mutants have been described which decrease the quantity of a single YP, map near the respective YP structural loci, are cis-acting and are not ovary autonomous in transplants. fs(1)1163 alters the structure of the primary translation product and is hypothesized to alter YP processing and secretion. Although
3881391|A review of some recent experiments in the immunobiology of fertilization in frogs is given, with especial emphasis on the role of the jelly-coats of eggs in the initiation of sperm-egg interactions. Data on physical, chemical and antigenic properties of egg-jellies are summarized. Experiments analyzing the nature of the interaction between sperm and egg-jellies are described. The effects of antibodies against materials of the jelly coat on fertilizability of eggs are presented, as well as an analysis on double-diffusion plates of tissue- and species-specificity of the jelly components. The localization of regional differences between the secretions of different levels of the frog oviduct by means of immunodiffusion patterns, fluorescent-antibody staining and certain histochemical reactions for mucopolysaccharides, is reviewed. A model scheme suggesting the possible operation of various types of jelly antigens in the fertilization process is presented as a working hypothesis for further experimentation. Certain surgical manipulations whereby eggs may be transferred between females of the same or different species are described, and the results of some preliminary experiments made possible by these techniques are evaluated. The role of species-specific and shared jelly antigens in the origin of reproductive isolation among anuran amphibians is discussed.
3882867|During morphogenesis, intercellular attachments constrain cell mobility so that embryonic tissues may (i) deform as solid sheets of tightly bound cells, (ii) disperse to migrate as separate cells or (iii) flow as multicellular liquids (in which cells remain aggregated yet can still slide past one another). By modelling deep germ layers as multicellular liquids in amphibian gastrulation, Davis and I have predicted, and then confirmed experimentally, (i) the area-invariance of deep-germ-layer surface tensions in vitro, (ii) spontaneous cell slippage in deformed deep-germ-layer cell aggregates and (iii) correlations of tissue surface tensions with tissue positioning in deep-germ-layer cell-sorting and aggregate-fusion experiments. Liquid-tissue flow involves intercalations of interior cells into expanding tissue interfaces (or withdrawal of surface cells from shrinking tissue interfaces). Tissue surface tensions are macroscopic reflections of the microscopic, tissue-specific adhesive differentials which direct these cell translocations. Such adhesive differentials may act independently of, or together with, active cell-shape changes, chemotaxis, contact guidance and/or haptotaxis in controlling embryonic tissue rearrangements. Deep cell intercalations in vivo occur throughout amphibian gastrulation: during ectodermal epiboly; during marginal-zone extension and convergence (and therefore blastopore closure); during mesodermal involution; and probably during the anterior spreading and axial extension (and therefore dorsal convergence) of involuted mesoderm. Tissue-surface-tension measurements may help determine (i) which of these cell-intercalation processes are active and which are passive, (ii) the specific contributions of various microscopic cell properties to the regulation of liquid-like germ-layer assembly and (iii) similarities and differences between in vitro and in vivo control mechanisms governing amphibian gastrulation.
3882724|Three steroid-sensitive neural systems are reviewed to suggest where hormones act to modify neuroendocrine or behavioral functions: the system controlling the ovulatory surge of luteinizing hormone in laboratory rats, the system controlling male copulatory behavior in the rat, and the system controlling passerine bird vocalizations. In each, steroids act at several levels, including the final common path. This generalization is discussed in light of some earlier conceptualizations of the levels of hormone action in behavioral systems.
3883286| In order to better understand the action of thyroid hormones in chick embryo, we have studied their binding to cellular receptors from target tissues, the interaction of thyroid hormone-receptor complex with DNA and their effect on the synthesis of various mRNAs. Target tissues contain nuclear receptors which specifically bind L-thyroxine and L-triiodothyronine. L-triiodothyronine binds to a single receptor, which is a non-histone protein of Mr = 60,000 d with a sedimentation coefficient of 3.8S. Its association constant is
3882401|The water/water and water/gas interfaces of the developing embryo are described. During incubation three main compartments are present: the subgerminal, amniotic and allantoic fluids. The formation, composition, and regulation of these solutions are considered as examples of the water/water interfaces. Evaporative water loss across the eggshell is considered as an example of a water/gas interface. The effects of this phenomenon are considered as having been oversimplified in the past because they ignore phase changes (condensing of water vapour) and the ability of the embryo to regulate its development according to the supplies available.
3882514|Current research on the mechanism of transmembrane regulation of topographic modulation at the cell surface is described for the sea urchin egg and Sarcoma 180 ascites tumor cells of Swiss Webster white mice. The transmembrane system is characterized in terms of three components: glycocalyx, membrane, and cytofibrillar structures. The importance of membrane molecular architecture per se relative to the other surface components is assessed in terms of freeze fracture analysis of both cell types as well as concanavalin A (ConA)-mediated long term agglutination, cytochalasin B effects, and other drug-induced changes at Sarcoma 180 cell surfaces. A quantitative and qualitative assessment of intramembranous particle (IMP) sizes and density distributions reveals intrinsic structural changes of the fusing membranes at cortical reaction during sea urchin egg fertilization and also with the post-fertilized accumulation of surface microvilli. Comparable changes in IMP are noted for microvillus retraction and membrane smoothing in Sarcoma 180 cells under a variety of experimental conditions. On the other hand, chemical perturbation of S-180 cell surfaces reveals a rather non-ubiquitous, though identifiable, involvement of microfilaments and no microtubule involvement in these topographic changes. These observations suggest that the plasma membrane is a dynamic structure poised between "restrictive" and "less restrictive" states of fluidity or deformability and, hence, is a determinant component in topographic change.
3883365|In the CNS of Aplysia the number and sequence of lesions influence the regeneration of identified neurons and their synaptic connections. The left pleural ganglion giant neuron (LGC) fails to regenerate its severed axon following crushes of the cerebro-pleural (C-PL) connectives. A conditioning lesion paradigm in which first a foot nerve and then 10 days later, the left C-PL connective is crushed, results in the LGC regenerating its axon. Synaptic inputs from identified neurons in the cerebral ganglion rarely regenerate when only the C-PL connectives are crushed. Conditioning lesions also result in the regeneration of synaptic connections from the cerebral A neurons. Multiple and sequential lesions appear to be more effective than single lesions in promoting both axonal regeneration and synapse formation. The possible mechanisms by which axonal regeneration and synaptogenesis are controlled are discussed.
3883543|This essay is part of the seventh presentation of a yearly educational project of the American Society of Zoologists. The purpose is to provide background materials for those who teach the first-year biology courses in colleges and universities. The Science as a Way of Knowing project emphasizes the conceptual framework of the biological sciences, shows how scientific information is obtained and validated, and relates science to human concerns. The topic for consideration this year is Neurobiology and Behavior. The introductory essay is concerned mainly with the conceptual framework of neurobiology, as developed over the ages, and a few examples of behavioral studies which can be related to neurobiology or which are of special interest through links to human considerations and problems.
3883457|The sea ice surrounding Antarctica provides an extensive habitat for organisms ranging in size from bacteria to marine birds and mammals. Historically, most of the ecological work on the ice biota has focused in the nearshore land-fast ice. Only in the last decade have there been comparable studies in the deep-water pack ice regions. These studies have indicated that there are fundamental differences in structural and physical characteristics of fast and pack ice that are a result of differing physical regimes in nearshore and oceanic regions. Other physical processes act to create heterogeneity within the ice habitat that can range from geographic and regional scales of patchiness to a pronounced vertical gradient within ice floes. The conspicuous patterns in the distribution of the ice biota can be explained largely by these physical processes. Over 200 species have been reported living on, in, or in association with Antarctic sea ice. The ice biota includes bacteria, a variety of algae, heterotrophic protozoans and small metazoans. The diatom assemblages are the only taxonomic group that is known well enough to make comparisons among the various habitats. Studies by a number of workers suggest some specific diatom assemblages along with occurrence of species that are widely-distributed in both ice and plankton. Ice may also serve as a temporary habitat for species that also comprise planktonic communities, so that providing a "seed population" for ice edge plankton blooms may be an important role of the ice biota. Trophic interactions among organisms in ice suggest that the ice assemblage is a true community with a well-developed microbial food web. The ice microbial community may be an important part of the Antarctic marine food web because large consumers from the adjacent planktonic and benthic communities appear to feed on the ice biota.
3881747| Experiments with amphibians have revealed that tissues allografted in embryonic and early larval life may later succumb to a host immunological attack. In Xenopus, the ontogeny of this alloimmune response is correlated with the lymphoid maturation of the thymus. This article describes experiments primarily designed to ascertain if such a correlation exists in Rana pipiens. Initially, a histological study of the differentiation of the lymphomyeloid complex of the leopard frog was undertaken. At 18-21 C lymphoid histogenesis is well under way in the thymus and is beginning in many other organs during the third week of larval life. Extensive growth and differentiation of these organs follow. Observations are also presented on the structure, function and development of the lymphoid and lymphomyeloid organs from late larval life through metamorphosis to adulthood. Experiments were then performed to determine the onset of the alloimmune response to embryonically transplanted neural fold material. At 18-21 C incompatibility phenomena, albeit slight, are first detected in these grafts as early as 17 days after fertilization, i.e. 15 days after transplantation. Thus, in the leopard frog, the alloimmune response develops soon after lymphoid maturation of the thymus. At later stages of development, a more vigorous response is witnessed, concomitant with a rapid phase of lymphoid organ differentiation. 
3883898|The large (26 kDa) prothoracicotropic hormone of Manduca sexta stimulates ecdysteroid secretion by the prothoracic glands through the action of cyclic AMP (cAMP). Adenylate cyclase in the prothoracic glands is sensitive to calcium/calmodulin, and enhancement of intracellular calcium levels may be the means by which PTTH stimulates cAMP synthesis. The cyclic nucleotide in turn activates cAMP-dependent protein kinase and protein phosphorylation, most notably of a 34 kDa membrane-associated protein. It does not appear that protein kinase C plays a role in the acute action of PTTH, nor has the hormone been found to stimulate formation of inositol trisphosphate under current assay conditions. PTTH rapidly increases protein synthesis by the prothoracic glands, and translation inhibitors block PTTH-stimulated ecdysteroid secretion. Connections between protein phosphorylation, protein synthesis, and ecdysone secretion remain to be clarified.
3883218|Aquatic habitats, especially those of the intertidal, are subject to massive fluctuation of O
3881176|Three environmental zones which can influence the activation of the feeding response of Hydra littoralis are termed the macro-, micro-, and ultramicro- environment. The first consists primarily of the ions in the bulk medium, and of dissolved gases. The microenvironment is the area immediately surrounding the hydra; its composition is influenced by substances emitted from and taken up by the animal. The third zone, the ultramicroenvironment, is presumed to be made up of a thin shell of ions in the medium that are attracted to the charged surfaces of the animal. Through a physicochemical study of these environments, we have determined: (1) the presence of ionizable groups at the receptor site which may be involved in the binding of glutathione; (2) the role of potassium and other ions in influencing the feeding response; and (3) the possible existence of charged surfaces on hydra surrounded by a pH shell. Further, these experiments help to resolve many seemingly inconsistent reports dealing with the feeding behavior of hydras.
3882569|The tunicate Ecteinascidia turbinata contains a substance or substances capable of exerting a number of biological effects. Extracts of tunicate tissues have been shown to kill tumor cells in vitro and arrest tumor growth in vivo. The extracts also suppress allograft rejection, graft-vs.-host reactions and lymphocyte proliferative responses as well as humoral responses to immunization. By modifying the conditions, the extracts could potentiate antibody responses. In addition, they augment functions of monocyte-macrophages as evidenced by in vitro phagocytosis, in vivo clearance, and cytotoxic activity against target cells. After studies in mice, we were able to demonstrate that the extracts could activate the phagocytic systems of shrimp, blue crab, and fish (the American eel). In fish, the intraperitoneal route was superior to the intravenous route for promotion of phagocytosis, increase in percent presentation of granulocytes and for enhancement of resistance to bacterial infection. Intramuscular and intraperitoneal injection led to local inflammation with accumulation of granulocytes and macrophages.
3881665|The prismatic region of two bivalve molluscs exemplifies, in its structure and organization, one of the types of differentiated calcareous substrates through which boring organisms must penetrate. The oriented inorganic crystals, separated from one another by intercrystalline "spaces", are structurally organized into well defined prisms. The prisms of each bivalve vary in shape and size and are delineated from one another by electron-lucent, non-calcified regions. The demineralized organic matrix is also structurally organized into prisms, delineated from one another by prism sheaths, and an intraprismatic matrix structurally organized into closely packed sheet-like compartments and subcompartments in which the inorganic crystals are deposited. The non-mineralized intercrystalline "spaces" between the individual inorganic crystals of the same or adjacent rows in a mineralized section are occupied by the walls of the intraprismatic sheet-like compartments. Similarly, the non-calcified electron-lucent regions delineating one mineralized prism from the next are occupied by the thick prism sheaths. These portions of the organic matrix which fail to mineralize completely undoubtedly provide ready pathways for the passage of solutes and solvents through these tissues of highly ordered, densely packed, inorganic crystals. Moreover, the framework of the organic matrix, which fails to mineralize in these heavily calcified, molluscan substrates, may provide the primary, not the secondary source of chemical attack during boring, for once the sheaths and compartments surrounding the crystals are broken down or solubilized, the crystals are themselves loosened and freed for mechanical removal by shell-penetrating organisms.
3883798|This paper describes fundamental methodological challenges faced by computational neuroscience. Modeling strategies intended for consolidating extensive knowledge and data into single predictive models are inappropriate for much of neuroscience at this stage in its evolution. Instead, models designed to explore the implications of guesses or suppositions are more likely to have utility in supporting experimental studies, either by deriving added insight from available data or by suggesting experiments that otherwise might not be performed. Such computational experiments, if they are to be useful, must be based upon models with a careful balance between solid data and supposition. The implications of this requirement for two major modeling strategies, simulation modeling and parametric data modeling, are examined.
3883918|The localization problem is the problem of the segregation of determinants into different cells of the embryo; the history of this idea is reviewed and recent approaches to the study of the localization of morphogenetic determination are discussed.
3882878|Temperature regulation in vertebrates utilizes both behavioral and metabolic-circulatory mechanisms which are under the control of preoptic-anterior hypothalamic structures. Both central and peripheral thermoreceptors exist in all classes of vertebrates, but major differences in their importance in regulating body temperature occur. Within the central nervous system (CNS), structures controlling thermoregulation are highly redundant; subsystems occur at several CNS levels in a hierarchical organization. Thermoregulatory effector mechanisms have not evolved independently, but are derived from pre-existing organ systems which originally evolved for other functions.
3881894|The high intensity of decomposition in heavily polluted systems favors high individual counts of certain species of cilate Protozoa, in spite of the lack of dissolved oxygen and the presence of ammonia and other products of septic decay. Other species grow best under the particular conditions of starting re-aeration or nitrification, respectively. In general, the whole range of the self-purification process may be divided into zones which are characterized by particular associations of ciliates. The population growth of these species is regulated by (1) availability of food, for example, bacteria; (2) abiotic environmental factors, such as oxygen and products of septic decay; and (3) competition and predator-prey relations.
4620131|Superimposed upon seasonal changes in morphology, physiology and behavior, are facultative responses to unpredictable events known as labile (i.e., short-lived) perturbation factors (LPFs). These responses include behavioral and physiological changes that enhance survival and collectively make up the "emergency" life history stage. There is considerable evidence that glucocorticosteroids, and other hormones in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) cascade, initiate and orchestrate the emergency life history stage within minutes to hours. This stage has a number of sub-stages that promote survival and avoid potential deleterious effects of stress that may result from chronically elevated levels of circulating glucocorticosteroids over days and weeks. These sub-stages may include: redirection of behavior from a normal life history stage to increased foraging, irruptive-type migration during the day, enhanced restfulness at night, and elevated gluconeogenesis. Once the perturbation passes, glucocorticosteroids may also promote recovery. Additional evidence from birds indicates that glucocorticosteroid responses to a standardized capture, handling and restraint protocol are modulated both on seasonal and individual levels. Field work reveals that these changes in responsiveness to LPFs have ecological bases, such as reproductive state, body condition etc., that in turn indicate different hormonal control mechanisms in the HPA cascade.
3883934|Cardiovascular variables in developing amphibians are affected by both allometry and organogenesis. Blood pressure, cardiac output, and stroke volume increase during development, whereas peripheral resistance decreases. Invariably, resting heart rate changes as development proceeds from embryo through larva to adult. The pattern of change, however, varies between species and does not even correlate with family. The mechanisms underlying these varying patterns of developmental changes in heart rate of anuran amphibians larvae awaits complete description. Cardiovascular variables in adult vertebrates are influenced by nerves and hormones as well as intrinsic factors. However, information on the development of cardiovascular control systems is scarce, but receptor sensitivity apparently develops before functional innervation becomes apparent. The amphibian heart responds to acetylcholine and adrenaline several stages before functional innervation becomes evident, and in some species the cholinergic and adrenergic sensitivity of the cardiac pacemaker changes with development. As in mammals, acute hypoxia results in different cardiovascular responses depending on the developmental stage of the animal. The different responses reflect the relative maturity of neurohormonal mechanisms operating within the cardiovascular system.
3882684|Renewing cell populations are tissues or groups of cells which rapidly proliferate and whose cell division is balanced by cell loss. The rapid proliferation of cells can be determined in autoradiograms by the uptake of tritiated thymidine into DNA synthesizing cells, and the migration and loss of cells can be followed by taking samples of tissues at increasing time intervals after exposure to the radioisotope. In ascidians, renewing populations are the testis, ovary, blood cells, and epithelial lining of the digestive tract. They are made of subpopulations called compartments: 1) germinal compartments of relatively undifferentiated, dividing stem cells (these cells are labeled at short time intervals), 2) mature compartments of fully differentiated, nondividing cells (these become labeled with time by the migration of stem cells), and 3) transitional compartments of cells in intermediate stages. The stomach groove cell population is a model system for cell differentiation and renewal in the digestive tract. Germinal compartments can be distinguished from mature compartments by their morphology (pseudostratified vs. simple columnar epithelia), by the uptake of tritiated thymidine in autoradiograms, by histochemical staining, by their surface features in the scanning electron microscope, and by their intracellular organelles when viewed in the transmission electron microscope. Stem cells differentiate into absorptive cells and zymogen cells. In differentiating, stem cells increase in size and lose their abundant free ribosomes. Absorptive cells develop longer microvilli, a long cilium, smooth apical vesicles, and large supranuclear lysosomes. Zymogen cells produce abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and numerous zymogen granules. The renewing cell populations of blood (lymph nodule) and digestive tract are important model systems for studying cell differentiation, morphogenesis, and the phylogeny of vertebrate hemopoietic, immune, and digestive systems.
3883969|Lucinid bivalves occur widely in habitats ranging from subtidal to deep ocean basins. The evidence reported to date supports the contention that all lucinids contain intracellular, sulfur-oxidizing bacterial symbionts which contribute substantially to the nutrition of the intact association. These burrowing bivalves are found in both high and low sulfide habitats. Examinations of sulfur compounds in the hemolymph of lucinids reveal that thiosulfate may be a key intermediate in the metabolism of sulfide in all members of this family. The presence of free sulfide in the hemolymph of both freshly collected and experimental clams suggests that the total sulfide oxidation/detoxification capacity of the lucinids may be substantially lower than that found in other sulfur bacteria/invertebrate symbioses. Intracellular granules catalyze the oxidation of sulfide in L. floridana, one apparent line of sulfide toxicity defense in this species. These electron-dense granules occur in high densities in the bacteriocytes (bacteria-containing gill cells) of all lucinids. Thiosulfate produced during this detoxification may be available for further oxidation by the abundant symbionts housed in these same cells. Hemolymph thiol and elemental sulfur levels in clams from low sulfide habitats suggest that these animals have evolved mechanisms for sulfur acquisition. In sulfur-free seawater, sulfur-starved Lucina floridana are infrequent, periodic ventilators, but in the presence of sulfur show a significant increase in ventilation frequency. This periodic ventilation may be a trait of all lucinids that plays a substantial role in reducing metabolic costs during low nutrient availability.
3883983|Many of the critical pieces are now in place to exploit the evolution of paedomorphosis (metamorphic failure) as a model for both the phylogenetic and mechanistic analysis of a developmentally integrated character. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that paedomorphosis has evolved convergently among different populations and species of ambystomatids during the recent past. Mechanistically, there is growing evidence that paedomorphosis is controlled by a few loci, with different combinations of loci and alleles blocking metamorphosis in different conspecific populations and among closely related species. A reductionistic approach is needed to determine if the same or different loci were altered in the independent evolution of paedomorphosis among different ambystomatid lineages. We provide an overview of the genetic strategies that we are using toward this end, and present some of our own published and unpublished results. We then briefly discuss the potential insights and limitations of the reductionistic approach to character evolution that we are advocating in this research strategy.
3882061|A series of studies into the nature of terminal growth movements in hydroids (chiefly the thecate Campanularia) is reviewed. Both stolon and pedicel tips of all hydroids observed grow by an endless repetition of "growth cycles." In thecate stolons, the geometry of the tip's excursions is relatively simple and successive cycles are predictable in their duration and per cycle growth. Conversely, athecate stolons are much more complex or variable in each of these respects. In Campanularia both cycle time and per cycle growth differ among genetic stocks. Such environmental or environment-related factors as temperature, organic contaminants in the sea water, and the nutritive condition of the colony each affect cycle time and/or per cycle growth. Also, ingestion of a large meal temporarily inhibits the retractions that characterize most growth cycles. Growth movements are a property of the stolon tip, since isolated tips less than 0.5 mm long move in basically normal fashion. However, two aspects of the cycle are modified by more distant regions: the cycle is accelerated by a pacemaker lying 0.5 to 2.0 mm from the tip, and the extent of each cycle's retraction phase is determined by intrastolonic pressure generated by hydroplasmic flow. Certain neuroinhibitor drugs duplicate in intact stolons the cycle changes seen in surgical isolates. Synchronized with each growth cycle is a pattern of epidermal thickening and thinning at the stolon tip, this layer being thinnest just after the crest and thickest about two-thirds of the way through the cycle. Cells behind the tip also move in relation to the growth cycle, generally approaching the tip during epidermal thickening and retreating during epidermal thinning. Several types of metabolic inhibitors markedly affect the stolonic growth movements, indicating the need of oxidative metabolism and of protein synthesis using a short-lived mRNA for the tip's activities. Campanularia pedicel growth cycles differ from stolon growth cycles in having a shorter and more variable duration, a lesser per cycle growth, and a shallower retraction phase, with changes in these features along the length of the pedicel correlated with changes in the type of growth occurring. These studies and those of other investigators are related, their contributions to our understanding of elongation are discussed, and persisting problems are highlighted.
3883627|From a respiratory and metabolic standpoint, a blue crab is in an extremely precarious condition during a molt. A molt is physiologically possible for two major reasons. First, a premolt alkalosis anticipates the acidosis that arises during actual exuviation when the gas exchanger and ventilatory appendage are impaired and thus anaerobic metabolism must be activated. Second, the crab is able to revert to more primitive forms of skeletal support and, immediately after exuviation, gas exchange. These mechanisms are very fragile, however, as are the cardiovascular mechanisms that provide the force for exuviation; any one may fail. Changes in various enzyme activities and in free amino acid content of the tissues, which are usually associated with osmotic challenges, are associated specifically with a molt as well. I suggest that they are related to isosmotic water uptake and cell volume regulation.
3883186|When food is abundant, sparrows are found in great variety of habitats and appear to specialize on particularly profitable types of seeds. However, during periods of food scarcity, each sparrow species occupies a very narrow range of habitats but consumes a great variety of seeds within each occupied habitat. As a result, average dietary overlap may underestimate the potential for competition for food within habitats during periods of food shortage whereas average habitat overlap overestimates the potential for competition since each species occupies a different habitat during periods of food shortage.
3883232|Functional-anatomical work on complex structural systems is handicapped by several difficulties: (1) Lack of established guidelines on how to select the structures that are relevant for the intended study, (2) lack of methods to check the accuracy of the description of a system's morphology, and (3) the need to integrate a large mass of results obtained through a variety of approaches taken from different disciplines, such as anatomy, physiology, physics, biochemistry, ecology and evolutionary biology. Suggestions to alleviate some of the problems include (1) to use information on the physiological and physical properties of the tissues in a system and on biomechanical principles governing the interactions among these tissues to help in the selection and checking process necessary during the morphological description, (2) to construct a structural model of the system by condensing the morphological description, (3) to construct a functional model on the basis of the structural model by using physiological, physical and biomechanical principles that govern the functioning and interactions of the tissues and elements of the system, and (4) to test the functional model through independent observations, experiments or natural experiments (i.e., individual variations).
3884135| The number of biomarkers being evaluated as environmental indicators continues to increase even as proposed assessments expand in complexity. One key to a rational consolidation may lie in clearly identifying and characterizing those biochemical pathways shared among many biomarkers which are sensitive to environmental perturbation. Recent studies suggest that signal transduction pathways which are common to many cell types and species may provide multiple targets for the toxic effects of heavy metals. Such intracellular communication pathways might provide a useful framework for understanding hormetic effects and for predicting responses to complex contaminant mixtures. Preliminary in vitro experiments tested the effects of mercuric chloride ( HgCl
3881340|Extracts of the neurohemal pericardial organs from Cancer borealis have a cardio-excitor activity when tested on the isolated, perfused heart. Analysis of the extraot indicates that there are two active peptides, similar in size and amino acid composition. The procedure for isolation of these peptides is presented, as well as a discussion of the proposed role of indolic substances as cardio-excitor agents.
3883584|The colonial marine hydroid Hydractinia has a sophisticated allorecognition and effector system. Unlike many unitary organisms (i.e., vertebrates) which lack a current context for allorecognition, there is the potential for strong selection pressure for allorecognition and response in Hydractinia. Hydractinia colonies use allorecognition in intraspecific competition for two dimensional space; space is an absolute requirement for Hydractinia to successfully complete its life-cycle and thus interactions for space are of central importance for Hydractinia. Studies of the mechanisms, molecules, and genes involved in allorecognition in Hydractinia may contribute to our understanding of the evolution of allorecognition in the metazoa.
3882224|We must establish the allometric regularities of functional scaling in interspecific, "mouse-to'elephant" plots in order to provide criteria for the recognition of special adaptations unrelated to the requirements of size. The qualitative literature suggests that post-canine tooth areas of herbivorous mammals should increase with positive allometry in such plots. This positive allometry might reflect the demands of metabolism or the ecological strategies of large vs. small herbivores embodied in Levins' concept of environmental grain. Plots of postcanine area vs. body size display the expected positive allometry in all groups studied: hystricomorph rodents, suine artiodactyls (pigs, peccaries, and hippos), cervoid artiodactyls (deer, s.l.), and four groups of primates considered separately (lemuroids, ceboids, cercopithecoids, and great apes). Sketchy data for australopithecines also indicate positive allometry and the relatively larger cheek teeth of robust forms may only reflect their large body size and not the dietary differences so often advocated. Phyletic dwarfs of large herbivores display negative allometry (relatively larger cheek teeth in dwarfs) in opposition to the interspecific trend.
3882056|A head inhibitory gradient arising in the vicinity of a hydra's head, and a foot inhibitory gradient arising from the animal's foot are thought to intersect in the budding region. To investigate the possible influences of these gradients on budding, samples were prepared of 25 or more animals having as many as five gastric regions or gastric-plus-budding regions grafted in tandem. The segments of grafted animals were considered equivalent except for distance from the head and foot. The average frequencies of regeneration of budding regions on grafted gastric regions, and the average number of buds on grafted budding regions were determined for each sample. Both of these variables changed as functions of distance from the head in U-shaped curves as the hypothesis predicts. The arm of the U closest to the head indicates a stronger degree of inhibition than the arm closest to the foot since there are less regeneration and fewer buds close to the head. Evidence for segments on which ectopic heads regenerated also shows inhibition of budding due to a head. The slopes of the arms of the U-shaped curves do not resemble the slopes of the curves for head and for foot inhibition, however, particularly since the slopes for budding inhibition do not decrease as a function of the number of grafted segments. It is doubtful, therefore, that the observed bipolar inhibition of the budding region is due to the inhibitors of head and foot formation.
3881368|Hormones may act at the molecular level (1) by changing the properties of the cell membrane or the membrane of some intracellular organelle, (2) by inducing an allosteric change in the conformation of a protein molecule so as to alter its enzymatic activity, (3) by altering the rate of synthesis of a specific protein, (4) by serving as a co-substrate in a specific enzymatic reaction, or (5) by initiating the transcription of a specific section of DNA and producing a specific messenger RNA for the production of a specific protein. The last mechanism appears to be involved in the response of the larva of the blowfly to the hormone, ecdysone. These theories are not mutually exclusive, and a given hormone may have more than one mechanism of action. The effects of androgens on the ventral prostate of the rat and the effects of estrogens on the endometrium of the rat's uterus appear to be mediated by the production of the specific kind of RNA. Testosterone increases the weight of the seminal vesicle and prostate of the rat by increasing the synthesis of a specific kind of RNA. RNA extracted from the seminal vesicle of one rat can be instilled into the lumen of the seminal vesicle of another rat and lead to growth similar to that induced by the injection of testosterone. Treatment of the RNA with ribonuclease or by heating destroys this activity. Experiments with luteinizing hormone show that it has three clearly distinct effects on ovarian metabolism and three different mechanisms of action in this one tissue.
3884351|Certain teleost fish have large anatomically discrete islet organs called Brockmann bodies (BBs). When transplanted into streptozotocin diabetic athymic nude mice, tilapia BBs provide long-term normoglycemia. This has afforded us the opportunity to examine tilapia islet in vivo function in a non-piscine environment and compare this with in vivo function in the donor species. As expected, fasting and non-fasting glycemic levels in long-term murine recipients of tilapia BBs were analogous to corresponding values in donor tilapia, but, surprisingly, tilapia BB grafts provided mammalian-like glucose tolerance profiles. Teleost fish, in general, are severely glucose intolerant. When glucose tolerance tests were performed in tilapia, the mean glucose disappearance rates were very low; however, diabetic nude mice bearing long-term tilapia BB grafts were extremely glucose responsive. This suggested a severe or absolute peripheral resistance to the glucostatic effects of insulin. Using Western blotting with polyclonal antibodies and then confirmed by Northern analysis, tilapia peripheral tissues appear to be devoid of GLUT-4, the insulin-sensitive glucose transporter responsible for the hypoglycemic effect of insulin in mammals, but not GLUT-1, the insulin independent glucose transporter. This may explain why tilapia, and possibly other teleost fish, are severely glucose intolerant after pharmacologic glucose-loading. Because tilapia do not tend to consume large quantities of glucose in the wild, it is not surprising that they have evolved without a mechanism to move glucose rapidly from the bloodstream into muscle and fat. Nevertheless, insulin still appears to play an important role in maintaining normoglycemia in tilapia; however, this is mostly likely a result of its effect on glucose uptake in the liver. We also present comparative data on tilapia beta cell function, quantification of islet cell numbers and types, islet products, insulin gene structure and expression, and beta cell sensitivity to the diabetogenic drug streptozotocin.
3883012|The biological evolution of mankind continues at present, even though for the last few millennia mankind's mode of adaptation has been primarily cultural. The necessary and sufficient conditions for biological evolution are genetic variability and differential reproduction (natural selection). The genetic variation of human populations is immense: no two individuals developed from different eggs can ever be genetically identical to each other. The two components of natural selection-differential mortality and differential fertility-continue unabated in modern mankind. Cultural changes fuel human biological evolution, which may well be faster now than it has ever been. The genetic endowment of mankind may be deteriorating precisely owing to the advances of modern health care, although this is not occurring as fast as some would have it. The eugenic measures proposed to improve the genetic lot of mankind may be classified into four broad categories: genetic counselling, genetic surgery, germinal selection, and cloning. The first two can be used as measures of negative eugenics, that is, to prevent the spread of harmful gene mutations. The goals of negative eugenics would seem unobjectionable, and so would be their voluntary application; compulsion would violate fundamental human rights. Germinal selection and cloning are primarily proposals for positive eugenics that seek the multiplication of desirable genetic characteristics. Positive eugenic proposals are unacceptable on biological, ethical, and sociopolitical grounds.
3881668|The results of a study of the role of organic compounds in the formation of carbonate crystals in marine biological systems are reported. In an increasing concentration of certain organic compounds which complex calcium ions, the proportion of aragonite decreases and that of calcite increases. In increasing concentrations of magnesium ions the proportion of aragonite increases and that of calcite and vaterite decreases. When the influence of organic compounds is greater or smaller than that of magnesium ions, only calcite or only aragonite is formed, respectively. Organic compounds forming a strong complex with calcium ions cause the formation of magnesium-rich calcite, and with an increase in temperature and the concentration of magnesium ions, the magnesium carbonate content of precipitated magnesian calcite increases. When the influence of organic compounds is almost equivalent to that of magnesium ions, in increasing or decreasing temperatures, the proportion of calcite decreases or increases, respectively, and the proportion of aragonite increases or decreases, respectively. The concentration of magnesium ions in the body fluids of marine calcareous organisms seems to differ little from that of other organisms, and seems to be similar to that of sea water. Only the presence of certain organic compounds brings about the formation of the carbonate crystals observed in marine biological systems. The very important role of organic matter in the formation of crystals found in skeletal carbonates is emphasized.
3883169|Current theory and supporting data regarding population regulation and cycling in microtine rodents needs to be reviewed in light of a new, season-sensitive model of social behavior for meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus. The finding of a clear social imperative among meadow voles during most of the fall, winter and spring conflicts with the prediction of high levels of social intolerance in the higher density populations commonly existing late in the year. The general rarity of adult dispersal, except during periods of declining density in winter and early spring, and the contact-seeking nature of this dispersal, are generally contradictory to predictions based on "intrinsic" theories. Finally, published data on meadow vole reproduction, recruitment and dispersal, and hence demography, are probably biased as a result of effects produced by the spread of rodent pheromones by investigators, prolonged entrapment of individual voles, and inappropriate behavioral measures in the field.
4620223|The Extraxial/Axial Theory (EAT) of echinoderm skeletal homologies describes two major body wall types: axial and extraxial. The latter is subdivided into perforate and imperforate regions. Each of the regions has a distinctly different source in early larval developm. Axial skeleton originates in the rudim, and develops in association with the pentaradially arranged hydrocoel according to specific ontogenetic principles. Perforate and imperforate extraxial regions are associated with the left and right somatocoels respectively, are not governed by ontogenetic principles of plate addition, and are products of the non-rudiment part of the larval body. The morphology of even the most bizarre of the earliest echinoderms can be explored using the EAT. Among these, edrioasteroid-like taxa best fit the idea that forms expressing archimery in the sequential arrangement of axial, perforate extraxial, and imperforate extraxial regions are the first echinoderms. Metamorphosis is especially marked in clades that have a high axial to extraxial skeleton ratio because structures developing from the non-rudiment part are suppressed in favor of the developing axial elements during this process. However, in early echinoderms, extraxial skeleton makes up a far larger proportion of the body wall than axial, implying that metamorphosis was not as significant a part of the developmental trajectory as it is in more recently evolved taxa. Echinoderm radiation consists of a succession of apomorphies that reduced the expression of extraxial components but increased the influence of axial ones, with a concomitant increase in the prominence of metamorphosis.
3881743| Recent evidence suggests that amphibians represent a key transition stage in the evolution of immunological competence. In particular, anuran amphibians exhibit a significant advance relative to more primitive vertebrates in their capacity to synthesize two distinct classes of immunoglobulins in response to antigenic stimulation. These two classes of antibody molecule resemble the M and G antibodies of man in size and polypeptide chain structure. Furthermore, cellular aspects of antibody-production in anura resemble those of mammals in the method of retention of antigen and the range of antibody-forming cells (lymphocytes to plasma cells). In addition to these parameters of antibody-formation, a state of specific non-responsiveness (high zone tolerance) can be induced in adult anura by pretreatment with large doses of protein antigen. Studies of larval anurans establish that these forms become immunologically competent early in development, but possess only M immunoglobulins. These larval stages provide feasible model systems for the study of the activation of genes which specify immunoglobulins. Antibody-formation in urodeles is discussed in relation to the emergence of immunological competence in amphibians. 
3883364|Detailed knowledge of the projections and synaptic connections of identifiable neurons in the leech has permitted a similarly detailed study of the sprouting, regeneration, and degeneration of axons. We have learned that certain cellular components, such as synaptic targets and glia, may play only a limited role in synapse regeneration and in axon degeneration. Yet contact with the synaptic target may inhibit sprouting and availability of targets may promote it. Overall, results in the leech support the idea that degeneration as well as regeneration share fundamental mechanisms with other invertebrates and the vertebrates, including mammals.
3884478|The androgenic gland has been described in a variety of crustacean species-isopods, amphipods and decapods. It has been shown to play a role in the regulation of male differentiation and in the inhibition of female differentiation. Upon its application for endocrine manipulation, it inhibits female characteristics. Recently, the androgenic hormone from the isopod Armadillidium vulgare was purified and characterized on the basis of a morphological bioassay. The hormone is a glycosylated protein composed of two peptide chains connected each to the other by two disulfide bridges. The pro-hormone consists of the same two chains connected by a third peptide in a complex that resembles the insulin super family hormones. The study of the androgenic gland in decapods lags behind that in the isopods, and a decapod androgenic hormone has yet to be identified. In this review, five decapod species are described as models, in which the androgenic gland exerts morphological, anatomical, physiological and behavioral effects. These models could serve as the basis of possible bioassays for the study of the structure and mode of action of the androgenic hormone in decapod crustaceans.
3881591|This paper describes, not ionic movement, but rather the transfer of organic nutrients from environment to cell in microorganisms. A section on methods for studying such transfer is followed by a discussion of generalized models derived from kinetic data. Control mechanisms, involving regulation of synthesis of membrane proteins and feedback modification of their activity, are described. Some recent work on specific models for transport of amino acids and carbohydrates is also discussed.
3882574|We report results of a three year comparative laboratory study of kin recognition abilities in Arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) and Belding's ground squirrels (S. beldingi), and a field investigation of kin recognition in S. beldingi. Our laboratory work shows that in both species, preweaned pups reared together, whether they are biological siblings or cross-fostered (unrelated) nestmates, are equally aggressive in subsequent paired arena tests. Thus, pups that share a natal nest are treated like siblings. Among pups reared apart, sister-sister pairs are less aggressive in arena tests than are pairs of nonkin females, whereas relatedness does not affect male-male or male-female aggression. Thus both relatedness and rearing environment mediate recognition among female S. parryii and S. beldingi. In free-living Belding's ground squirrels at Tioga Pass, California, dam-offspring and sister-sister recognition apparently first occur at weaning, coincident with aboveground emergence of juveniles. Most intriguing (electrophoretically identified) littermate full-sisters and maternal half-sisters, which result from multiple mating by females, seem to treat each other differently despite having shared a natal nest. The full-sisters are less agonistic and more cooperative than the half-sisters. In interpreting these laboratory and field results, we explore four proximal mechanisms by which kin might be identified, including one in which recognition is based on (learned) phenotypic similarity to an individual's nestmates or itself (phenotype matching). Our data and those of several recent investigators of recognition in other taxa implicate both association with relatives and phenotype matching in the ontogeny of kin recognition.
3884309|The Extraxial-Axial Theory (EAT) is applied to the body wall homologies of asteroids. Attempts to characterize major plate systems of asteroids as axial or extraxial, particularly those that are highly organized into series, can be problematic. However, the Optical Plate Rule (OPR) is instrumental in establishing that ambulacrals and terminals are axial. It is equally clear that the region aboral to the marginal frame is a part of the perforate extraxial body wall (with the possible exception of the centrodorsal, which is likely imperforate extraxial). Previously established EAT criteria, particularly those strongly rooted in the embryologically expressed boundary between axial and extraxial body wall in larvae, suggest that marginals, and perhaps adambulacrals, are extraxial in origin. We also explore the extraxial nature and phylogenetic significance of the odontophore. Our data from both juveniles and adults show that plate and tube foot addition sequences occur according to the OPR, and shed light on poorly known homologies of the asteroid mouth frame. These data indicate that the mouth angle ossicle must at least contain the first ambulacral, although we cannot rule out the possibility that the first adambulacral also contributes to the construction of this ossicle. The interpretations provided by the EAT for all ossicles suggest a synapomorphy scheme for somasteroids, ophiuroids, and asteroids.
3884137| Among the oxygen carrying proteins, two groups are known to adapt to environmental challenges in the adult stage. Both vertebrate hemoglobins and arthropod hemocyanins adapt to chronic hypoxia by responding to the actions of allosteric co-factors. The design strategy, however, differs fundamentally in the two groups. Even within the arthropods, chelicerate and crustacean hemocyanins respond to co-factors very differently. Only in the crustaceans does the oxygen carrier adapt by shifts in intrinsic molecular properties. In hypoxic blue crabs, increases in the ratio of the primitive 1  6-meric oligomer bring about a higher oxygen affinity relative to that in normoxic animals, in which greater proportions of the derived 2  6-meric oligomer are responsible for a lower oxygen affinity. 
3884559|Vibration through the substrate has likely been important to animals as a channel of communication for millions of years, but our awareness of vibration as biologically relevant information has a history of only the last 30 yr. Morphologists know that the jaw mechanism of early amphibians allowed them to perceive vibration through the substrate as their large heads lay on the ground. Although the exact mechanism of vibration production and the precise nature of the wave produced are not always understood, recent technical advances have given answers to increasingly sophisticated questions about how animals send and receive signals through the substrate. Some of us have been forced to explore the use of vibration when all other attempts to manipulate animals in the field have failed, while others began to think about vibration to explain some of the puzzling behaviors of species they were studying in other contexts. It has thus become clear that the use of vibration in animal communication is much more widespread than previously thought. We now know that vibration provides information used in predator-prey interactions, recruitment to food, mate choice, intrasexual competition and maternal/brood social interactions in a range of animals from insects to elephants.
3884234|Photosynthesis and calcification in zooxanthellate scleractinian corals and coral reefs are reviewed at several scales: cellular (pathways and transport mechanisms of inorganic carbon and calcium), organismal (interaction between photosynthesis and calcification, effect of light) and ecosystemic (community primary production and calcification, and air-sea CO
3882827|The secretion of neurohormones from the crustacean X-organ - sinus gland system is controlled by environmental influences, light being the most conspicuous. Two sets of photoreceptors appear to mediate the influence of light on neurosecretion based on intracellular recordings from X-organ neurons and estimations of hormone release. Extra-retinal photoreceptors can initiate neurohormonal release from the eyestalk. Neurosecretory activity is also influenced by putative neurotransmitters. GABA is found in high concentrations in the medulla terminalis of the eyestalk and is released by stimulation, in a calcium-dependent manner. Diurnal variations occur in the amounts of eyestalk neurohormones, either those present in the eyestalk or released by electrical stimulation of the isolated sinus gland. Rhythm phases vary from one hormone to another. Neurohormones secreted in the eyestalk are also found in other regions of the central nervous system. Rhythms of neurosecretion are present both in the secretion in the isolated eyestalk and in eyestalkless animals, thus indicating that rhythmicity is a distributed property of the neurosecretory system.
3881694|Several gastropod families belonging to the superfamily Tonnacea are known to bore into the calcareous shells of echinoids and bivalves, but little work has been done on the family Cymatiidae. New observations show that the cymatiid, Argobuccinum argus, which feeds on the tubicolous polychaete, Gunnarea capensis, possesses large proboscis glands which secrete 0.4 to 0.5N H
3884215|Marine invertebrates develop in waters that extend from the poles to the equator, experiencing the full range of environmental temperature and food conditions. How selection has modified their development under the influence of these two factors has been a matter of debate. In this paper we argue that the primary influence on developmental rate is temperature, while other factors such as food availability are much less important. From existing literature we demonstrate that (1) developmental rates of both lecithotrophic and planktotrophic asteroids decrease in a similar way from the tropics to the poles, as they do also in other groups of invertebrates (echinoids, molluscs, crustaceans), and (2) rates of development at any one temperature cluster around the function describing the effect of temperature, without any relationship to egg size, suggesting that developmental rates are near the maximum for a given temperature regardless of other variables such as nutrition. We also investigated the response of development to temperature in four species of planktotrophic asteroids, one tropical, one temperate, two polar. There was limited temperature compensation among these four species, but little or no apparent ability to compensate for the retarding effects of reduced temperature within species. Arrhenius analysis of the data suggests that Q
3881401|The salt-absorbing tissue is found in the respiratory lamellae of the gills in the form of a highly interdigitated epithelium. The folds of the epithelium are supplied with mitochondria in the form of "mitochondrial pumps." Intercellular spaces between the folds also satisfy the morphological requirements for Diamond's model system for water transport based on his theory of standing osmotic gradients. Most of the osmoregulatory tissue is localized in the three most posterior gills, which in turn rest on the pericardial sac. It is suggested that the pericardial sac transfers ground water to the gills for salt and water absorption. The pericardial sac serves for storage of water and as a hydraulic assist during the molt.
3882110|The difficulties of observational study of active, wide-ranging sharks in the relatively concealing natural underwater environment are discussed for both baited and non-baited situations. The possible technique of habituating sharks to the diver's presence is considered in view of the logistical and safety problems imposed by the physical limitations of unaided, unprotected human divers. It is concluded that previous shark-observation methods are inadequate, and that supplementary study techniques must be developed and emphasized. These include remote monitoring by ultrasonic telemetry, telemetry-aided direct observation, and the use of miniature submersibles designed specifically for shark observation.
3882889|Foraging behavior of bumblebees has been in the past analyzed from two major perspectives. On the one hand, behavioral mechanisms have been studied to learn more about the animal. On the other extreme, the animal has been used incidentally to examine optimal foraging theory (O.F.T.). Major problems have arisen when theory designed to answer evolutionary questions was used to determine proximal mechanisms. While O.F.T. could be highly useful in making predictions to point out useful problems, the bottleneck to our understanding at the present resides in the lack of experiments that test alternative hypotheses. Whether or not a bumblebee worker's foraging behavior is adaptive (enhances fitness), however, or is optimal (maximizes fitness) cannot yet be resolved by observations or experimentation on individual bees. However, calculations can show the potential energy costs and payoffs of alternative potential foraging behaviors. Rapid progress could be made by examining the mechanisms of foraging behavior that act to enhance foraging returns, without worrying about whether or not the behavior is "optimal."
3882396|The principles which govern gas exchange by diffusion across the pores of the avian eggshell are reviewed and compared with convective gas exchange. The concept of conductance is defined for both diffusive and convective gas exchange through pores, and methods of calculating pore size are described. Estimates of conductances of the elements in the gas transfer path from atmosphere to chorioallantoic capillary blood are discussed, and recent studies on the role of ternary diffusion and a convective component to gas fluxes are presented.
3882243|Autozoids in R. evelinae are budded as in most cheilostomes, but some lateral zoid buds systematically become empty kenozoids that wrap around onto the basal side of the colony. Each kenozoid contributes partly to the formation of a younger autozoid. Bud suppression and kenozoid formation lead to an erect, branching, stony colony. Kenozoids calcify heavily and may bud other kenozoids or autozoids in old colony parts; these probably are adaptations to protect the otherwise delicate basal sides of autozoids. Large frontal avicularia are produced from two areolae (pores) in frontal walls of autozoids. Interior walls delimiting the avicularium contact the frontal cuticle (epitheca), from which the mandible differentiates. The hypostegal cavity of the autozoid remains in communication with the perigastric cavity only through avicularia. Rare lateral avicularia similarly differentiate from pores connecting autozoids and basal kenozoids. All zoids heavily thicken secondarily; cuticles between adjacent zoids simultaneously are thrown into interlocking longitudinal folds which probably strengthen the colony mechanically. Despite continuing carbonate secretion, the cystid epidermis is tenuous and incomplete; the peritoneum is absent or poorly-developed. This situation is usual among gymnolaemate Bryozoa. The bryozoan body cavity is therefore usually a pseudocoel in the morphological sense, but developmental evidence indicates it represents a degenerate coelom. The ovicell develops as a compressed evagination from the body cavity of the autozoid distal to the zoid which deposits its egg in the ovicell. Both inner and outer walls calcify, the outer more heavily than the inner. Secondary calcification is achieved by engulfment of the ovicell by a fold of hypostegal coelom which calcifies basally. There is no nutritive median vesicle, so embryos develop without food. The polypide is unique in lacking a vestibule; this may be associated with the absence of a medial vesicle.
4620219|Accurate phylogenetic reconstruction requires character systems that have evolved fast enough to have kept pace with cladogenesis but slowly enough to have conveyed the resulting phylogenetic signal to the present. Because stratigraphic evidence suggests that basal arthropod lineages arose rapidly during an ancient (Cambrian) phylogenetic radiation, the discovery of molecular sequences capable of resolving arthropod phylogeny may be a significant challenge for molecular systematists. This challenge is exemplified by our attempt to resolve arthropod phylogeny using the amino acid sequence of elongation factor-1 (EF-1). Our fossil-based assessment of evolutionary rates indicates that EF-1 should be capable of resolving Cambrian-age divergences. However, phylogenetic analysis using EF-1 fails to establish relationships among most higher-level groups, although it does recover more recently derived clades. Here we propose two models to explain this incongruity. The Rapid Radiation Model maintains that fossil-based estimates of arthropod diversification are essentially accurate and that diversification occurred so rapidly during the Cambrian that few phylogenetically significant changes occurred in the slowly evolving EF-1 sequence. The Enhanced Preservation Model maintains that fossil-based estimates of Cambrian-age divergences reflect enhanced preservation of pre-existing lineages and that arthropod diversification occurred before the Cambrian. This model attributes lack of resolution to degradation of phylogenetic signal within EF-1 by subsequent evolution. Current evidence is more consistent with the Enhanced Preservation Model, which implies that fossil-based methods can be very misleading when attempting to gauge the phylogenetic information content of molecular sequences for Cambrian- and Precambrian-age divergences.
3884524|Biologists must remember that physiology is the product of natural selection on organisms interacting with heterogeneous environments. "Behaving" organisms may alter the osmotic conditions they experience and achieve results unexpected from laboratory studies. Their ability to exploit environmental heterogeneity depends on its temporal/spatial scale relative to that of the organism, and the correspondence between the osmotic differences and the organism's sensory and osmoregulatory physiology. "Behaviors" include evasion of stressful habitats, selection among differing microenvironments, changing body characteristics that affect salt/water uptake/loss, manipulating fluids differing in osmolytes, and modification of osmotic microenvironments (especially for vulnerable offspring). To draw "comparative and integrative" inferences, investigators must strive to understand an organism's actual challenges by "seeing" the world from its perspective, and then making observations and performing experiments in the context of the "real world" experienced by that organism.
3884127|Sexual differentiation of the endocrine and behavioral components of the avian reproductive system occurs throughout embryonic development, initiating some of the early cellular events that form the central nervous system (CNS) and culminating in the organization of male or female neuroendocrine responses. Early cellular events have been studied intensively in recent years and these developmental processes appear to involve specific growth factors in the development of certain tissues. Subsequent to cellular differentiation, primordial germ cells migrate to the appropriate anatomical location and contribute to the development of the single ovary or testes; steroidogenesis begins soon thereafter. Other portions of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis also appear during early embryonic development with migration of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons from the olfactory region of the CNS to the midbrain and separate formation of the pituitary gland. The gonadal steroid hormones affect development of accessory sex structures as well as the later organization of neuroendocrine regulatory systems and secondary sex characteristics. Manipulation of steroids during embryonic and early posthatch periods results in altered endocrine and behavioral responses in adult birds. There are marked species differences in the timing of these events, especially when precocial and altricial species are compared. Altricial species hatch in a less developed state and as such are more dependent on parental care. Of necessity, the precocial species must be capable of feeding and other motor capabilities at hatch and coincidentally their other physiological systems also appear to be more mature at this time. Finally, there is the separate issue of song birds versus those avian species that do not have elaborate learned songs. It appears that most of the species with elaborate neural circuitry responsible for song are altricial. This may benefit them from the standpoint of gaining more time and contact with the parents to enable them to learn the appropriate song. There are also hormonal and neuroendocrine components critical in the process of song development. Finally, the effects of environmental factors, such as endocrine disrupting chemicals take on added significance when viewed in the context of exerting permanent organizational effects which are likely to alter endocrine and behavioral components of reproduction in the adult.
3883970|During tidal exposure the echiuran worm Urechis caupo encounters toxic sulfide in its burrow microhabitat on the marine mudflat. Although sulfide freely penetrates the two respiratory epithelia (the body wall and hindgut) and tissue cytochrome oxidases are extremely sulfide sensitive, the worm tolerates sulfide concentrations which exceed environmental exposures. Sulfide tolerance results from a suite of sulfide detoxification mechanisms that extend from the coelomic fluid to the epithelial surfaces. The coelomic fluid is rich in hemoglobin and hematin, both of which bind sulfide and catalyze the oxidation of sulfide to thiosulfate in vitro. Peripheral defense mechanisms responsible for protection of aerobic epithelia from sulfide poisoning may include mucus secretion, sulfide oxidation by symbiotic bacteria and/or specialized organelles termed SOBs, and sloughing of sulfide damaged cells. Thiosulfate, the principal detoxification endproduct produced in vivo, is eliminated primarily by diffusion across the hindgut, and sulfur metabolites may be sequestered and eliminated by the anal sacs. Based on a hypothetical model, we conclude that sulfide tolerance in U. caupo is due primarily to the sulfide oxidation activity of the coelomic fluid and that the specialized integument and hindgut protect the metabolically active, sulfide-exposed epithelial cells. These sulfide detoxification mechanisms may allow populations of this filter-feeding worm to exploit nutrient-rich, sulfidic environments.
3882353|The oxygen-binding properties and some associated structural features of invertebrate hemoglobins (Hb) are reviewed together with the environmental conditions (particularly in stressful habitats) that influence oxygen-binding functions in nature. Compared to the vertebrates, invertebrate Hbs display a spectacular variation in functional properties, which is manifest within the major systematic groups of animals, and within the different histological and molecular categories of the pigment. This variability is seen primarily to represent adaptations to the wide range of environmental conditions to which Hb-bearing invertebrates are subjected in nature, but also to reflect certain organismic functions, which determine the internal conditions under which the Hbs work in life. These adaptations appear to be uniquely directed towards optimizing the transfer of oxygen from the environmental source to the mitochondrial combustion sites. The immense structural and functional complexity of invertebrate Hb systems may well compensate for a decreased organization at the organ level compared to that in vertebrates, shifting more of the regulatory burden to the molecular level.
3883042|A traditional view of multi-male primate groups has held that males provide relatively little direct care to infants, possibly as a result of low confidence of paternity associated with a relatively promiscuous breeding system. In the last five years this view has changed as a result of a careful documentation of intimate male-infant affiliations in certain species, especially the savanna-dwelling baboons (Papio spp.). The occurrence of these affiliations raises the question as to whether males care for their own offspring preferentially and, if so, on what basis male confidence of paternity is mediated. Recent field studies of baboons suggest that male-infant relationships are mediated through affiliations between the males and the infants' mothers, but the degree to which these male-female affiliations are based on prior mating experience (hence, paternity) has not been established. Comparative studies of male-infant relations in primates have given little attention to the variation in the intensity and form of male care patterns within the set of species that have a multi-male social organization. Among multi-male species, male care of young is reported most often in baboons and barbary macaques (Macaca sylvanus) and least often in other macaques, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), and vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops). This interspecific variation may result both from differences in the importance of male care to infant survival and from differences in male confidence of paternity, which in turn may relate to seasonal breeding patterns and, in particular, to the presence or absence of conspicuous signs of ovulation in females.
3883940|Ontogeny of cardiac and ventilatory function was investigated in the direct developing crayfish Procambarus clarkii to determine basic developmental patterns and to evaluate diffusional and convective gas exchange. Animals were exposed to water ranging in Po
3882272|This paper examines the thymic dependence of alloimmunity in amphibians. In Xenopus, the presence of a thymus during the first 2 weeks of life is essential for the development of normal first-set skin allograft immunity. Thymectomy during this early period always impairs the alloimmune response of young adult toads. However, most of these thymectomized animals are able to completely destroy skin allografts, albeit with prolonged rejection times. Chronic graft rejection, rather than tolerance, still occurs following thymectomy as early as 5 days, when the thymus contains no small lymphocytes. In contrast to the considerable differences in first-set allograft survival times in control and early-thymectomized Xenopus, second-set grafts, applied subsequent to first-set destruction, are rejected in acute fashion (<3 weeks) in both groups. That the defect in first-set alloimmunity is specifically related to absence of thymus has been confirmed by implanting allogeneic thymus 2 weeks post-thymectomy. The donor thymus remains healthy and restores the allograft response to normal. In contrast, allogeneic spleen does not reconstitute and itself often undergoes destruction. Preliminary autoradiographic experiments on lymphoid tissue involvement in first-set allograft rejection are also described.
3882277|Recent data concerning the development of antibody forming capability in the chick are reviewed. In addition, information is presented indicating that there may be cells in the chicken lymphoid system which are capable of synthesizing immunoglobulin but not specific antibody. These cells appear to be independent of the bursa for their development but dependent on interaction with thymus dependent cells to elaborate their product. These results have led to the formulation of a new scheme of immunologic development in the chicken which better reflects contemporary understanding of the system.
3882872|All vertebrates face the problem of analyzing events in their environments. In spite of environmental differences, there are, however, aspects of the problems of analyzing external events that are common. It can be expected that sensory systems thus have certain common design features that reflect the functional constraints placed on sensory systems as information processing networks. This article surveys the organization of vertebrate sensory systems and identifies several major design features. The nature of design features and the assumptions underlying their definition are then discussed.
3884281|Conventional wisdom notwithstanding, fur and feathers are unlikely to have arisen in direct association with elevated metabolic rates in early mammals, birds, or their ancestors. A complete insulative fur coat probably appeared first in the earliest mammals long after mammalian ancestors (therapsids) had attained mammalian, or near-mammalian, metabolic rates. The evolution of feathers was unlinked to the evolution of modern avian metabolic rates since early, fully flighted birds (i.e., Archaeopteryx) retained an ectothermic metabolic status. Recent claims of "feathered dinosaurs" should be regarded with caution.
3882306|Neonatal treatment with corticosterone can differentially and persistently reduce either the basal level of plasma corticosterone or the amplitude of the adult diurnal rhythm in the rat depending on the age at which exposure to the steroid occurs. This alteration of basal secretion by hormonal manipulation during the first postnatal week may be related to the high levels of corticosterone found in pituitary cell nuclei following exposure of the immature rat to exogenous corticoid. The ontogenetic course of cytosol binding in the pituitary suggests a mechanism by which such vulnerability may occur. The hypothalamus was the only brain region found to have a constant level of cell nuclear binding throughout development, although it closely resembles the brain as a whole with regard to the development of cytosol binding sites. The significant postnatal neurogenesis of the hippocampus is reflected in a large postnatal rise in both cytosol and nuclear binding of corticosterone. This increase would appear to be due in part to a delay in binding competence by the pyramidal and granule cells of the hippocampus. The autoradiographic evidence indicates that in the immature rat the retention of steroid by hippocampal pyramidal cells correlates directly with the embryonic age of the neuron. Likewise, the oldest granule cells are the most heavily labelled granule cells in the dentate gyrus, while newly arrived cells do not concentrate corticosterone. This would suggest that an event in cellular differentiation occurs sometime after the cells are "in position," which permits the binding of glucocorticoids by these hippocampal neurons.
3883623|A large number of factors are now known to influence the oxygen affinity of hemocyanins in crabs. In this article I review several case studies in which a number of different variables, including pH, CO
3883030|The successes in comparative physiology during the last 25 years have resulted from the study of those cellular or subcellular phenomena common to all animals, but approachable most easily in a few model species. In contrast, complex systems comprising many cooperating tissues and organs are characteristic of narrow taxa; analysis of such systems does not yield widely applicable generalities. An analogy between the distribution of commodities and products in biological systems and in marketing channels is developed, and the function of the circulation is considered in that context. The accumulation and assorting of products by the flow of blood from the tissues to the collecting vessels emerges as a particularly important role. The techniques that have been developed for coping with man's highly complex organizations and activities should be applicable to analogous biological systems.
3882355|Studies on the role of red blood cell organic phosphates in regulating oxygen transport and hemoglobin function in various species have emanated from several laboratories in the past few years. These data reveal that the organic phosphate composition of erythrocytes is certainly more diverse between classes of animals than previously recognized, that the kind and concentration of red cell organic phosphate modulator changes during development of the species, and that the role of organic phosphates in modulating hemoglobin function is variable. For example in birds we believe that the changes in amounts and distribution of the intraerythrocytic organic phosphates account for the sudden changes in whole blood oxygen affinity during development of the embryo and young bird as well as in the mature bird. In the loggerhead and green sea turtle, it appears that organic phosphate modulators regulate whole blood oxygen affinity during embryonic development but it is unlikely that whole blood oxygen affinity is controlled by organic phosphate modulation of hemoglobin function in the adult turtle. From the data now available on air-breathing fishes, it appears reasonable to consider that whole blood oxygen affinity may be regulated by a combination of organic phosphates; that is, the relative concentrations of the primary regulator (
3881782|A study of the effects of photic stimulation on the ability to induce flash luminescence in the female Photuris firefly by electrical brain stimulation was made. Pulses of light delivered to the eye of the firefly are not only able to inhibit spontaneous flashing but also reduce the ability of electrical brain stimuli to induce firefly flashes. Inhibition by photic pulses is most effective when the pulses are delivered approximately 300-400 msec prior to brain stimulation. Only flashes of brain stimulus-flash onset latency greater than 120 msec can be inhibited in this fashion, while driven flashes of 90 msec were immune from the inhibitory effect. It is suggested that the inhibitory effects of photic stimulation provide some physiological explanation of the male-female response latency found in the courting fireflies.
3882383|As with mammals, the ability to test questions of an immunogenetic nature in the axolotl and other amphibia is greatly enhanced by the use of defined, inbred genetic lines. These have been developed and at present qualify as partially inbred strains; there are 7, with the most highly inbred being at present at
3883163|Research on populations of rats (Rattus norvegicus) in Baltimore beginning in 1945 suggested the hypothesis that aggressive behavior could regulate the numbers in a city block where food and shelter were adequate. A program of experiments using wild rats or laboratory mice justified publication of the aggressive behavior hypothesis in 1949. Continued research by Davis, Calhoun, Christian and graduate students showed that the number of rats in a city block returned towards an asymptote after a reduction in number, and that the introduction of alien rats was followed by a decline. Communication about the level of population was achieved by signals (visual, olfactory, auditory and tactile) that determined social status. Rates of reproduction declined and rates of mortality increased as the population increased. Various physiological mechanisms were explored but the mechanisms of communication were little studied before 1955.
3884475|Since the discovery that methyl farnesoate (MF), the unepoxidated form of the insect juvenile hormone (JHIII), is produced by mandibular organs of numerous crustaceans, extensive evidence has accumulated that this compound appears to perform similar functions in the Crustacea as JH performs in insects. A major function of MF appears to be in enhancing reproductive maturation. This was first shown by indirect experimentation with eyestalk ablation, which augmented MF production. Subsequently, direct treatments of several species of crustacea with MF showed that reproductive maturation was enhanced. A second function of MF, similar to that of the JH of insects, is in the maintenance of juvenile morphology. This is especially true in the late larval transformations into juveniles, where MF plays an inhibitory role, as well as during the transformation of juveniles into adults. These results were inferred from eyestalk removal experiments. In the case of the larval-juvenile transition, inhibitory results were also obtained with MF by direct hormone treatments. However, the transition from very early larval stages, such as one nauplius stage proceeding to the next, which in many cases also involves morphogenetic changes, may be occurring in the presence of MF. Indeed, MF appears to be stimulatory to early postembryonic larval stages of Crustacea. Again, this function of MF in Crustacea appears to be similar to functions of JH in early postembryonic insects. However, it should be pointed out that there are many more "early" stages in Crustacea than there are in insects, and very few of these cases have been investigated. When considering the animal kingdom and larval metamorphosis, the question may be raised whether there are other members of the JH family regulating metamorphosis and reproduction. One plausible example appears to be among certain annelids. The trochophores of Capitella respond to various juvenoids, but are most responsive, within one hour, to MF and eicosatrienoic acid. This latter compound is present also in adult annelids, where it has been named "Sperm Maturation Factor," since it seems to function in the maturation of sperm in Arenicola. Therefore, eicosanoids perform in annelids two functions performed in insects by JHs. In conclusion, it seems that there are morphogenesis promoting responses to JHs in early larval development in crustaceans, annelids, and possibly other forms, which differ from those MF effects in later larvae of Crustacea where MF retards morphogenesis. Such early responses as noted here have recently also been described for insects. Furthermore, it is clear that the polyunsaturated 8,11,14-eicosatrienoic and aracidonic acids seem to be juvenoids, and appear to function as such in annelids, and may also be functionally active in insects and crustaceans. It seems reasonable to conclude therefore that new and novel juvenoids exist, while others still await discovery.
3884385|The similarity in swimming style and external body shape between dolphins and scombrid fishes, especially tunas, is a textbook example of evolutionary convergence. I identify additional morphological features of the musculoskeletal system shared by dolphins and tunas. Specifically, these swimmers share a pattern of force transmission through a complex, three-dimensional system of collagenous fabrics, which are stiffened by muscular hydrostatic pressure. This force transmission system increases both the displacement advantage and moment arm of contracting axial muscle. These features represent a functionally significant design for steady swimming vertebrates.
3884125|The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system plays an important role in controlling animal development and growth. There are three components to the IGF system: ligands (IGF-I and IGF-II), receptors (type I and type II IGF receptors) and IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs). These members of the IGF system are expressed differentially and their expression patterns implicate them in critical developmental events. Even though IGFs have been proven essential for normal fetal growth through experiments using IGF "knock-out" mice, the precise role of each member of the IGF system is not fully understood. Recent studies suggest that the IGF system has been highly conserved in teleost fish. This paper provides an overview of what is currently known about the IGF system in teleost fish. Several aspects of the IGF system are discussed, including the structural and functional aspects of fish IGFs, the fish IGF receptors and IGFBPs. The biological actions of fish IGFs are described in reference to their roles in growth, development, reproduction and osmoregulation. Finally, some of the unique advantages of using teleost fish as experimental models for defining the developmental role of the IGF system and the underlying molecular mechanisms are discussed.
3883674|Most experimental studies that deal with the effects of biotic interactions in marine soft sediments are designed to examine the direct effects of one species (or group of species) on some subset of the community. However, species within a community influence one another through a complex web comprising both direct and indirect effects. Ignoring this complexity in the development of hypotheses and experimental designs will likely lead to unexpected or conflicting findings. Few studies of marine soft-sediment communities have emphasized indirect effects and even fewer have included experimental designs capable of testing for them. To illustrate the potential importance of indirect effects in marine soft sediments, I provide several examples from the literature and describe the type of experimental design required to demonstrate a simple indirect effect involving three species. Perspective on indirect effects in a particular community changes as more information is collected about individual species and their effects. The influence of one species or guild may be confounded by that of another and even effects expected to be strong may appear weak or nonexistent as a result of unidentified indirect effects. Recognizing indirect effects in soft-sediment communities may help to explain apparent paradoxical results in past experiments and provide an improved template for the design of future experiments.
3881842|Hormone retention by various target tissues has been demonstrated for a number of sex steroids. Retention of the steroid by the target tissue appears to be specific and saturation occurs at physiological levels of hormone. Thus, target tissues are said to possess specific receptors for the hormone. Only the estrogens have been extensively studied, and both a cytoplasmic and nuclear receptor have been described for various estrogen target tissues (uterus, pituitary, hypothalamus). The receptor concept has been utilized by a number of laboratories as a mechanism which might be helpful in understanding the relationship between estrogen effects, i.e., changes in physiology or behavior resulting from estrogen treatments. The basis for the estrogen receptor is reviewed along with the data which attempt to relate hormone retention to a physiological response. There is considerable evidence that hormone retention is a primary step in the tissue hormone interaction as in its absence the effects attributable to the presence of the hormone are not observed. Progesterone retention has also been demonstrated for some target tissues, and an estrogen (priming) component is apparent for uterus and vagina. To date there is no concrete evidence for specific progesterone retention at the neural level.
3883141|Light is characterized by three basic properties: intensity, the frequency of electromagnetic vibration, and polarization. Beneath the surface of the sea each of these properties of light is modified in ways that could affect the behaviors and the underlying physiological and biochemical mechanisms that control the behavior of organisms. How light changes under water in several time domains, such as seasonal, daily, and even shorter periods of time, is described. The correlation between diel shifts in the activity of fishes and marine invertebrates and the daily changes in light under water is described. It is concluded that exactly how light influences these daily shifts in animal activity, and whether or not circadian rhythms also influence the shifts, is, for most species, not known.
3884294|The nuclear receptor (NR) superfamily includes, in addition to ligand-activated transcription factors, members called orphan receptors, for which no ligand has yet been identified. Phylogenetic analysis shows that the nuclear receptor superfamily can be split into six subfamilies. Interestingly, there appears to be no relationship between the position of a given liganded receptor in the tree and the chemical nature of its ligand. For example, RAR and RXR, which both recognize retinoids, belong to two different subfamilies, suggesting an independence between the evolutionary history of the receptors and their ligand binding abilities. A PCR screen for the presence of NR genes in several phyla of early- and nonmetazoan organisms suggests that NR are specific to metazoans and also reveals that the NR genes in Hydra or Anemonia appear to be limited to homologues of orphan receptors. Taken together these data suggest that the first members of the superfamily were probably orphan receptors that later on gained the ability to bind a ligand. Finally, we observed that SmFTZ-F1 and SmRXR are expressed at different levels along the life cycle of the parasitic flatworm Schistosoma mansoni. This suggests that these receptors may play a role in the control of the development of this organism.
3882119|A small molecular weight antigonadotropic factor was purified from extracts of bovine pineal glands. The chemical characteristics suggest that the substance is peptidic. When given to female mice over a period of ten days the pineal antigonadotropin (PAG) was observed to reduce fertility. Single injections of PAG given at various times during the estrous cycle to female rats were seen either to inhibit ovulation or to reduce the number of ovulations presumably by reducing preovulatory serum LH levels. A gonadal site of action was ruled out since PAG was ineffective in inhibiting or reducing the action of exogenous gonadotrophins in immature male or female mice. In contrast to that of arginine vasotocin (AVT) no oxytocic activity was recorded for various preparations of PAG in a rat uterine assay in vitro. These observations and other incongruous biological activities support the conclusion that PAG and AVT are different substances.
3882719|Vocal repertoires of male and female non-human primates can differ by presence or absence of sounds, acoustic form, and function or usage. Examples of sex-specificity in vocalizations are taken from field studies of two macaque species that differ in social organization and habitat. They are used to illustrate sex-specific acoustic patterns and vocalizations that are employed in socially different fashion by males and females. Some vocal sex differences develop from sounds shared in common by young animals of both sexes while others arise late in life by an acoustic pattern suddenly emerging only in males. Differences may be due to sexual selection, social suppression, morphological features, or because vocal sounds are linked to circumstances experienced by only male or female adults. The relation between social usage of some vocalizations by adults and youngsters affords insights into their signal value and into the underlying state of the vocalizing animal.
3884413|When locomotor activity is brief, physiological steady state conditions are not attained. It is therefore difficult to model the energetic costs of intermittent activity using standard methods. This difficulty is addressed by considering as reflective of the metabolic costs of activity not only the oxygen consumed during the activity itself, but also the excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC) and any excess metabolites persisting at the end of EPOC. This paper briefly reviews the metabolic events associated with EPOC, and then examines how this approach can be applied to address questions of how behavioral variables associated with locomotion (activity duration, intensity, frequency) can influence the energetic costs to the animal per unit distance. Using data for lizards, mice, and others, EPOC can be shown to be the major component of energetic costs when durations are short, regardless of exercise intensity. Brief activity is much more expensive by this measure than is steady state locomotion, regardless of phylogeny or body mass. Three studies of intermittent locomotion provide evidence that brief behaviors can be undertaken at lower metabolic costs than predicted from single bouts of activity when repeated in a frequent, repeated pattern. Metabolic savings appear greatest when the pause period between behaviors is short relative to EPOC duration, the time for organismal metabolic rate to return to pre-exercise levels, although longer pause periods may increase endurance.
3882052|Endosymbiotic algae in hydra release photosynthetically fixed carbon to the host which augments the animals nutrition during starvation. The algae may acquire metabolites from hydra as a source of nutrition when the animals are maintained in the dark. The kind of algae acquired by aposymbiotic hydra is determined by a recognition phenomenon involving the hosts digestive cells and potential endosymbionts. The size of the algal population is related to the necessity of light for maximum algal multiplication, the rate of cell division in hydra, and the potential for heterotrophy by the algae.
3882471|Son of a country physician, Edwin Grant Conklin grew up in central Ohio and was educated along traditional lines. A decision to enter biology as a profession came only after three years of teaching a variety of subjects in a private school. Graduate study at Johns Hopkins and summer research opportunities at Woods Hole were the doors to a richly productive career as scholar, author and administrator. His research works in embryology and cytology gained him great eminence. An important theme in much of his work was the role of the cytoplasm in development. He wrote extensively on evolution and other subjects of general interest, among them science and religion, and the nature of man.
3881453|A broad comparative survey has been made correlating ultrastructure of cross-striated fibers with contractile properties in both invertebrates and vertebrates. Most of the muscles were found to be heterogeneous in fiber-composition as indicated by: length of sarcomere, extent of SR, number of invaginating tubules, numbers of mitochondria, etc. Z discs and M bands have markedly different structures in different fibers. The general concept of the "fibrillar" nature of striated muscle is challenged. It is suggested that following excitation the responses of individual sarcomeres, or parts of sarcomeres, are relatively independent. The possibility that all striated muscles contain a very thin elastic filament in parallel with actin and myosin, which may also be contractile, is raised.
3881758|Most contemporary authorities on the taxonomy of Coleoptera agree that its three-quarter million described species and subspecies should be placed in three suborders: Archostemata, Adephaga, and Polyphaga. Judged by the absence of males or the occurrence of variant sex ratios, parthenogenesis occurs in all three. Those that have been studied cytologically and a few that can safely be surmised are discussed with reference to their probable origin and evolutionary significance.
3884476|Eyestalk neuroendocrine factors control specific yolk protein synthesis in the ovaries of the shrimp, Penaeus vannamei. A bioassay was developed to measure specific yolk protein synthesis in vitro. The eyestalk neuroendocrine complex may also produce a peptide capable of stimulation of yolk synthesis.
3883385|On behavioral, hormonal, and physiological grounds, mammalian reproduction can be compartmentalized into the following continuous sequence of events: mating (courtship, estrous), gestation, parturition, lactation, post-lactational parental care, and maternal recovery. We point out that comparing the relative allocation of energy for these events across mammals is difficult because of life history variability (e.g., litter size, birth weight), allometry, phylogeny, and individual variation. We review the empirical and theoretical literature on each of these events with respect to: different methodologies in measuring energy use; broad patterns of energy consumption across diverse mammalian taxa; and, identification of particular reproductive characteristics (e.g., birthing, parental care) which may be costly but have yet to receive energetic measurements. Although most studies have considered gestation and lactation the critical reproductive events for energy expenditure, variation in these events is substantial and almost certainly is a function of relative allocation of time to gestation vs. lactation as well as the presumed energetic costs of mating, birthing and parental care. In addition, repeated observations show that behavioral compensation is an extremely important strategy for minimizing energy requirements during reproduction. From this review, we argue that more complete analyses will come from (1) incorporating energetic measurements in studies of mammalian behavior and (2) including mechanisms of behavioral compensation into physiological studies.
3882398|Evolution of the avian egg from the naked, amniotic egg of ancestral reptiles probably was the outcome of intense predation by soil invertebrates and microbes on a highly integrated and coadapted complex of characters. The calcareous shell, which from its inception afforded a measure of protection to eggs against attacks by soil organisms, became progressively thicker and more complex in the face of continuing selection for antipredator devices. However, increases in thickness and complexity of eggshells led to simultaneous reductions in the amount of liquid water that could be absorbed by incubating eggs from the substrate. Because embryos initially were dependent upon uptake of substantial quantities of water from the environment to satisfy their needs for this solvent, adaptive increases in thickness of the eggshell required coupled increases in the amount of water contained by eggs at oviposition, thereby reducing the degree of dependence of embryos upon external sources of water for successful completion of development. The rigid-shelled eggs resulting from this evolutionary sequence absorbed little (if any) liquid water during incubation, and the eggs contained sufficient water at oviposition to sustain embryos to hatching. Such eggs were functionally cleidoic and had attained an avian level of organization.
3882294|Two clusters of neurons, the bag cells, associated with the central nervous system of Aplysia californica play an essential role in the induction of egg laying by the animal. Studies concerned with the morphology, electrophysiology, biochemistry, and function of these cells are reviewed and discussed. The unusually favorable characteristics of this preparation suit it for development as a model neuroendocrine effector system.
3882587|Carcinonemertes errans is a nemertean worm, the juveniles of which are found as epibionts on the Dungeness crab, Cancer magister, in close association with the arthrodial membranes of the crabs. The juvenile nemerteans appear to have no means of taking in particulate food but survive for many months on the surface of the host. We show that the juvenile C. errans are capable of removing amino acids from dilute solution in sea water, that the water near the arthrodial membranes where the worms are found contains high concentrations of primary amines, and that there is a low resistance pathway for low molecular weight amino acids across the arthrodial membrane examined in vitro.
3881680|Clionid sponges are noted for their capacity to bore into calcareous substrates. During penetration the substrate is gradually destroyed as the sponge hollows out an extensive system of cavities and tunnels. Preliminary studies revealed that these excavations are produced as small fragments of calcareous material are removed by a special type of amoebocyte which exhibits an etching activity. Cellular penetration occurs along the interface where these cells contact the substrate and is characterized by a unique pattern of cell-substrate relationships. Each active cell releases a substance which dissolves the substrate around its edge, forming a linear etching which corresponds in size and shape to the contours of the cell. Deeper etching occurs as the cell edge, moving gradually downward through the initial etching, sinks into the substrate in a noose-like fashion. During this movement the cell border is drawn down through the slit-like crevice cut by the cell edge, while the nucleus remains in position on the surface of the substrate within the original etched outline. Eventually the undercutting action is completed and a small chip is freed from the substrate. Penetration is achieved by the precise cellular release of a chemical agent which dissolves the calcareous substrate along restricted zones of contact between cell and substrate.
3883174|Five approaches to the study of behavior as a factor in the population biology of rodents are outlined. These approaches are: (1) genetics, (2) physiology, (3) chronobiology, (4) behavioral ecology and sociobiology, and (5) the use of intra- and inter-specific comparisons. For each approach selected examples from the recent literature, from this symposium and from my own work are used to illustrate the new directions that are emerging for analyzing behavior as a factor affecting natality, mortality and emigration/immigration in rodents. Areas where additional investigations are needed are noted including some questions to be tested by future experiments. A variety of new techniques that have been developed or are innovative applications of existing techniques are incorporated into the examples. Most of the material presented concerns four genera of rodents, Microtus, Mus, Peromyscus, and Rattus. The following major conclusions emerge from an overview of these approaches: Most recent research on behavior as a factor in rodent population biology has been concerned primarily with natality. Few investigators have dealt with mortality and only a limited number have explored emigration/immigration. Field and laboratory studies on behavioral aspects of rodent population biology have become more integrated than they were several decades ago. Both proximate and ultimate questions about behavior and population dynamics are now being tested by both laboratory and field methods. In contrast to some earlier approaches that often viewed population control as involving a single factor, most emerging conceptual frameworks have, as a major assumption, that population regulation is a multi-factorial process including many behavioral components.
3884062|The primary objectives of this paper are to define, explore the environmental factors favoring, and discuss hypotheses concerning the endocrine bases of two important arctic breeding strategies that we call spatial and temporal opportunism. We identify several species that display spatial opportunism in the Arctic, and one that displays temporal opportunism. In spatial opportunism, breeding may be highly seasonal but the locality where individuals breed may change from year to year as a result of unpredictable spatial distribution of food, nest site availability, or other factors such as predator abundance. We suggest that flexibility of the transition from migration to settlement distinguishes spatial opportunists from site-faithful migrants. Thus far, data are available for only two hypotheses regarding the endocrine basis of this flexibility. Circulating patterns of testosterone (associated with territory establishment) and corticosterone (associated with migratory activity) appear not to be involved in the regulation of spatial opportunism in white-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii), but more detailed study is necessary. In temporal opportunism (that may occur simultaneously with spatial opportunism), temporally variable food availability apparently selects for the capacity to initiate reproduction across a wide portion of the year. Tonic activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis could provide a mechanism to minimize the delay between discovery of abundant food and onset of nesting in any season. However, the evidence for one arctic temporal opportunist, the white-winged crossbill (Loxia leucoptera), indicates that the HPG axis is not tonically active, but probably switches off (i.e., becomes photorefractory) in autumn, as for other birds breeding at these latitudes. Opportunistic breeding very early in the year (e.g., March near Fairbanks, Alaska) is associated with increased luteinizing hormone secretion, probably in response to a combination of abundant food and social stimuli, after refractoriness dissipates. We have taken the first step of identifying spatial and temporal opportunism as important phenomena in the Arctic, and discussing hypotheses related to endocrine mechanisms. Future research should identify specific environmental cues involved, and elucidate the neuroendocrine and endocrine mechanisms underlying these two reproductive strategies.
3881590|During the past 10 years considerable information has accumulated on the electrochemical relationships of higher plant cells during transport of mineral ions. Using the Nernst equation as a criterion, none of eight ions ( K
4620171|Larvae of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, live within necrotic fruit, a challenging environment in which larvae can experience severe thermal stress. One response to thermal stress, the expression of heat-shock proteins (Hsps), has evolved distinctively in this species; the gene encoding Hsp70 has undergone extensive duplication and accounts for the bulk of Hsps that are expressed upon heat shock. Genetic engineering of hsp70 copy number is sufficient to affect thermotolerance at some (but not all) life stages. Increases in Hsp70, moreover, can protect intact larvae against thermal inactivation of the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase and thermal inhibition of feeding. Deleterious consequences of high levels of Hsp70, however, may limit further evolutionary proliferation of hsp70 genes. These findings illustrate how the perspectives of integrative and comparative biology, if applied to even well-studied model organisms, can lead to novel findings.
3883189|The mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus, was first used in the laboratory as a source of ripe eggs and sperm to provide developing bony-fish eggs. These in turn were used mostly to study embryological processes and responses to various chemicals. Other investigations at the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth centuries dealt with regeneration, developmental genetics and hybridization, osmoregulation, behavior, and pigmentation, especially color change. Except for experiments on chromatophore control, endocrinological studies did not get underway until the 1930s. They have included the functioning of the thyroid, adrenal, and pineal glands, and the endocrine control of reproduction, growth, osmoregulation, and calcium metabolism. Among more recently studied subjects are survival at subzero temperatures, adaptation to stress, weightless orientation in space, circadian rhythms, and the bioassay of the exophthalmos-producing substance of man as well as other physiologically active factors. The single attribute of the mummichog that has been most responsible for its remarkable popularity as a laboratory animal is its hardiness in captivity. Despite the fact that it is not widely available like the goldfish, is not easily bred in aquaria like the livebearing guppy, and has no value as a food or game fish like the trout, the mummichog has made a most substantial contribution to experimental biology.
3881937|This review summarizes currently available information on the composition and structure of vertebrate insulins and proinsulins. Consideration is given to the important structural features of insulin and its precursor that are involved in the function and formation of the active hormone. Studies on the biosynthesis of insulin in teleost fishes indicate the existence of larger single chain precursor forms similar to the mammalian proinsulins. Preliminary results of experiments on insulin biosynthesis in the hagfish (Myxine glutinosa), which has the most primitive islet parenchyma of all vertebrates, indicate the existence of a similar biosynthetic mechanism. The major storage product in the B-cells in all the vertebrate species studies thus far is insulin rather than proinsulin. In fishes an intracellular tryspin-like enzyme may suffice to convert proinsulin to insulin, while in mammals a more complex mechanism involving both an endopeptidase and an exopeptidase is probably required. Conversion occurs within the Golgi apparatus and newly formed secretory granules in the B-cells. The similarity to the higher vertebrates in the biosynthesis and molecular structure of insulin in the primitive hagfish indicates that the properties and biological role of this hormone have remained fairly constant throughout several hundred million years, or that its evolution has followed the same pattern in most extant organisms despite considerable differences in their origin and living conditions. A hypothesis for the evolution of insulin and of the B-cells based on the biosynthetic mechanism involving proinsulin and its conversion to insulin is briefly considered.
3881710|The North American marsupial, Didelphys virginiana, has proved to be uniquely suited for studies of replacement of mammalian limb. The newborn opossum provides the rare opportunity to perform chronic experiments on extremely young mammalian limbs. Since this marsupial is born without lymphocytes, xenoplastic as well as homoplastic transplants are tolerated; supplementary nerve tissue was transplanted to newborn hindlimbs and the limbs were amputated immediately above the ankle. When the implant remained in place, a regenerative response ensued. Results of control experiments indicate that neither the trauma of simple amputation, the trauma of implantation, nor the implantation of other tissues can evoke the response which results after implanting nerve tissue. These studies demonstrate that young opossum limbs are capable of regenerating when additional nervous tissue is supplied.
3881494|Methods for photographing spider silk without intense light or a reflective coating have been devised which permit appropriate exposure for both the spider and the thread in the same picture. Patterns of light scattering which may prove useful in other studies were observed.
3883770|The mammalian chorioallantoic placenta is an extremely complex and structurally diverse organ. To better understand the placenta a number of classification schemes have been devised. Classification on the basis of gross form or shape recognizes four major categories-diffuse, cotyledonary, zonary and discoid. Another important classification scheme is based on the number of tissue layers separating the maternal and fetal vascular systems in the placenta. On this basis, three major types of placentas are recognized-epitheliochorial, endotheliochorial and hemochorial. In many species, pathways in addition to the chorioallantoic placenta exist for maternal-fetal exchange. Some species have a yolk sac placenta functioning concurrently with the chorioallantoic placenta whereas in some other species exchange may occur across a chorioamnion. Some species have accessory or paraplacental structures which function in nutrient exchange; these include hemophagous regions and areolae. In the final sections, I review how these different structural specializations come into play to accomplish a particular function, namely that of iron transfer to the fetus. There are at least four different mechanisms by which different species accomplish iron transfer to the fetus. These include 1) absorption of maternal transferrin-bound iron by the placenta; 2) absorption of iron by the yolk sac; 3) phagocytosis of maternal erythrocytes and 4) absorption of iron-rich uterine secretions by accessory placental structures.
3883599|In lek breeding Sage Grouse Centrocercus urophasianus in eastern California, male mating success is strongly correlated with individual differences in lek attendance, and in the rate and acoustic quality of courtship display, suggesting that these provide cues by which females choose mates. Increased lek attendance and high display rates are also associated with elevated metabolic expenditure. This paper examines the hypothesis that the ability to commit energy to display is related to the incidence of blood parasites. A single hematozoan genus, Haemoproteus, was found in 37.5% of 184 Sage Grouse sampled over a five year period. Parasitism varied across years and increased through the breeding season. However, no measure of display performance or mating success was significantly correlated with decreased parasite load among adult males. Several additional lines of evidence, including numerically low infection intensities, the absence of detectable effects of parasites on hematocrit and erythrocyte production, and the seasonal distribution of parasite incidence all suggested that infections were unlikely to impact male courtship display. Alternative factors maintaining individual variation in male display performance in this population are also evaluated.
3881621| Numerous experiments have implicated the crustacean hepatopancreas as a target of the molting hormone, and recent studies strongly suggest that -ecdysone is the crustacean molting hormone. For example, -ecdysone can elicit molting in inter-molt crustaceans and stimulates the synthesis of protein and RNA in the hepatopancreas. When
3882936| -Melanotropin (-MSH) is a tridecapeptide,
3884377|This paper reviews our current understanding of the relationship between the structures and properties of the tissues of the spine and their mechanical functions. Emphasis is on the human lumbar spine. Vertebrae consist of a core of cancellous bone (low density) surrounded by a shell of cortical bone (high stiffness); as a result they have high stiffness but low mass. The intervertebral disc is able to withstand compression because of the swelling pressure exerted by the nucleus pulposus which is constrained, radially, by the annulus fibrosus. Thus the disc acts as a thick-walled pressure vessel. Collagen fibers within the annulus provide reinforcement during compression, bending and torsion of the disc. Collagen fibers also provide tensile reinforcement and prevent tears spreading across ligaments. The ligamenta flava contain elastic fibers (low stiffness and low strength) with collagen fibers (high stiffness and high strength). In the unstretched ligamenta flava, the collagen fibers have almost random orientations but they become aligned as the ligament is stretched. This structure enables the high extensibility of elastic fibers to be exploited but protects them from damage at high strains. The structure of the interspinous ligament suggests that its main function is to attach the thoracolumbar fascia to the posterior spine. Thus the fascia is maintained in tension when stretched by the abdominal muscles. This and other observations indicate the importance of muscles for maintaining the stability of the spinal column.
3884089|Temperate fresh waters of eastern North America were invaded in the late 1980s by two bivalve species, the zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) and the quagga mussel (D. bugensis). The point of origin of zebra mussels is unknown because they are widespread throughout western and eastern Europe, but the quagga mussel is confined to the Dnieper and Bug rivers in the Ukraine. Both species are highly variable in shell morphology. Zebra mussel color and pattern morphs defy classification, but at least one distinct pattern is found only in the Aral-Caspian region and North American populations. An extremely pale, laterally compressed quagga morph is found in eastern Lake Erie and southern Lake Ontario, but has not been noted in the Ukraine. Allozyme electrophoresis has revealed extraordinarily high levels of genetic variability in the zebra mussel. Average heterozygosities range from 27.0 to 43.5%, compared to 9.7 to 14.5% in the quagga mussel. Two surveys of North American and European populations indicated that little variability was lost when zebra mussels were transported to North America. Therefore, either the invader population was comprised of a large number of individuals, and/or more than one source population contributed to the invasion. No genetic differentiation among populations has occurred in North America in the nine years since the first invasion. Zebra mussels, like many bivalves, demonstrate heterozygote deficiencies at some loci. A weak correlation has been found between individual heterozygosity and shell length. The need for identification of enzymes, loci, and allelic mobilities to allow comparison of genetic data among studies is stressed, as is the need for vouchering specimens. Fruitful areas for future research include elucidation of dreissenid taxonomy and status of putative subspecies, monitoring for the potential invasion of the saline tolerant D. rostriformis grimmi into North American estuarine waters, and ecological and physiological comparison of extreme morphs such as the normal and profundal quagga mussels.
3883337|Although the data described in this paper are from a traditional experimental animal, the cat, the problem addressed is applicable to many forms of motor control in a broad range of species. In general, we are trying to understand how the musculo-skeletal structure of a body component imposes constraints on how that component is controlled by the central nervous system. Our approach to this problem has been to develop a theoretical model of sensory-motor integration in complex systems where movement is produced by a large number of muscles and then to test whether that model can predict the patterns of neck muscle activity that underlie head movements. The resulting theoretical interpretation of physiological data sheds light on the organization of head movement control in the cat and also reveals a number of fundamental principles that must be considered in trying to characterize and understand any sensory-motor system.
3882584|Studies on the role of dissolved organic material in the nutrition of marine invertebrates have largely been confined to adults. However larval forms, with a higher surface area to volume ratio, have a greater weight specific capacity for absorbing dissolved organic material than adults. Autoradiographic, biochemical, and kinetic experiments with bivalve larvae all indicate that amino acid uptake and translocation mechanisms can operate efficiently at naturally occurring substrate concentrations. The mechanisms operate throughout the life-span of the animal, from fertilized egg to adult. Experimental evidence is presented to show that the kinetics of uptake by larvae allow them to compete with bacteria for dissolved organic material in sea water. In larvae, supplementary sources of energy may be more important than in adults since larvae are provided with minimal food reserves by the parent and must pass through periods when particulate feeding cannot occur.
3882275|Gastrointestinal (GI) tracts from four anuran and four urodele species were examined macroscopically and histologically from the esophagus to the cloaca. Anatomic observations were facilitated by treating the GI tracts with acetic acid, a procedure which removes gut epithelium and exposes underlying structures. Histologic analysis involved routine as well as specific histochemical techniques. Detailed observations reveal that anuran amphibians possess nodular, well-organized gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) throughout their GI tracts. In striking contrast, no such patterns of lymphoid tissue have been noted in the Urodela. Similar techniques have revealed the location of lymphoid tissues in the urogenital system (e.g., cloaca and bladder) of advanced anurans. These nodules appear to be lacking in the primitive anuran Xenopus and in all the urodele species we examined. Preliminary observations have confirmed GALT and urogenital-associated lymphoid tissues in the snapping turtle.
3882156| A new approach in the understanding of the role of the two molting hormones, -ecdysone and -ecdysone, in disc development is described. A new culture medium has been developed which allows discs, with either hormone, to undergo all steps of metamorphosis. Time-lapse cinematographic and scanning electron microscopic analysis of the mechanism of evagination led to the conclusion that cells probably do not move extensively with respect to one another. In contrast, changes in cell shape appear to play a major role in this process. 
3882585|Deep-sea sediments contain less particulate organic matter and lower biomass than shallow-water sediments, but the dissolved organic matter in pore water varies less with depth and may provide a significant food source for deep-sea benthos. Pogonophora are a phylum of predominantly deep-sea animals, all without an internal digestive system. Experiments show that one or two species ought to be able to live by uptake of dissolved organic matter from pore water in deep-sea deposits: some other species may need local enrichment of the habitat for such uptake to be useful. Less is known about nutrition of other deep-sea animals, but dissolved organic matter may supplement a conventional diet in several groups. Chemoautotrophy, using endosymbiotic bacteria, may be important for the large vestimentiferan Pogonophora in the high-sulfide conditions of the hydrothermal vents.
3881851|The large Retzius cells are serotonin-containing neurons whose impulse activity controls the secretion of mucus from the skin of leeches. Serotonin elicits the secretion of mucus without any apparent synaptic transfers in either the central or peripheral nervous systems. Such a secretogogue function may be more general as serotonin controls the secretion of mucus from the gastro-intestinal tract of mammals and from the ciliated gills of bivalved molluscs. Furthermore, the qualitative and quantitative distribution of serotonin in molluscs, annelids, arthropods, and vertebrates corresponds approximately with mucosecretory structures. Serotonin appears also to control other secretory functions in some of these animals. It is proposed therefore that serotonin might often function in controlling secretion.
3883879|The sustainable use of wild species by local people is emerging as an important conservation strategy. The premise is the economic value of species will justify their own preservation as well as the habitats they occupy. However, the lack of natural history and demographic information for the majority of species being exploited or with potential uses presents challenging problems for implementing sustainable use programs. Each year in Argentina and Paraguay, an average of 1.9 million tegu lizards of the genus Tupinambis are exploited for their skins. In spite of the importance of tegus as a resource, their biology is poorly known and their populations have never been managed. The life history of Tupinambis, like that of other exploited lizards, is characterized by a relatively long life span, a large clutch size, several years of growth before reproduction, and high mortality of hatchlings. Importantly, the mortality of young-of-the-year and the proportion of females reproducing each year are both probably strongly influenced by interannual environmental variation. When these parameters were randomized in life table projections to simulate the effects of environmental stochasticity, the population growth rate was highly sensitive to environmental fluctuations. Monte Carlo simulations of different harvest strategies showed that estimates of population growth rates were overwhelmingly influenced by environmental variation and the number of years included in the growth rate estimate, even in the face of seemingly large changes in adult mortality that would result from population management. These results are both encouraging and cautionary for Tupinambis conservation. On the one hand these patterns can help explain how Tupinambis populations may have persisted in spite of high and variable harvest levels during many years, but conversely, stochastic effects make it difficult to evaluate the effects of conservation measures. Size and sex can be determined from harvested skins, and pilot studies suggest that analyses of the annual harvest can provide valuable information for evaluating long-term population trends.
3884543|Three primary factors contribute to locomotory speed changes in the pteropod mollusk Clione limacina. (1) An increase in cycle frequency of locomotory appendages is associated with a baseline depolarization and enhancement of postinhibitory rebound in central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons, and a reorganization of the CPG through recruitment of additional interneurons. (2) An increase in the force of appendage movements is generated through enhancement of activity of active motoneurons, recruitment of additional motoneurons and peripheral modulation of swim musculature. (3) Changes in biomechanical aspects of appendage movements are presumably achieved, at least in part, through changes in the activity of motoneurons and swim muscle. All changes associated with nonstartle swim acceleration are produced by a serotonergic arousal system that acts at all three levels of the swimming system: CPG interneurons, motoneurons and swim musculature.
3882180|Pattern formation in molluscs is illustrated by the example of the larval head pattern of gastropods. The egg cell at the beginning of development is provided with a spatial pattern of developmental factors lying in the surface membrane, by which the main axes of the future embryo and the frame of reference of ooplasmic segregation are determined. Ooplasmic segregation leads to a gradient-like distribution of pole plasm substance along the main axis and to the formation of RNA-rich granula in the vegetative cells, which play a part in the induction of bilateral symmetry in the animal hemisphere. The pattern of larval head organs arises by interaction of the axial gradient and a dorsoventral concentration gradient of an inductive substance.
3882431|Wider attention to Fry's (1947) "final preferendum" paradigm would facilitate comparative studies of temperature preference (behavioral thermoregulation) among different animal groups. According to Fry's bipartite definition, the final preferendum is that temperature at which preference and acclimation are equal, and to which an animal in a thermal gradient will finally gravitate regardless of its prior thermal experience (acclimation). This paradigm is helpful in distinguishing between acute thermal preferenda (measured within 2 hr or less after placing an animal in a thermal gradient), which are influenced by acclimation temperature, and the species-specific final preferendum (measured 24-96 hr after placement in the gradient), which is essentially independent of prior acclimation because reacclimation occurs during the gravitation process. The paradigm does not take into account non-thermal acclimatization influences (e.g., season, photoperiod, age, light intensity, salinity, disease, nutrition, pollutants, biotic interactions) which can also affect temperature preference. However, a graph of acutely preferred temperatures versus acclimation temperatures can be employed to determine an equivalent acclimation temperature for any given acclimatization state, as a simple means of quantifying acclimatization states resulting from interactions of many influences. This paradigm, developed for use with fishes, can also be applied to other ectothermic taxa, although it is most easily employed with aquatic organisms because of the simplicity of specifying aquatic thermal environments in terms of water temperature alone. Methodologies used in studies of behavioral thermoregulation should take the paradigm into account (especially with respect to length of tests) to enhance the comparative value of data across taxa.
3882404|Many morphological and physiological parameters of avian eggs are known to be correlated with fresh egg weight, i.e., to exhibit allometric relationships. It has been predicted that part of the variability around some of these allometric relationships is the result of adaptations to incubation periods of different lengths. I performed multiple regressions of three of these parameters (the rate of water loss in the nest, conductance of the shell to gases, and the rate of O
3884277| The integuments of extant vertebrates display a variety of epidermal appendages whose patterns, morphology and terminal differentiation (epidermal keratins) depend upon interactions between ectodermal (epidermis) and mesodermal (dermis) tissues. In reptiles and birds, appendage morphogenesis precedes terminal differentiation. Studies have demonstrated that appendage morphogenesis influences the expression of the appendage specific keratin genes. However, little is known about the nature of the structural genes expressed by the epidermal appendages of reptiles. How pattern formation and/or appendage morphogenesis influence terminal differentiation of reptilian appendages is not known. The epidermal appendages of reptiles and birds are characterized by the presence of both alpha () and beta () type keratin proteins. Studies have focused on the genes of avian  keratins because they are the major structural proteins of feathers. The occurrence of  keratin proteins in the scales and claws of both birds and reptiles and their immunological cross-reactivity suggest that the genes for reptilian  keratins may be homologous with those of birds. In bird appendages, the  keratins are the products of a large family of homologous genes. Specific members of this gene family are expressed during the development of each appendage. Recent sequence analyses of feather  keratins, from different orders of birds, demonstrate that there is more diversity at the DNA level than was implied by earlier protein sequencing studies. Immunological techniques show that the same antibodies that react with the epidermal  keratins of the chicken (Gallus domesticus) react with the epidermal  keratins of American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). Furthermore, a peptide sequence (20 amino acids) from an alligator claw  keratin is similar to a highly conserved region of avian claw, scale, feather, and feather-like  keratins. These observations suggest that the  keratin genes of avian epidermal appendages have homologues in the American alligator. Understanding the origin and evolution of the  keratin gene families in reptiles and birds will undoubtedly add to our understanding of the evolution of skin appendages such as scales and feathers. 
3881684|The boring mechanisms of species of polydorid polychaetes are little understood due to lack of experimental evidence and direct observations. In the present studies the boring mechanism of adults and metamorphosing larvae of Polydora websteri was investigated by (1) inducing adults and larvae to settle against test substrates, (2) observing behavior in natural burrows and in "artificial blisters" composed of transparent "Pliobond" films surrounding Iceland spar substrates, (3) removing the giant setae of worms prior to tests of boring, (4) applying the giant setae to substrates, and by (5) testing for production of acid. All the layers of oyster shell, including conchiolin, were bored. Calcareous substrates and Iceland spar were penetrated rapidly by adults without the assistance of the giant setae. Nor were these organs essential to the boring of a larva. A characteristic type of behavior involving close contact with the substrate during backwards and forwards movements and periods of immobility always preceded boring. The worms produced acid, probably some common product of metabolism, which can account for these results.
3884354|Somatostatins are a diverse family of peptide hormones that regulate a vast array of biological processes in vertebrates, including the modulation of growth, development, and metabolism. The multi-functional nature of the somatostatin family arises from the an elaborate, multi-faceted signaling system consisting of somatostatin signaling molecules, G-protein-coupled receptors, and cellular effector pathways. A striking aspect of this signaling system is the substantial diversity at every level. The signal molecules themselves display considerable structural heterogeneity. This molecular heterogeneity results from tissue-specific differential processing of a single large precursor protein (preprosomatostatin) as well as from the existence of multiple somatostatin genes, each giving rise to different precursors. In addition, numerous SS receptor subtypes have been characterized (five in mammals), some of which exhibit preferential binding to one ligand form over another. Propagation of the signal results from linkage of the receptors via numerous types of G-proteins to several different cellular effector pathways, including adenylyl cyclase, various protein kinases, numerous ion channels, and phospholipase C/inositol-3-phosphate. Ultimately, a particular response in a given target cell may be determined by structural interactions between and among the various elements of the signaling system.
3883835|Four adult females of the katydid Lirometopum coronatum Scudder (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae: Copiphorinae) were collected at night near the Old Lab building at Finca La Selva Research Station in Costa Rica 12-14 April 1983. From laboratory observations, this katydid appears to be primarily nocturnal and carnivorous. These and subsequent generations (through F3) were maintained in the Insect Zoo at the San Francisco Zoological Garden from April 1983 to December 1985. Propagation methods were developed. Life history and behavior data were recorded: F1 females ranged in adult body size from 46 mm to 55 mm; adult ovipositor length ranged from 19 mm to 27 mm; from hatching to death ranged from 189 to 301 days; with an average life span of 239. Males ranged in adult body size from 41 mm to 47 mm; age ranged from 164 to 390 days; with an average life span of 308 days. Both stridulation and leaf shaking was observed in males.
3883199|Animals faced with environmental perturbations must adapt or face extinction. The respiratory complex, specifically hemoglobins, is perhaps the best system to study such adaptation because it exists at the organism-environment interface. Fish are particularly useful models because they respond directly to such environmental variables as temperature, oxygen, pH, carbon dioxide, and salinity. Our experiments have addressed the molecular, cellular, and physiological mechanisms employed by fish to maintain respiratory homeostasis in the wake of changing temperature and oxygen. Immediate, intermediate, and long-term adaptation can only be understood when the hemoglobin's ligand binding properties and the cellular and hormonal regulation of various ligands are considered simultaneously. We describe a detailed thermodynamic model for the binding of oxygen, protons, and organic phosphates to hemoglobin; discuss the role of multiple hemoglobins; and present evidence for physiological and genetic regulation of hemoglobin's major allosteric modifiers in response to environmental stress in the mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus.
3882407|Theoretical predictions and experiments on eggs of domesticated birds indicate that the diffusion coefficient of gases is inversely proportional to barometric pressure. Therefore, potentially lethal losses of CO
3882417| The heart of the American lobster, Homarus americanus, represents a relatively simple nerve-muscle system. A nine-celled cardiac ganglion functions to initiate the contractions of the transversely striated myocardium. To describe the development of this nerve-muscle system, hearts of lobster embryos in different stages of development have been examined with an electron microscope. The heart wall consists of an outer adventitial layer of fibroblast cells and an inner layer of transversely striated myocardial cells. Adjacent fibroblast cells form fasciae adherent and gap junctions. Intercalated discs and membrane regions of close apposition (4 nm) occur between adjacent myocardial cells. A cardiac ganglion that contains nine neurons and synaptic neuropil is present. Neuromuscular synapses occur in the myocardium. Cells that we have termed storage cells contain dense cytoplasmic inclusions that resemble yolk material and form gap junctions with myocardial cells. The heart at six weeks is about 200 m long and 160 m wide; at six months it is 300 and 250 m respectively. The myocardium grows by an increase in the size and in the number of myocardial cells. The myocardium contains pre-myoblast, myoblast and well-differentiated myocardial cells. Sarcomere formation occurs first adjacent to the inner surface of the sarcolemma where the myofilaments align and anchor. Distinct A and I bands appear first, followed by the Z lines. The myocardium is sparsely innervated when the initial heartbeats occur; a preliminary quantitative analysis has shown that three days later, the density of innervation has increased six-fold. 
3882842|Human ecology, specifically the population-resource-environment dilemma, should be given thorough coverage in every introductory biology course. To aid educators in integrating it into the course, the subject is outlined here and suggestions are given on what topics should be emphasized and how they might be introduced to students. Special attention is given to the fundamental role of population growth in the dilemma, and to the complex interactions among population growth, depletion of resources, and environmental deterioration. Today's human population size appears to be above the long-term carrying capacity of Earth, and is only maintained (albeit often badly) by the exploitation of a "one-time bonanza" of fertile soils, fossil fuels, concentrated ores, ground water, and other species of organisms. If current trends continue, the depletion of these resources will progressively degrade the human environment, destroying the capacity of natural ecosystems to supply civilization with indispensible services. The results will be in increasing frequency and severity of disasters, especially famines, that will at first most seriously affect the poor. But the rich will increasingly be impoverished, and be engulfed also. The basic solution to the dilemma is reduction of the size of the human population to one well below the long-term carrying capacity (one living on resource "income" rather than "capital") and establishing an equitable society with a sustainable economic system.
3881932|Sound as a communicating medium has been utilized by at least five classes of vertebrates. Non-vocal sounds have developed independently, involve many different parts of the body, and show no particular pattern of structure or function. The main source of sound production in tetrapods is related to modifications of the respiratory system. The larynx develops as a sound producer in amphibians, and is used by reptiles and mammals. The glottis functions as a valve regulating air flow. Vocal folds or cords function in sound formation in some amphibians and mammals. The voice-producing syrinx of birds is analogous, and shows adaptive radiation within the class, while the larynx remains simple. Other accessory structures and cavities appear to be of independent origin in tetrapods. The central nervous nuclei show parallels between fish and tetrapods, and the peripheral nerves seem to be fairly constant to the vocal muscles. Some possible experimental studies are suggested to complete a study of the vocal apparatus.
3881501|This report lists the most important venomous spiders of South America, describes their behavior, gives quantities of venoms extracted from living spiders, and relates the results of studies on toxicity conducted at the Instituto Butantan.
3882091|Growth and mortality rates and maximum sizes are examined for 16 urchin species using, primarily, values from the literature. A positive correlation exists between the Brody-Bertalanffy growth constant K and the instantaneous natural mortality rate M: those urchins which approach maximum size very rapidly also have a high mortality rate. It is proposed that this relationship is the result of the way particular species allocate resources. Those species in which individuals grow rapidly and expend a large fraction of their resources on reproduction have less to spend on maintenance. The result of this allocation is that these individuals suffer a decreased probability of survival. Predictable recruitment success is suggested as the factor which determines whether a species can persist with fast growth and short life.
3882280|Autosomal recessive pituitary dwarf mutants of the Snell-Bagg and Ames mouse strains develop severe immunodeficiency of the thymus-dependent (T cell) system which frequently leads to a fatal wasting syndrome. The ontogenetic development of the T cell system is already subnormal soon after birth as evidenced by diminished responsiveness of thymus and spleen cells to phytohemagglutinin and concanavalin A. The immunodeficiency of the dwarf mouse is a consequence of defective pituitary influences which will cause (i) an inadequate production of immunocompetent cells due to a central developmental defect primarily affecting the thymus, and (ii) the inability of immunocompetent cells to undergo a rapid and efficient antigen-induced proliferation and differentiation into antibody-forming cells. The lack of epinephrine-induced stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in dwarf spleen and thymus cells suggests that the impaired lymphoid cell proliferation in dwarf mice may be due to inadequate stimulation of cyclic AMP production.
3881878|A female specific protein is found in queens, workers, and gynandromorphs of several species of social Hymenoptera. Possibly it is present also in experimentally produced diploid males, but it could not be found in normal haploid drones. A high titer of the female specific protein (vitellogenin) is found in the hemolymph of honeybee queens during periods of oviposition and even during periods when no eggs are laid. A high titer is also observed in egg-laying workers of the honeybee and the stingless bees. Rates of synthesis of vitellogenin are negatively correlated with the concentration in the hemolymph. In nursing workers rates of vitellogenin synthesis are twice as high as in egg-laying workers. In non-laying workers vitellogenin normally only occurs in the hemolymph of nursing workers; this period of nursing is more extended in A. florea than in A. mellifica, a fact which may signal a more primitive level of female caste differentiation in A. florea. Aspects of genetic, endocrine, and social regulation of vitellogenin synthesis are discussed.
3881354|Tissue mass, rate of protein synthesis, content of ribosomal RNA and rates of synthesis of ribosomal RNA have been studied throughout the molting cycle in the midgut gland, epithelium, and somatic muscle in the land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis. In all tissues there is an increase in ribosomal RNA followed by an increase in the rate of synthesis of protein in the premolt period. Subsequently, the three tissues differed in that (a) in the midgut gland the level of ribosomal RNA and protein synthesis returned to the intermolt rates before ecdysis whether or not the mass of the tissue was increasing or decreasing; (b) ribosomal RNA and protein synthesis in epithelium reached a maximum at a time when epithelial cells reached a maximal size; subsequently, all three parameters decreased toward intermolt levels before ecdysis; (c) ribosomal RNA and protein synthesis reached a maximum in the premolt period in somatic muscle while the muscle was in fact decreasing in mass. Muscle ribosomes are very stable and appear to be conserved for weeks or months to be reused after ecdysis in a second burst of protein synthetic activity at the time when there is replacement and growth of new muscular tissue. The relation of these events with hormonal control of growth is discussed.
3882314|Sexual differentiation of the neural control of reproductive function with respect to both gonadotropin secretion and sexual behavior is thought to result from exposure of the brain to testicular androgens during a very restricted or critical period of CNS differentiation and development, when the tissue is competent to respond to the hormone, and after which it is refractory or responds in a reversible manner. This paper reviews the cellular aspects of sexual differentiation with particular emphasis on the morphological expression of the gonadal hormonal effects in the adult brain. It presents experimental evidence for the morphogenetic basis for the observed steroid effects by showing how the addition of steroid to undifferentiated hypothalamic cultures produces a selective neuritic response that is steroid-dependent. These results suggest that since afferent axonal input and temporal factors are critical for dendritic and synaptic differentiation, steroid-induced variations in neuritic development could result in gender-specific responses seen in sexual differentiation of reproductive function.
3883318|Vertebrate skeletal muscles consist of mixtures of different fibers that can be identified by their selective response to antibodies against fast or slow myosins. At least three developmental forms of myosin are expressed sequentially during normal differentiation. Alteration of the nerve supply by neuromuscular block or by cross-reinnervation can effect a conversion of the myosin pattern, and in some cases, a new myosin is synthesized that is not normally present. Muscle fiber composition is therefore influenced by the type of nerve supply, but the type of myosin is not specified by the motoneuron alone.
3883921|With the current interest in and criticism of Model Systems Research in mind, I review some of the details of a research program at the turn of the century. I present data about career trajectories of the degree recipients in August Weismann's Institute of Zoology, in Freiburg i/Br., Germany. I ennumerate the organisms they use in their research and provide some discussion about the level of analysis performed by certain students bound for academic careers. I conclude that between 1880 and 1912 diversity prevailed in career objectives, research projects, organisms investigated and levels of analysis. This was the diversity of a General Zoology suited to Weismann's primary interests in evolution and the contemporary expectations of academic zoology. This General Zoology contrasts with the organism specific research prevalent at the same institute directed by Hans Spemann between 1918 and 1931. In closing I propose a sequence of historical stages which changed the General Zoology at the beginning of the current century into Model Systems Research at the end.
3881428|A multiple character analysis was undertaken of a broadly representative sample of three species: Canis lupus (wolf), C. latrans (coyote), and C. familiaris (dog). These species are clearly and significantly distinguished by the technique of linear discrimination. The analysis provides a basis for the identification of skulls not obviously distinguishable by size or other diagnostic characters. Early populations of Canis n. niger and C. n. gregoryi (red wolf) are compared with the three species above and are found to form a cluster with lupus and to be sharply distinct from the other two species. Additional comparisons show that while lupus lycaon and niger both overlap with lupus, they are distinct from each other. This entire cluster is quite distinct from latrans, with niger being the farthest removed. A sample population of C. n. gregoryi, from the edge of the extending range of C. latrans, was examined and found to show too great a range of variation to be attributed to a single species.
3883339|Steering during flight in the locust involves complex changes in wingbeat, bending of thorax and head, and ruddering movements of abdomen and hindlegs. Most of these behavioral subcomponents involve coordinated modification of axial and appendicular musculature control. Some of the mechanisms underlying this neural modification have been analysed at the cellular level. During steering via wingbeat, sensory information about course deviations leads to highly coordinated and asymmetric changes in the flight motor's output through the following mechanisms. Identified feature detector neurons in the locust brain integrate sensory information concerning specific types of course deviation. Each of these descending detector neurons makes connections with a population of thoracic interneurons. These thoracic interneurons have two important properties. First, they relay deviation information to flight motoneurons. Second, they are under the gating control of the flight central oscillator. Through this gating control the descending sensory signal is phase-coupled to the flight rhythm and delivered to appropriate flight motoneurons in one and the same step. Although most of the recent cellular studies have been aimed at unraveling the neural basis of wingbeat alterations, similar (but not identical) principles of neural organization seem to be involved in the steering reactions produced by axial motor systems.
3883622|Terrestrial crabs are physiologically rather similar to their aquatic relatives, despite their markedly different access to water and ions. They have high evaporation rates and void vital salts in isosmotic urine. Some of them manage to have fairly miserly water and ion budgets, but others succeed despite profligacy. There is no single solution to the challenges of terrestrial life; each pairing of animal and environment must be seen as a system in which a unique suite of behaviors compensates for limited physiological prowess. By exploiting temporal and spatial variability of available microhabitats, each species assembles a "composite habitat" in which it can balance the "debit" sides of its water and ion budgets with the requisite "credits."
3882780|Many of the invertebrates possess calcium carbonate spicules. This paper is a review of the formation of these structures in the Porifera, Coelenterata, Platyhelminthes, Mollusca, Echinodermata and Ascidiacea. Mature spicules appear to be extracellular structures. Sponge spicules initiate intercellularly then become extracellular. Alcyonarian, turbellarian, echinoid and ascidian spicule deposition begins intracellularly and then becomes extracellular. The continuation of growth in the extracellular environment has not been documented except for the echinoids. Placophoran spicules initiate and remain as extracellular structures. Early spicule growth seems to occur from or within a single cell. However, cell aggregation and/or neighboring cells appear to be important to the process of spicule formation. The spicule forming cells, in general, are found in a collagenous medium which may be associated with spicule growth. The organic matrix from the spicules of the gorgonian Leptogorgia virgulata is a glycoprotein. Autoradiography reveals that this matrix is apparently synthesized in the rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complexes and then transported to the spicule forming vacuole via Golgi vesicles. To gain information about the entry and transport of calcium ions, the effects of ouabain and vanadate on calcium uptake were examined. Ouabain had no effect on calcium uptake. Vanadate treatment increased the uptake of calcium in scleroblasts and epithelial tissue and decreased its uptake in spicules. This may suggest that vanadate sensitive ATPases are involved in the pumping of calcium out of scleroblasts, out of epithelial cells into the mesoglea, and into scleroblast organelles. Autoradiography using
3882670|The distributions and relationships of exemplary species groups of the Neotropical frog genera Cycloramphus and Leptodactylus are discussed in terms of current biogeographic models. From this exercise, the following conclusions emerge: (1) frog biogeography is and will remain primarily a correlative science; (2) both morphological and genetic data are required to choose among alternate biogeographic models; (3) frog speciation events significantly predate recent distributional events complicating the understanding of past and recent distributions; (4) both data and theory are inadequate to completely understand Neotropical frog biogeography at present.
3882051|Two aspects of the chemistry and function of the mesoglea of hydra were studied. (i) Chemical composition: Its component neutral sugars and amino acids were analyzed to determine if this structure contains collagen. (ii) Role in morphogenesis: Hydra were exposed to the lathyrogen 3-aminopropionitrile, an inhibitor of collagen crosslinking, to discover if new cross-linked mesoglea is required for normal regeneration to occur. Large amounts of the neutral sugars glucose and galactose and small amounts of fucose and rhamnose were found, as was the amino sugar glucosamine. Evidence that the major protein component of the mesoglea is collagen was revealed by the detection of hydroxylysine, hydroxyproline, and proline, and of large amounts of glycine. The glucose and galactose are joined as a dimer by an alkali-stable bond to the polypeptide backbone of the collagen. The lathyrogen 3-aminopropionitrile, known to block the assembly of newly synthesized collagen into fibers, causes abnormal head regeneration in hydra. The drug has its maximum effect between 24 and 48 hr after the previous head is removed.
3884314|Phylogenetic approaches have sparked controversy in asteroid systematics since 1987. Despite recent attempts at resolving these differences and evidence of some consensus, our understanding of relationships among asteroid taxa remains unsatisfactory. This paper presents results of an investigation into asteroid evolutionary history using DNA sequence data from mitochondrial transfer RNA and the cytochrome oxidase c subunit I genes analyzed with and without previously published ribosomal gene sequences. Analysis of these genes provides an assessment of familial relationships but does little to elucidate ordinal relationships. A basal position for the Paxillosida is not supported. However, close relationships of some velatid and valvatid taxa are upheld. The resulting phylogenies are not a definitive answer to controversies in asteroid systematics. However, with new insights to some asteroid relationships, they highlight the need for a redirection of future systematic studies so a consensus can be made.
3883428|Many basic biological functions are constrained by the physical properties of the fluids in which organisms live. Here I explore four selected examples in which physical differences between air and water have contributed to the functional divergence of terrestrial and aquatic organisms. 1. Water is about 800 times as dense as air. As a result, while the cost of locomotion is generally less for aquatic organisms, the hydrodynamic forces they encounter are larger. 2. The combined effects of density and viscosity insure that the capture of suspended particles is mechanically more effective on land than in water. 3. The speed of sound is four times greater in water than in air, requiring aquatic organisms to use higher frequency sounds in echolocation systems. 4. The resistivity of air is 16 orders of magnitude larger than that of seawater, which might explain why aquatic animals use electrical sensing organs to detect prey but terrestrial animals do not.
3881419|Crustaceans have adapted to land through various morphological, physiological, biochemical, and behavioral modifications, of which some are shared by all land-dwelling crustaceans and others are unique to animals within a particular habitat. Among the three groups of crustaceans having truly terrestrial members, the amphipods have achieved their success on land primarily by behavioral means, while the isopods and the decapods have developed many morphological, physiological, and biochemical adaptations as well. In all three groups, behavioral modifications ensure that loss of water is minimal, that the animals are exposed to favorable rather than extreme environmental conditions, and that the fine line between evaporative cooling and excessive dehydration is maintained. In most crustaceans the excretion of nitrogenous wastes requires that copious supplies of water be available for washing away the soluble end-products. Yet terrestrial isopods are able to excrete ammonia as a gas, without being subject to toxic side-effects. In decapods, either ammonia or insoluble uric acid may be excreted, with ammonia the more likely product when water is available, uric acid when water is scarce. In adult land crabs water balance is maintained through the concerted action of gills, pericardial sacs, and gut. These organs may take up, store, and redistribute salts and water in response to control exerted by the central nervous system through its secretory products. In larvae of land crabs these organs are not known to function in this way. Rather, the larvae are adapted to cope with osmotic problems of their planktonic existence. Gaseous exchange in adult land crabs is carried on not only by the gills but also by the highly vascularized lining of the branchial chambers, and the hemocyanin of these crabs is adapted to function in the environment peculiar to each species. Terrestrial crabs seem unable to withstand low temperatures, but their high rate of cytochrome c oxidase activity may help them to survive when temperatures are high. Modifications in behavior must have occurred quite early in the transition of crustaceans from sea to land. Then, as now, appropriate behavioral responses to light, temperature, humidity, tidal cycles, and so on, were crucial if a terrestrial animal was to survive. Social interactions, both for courtship and for aggression, required the sending and receiving of appropriate visual and acoustic signals and were promoted by the ritualization of potentially injurious patterns of behavior.
3883522|A research adventure is described in which the symbiosis of Hydra and Chlorella is modeled with a novel computer program. The model faithfully simulates equilibrium populations of hydra and algae, and is used to discern the parameters which govern the stability of the symbiosis and its breakdown resulting from eutrophication. The model reveals that amelioration of a nutrient limitation causes symbiotic Chlorella to reduce fitness of host cells, converting a stable mutualistic symbiosis into an unstable parasitic one.
3883411|Information about proximate behavioral mechanisms is required to answer a variety of important questions about the evolution of behavioral and other traits. For instance, theoretical studies of maternal effects indicate that the behavior of parents may have profound effects on the evolution of phenotypic traits in their offspring, and that maternal effects may provide nongenetic pathways for the inheritance of both behavioral and nonbehavioral traits. Similarly, the recent emphasis on genetic correlations among traits cautions that correlations among behavioral traits may have surprising effects on behavioral evolution, and provides further impetus for studies of the proximate bases of behavioral trait syndromes. Finally, the literature on information acquisition suggests that the behavioral processes used in assessment may affect the evolution of behavioral and other traits. For instance, if information is costly to obtain, individuals may prefer familiar to unfamiliar situations. In a social context, a preference for familiar individuals could have a variety of effects on the evolution of social and nonsocial behavior patterns. These and other examples suggest that interest in behavioral processes will continue to grow during the next decade, and that proximate and ultimate approaches to behavioral problems will be more closely integrated than was true in the past.
3883079|Overdispersion of colonies exists in many eusocial insects. Overdispersion can be generated by direct attack on colonies or founders, by defense of space, by defense of food resources being harvested, or by exploitative competition. When direct competitive interactions lead to colony overdispersion, territoriality is said to occur. Whereas solitary territory holders typically defend space, most eusocial colonies defend resource patches rather than space per se. Also unlike solitary territory holders, colonies with forager communication can simultaneously defend several spatially separated food patches. A model explores optimal numbers of scouts (discoverers of patches) and recruits (followers) needed to maximize net rate of energy intake by the colony. Territorial costs are added to the model by requiring a higher investment of foragers per unit resource collected. According to the model, optimal colony size and percentage scouts are more sensitive to changes in patch size than in patch density. If patch defense is required for resource control, a decline occurs in optimal percentage of scouts; the decline is greatest for small colonies. Colonies that must defend patches in order to harvest from them suffer a loss in net energy intake; the loss is greatest for small colonies. It is predicted that among eusocial insects, those with territorial defense of resources should preferentially visit large patches and have comparatively large colony sizes and relatively few scouts. Ways of testing these predictions are discussed.
3881345|The review presented here shows that a number of eyestalk substances having pronounced physiological effects as endocrine agents can be separated from crude extracts of eyestalk material by various treatments. The hormones appear to be proteinaceous in nature, with several of them apparently polypeptides of relatively low molecular weight. Some of the reported pigmentary-effector hormones are recognizable as distinct molecular species on the basis of chromatographic behavior and molecular size. The diabetogenic hormone is a much larger molecule and is a protein. The properties of the molt-inhibiting hormone of the eyestalk, although still too little known for specific classification, indicate that it belongs to one of these two categories. Tests of functional specificity and structural studies, which in most cases depend on further chemical purification, seem attainable in the near future. The subsequent comparative studies that may become feasible will be of physiological and biochemical interest.
3884303|Amphibian metamorphosis is controlled by thyroid hormone and the thyroid hormone receptor. The thyroid hormone receptor functions as a master control factor that can both activate and repress genes in controlling the transformation of the larval tadpole to the adult frog. We have made use of the microinjection of both Xenopus laevis oocytes and embryos to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in this regulation of transcription. We define three steps in the regulation of transcription by thyroid hormone receptor: the establishment of a repressive chromatin structure, disruption of chromatin and transcriptional activation. Our results also suggest that there are four major stages in the developmental control of gene expression during metamorphosis 1) Tissue and stage specific expression during embryonic development prior to tadpole hatching independent of thyroid hormone receptor. 2) The general repression of transcription of these genes by thyroid hormone receptor after tadpole hatching (stage 36), but prior to the production of thyroid hormone, which is first detectible in the circulating plasma around stage 55. 3) The activation of transcription dependent on thyroid hormone and receptor at metamorphosis (stages 55-66). 4) The acquisition of tissue specific and possibly thyroid hormone-independent patterns of gene activity.
3882674| Quantitative analysis of low-level (mostly subspecific) geographic differentiation of aposematic color patterns in three groups of forest butterflies (Heliconiini, Ithomiinae, and Troidini), in 1,550 half-degree quadrants throughout the Neotropics, indicates four principal species-endemicity regions, 44 principal subspecies-endemicity centers, and 300 quadrants of subspecies hybridization. The endemism centers are different in outline but nearly identical in position for each of the three ecologically different groups. Basic data on present and past physical environments (climate, soils, geomorphology, and vegetation structures), when integrated into maps, show 1) regions of favorable ecological conditions for forest organisms in the present, 2) regions of environmental conformities and rapid transitions in the present, and 3) regions of high probability for humid forest persistence during the major landscape changes at the end of the last glacial period, 13,000-20,000 yr ago. Species diversity (a local phenomenon) is readily related to favorable modern ecological conditions and environmental microheterogeneity, promoted by unpredictable mild disturbance. Biogeographical patterns of evolution at the level of regional subspecies correlate very well with presumed paleoecological conditions. The biogeographical data also support an hypothesis of differentiation resulting from areas of rapid environmental change; most of the hybridization quadrants fall within transition zones. There is lower correlation between centers of endemism and zones of environmental conformity, but some individual cases of differentiation in the butterflies may be adequately explained by modern ecological factors. Species presently undergoing differentiation in isolated habitat islands (Amazonian savannas and high-altitude Andean forests and pramos) may offer the best opportunities for observation of evolutionary processes in the present. 
3883508|Natural history, in focusing on the individual whole organism in its environment, occupies a central position in the spectra of spatial and temporal scales appropriate to biological science. This essay examines the current status of theory relevant to natural history, growing points of research within natural history, and its relevance to other components of biology. During the past 15 years, optimality, especially of foraging, and biomechanics, especially of individual organism-environment relationships, have been fruitful hypothetico-deductive approaches to animal natural history. Because of the nested hierarchical nature of biological organization, knowledge of individual organisms is necessary to understand more complex levels-populations and communities-as well as the roles of the component parts of organisms. For systematics and evolutionary biology, individual organisms preserved as specimens in natural history museums document knowledge of the biological world. Type specimens are especially important, as these "name bearers" that anchor original descriptions document all communication among biologists about species.
3883370|The seemingly antithetic attributes of rigorous connectivity on one hand and vigorous regeneration on the other, are combined in the arthropod nervous system. This apparent paradox is largely resolved by the comparison of normal postembryonic development with regeneration, which is also restricted to immature stages. It is also becoming apparent that growth and interaction between neurons is more flexible than had been assumed. Normal sensory regeneration in situ is highly specific in restoring lost function. The crucial event in regeneration, as in embryonic development, is the establishment of first contacts between periphery and center. Thereafter regeneration follows an accelerated recapitulation of normal postembryonic development. Data from ectopic grafts, homoeotic mutants, and homoeotic regenerates address four components of sensory development and regeneration: a) Positional information in the epidermis determines receptor type and central projection, b) Passage from periphery to ganglion is non-specific. Ectopic neurons reach mismatched ganglia. c) Within neuropile the specific projection is a product of interaction between intrinsic programs of the neuron and pathways expressed as specific surface markers. d) Fine tuning of synaptic relationships can occur in response to changed milieu. The current elucidation of the genetic basis of metameric segment determination, and the identification of specific gene products as markers of pathways open the way to the understanding of neural specificity in development and regeneration at the molecular level.
3883768|Quantitative analyses based upon the superimposition of phylogenetic and reproductive data have revealed that viviparity has originated on at least 132 independent occasions among vertebrates, with 98 of these origins having occurred among reptiles. The viviparous lineages have given rise to at least 24 matrotrophic clades, all but four of which are anamniotes. Traditional scenarios assume progressive, gradualistic evolution from oviparity to lecithotrophic viviparity to matrotrophic viviparity. However, mammalian evidence indicates that matrotrophy can precede the evolution of viviparity. Moreover, data on reptiles seem to be consistent with a punctuated equilibrium model for viviparity and a saltatory model for incipient matrotrophy and placentation. Among the specializations for fetal nutrition, strong convergence is evident at organismal, organological, and cytological levels. Examples include yolk sac placentation, trophotaeniae, and adaptations for embryonic cannibalism. Certain lizards of the genera Mabuya and Chalcides have converged strongly on eutherian mammals with respect to morphology of the chorioallantoic placenta. Placental specializations that have evolved independently in some eutherians and matrotrophic lizards include placentomes, giant binucleate cells, deciduate maternal tissue, and chorionic areolae.
3883816|A central scientific problem for ecologists and systematists has been to explain spatiotemporal patterns of species diversity. One aspect of this question is how to understand the taxonomic assembly of biotas and their included ecosystems and communities. Four processes add or subtract species from a region: speciation, extinction, biotic dispersion, and long-distance dispersal. Speciation and biotic dispersion are postulated to result in historically structured (hierarchical) species assemblages, whereas long-distance dispersal results in assemblages that would be expected to be historically unstructured (nonhierarchical). Continental biotas, as exemplified by the Australian avifauna, are historically structured: they are segregated into areas of endemism having hierarchical relationships that presumably arose as a result of their history being dominated by cycles of biotic dispersion and vicariance. It is also proposed that these latter two processes are necessary, and in many cases probably sufficient, to explain the taxonomic composition of communities within these areas of endemism. Long-distance dispersal appears to play a much more minor role in the assembly of either continental biotas or their communities than current ecological theory would predict.
3883436|On the basis of experimental work, a clear dichotomy in design of the feeding mechanism between aquatic and terrestrial vertebrates has been found. The aquatic medium combined with suction and the hydrodynamic tongue offer an unparalleled array of prey capture opportunities for aquatic vertebrates. In the terrestrial feeding model, prey capture and prey processing require a precise functional design to match the nature of the prey. It is proposed that this dichotomy in basic design would result in fundamental differences in the aquatic and terrestrial paradigms in vertebrate ecology. Four hypotheses and their respective supporting evidence are presented: (1) Increased opportunism, more extensive prey switching and food overlap are prevalent in aquatic systems; (2) Convergent evolution which is so pervasive in terrestrial feeding systems is uncommon among aquatic vertebrate feeding systems; (3) Competition is relaxed and character displacement is absent in aquatic vertebrate feeding systems; and (4) Patterns of diversity in aquatic vertebrate feeding systems defy the terrestrial paradigm.
3881556|Clonal hormone-secreting cell lines have been established from animal tumors. These lines include adrenal steroid-secreting cells, growth hormone-secreting cells, steroid-secreting Leydig cells, and ACTH-secreting cells that retain their differentiated function for prolonged periods in continuous culture. In addition, fibroblast cell lines that secrete a material which stimulates steroidogenesis by adrenal cells and Leydig cells are described. A systematic approach to obtain functional cultures and the general problem of retention of differentiated function in cultured cells are discussed.
3881617|The ultimate control of amphibian gonadal function rests with environmental factors mediated through the hypothalamus. It appears that control of ovarian growth resides in the infundibular region and ovulation in the preoptic area. For normal temporal relationships between oocyte growth and ovulation to occur, an intact hypothalamo-pituitary complex is necessary. It is uncertain whether the several types of pituitary basophils considered histologically as gonadotropin-producing cells are in fact producing separate LH- and FSH-like hormones. Perhaps the concensus indicates a single hormone has both vitellogenic and ovulatory functions. This hormone stimulates estrogen synthesis and secretion by the ovarian follicle cells, and this steroid causes oviduct growth and the hepatic biosynthesis of vitellogenin, the major yolk platelet precursor. Uptake of this lipoprotein from the circulation and its conversion to the components of the platelet is mediated by the gonadotropin, the presence of which results in the establishment of a rapid micropinocytotic process at the level of the oocyte surface and of a mechanism for crystallization of the yolk. A sudden surge of pituitary hormone, when presented to fully grown oocytes leads to their maturation and ovulation, and to oviducal jelly release in some species. The active hormone is progestin in nature, again produced by the follicle cells. In this review the known factors involved in the hypothalamo-hypophysio-ovarian axis are discussed together with some consideration of outstanding problems and the possible relevance of oviparity and ovoviviparity in amphibians to the ovarian control found in viviparous species.
3883686|Bimodal breathing crustaceans, while representing a stage in the transition from the aquatic to terrestrial habitat, also constitute a distinct group that can be characterized by morphological, behavioral, and physiological traits. Morphologically, this group displays reduced gill surface area and enlarged branchial chambers. The lining of the branchial chambers, the branchiostegites, also has increased surface area and is highly vascularized. The branchiostegites can be smooth, cutaneous epithelia, or they can have more complex evaginations or invaginations to further increase surface area. In addition, the thickness of the branchiostegal epithelium is greatly reduced, compared to that in the gills, thus minimizing the diffusion distance between air and hemolymph. These animals maintain a store of water in the branchial chamber that covers the gills and allows for simultaneous gas exchange with two media (air and water). There is also a partitioning of gas exchange, with oxygen uptake occurring preferentially from air across the branchiostegites, and carbon dioxide excretion occurring across the gills into the branchial water. One critical factor that appears to separate bimodal breathing crustaceans from fully terrestrial, exclusively air-breathers is the ability of the latter group to excrete CO
3883528|The SCPs are a family of neuropeptides found in many gastropod species. Two SCPs with similar sequences have been characterized in Aplysia. These peptides are potent modulators of central and peripheral synapses. They also enhance ongoing contractile activity in spontaneously active tissues such as heart and gut. Their distribution in central ganglia suggests that their predominant role is in the regulation of feeding behavior. There is good evidence that the identified SCP-containing neurons, B1 and B2, provide the major central regulation of gut motility during feeding through the release of the SCPs from their terminals in gut. The SCPs have also been localized to motor neurons that innervate buccal muscles which generate biting and swallowing movements. In many of these neurons, the SCPs have been shown to coexist with conventional transmitters such as ACh, or other peptides such as FMRFamide. The SCPs appear to be released along with conventional transmitters from these neurons to modulate the effectiveness of the conventional transmitter. In all cases, the SCPs cause an enhancement of the amplitude of contractions produced by motor neuron stimulation. The precise mechanisms underlying this effect vary from muscle to muscle. All of the effects of the SCPs are mediated by increased cAMP levels in target tissue. At many sites of action, serotonin produces actions that are qualitatively similar to those of the SCPs. This is likely to involve a convergence at the level of the adenylyl cyclase. In addition to these peripheral effects, the SCPs also have multiple central effects on feeding and other behaviors in gastropods.
3884273|Historical-narrative evolutionary explanations for the origin and further evolution of avian feathers involve two steps. The first phase reconstructs a series of probable morphological changes from a reptilian scale to the primitive feather. The second deduces possible functions and biological roles of the features and feasible selective demands on these features at all stages in its evolution. The best explanation for the evolutionary origin of feathers would be one consistent with historical-narrative evolutionary explanations for the origin and further evolution of other features in the history of birds. Feathers of Recent birds have a number of functions and biological roles, and it is difficult to ascertain which of these functions and roles were involved in feather origin. Two major rival published theories are based on the roles of feathers in insulating the body against heat loss and in providing an aerodynamic surface for flight. However, because of the lack of knowledge about the roles and ecological relationships of protofeathers and of the most primitive feathers, it is not possible to test strongly either of these theories, or others as proposed in this symposium, against objective empirical observations to determine which is falsified or is the most probable. Finally it is argued that test of historical-narrative evolutionary explanations, including classifications and phylogenies, is generally difficult to impossible because of the lack of the necessary objective empirical observations.
3883512|From the time of August Weismann's characterization of fundamental differences between the role of the reproductive system (to preserve the "immortal" germplasm) and the other, somatic tissues of the organism (to maintain the organism) biologists have inherited an interesting organismic conundrum. How, indeed, are we to understand the relationship between the somatic systems (especially the nervous system-that characterize the animal organism) and the reproductive system, within that organism? In this paper it is argued that: (1) neuron-gamete-organism interactions are essential, organismic phenomena that have scarcely begun to be investigated; (2) with reference to at least three different kinds of animals it is possible to determine developmental, structural, functional and behavioral relationships between the (species-oriented) reproductive systems, and the (individual, organism-oriented) nervous systems of those animals; and (3) results of such investigations make sense only in terms of the peculiar evolutionary history and environmental of specific kinds of animal organisms.
3884564|The male prairie mole cricket, Gryllotalpa major, native of the tallgrass prairie of the south central U.S., constructs a specialized acoustical burrow in the spring in the prairie soil from which he generates an airborne calling song that attracts flying females for mating. Males do not phonorespond to manipulations involving playbacks of airborne sounds. At the same time, vibrations with the same temporal scale and pattern as the airborne signal are produced in the substrate through an unknown mechanism. These ground vibrations can be distinguished from background vibrations in the soil at distances up to 3 m depending on soil conditions and conditions that control the background vibration environment (e.g., wind, highway traffic). We hypothesize that males use the vibration component of the call as information for spacing as they form display arenas, or leks. We used modified field recordings of soil vibrations from singing males with an electromechanical vibration exciter to simulate the vibration component of a calling song in playback experiments. Airborne sounds of males were monitored for two minutes before and two minutes after the introduction of the ground vibration stimulus with a tape recorder microphone placed 20 cm from the burrow opening. Males did respond to the manipulation experiment; although, we observed individual variation in the level of response.
3883488|Recent investigations into the evolution of the living Crocodilia, belonging to the suborder Eusuchia, have revealed that the genus Gavialis may be its most primitive living member. New morphological studies have shown that the braincase structure, neural pocket, air sinus systems, jaw adductor mechanisms, pelvic and hindlimb morphology and epaxial musculature of the caudal region of Gavialis gangeticus do not correspond to the rest of the living Eusuchia. Contrary to the morphological findings, recent biochemical studies suggest a sister group relationship between Gavialis gangeticus and Tomistoma schlegelii, another longirostrine eusuchian. Judged by its morphology, Tomistoma is merely another member of the genus Crocodylus within the Eusuchia. This conflict in data either means that not enough of the genome of both Gavialis and Tomistoma is known, the shared genome represents the primitive states for these genes or that similar genotypes can give rise to rather different morphologies. As Gavialis resembles in some ways a Mesozoic level of organization it is considered to be a surviving eusuchian relict.
3884401|Low to moderate levels of stress induce a class of molecular chaperones called heat shock proteins (Hsps), which protect cells, tissues and whole organisms from more severe stress. In higher Eukaryotes, Hsp70 is one of the principle heatinduced chaperones. This response is general, and how much Hsp70 an animal produces correlates with the level of stress to which it is exposed. Nonetheless, definitively linking high Hsp70 expression as an adaptation to stress tolerance is problematic, because organisms and cells respond to stress in many ways. By molecular manipulation of Hsp70 in one animal group, Drosophila, differences in hsp70 copy number are shown to directly influence heatinduced expression of Hsp70 and tolerance of heat. However, too high an expression level of Hsp70 can harm individuals during periods of rapid growth. This strong physiological relationship between Hsp70 concentration and thermotolerance, along with Hsp70's remarkable degree of interspecific coding sequence conservation, suggest that hsp70 regulatory elements may evolve as an adaptation in diverse species to their thermal environments. To examine this possibility, correlative studies within species and research on phylogenetic covariation between these traits is reviewed with a focus on Drosophila species. However, the techniques and results discussed should broadly apply to other animal groups where evolutionary approaches can be used to test whether genetic variation in both thermotolerance and Hsp expression within and among species select locally on either hsp70 sequence and/or expression.
3882812|Bacq (1936, 1937) discovered two substances by pharmacological experiments using whole body extracts of various nemertine species. "Amphiporine," found only in hoplonemertines, stimulated nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-mediated events. "Nemertine" evoked spontaneous action potentials in isolated crab nerves. Both substances caused convulsions when injected into crabs. Anabaseine, a pyridine alkaloid isolated from the hoplonemertine Paranemertes peregrina, has chemical and pharmacological properties equivalent to "amphiporine." Hoplonemertines produce a wide variety of pyridine toxins depending on the species. The heteronemertine Cerebratulus lacteus contains cytolytic (10,000 dalton) and neurotoxic (6,000 dalton) proteins. The neurotoxic polypeptides most closely resemble "nemertine": they cause repetitive spiking in isolated crustacean axons. Several cytolytic and neurotoxic "isotoxins" occur within Cerebratulus. Both the hoplonemertine and heteronemertine toxins are localized in the integumentary tissues of the body wall and proboscis. So far, the pyridine alkaloid toxins are only found in the Enoplan species, where they probably function as both offensive and defensive toxins. Protein toxins have only been found in Anoplan species; they probably serve as a chemical defense against some predators.
3882175|The morphology of "primitive" and "modified" sperm types in molluscs is reviewed. The cytochemical localizations of glycogen reserves and enzymes related to the metabolism of glyocogen are discussed in relation to their roles in sperm motility and the ultrastructure of the mid-piece of molluscan spermatozoa.
3883628| We describe here some of the components of the exoskeleton of the decapod crustacean with emphasis on the constituent proteins, including both structural and enzymatic. All four layers, but particularly the inner three, of the exoskeletons of four brachyurans contain high concentrations of proteins 31 kDa; the innermost membranous layer is especially rich in such proteins. A number of crab exoskeletal proteins resemble insect cuticle proteins in size
3881433|Miniature collar-type transmitters originally designed by W. W. Cochran, Illinois, were adapted for use on timber wolves (Canis lupus sp.) in east-central Ontario. Wild timber wolves were captured in steel traps, restrained with a forked stick, fitted with radio-collars and released at point of capture. Receivers were adapted for use in trucks, airplanes, and for walking in rough bush country. Maximum ranges were 3.2 km with ground and 9.6 km with aircraft receivers. A preadult female tagged in July, 1964, and a lactating adult female tagged in June, 1965, were tracked intermittently for 5.5 and 2.5 months, respectively. Tracking periods for six other animals of both sexes, ranging in age from pups to adults, varied from 2 days to 4 months. The lactating female and her associated pack regularly returned to three preferred "resting sites" for various periods during July and August. Preferred areas were well drained, semi-open, mixed conifer-hardwood stands in close proximity to swamps or beaver ponds. The preadult female ranged in an area frequented by a pack, but frequently remained independent of it. A preadult male, tagged in the same region, wandered over a slightly larger area than the female. Tagged animals were active throughout all periods of the day or night. Activity increased slightly during the early evening hours. There was a slight correlation between weather conditions and patterns of behavior and activity. Apparently, tagged individuals were quickly accepted by other members of the pack.
3881827|The response in species diversity associated with successional change in vegetation, or in a more general sense, species diversity as a function of time in any system of primary producers, has been the subject of much speculation but little direct study. All evidence available shows that pioneer communities are low in diversity, that in mesic environments the peak in diversity in forest communities can be expected 100-200 years after the initiation of a secondary successional sequence (when elements of both the pioneer and the stable communities are present), and that a downturn in both diversity and primary production takes place when the entire community is made up of the shade-tolerant climax species. The natural tendency in forest systems toward periodic perturbation (at intervals of 50-200 years) recycles the system and maintains a periodic wave of peak diversity. This wave is associated with a corresponding wave in peak primary production. Specialization for the habitats in the early, middle, and later phases of the cycle has figured prominently in species-isolating mechanisms, giving rise to the diversity in each stage of the forest succession. It is concluded that any modifications of the system that preclude periodic, random perturbation and recycling would be detrimental to the system in the long run.
3884502|Many fishes use a powerful bite of the oral jaws to capture or tear their prey. This behavior has received less study from functional morphologists and physiologists than suction feeding, and presents an opportunity to examine motor control of fish feeding across alternative prey-capture strategies. We used electromyography to compare muscle activity patterns of the feeding bite in five teleost fishes representing at least three lineages in which biting has been independently acquired: two parrotfish (Cetoscarus bicolor and Scarus iseri), a wrasse (Cheilinus chlorourus), and two serrasalmines, a pacu (Piaractus brachypomus) and a piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri). Multivariate analysis indicated that muscle activity patterns differed significantly among species, although a four-way ANOVA designed to test for differences within a phylogenetic hierarchy revealed that the biting motor pattern was largely similar for both narrow and broad phylogenetic comparisons. A comparison of the motor patterns of biting and suction feeding species revealed that biters had significantly shorter durations of the epaxialis and sternohyoideus and significantly longer relative onset times of the epaxialis, adductor mandibulae, and sternohyoideus. Character mapping of timing variables suggested that short relative onset times are primitive for suction feeders and that this characteristic is generally retained in more advanced species. Despite these differences, all species overlap extensively in multivariate EMG space. Our results demonstrate that change in the feeding motor pattern has accompanied morphological and behavioral change in transitions from suction to biting, which suggests that the neuromotor system has not acted as a constraint on the evolution of the feeding system in fishes.
3882494|There are several forms of individual and colony organization available to benthic marine invertebrates with indeterminate growth. In particular, anthozoan coelenterates exhibit three such forms of organization: 1. solitary individuals without asexual reproduction, 2. colonies or clonal groups with determinate polyp size and indeterminate colony size, and 3. colonies or clonal groups with both indeterminate polyp size and indeterminate colony or clone size. The last group includes species where asexual reproduction is continuous and those where it is limited to a single season of the year. A model is presented which defines three optimal sizes for indeterminately growing organisms, 1. optimal size for a solitary individual, 2. optimal size of a polyp within a colony, and 3. optimal size at asexual division. The optima are derived by maximizing the difference between energy intake and energetic cost. Simulations allow prey size and habitat quality to vary and derive predictions of optimal size and organization for each case. Individual and clonal growth rates are modelled for the case where asexual reproduction is limited to a single season and polyp sizes within clones are compared. The model predicts that the three forms of organization among anthozoan polyps are related primarily to the size distribution of prey.
3881992|Squirrel monkeys (Saimiri) have been studied in a variety of laboratory and natural environments. The frequency and form of exploration and social play vary considerably among different environments. For example, in some environments, young monkeys have been observed to play for 3 hr per day; but in one natural environment, not a single bout of social play was seen during a 10-week intensive study. Numerous intermediate levels of play activity have been observed. Whereas many theories of play make it appear that play is essential for the development of sexual behavior, integrated roles in troop structure, control of aggressive responses, social cohesion, etc., the data on squirrel monkeys indicate that social organization and many normal social behaviors can develop without social play. However, the opportunity to play socially provides learning experiences that increase the variety of each animal's behavioral repertoire and the subtly of social cues to which it can respond. An adaptive modicum of competence can appear without social play, but the opportunity to play socially develops the competence of animals beyond that modicum.
3883146|Gammarus species time the release of their young by using ovarian diapause and the duration of embryonic development. During diapause vitellogenesis is arrested and oostegite setae are lost. The onset of diapause is influenced by photoperiod under experimental conditions. Two Gammarus species were studied. Gammarus lawrencianus is typical of the majority of Gammarus species that produce sequential broods through the summer and have a diapause in the autumn. Gammarus setosus is typical of those which have an obligatory diapause lasting most of the year that follows the annual autumn brood. Experimental short day photoperiods (4L to 12L) induce vitellogenesis in Gammarus setosus, and have the opposite effect on Gammarus lawrencianus. Long day photoperiods promote vitellogenesis in Gammarus lawrencianus and prolong the duration of diapause in Gammarus setosus. It is concluded that these two Gammarus species have their own endogenous rhythms and that the role of photoperiod is to time the reproductive cycle. Short days near the time of the fall equinox ensure that this timing is synchronized over a range of latitudes. The effect of photoperiod is modulated by the influence of temperature on embryonic development over the broad range of geographic latitude inhabited by the species. Short photoperiods inhibit but do not prevent sexual maturation of the young. Short days also result in a slower average growth rate and greater size at maturity.
3884399|Ectothermic organisms often face dramatic traverses of environmental temperature on a daily or seasonal basis; exemplars among this group are invertebrates and fish of the rocky intertidal zone. Because of the extremes of temperature exposure, intertidal animals have served as an excellent study system to examine the expression of heat shock proteins (Hsps) in response to natural variation in environmental temperature. Ecologically relevant variation in Hsp expression has been observed with seasonal acclimatization, with small-scale temperature gradients that occur in microhabitats and between species with different intertidal distributions. The maturing understanding of Hsp expression patterns in marine organisms has established a solid foundation on which to build the next set of questions. In this paper, I present an overview of the variation of Hsp expression in intertidal animals in nature and then address two emerging areas of investigation in the ecological physiology of Hsps. One area addresses the plasticity of Hsp expression in marine invertebrates and focuses on the mechanism of regulation of Hsp gene expression by environmental temperature. A second emerging area of investigation concerns whether Hsps as molecular chaperones display functional diversity that correlates with species' adaptation temperature.
3884460|Homology is a central concept for Developmental Evolution. Here I argue that homology should be explained within the reference processes of development and evolution; development because it is the proximate cause of morphological characters and evolution because it deals with organic transformations and stability. This was already recognized by Hans Spemann in 1915. In a seminal essay "A history and critique of the homology concept" Spemann analyzed the history and present problems of the homology concept. Here I will continue Spemann's project and analyze some of the 20th century contributions to homology. I will end with a few reflections about the connections between developmental processes and homology and conclude that developmental processes are inherent in (i) the assessment of homology, (ii) the explanation of homology, (iii) the origin of evolutionary innovations (incipient homologues), and (iv) can be considered homologous themselves.
3883246|Certain species of Chlorella have exploited an intracellular habitat and occur naturally as cytobionts in Hydra viridissima. The algae evoke phagocytosis by Hydra digestive cells and are sequestered in individual phagosomes that migrate to the base of the host cells and resist fusion with lysosomes. The ability to resist digestion is closely correlated with release of extracellular carbohydrate (maltose) by the algae. The established population of algae grows at an average rate equal to or greater than that of the host and a constant population density is maintained. The host regulates algal population density by expelling or digesting excess algae, or by controlling algal cell division. The control michanism is unknown but can be breached by addition of inorganic ions to the Hydra culture medium with the result that the algae overgrow the Hydra. The Hydra-Chlorella symbiosis is probably mutually beneficial, but conditions such as prolonged darkness (with or without feeding) can reduce the competitive fitness of the host since this condition results in heterotrophy by the algae at the expense of selected host substrates. The evolution of selective permeability to organic substrates is a major feature of the successful colonization of the intracellular habitat by symbiotic Chlorella.
3884414|The earliest studies of intermittent exercise physiology noted that moving intermittently (i.e., alternating brief movements with brief pauses) could transform a heavy workload into a submaximal one that can be tolerated and sustained. The brief pauses that characterize intermittent locomotion permit at least partial recovery from prior activity. This research provided the foundation for the development of interval training and more recently for the re-evaluation of steady-state paradigms for comparative animal locomotion. In this paper I review key concepts underlying the performance of repeated activity. I provide examples from human athletics and training and comparative animal locomotion. To explore the limits of intermittent exercise performance, I examine the performance limits for continuous exercise and the rate and extent of the recovery of performance capacity following activity. While it is evident that altering locomotor behavior (i.e., moving intermittently) can alter the capacity of an animal to perform work, mathematical models of intermittent exercise could predict strategies (i.e., exercise intensity, exercise duration, and pause duration) that will increase performance limits for intermittent activity.
3883259|I review recent advances in our knowledge of the eucaryotic cell cycle: the set of processes by which cells grow and divide. Genetic approaches to the cell cycle of somatic cells identified a pathway of events where the initiation of each event was dependent on the successful completion of the preceding event, as well as a single key gene, cdc2, that is required both at the beginning and at the end of the cell cycle. The alternative approach of studying the cell cycle biochemically in early embryos provided evidence for a cytoplasmic oscillator which alternated between mitosis-inducing and interphase-inducing states and identified the mitosis-inducing component as maturation promoting factor (MPF). These two very different views of the cell cycle initially seemed irreconcilable. However, a link between the somatic and embryonic cell cycles was provided by the recent discovery that the cdc2 protein is one of the components of MPF. In the embryonic cell cycle the activation of MPF and induction of mitosis is triggered by the accumulation of a protein named cyclin which becomes a component of MPF. Somehow, MPF induces the proteolytic degradation of cyclin, which inturn allows MPF to be inactivated and allows the cell cycle to pass from mitosis into interphase. The more complex cell cycle of somatic cells is probably derived from the embryonic cyclin-based oscillator by imposing a system of checks and balances on the accumulation and destruction of cyclin. I also present some thoughts on the relationships between science and society, and comment on the way in which scientists describe their work to the lay world.
3881171|Romanes generalized conclusions concerning the coordinating mechanisms of jellyfish have been re-evaluated in the light of results obtained by the direct recording of nervous activity in both hydro- and scyphomedusae. In basic outline his deductions are confirmed, but he insufficiently recognized the important differences existing between the two classes. For example, the swimming-beat contraction in a scyphomedusan follows a single through-conducted impulse spreading from any marginal center across the appropriate nerve-net, whereas in the hydromedusae local pacemaker centers cause the muscular contractions, but their activities are coordinated by a through-conducted spike which has no direct effect on the muscles. Direct recording reveals a hydrozoan pattern of multiple pacemakers, superimposed conducting systems, cryptic activity, and regional autonomy in the hydromedusae which is very different from the greater simplicity of the scyphozoa. In the latter the direct responses of the marginal center pacemakers can now be understood with reference to the specific demonstrable interactions between the pacemakers and the two nervenets. In hydromedusae, however, the complexity that is disclosed demands further analysis of the ontogenetic changes in coordinating system function during the hydroid metamorphosis.
3882625| Ovaries of Locusta migratoria synthesize large amounts of ecdysteroids at the end of ocyte maturation. The predominant ecdysteroids in mature ovaries are conjugated 2-deoxyecdysone (100 M) and conjugated ecdysone (50 M) which outnumber the corresponding free compounds by 50-100 fold. These various ecdysteroids persist during ovulation and are recovered from newly-laid eggs. The conjugated maternal ecdysteroids are gradually metabolized as embryonic development proceeds; they have disappeared as such on day 6 after oviposition, that is after blastokinesis and shortly after dorsal closure. Concomitantly to this metabolism of the maternal conjugated ecdysteroids, other ecdysteroid conjugates appear in the eggs which have different chromatographic behaviors and some of which are conjugates of ecdysone metabolites formed by the embryo. The data available so far are compatible with the hypothesis that the maternal conjugates are hydrolysed to free 2-deoxyecdysone and ecdysone by the embryo during early stages of development and subsequently conjugated to inactivation compounds. During the later stages of embryonic development however, a de novo synthesis of ecdysone is probable, the maternal conjugates having been metabolized during the earlier stages. 
3884193|In free spawning species, maternal investment is limited to the contents of the egg. Striking correlations between egg size and larval characteristics, such as development rate, larval size, body form, feeding capability, nutritional requirements, and size at metamorphosis, have been observed in many taxa of marine invertebrates, in spite of tremendous morphological and ecological diversity. Analysis of these relationships has historically been based on comparative observations or quantitative modeling. Advances in our understanding of life history ecology in marine organisms require combining evolutionary theory with functional analyses of larvae as pelagic organisms. I believe that development will prove to be an important integrative link between these fields. In taxa with regulative development (e.g., echinoid echinoderms), it is possible to experimentally manipulate the amount of material that is available for larval morphogenesis. This provides a powerful tool for elucidating the developmental consequences of changes in maternal investment. Here, I will examine the rationale and methodology underlying this experimental approach and review the conclusions and some outstanding questions concerning the influence of maternal investment on the morphology, function, growth, and development of larvae. The four main effects of an experimental reduction of egg size (blastomere isolation) are: 1) smaller larval size, 2) simpler larval form, and 3) slower development in the early-stage larvae, but 4) regulation of size, shape, and development rate in late-stage larvae.
