41822560|An unknown microorganism was isolated from the soil by using defined selective medium. It could synthesize glutamic acid from glucose and urea. When subjected to repeated ultra-violet light and X-ray irradiations, and after process of screening, the organism had increased the yield of glutamic acid biosynthesis up to 10 mgm per ml of broth. The pathway of glutamic acid biosynthesis is unknown. Evidences indicated that the TCA cycle was probably not involved. The microorganism could be a new species of Micrococcus.
41822561|New taxa for Panama include Bostrychia radican s Mont., Trentepohlia aurea (L.) Martius, Trentepoblia odorata (Wiggins) Wittr., Ulothrix tenuissima Ktz.
41822559|Tecoma stans (L.) Juss. ex H. B. K., a shrub or small tree in the Bignoniaceae, is a widely distributed polymorphic complex of the Western Hemisphere tropics and subtropics, and is commonly planted as an ornamental throughout the tropical world. Winter temperature limits its poleward distribution. The species is characteristic of rocky slopes, often limestone outcrops, but also alluvial and other substrata as long as drainage is excellent. In arid regions it occurs in climax xerophytic shrub or thorn forest communities, while in humid areas it is common mainly in deforested and other disturbed sites since it behaves as a heliophyte. The large yellow funnel-form flowers are pollinated by hummingbirds and perhaps also by some insects. The sensitive lobed stigma may favor cross-pollination, and neither dichogamy nor autogamy are usually shown. Extra-floral calyx nectaries which attract ants seem ineffective against corolla-base piercers. A low percentage of fruit is commonly set, drought and pollination failure probably being contributing factors. The pendant capsules contain many paper-thin wind-dispersed winged seeds, which have moderately high viability undiminished even after four years, and no dormancy. The strongly tap-rooted seedlings are often abundant in disturbed sites. The leaflet size class is microphyllous, and the species varies from evergreen to winter-deciduous. It responds to drought partly by leaf abscission, but also by survival of prolonged permanent wilting, unusual for a thinleaved mesomorph. Stump-sprouting is vigorous following cutting or fire, and browsing occurs in heavily-used pastures. No insect parasites or diseases are generally limiting.
41822558|The diatom flora was studied at four stations on Fall Creek upstream from its confluence with White River at Tenth Street, Indianapolis, Indiana, over a three month period, December through February 1961-2. The entire course of the Creek studied was classified (Table 2) as fairly clean water. Pollution was due largely to contamination by sanitary wastes. The water had an average temperature of 2.5C and an average of slightly alkaline reaction. The communities were composed of a few species well represented and many species sparsely represented. Twenty-five species not previously reported from Marion County, twenty-two of which had not previously been reported from the State, were identified. Diatoma hiemale and Gomphonema olivaceum were markedly sensitive to pollution, whereas Meridion circulare displayed a significant resistance. The presence of Navcula gracilis at all stations was not correlated with pollution. Although the study was conducted over a short period, the results tend generally to be in agreement with the findings of other workers.
41822556|A complex organic medium had been developed for this organism, but a chemically defined medium was not available. A number of carbohydrates were tested and it was determined that pentoses, glucose, starch and dextrine produced the best antibiotic yields. A combination of glucose and dextrine was chosen for routine use. Use of five amino acids: L-asparagine, glycine, L-alanine, L-leucine and L-histidine gave the highest antibiotic yields. High levels of leucine were tolerated by the organism and were in some instances very helpful to antibiotic yields, but no single amino acid was essential and various combinations could be used. It was not necessary to add vitamins to the medium and fatty acids were not beneficial, but magnesium, calcium, iron, potassium, and phosphate were required for growth and antibiotic production. A chemically defined medium was evolved which supported good growth of the organism and the production of 5000-6000 mcg/ml of capreomycin.
41822557|Two markedly different geologic formations, the Baum limestone and Trinity sand and an area of intermixed talus were compared for several physical attributes and these correlated with the structure of the plant communities occupying them and with the variability of a conspicuous constituent for each of the three habitats. (1) Juniperus Ashei occupies the Baum limestone in nearly pure stands, but with wide spacing, while the general cover consists of Bouteloua hirsuta and Andropogon scoparius. The limestone has a high carbonate content, high hygroscopic coefficient, low soil moisture. (2) Juniperus virginiana occupies the Trinity sand on cleared, reverted land normally supporting a post-oak, black-jack oak forest. The junipers are widely spaced with oak forest in various stages of re-generation. Woody cover as well as ground cover is greater on the Trinity than on the Baum. The Trinity has low carbonate, low hygroscopic coefficient, high soil moisture. (3) The juniper population on the mixed talus sites are hybrid but closer to Juniperus Ashei. The various factors measured are intermediate between the other two habitats. (4) The data suggest that in southern Oklahoma J. Ashei develops plentifully in areas where the moisture content is low enough to limit J. virginiana, but as the habitats of the two species intergrade hybridization occurs, i.e., currently as well as historically, with only those hybrids surviving which are adapted to the intermediate habitats. (5) These mixed habitats are rich sources for continued hybridization and introgression until succession closes both the mixed habitats and the Trinity sand to junipers.
41822557|Two markedly different geologic formations, the Baum limestone and Trinity sand and an area of intermixed talus were compared for several physical attributes and these correlated with the structure of the plant communities occupying them and with the variability of a conspicuous constituent for each of the three habitats. (1) Juniperus Ashei occupies the Baum limestone in nearly pure stands, but with wide spacing, while the general cover consists of Bouteloua hirsuta and Andropogon scoparius. The limestone has a high carbonate content, high hygroscopic coefficient, low soil moisture. (2) Juniperus virginiana occupies the Trinity sand on cleared, reverted land normally supporting a post-oak, black-jack oak forest. The junipers are widely spaced with oak forest in various stages of re-generation. Woody cover as well as ground cover is greater on the Trinity than on the Baum. The Trinity has low carbonate, low hygroscopic coefficient, high soil moisture. (3) The juniper population on the mixed talus sites are hybrid but closer to Juniperus Ashei. The various factors measured are intermediate between the other two habitats. (4) The data suggest that in southern Oklahoma J. Ashei develops plentifully in areas where the moisture content is low enough to limit J. virginiana, but as the habitats of the two species intergrade hybridization occurs, i.e., currently as well as historically, with only those hybrids surviving which are adapted to the intermediate habitats. (5) These mixed habitats are rich sources for continued hybridization and introgression until succession closes both the mixed habitats and the Trinity sand to junipers.
