43461116|It is especially incumbent upon scholars in general and ecologists and environmental managers in particular to keep pace with ever emerging complex problems of human environments and life. Extraordinarily changing conditions have challenged our perception, theories (principles) and would be remedial/protective/preventive/and conservation measures. Environmental messes, i.e., extremely complex and often highly dynamic systems of interacting environmental problems, are exceptionally aggrandized in underdeveloped countries which are extremely afflicted by problems of bio-diversity, environmental productivity, stability, resilience and above all biological dimensionality. Biological dimensionality is often taken as a one or two-dimensional discrete phenomenon. To the contrary, it is an intricate, seamless and a four-dimensional continuum. It could be unfolded in many different ways, but once unravelled it cannot be put again like what it was. The message of the Law of Entropy is none other than this. The dialectics of biological dimensionality and biological diversity were diagnosed using conceptual schematic models. Their conceptual framework was extended to assess environmental messes of tropical countries especially referring to Ethiopia. Present day human management moves were then entertained based on verified ecological principles. They revealed the overall flaws of our moves as compared to the demands imposed by nature and by the modern rallying call of sustainability which is emphatically coined in Agenda 21.
43461056|The paper analyzes succession from Callana vulgaris - dominated heathland to woodland dominated by Betula pubescens and B. pendula in Scotland and Northern England. Seven methods were used, classical phytosociological analysis, three ordination methods (Principal Component Analysis, PCA, Detrended Correspondence Analysis, DCA, Bray and Curtis Ordination, BCO) and three classification methods (Cluster Analysis, Indicator Species Analysis, Two Way Indicator Species Analysis). Phytosociological analysis well categorized distinct vegetation types, but failed to classify transitional stages. DCA, BCO using Euclidean distance and in particular PCA clearly displayed the successional trends. Numerical classification did not perform well on the raw data, but ordination complemented by classification (e.g., clustering of the component scores from PCA) gave the best insight into vegetation patterns. The suitability of different methods according to the nature of the data to be analyzed is discussed.
43461110|Computer assisted procedures are proposed to serve as a helpful tool for structuring vegetation data tables. Data analysis and typical procedures used for this purpose are discussed in the context of the theoretical steps involved.
43461035|In this paper, several models of the dynamics and the interactions between community components of the pine forest are described: the pest population dynamics model (including development - temperature model and population size model), the tree leaf biomass and seasonal dynamics model, the wood volume growth model of pine trees, and models for the interactions between pest and tree, and between pest and pesticide spray. These models are used in management decision analysis. The main damage stages of pine caterpillars to trees are the 4 to 6 instars of larva. The degree of leaf damage has a strong influence on the survival rate of the pest. The wood volume growth rate is slowed after leaf damage. However, because trees of different ages have different resistance, the wood volume losses may differ. Management decisions depend on pest development stage, population level, tree age, leaf biomass and the economics of pesticide spray and wood harvest..
43461224|Long-term benthic times series data reflect the impact of anthropogenic or hydroclimatic factors, as well as biological behaviour strategies. A numerical method known as 'typology of shapes of series' (TSS) can be used to clear up this complexity. The method is illustrated using macrobenthic data set from the western part of the English Channel (48 species, regularly sampled from 1977 to 1992). TSS is based on the concept that the shape of temporal variation in species abundance gives precise information on responses to environmental variables at different scales, and on reproductive strategy. Shape is characterised by four indices that describe the intensity of year to year and seasonal variations, and the degree of intermittence of the series. 12 groups of similar shapes were detected from the 48 species. Separate analyses were made on groups of species with strong long-term trends, regular seasonal variations, and those of sporadic occurrence. Species abundances were affected by the 1978 'Amoco Cadiz' oil spill, as well as by variation of hydro-climatic parameters.
43461022|A study was conducted in sagebrush-steppe vegetation, near Kemmerer, Wyoming, U.S.A., to separate the effects of observer error and plot randomization on the estimation of interannual changes in plant species richness, evenness, diversity and total cover. Multiple observers of the same set of quadrats produced significantly different estimates of diversity due to differences in the length and composition of species lists and cover estimates. A single observer's estimates of different sets of quadrats had equivalent diversities and reflected the same community. Changing observers, introduced less variability in floristic richness, in a relative sense, than did plot randomization. However, when species presence was combined with ocular estimates of cover, changing observers introduced more error into the estimation of diversity incorporating evenness and the characterization of the trajectory of change than did spatial randomization of plots. The desirability of using permanent plots and the same competent observer over time to detect vegetation change was reconfirmed as was the need to objectify estimates of abundance.
43461216|Various landscape pattern indices were used to quantify landscape spatial structure and historical modifications in the north-west sector of Rome, Italy. Historical land-use data were obtained from interpreted aerial photos dating from 1944, 1974 and 1991. The maps were digitized and a series of structural, shape, change and pattern indices were calculated to quantify changes of the landscape matrix over the past fifty years. One feature of note is a progressive increase in forest cover over time, from 4.3% in 1944 to 8.3% by 1991. This increase is attributed to natural successional processes that occurred with changing socio-economic and geomorphological factors. Our analyses also revealed some redundancy in landscape measures, such as the dominance and contagion indices. The analyses also demonstrated the need to examine many landscape indices simultaneously in order to obtain sufficient information regarding the development of a particular land use type as well as the landscape as a whole. We conclude that further research is needed to more fully examine the relationship between measured landscape indices and underlying ecological functions and processes at the landscape scale.
43461265|Distributional and numerical relationships between the meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) and the short-tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda) on Massachusetts islands were analyzed and found to be inconsistent with previous studies. Population-level interactions between these two species both with and without other variables were qualitatively modeled in order to reconcile inconsistencies. Changes in levels of immigration of M. pennsylvanicus to islands can change expectations of coexistence from negative to positive. This rescue effect was apparently powerful enough to alter expected correlations between M. pennsylvanicus and B. brevicauda on Massachusetts islands.
43461326|The study is based on the data of botanical field work in nine mountainous regions of East Greenland between 71 and 81 northern latitude. Two methodological questions have been treated: -how might the biological diversity of the vegetation of arctic mountains be best described? -how the altitude of the vegetation-line might be estimated from field-observations? The statistical analysis was based on the species/presence index. The best results were obtained using an index based on the slope of the cumulative species/log-abundance curve between the upper and lower quartiles of the distribution. For the estimation of the vegetation-line nonlinear regression methodology based on the logistic function is recommended.
43461211|Diversity indices were introduced originally to quantify floristic and faunistic diversity. Nowadays these indices have wider applications in fields such as genetics, demography, epidemiology, econometrics and linguistics. In these latter fields the number of categories - in contrast with the species number in the ecological diversity studies - is mostly known and fixed. This makes possible the use of concentration measures, the long established scalar distribution parameters. By fixing the number of categories, monotone decreasing functions of the concentration indices can be considered diversity measures. This is why some authors point out that diversity indices are merely the inverses of concentration indices. However, this is only true when the number of categories is fixed. In many situations in biology this is not the case. On the other hand, it may also happen in biology that the number of categories is postulated, and it seems reasonable to use concentration indices instead of or parallel with classic diversity indices. We mention in this short review some well known concentration measures, the additive or multiplicative inverses of which could be used as diversity measures. At any rate, there exists a parallelism between diversity and concentration, regarding both the intuitive basis and the difficulties in quantification. At the same time, we propose a distinction between "concentration related" and "genuine" diversity indices.
43461185|The results of a factorial experiment carried out on sessile oak and Turkey oak seedlings under three light intensities (50%, 30% and 5% of incoming solar radiation) and two soil moisture levels (humid and dry) are reported. Leaf area and total and component (leaves, stems and roots) biomass were measured on each seedling, and indices of net assimilation rate (NAR), specific leaf area (SLA) and root to stem ratios calculated. The imposed light and soil moisture treatments resulted in a higher death rate in sessile oak seedlings compared to Turkey oak, and greatly influenced seedling growth, leaf characteristics and biomass accumulation. Variation in light levels proved to be the most important factor. In both species, greatest biomass production occurred at intermediate light levels (i. e. 30% of full sunlight) and humid soil moisture conditions. Lowest biomass accumulation occurred at the lowest light levels. Although both species showed similar ecological responses to light and soil moisture, Turkey oak appears to be a more adaptable species whereas sessile oak is a more selective one. Hypotheses regarding the adaptive strategies of the two species, based on their observed responses to the experimental treatments, are discussed.
43461257|Tree and shrub dispersions are examined in relation to 10 soil variables. Individualistic species adaptations to prevailing environmental regimes are revealed. This suggests niche differentiation among populations.
43461259|A data file structure is described and the advantage of computer processing is discussed.
43461202|The dependence of survival and of a measure of performance (relative growth rate RGR and fecundity), on gap size and several other variables is explored for two species of annual grassland invaders: Lobelia inflata L. and Rhinanthus minor L., using field experiments and stochastic modeling. The aim of this study was to determine how these two annual species can maintain themselves in a community that exists almost uniquely of perennials. It was found that L. inflata has low survival and low RGR in gaps of diameter < 25 cm, whereas R. minor bas higher survival and grows better (and therefore produces more seeds) even in much smaller gaps. Further experiments showed that survival in L. inflata is strongly affected by fertilization, with extra fertilization raising the probability of survival in the plots with no competition and with only below ground competition, and lowering the probability of survival in the control plots. RGR in L. inflata was almost completely determined by the vegetation treatment: it was high in herbicided plots, lower in netted plots (with only below ground competition), and lower still in the intact control plots (where average RGR was negative). In R. minor, on the other hand, survival was high in both fertilized and unfertilized plots. In the fertilized plots there was no significant difference between the survival of netted and control treatments, whereas in the unfertilized there was. Greater dry weight of the test plants at the start of the experiment (as predicted by initial length) correlated with higher survival. Fecundity in R. minor also depended on initial length, and to some extent on treatment. We conclude that the ability of R. minor to do well in dense vegetation depends on the plants' predatory way of making a living: as a hemiparasite, R. minor depends for all its water and mineral resources and for some of its carbon gain on the plants it parasitizes. A stochastic simulation with spatial extent enabled us to obtain continued survival of both species provided the rate of formation of new gaps was high enough. If it was not, then L. inflata would disappear from the plots, while R. minor continued to thrive. The observed cycling of R. minor could be due to other factors not in the model (seed predation by voles or by a specialized insect), or they could represent stable limit cycles generated by an inherently deterministic process. Further research is required to elucidate these matters.
43461030|General reviews of the concepts of pattern, of sampling methods, of the problems of scale and of the models for pattern analysis of grid and distance data are first presented. Models are then proposed. Tests for monospecific patterns, a sequential model associated with multivariate analyses for multispecific patterns, least-squares mapping associated with a distance technique, and complementary tests for distance patterns are presented. A discussion of future directions in pattern analysis concludes the text.
43460943|Species ranking at various dichotomies of the dendrogram has been illustrated. It must be emphasised that not only those species which show marked changes in rank are of interest, but also those which remain more or less consistently important, either in one branch of the dendrogram, or, in some cases, in several branches. It is felt most strongly that the dynamic changes in species importance direct attention to fundamental questions regarding the current use of species data in the elucidation of vegetation pattern. The programs were written in BASIC for a PDP-1090 computer, and have now been developed to the point where both speed and core requirements are quite acceptable, though transfer to a micro-computer would require memory expansion. Copies of the programs are available from the authors.
43461058|Part III of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology presents an argument for the need to establish an organization that can be referred to as the "Institute for Theoretical Ecology". Part I (Conley 1990) of the series provided a discussion of definitions of "Theoretical Ecology". Part II (Conley 1991a) presented both a critique and suggestions for design of a large instituzionalized "Center" that emphasized an interdisciplinary program of study such as Theoretical Ecology might present. This paper presents the arguments in favor of the establishment of such an institute, along with some of the design details and philosophies that need to be considered. In general, it is argued that this institute should be concerned with fundamental aspects of ecological theory and with some of the methods that lead to better theory. In order for full success in this realm, this institute should not be concerned with supporting data collections. Instead, the institute should emphasize ecological data management (in the broad sense), data analysis and synthesis, and ecological applications of innovative statistical and mathematical developments that would bring a fresh look at pressing ecological and environmental problems. In Part IV (Conley 1991b) and V (Conley and Brunt 1991c), I provide increasing detail on some of the activities and methods that would enhance the chances for success of this institute.
43461174|In modern industrial societies, all development must be planned in the light of its probable impact on the environment. In this context, industrial ecology has evolved with the aim of studying the interactions between industry and basic environmental systems in a systematic way. This paper aims to demonstrate how Geographic Information Systems and certain spatial pattern analysis methods, namely the nearest-neighbour and spatial autocorrelation techniques, can be used to assess the dynamics of industrial systems, facilitating industrial planning and environmental control.
43461162|The paper offers a probabilistic solution to classification and homogeneity testing in vegetation studies. The method described overcomes the problem of having to make subjective choices about the number of groups or the acceptable level of termination in cluster analysis. It also has advantages over other probabilistic solutions in the way that probabilities are determined. A randomization procedure generates probabilities in pairwise relev comparisons for input into cluster analysis to control the homogeneity of groups, or in homogeneity testing within given groups of an existing partition. The methods are illustrated on data from Campos grasslands.
43461134|Mycological and plant surveys were conducted on 32 areas in the Piedmont Alps and the Aosta Valley, representing an extensive sector of the Western Italian Alps. The results were syntaxonomically interpreted. Nine types of vegetation were identified by cluster analysis. The distribution of saprophytic and ectomycorrhizal macromycetes is studied in connection with these vegetation types and correlations between vegetation, environment and fungal communities are discussed.
43461111|This paper discusses the fundamental determinants of the climate-vegetation interaction in China: atmospheric circulation and weather systems, topographical-geological structure and geological history. A brief account of vegetation zones is presented. Multivariate analysis is used to detect zones according to their climatological and geographical parameters.
43461280|The non metric multi-dimensional scaling tecnique (NMDS) was used for ranking 6 natural areas in Italy to establish protection policy priorities. Each area was ranked for each of 8 factors: diversity, rarity, naturalness, size, representativeness, documentation, unicity and scientific value. Spearman's correlation coefficient was used to correlate each factor, with the ordination given by NMDS. Most factors were highly correlated, except unicity and representativeness, weekly correlated, and documentation, which is essentially uncorrelated.
43461163|A numerical index to evaluate the conservation state of the natural landscape has been proposed. The land use map of the study area derived by supervised classification of satellite images has been reclassified on the basis of land use typologies reflecting the degree of environment conservation. The proposed Index of Landscape Conservation state (ILC) has been computed on the basis of the geographic surface covered by each land use typology. The index gives importance to the position of a land use typology along a 'naturalness' degradation gradient. Improvement and limits of the ILC are discussed.
43461176|The problems of sampling design in large-scale ecosystem surveys are discussed. Attention is focused on the sampling unit, the method of selection, sample size optimality, and sampling unit description in an adverse sampling environment.
43461212|Problems with the notion of evenness, such as ambiguity, proliferation of indices, choice of indices, etc. can be overcome by a more fundamental, mathematical approach. We show that the Lorenz curve is an adequate representation of evenness. The corresponding Lorenz order induces a partial order in the set of equivalent abundance vectors. Classical indices such as the Gini index, the coefficient of variation, the Shannon-Wiener index and Simpson's index can be adapted in such a way as to confirm this partial order.
43461102|The notion of species diversity depends on two main components: richness of sources and the spread of items over available sources (evenness). To compare different situations a partial order is introduced into the set of all possible distributions. One such partial order is produced by the criterion of Lorenz dominance, visualized by a Lorenz curve. If a vector X is diversity-dominated by a vector X', the Lorenz curve of X lies beneath that of X'. Defining the bifurcation operator BIF, we may split up an N-vector into an (N+ 1)-vector. Now, the Patil-Taillie bifurcation axiom, or 'introduction of a species' axiom, states that the latter vector, i.e. BIF(X) must always have a larger diversity than the former. However, it may well be that the Lorenz curve of BIF(X) is situated strictly beneath the Lorenz curve of X. Thus, the 'introduction of a species' axiom is not comparable with the diversity-dominance order.
43461267|The paper investigates the influence of acidic deposition on the dynamics of forest ecosystems by means of a simple mathematical model having tree biomass, nutrient concentration in the trees and nutrient concentration in the soil as state variables and exogenous nutrient inflow as driving force. The existence and stability of equilibria are analyzed for three different mechanisms of tree damage: direct effects on exposed tissue, increased soil acidity, and excessive nutrient accumulation. It is shown that when the nutrient inflow from acid precipitation is increased, the second and third mechanisms imply the sudden collapse from a viable equilibrium to tree extinction. More precisely, a fold catastrophe, as it is called within the relevant theory, is generated.
43461037|A mathematical model is constructed for the spatial distribution of rocky shore communities, taking as an example the community of Ancon beach, Lima, Peru, and using the algebraic theory of lattices. The resultant model is displayed algebraically and graphically. Advantages over taxonomical zonation patterns are described. An ignored property of nature, the inanimate property of living nature, is identified by the model.
43461099|The purpose of this study was to evaluate the spatial dependence of species composition in transects of contiguous quadrats. Three aspects were examined. The main analysis was a set of goodness-of-fit tests to determine whether low order Markov models were adequate for describing species composition, looking both at single species and multiple species combinations. The second complementary method was an examination of the means and variances of runs of absences in the data, as defined relative to single species and to combinations of up to six species. The third analysis evaluated the similarity in composition of quadrats at spacings from one to ten quadrats. These methods were applied to vascular plant data from transects 1000 quadrats long in sedge meadows on Ellesmere Island. While the goodness of fit tests suggested that low order Markov models provided an adequate description of the many species data, the runs tests and local similarities showed that they were not appropriate.
43461197|The author argues that biological computing has in potential the advantage of extraordinary speed, storage capacity and energy efficiency. She outlines the principles and points to the practical possibilities.
43461291|A selection of major floristic communities from a transect across the equatorial catenary-mosaic vegetation complex is analysed structurally and in an ecological context. In addition to the cover-dominance of general vegetation growth forms (bush, tree, grass, forb), other aspects of the vegetation structure (leaf size, tallness) respond in a recognisable, repetitive way to soil type and topographic variation. However, the major role in dictating both floristic and general structural trends appears to be played by combinations of edaphic and climatic factors. Three major structural complexes are recognised: a) Anogeissus Woodland/Grass-woodland communities dominated by the tallest height class and the medium leaf size classes; b) Terminalia and/or lsoberlinia Grass-woodland communities well represented in all height and leaf size classes; and c) Grewia and Hyparrhenia Grassland/Grass-bushland communities dominated by medium and short height classes, and medium and large leaf classes.
43461040|As part of a vegetation survey programme for conserved areas in South Africa, a survey of the plant communities of the fersiallitic soils in the Many eleti Game Reserve was undertaken. The Perotido patentis-Terminalietum sericeae is restricted to these soils. From a Braun-Blanquet analysis of the vegetation, two new subassociations, one with three variants, were identified and described. A quantitative assessment of the woody component of each syntaxon is presented. An ordination based on the floristic data revealed the position of the syntaxa on an environmental gradient.
43460944|Many ecological variables are either categorical, or if continuous then severely non-normal and highly interdependent. A non-parametric tree classifier is described which is appropriate for modeling such variables when they interact hierarchically. Tree structures are developed based on elementary probabilistic rules, and then simplified and tested by cross-validation using internal re-sampling. This method is compared to a closely related classification technique which is derived from information theory. Both methods are used to analyze data from field experiments to determine factors controlling post-dispersal establishment of Blue oak (Quercus douglasii) seedlings in Blue oak woodlands of the central Coast Ranges of California. The methods produce similar tree structures which prove to have good predictive value, and are satisfying both for their simplicity and interpretability.
43461016|The concept of complexity has been and is currently used in association to that of stability in both theoretical and applied studies on natural communities. The reference to linear, totally or partially randomly connected systems, makes the search for a critical value of connectance, and its relation to stability, difficult to achieve. More relevant, the majority of investigations refer to complexity only the structural aspects (number of species and of known interrelations), but biological relationships of various kind affect the populations' dynamics with different mechanisms. Any connectedness index seems to be scarcely effective in measuring complexity, if it neglects the functional components of biological interactions. This study presents some community assemblages as found and documented in small island environments. They have been investigated through qualitative methodology under the hypothesis of moving equilibrium. Ten models are presented and discussed: from the simplest one, with two competitors, to that of three competitors and one specialized predator; from a community organized at two trophic levels, to that at three trophic levels. For any situation, pairs of models are compared. They represent communities dynamically differently, but richness and connectedness are equivalent. Counterintuitive results following immigration/emigration processes, where modifications of the system network are often imposed by these processes, are also discussed.
43460948|The standard approach to the study of vegetation is discussed in which sampling represents a first and data analysis a second step. An alternative is suggested where sampling and analysis run concurrently. An example is given to demonstrate possible gains in efficiency and flexibility.
43461293|The ecological interpretation of ordinations is easiest when there is a linear relationship between the site variables and the ordination axes. There are methods, such as detrending, which were claimed to remedy the horseshoe-or arc effect in ordinations. "Flexible shortest path adjustment" (FSPA) is a possible alternative. It is suspected that this method may improve the interpretability of ordinations, by reduction of the non-linearity between vegetation and environment in the ordination projection. The efficiency of this is measured by computing the stress between the ordination and the original resemblance matrices. Ecological interpretability is evaluated first by correlating the ordination axes with environmental data. Alternatively, Mantel-correlograms are computed for the vegetation and environmental data. In one example, using 63 relevs of a statistical sample from a transition bog gradient, principal coordinates analysis combined with FSPA yielded an extremely efficient ordination and improved considerably the linearity. The results were further improved when noise was removed from the data by secondary analyses. The efficiency of FSPA is confirmed in a second example, where 71 centroid records of Swiss forest types with very high species turnover rate were ordinated. The problem of interpretation in the application of the Mantel-statistics in nonstationary systems is discussed. It is concluded that FSPA and Mantel-statistics, when used with care, are very helpful to interpret biological and environmental relationships.
43461177|The aim of this paper is to illustrate the meaning, advantages, and limits of biological monitoring as applied to marine environments. The advantages and disadvantages of each technique are discussed. The limits in the transfer of methods commonly used for freshwater monitoring to the marine environment are considered. In addition, the most suitable techniques to establish a scientific basis for making decisions concerning the environment in relation to various situations are suggested. For example: a) to assess water quality for fishing, aquaculture, bathing and environmental conservation; b) to estimate the influence of sewage, industrial and agricultural effluents on the marine community; and c) to evaluate the effectiveness of any action to reduce the pollution load into the coastal area.
43461324|Assessing pollution impact on water ecosystems is of great concern. Modelling such impact is usually done in a regression framework on a suitable transformed variable, under somewhat strict assumptions on residual distribution and variability. Main aim of this paper is to illustrate some alternative approaches in the framework of Generalized Linear Models. In particular, distributional-free, semiparametric approaches, such as quasi-likelihood and generalized estimating equations, will be discussed with reference to an application on reproductive output in fresh water zooplankton.
43461254|Principal component analysis and three variants of factor analysis were tested as ordination models using environmental data of 22 stands from a desert ecosystem. The effect of orthogonal factor rotation was also examined. A variety of evaluative criteria were employed to characterize each of the environmental ordination. These criteria included: correlation between the ordination space and the original data space (mechanical validity), correlation between ordination axes and the environmental variables, correlation between the environmental ordination axes and components of PCA vegetational ordination, and the relationships between the environmental ordinations and the non-parametric multidimensional scaling vegetational ordination. With respect to the evaluation criteria multiple group and centroid methods, with and without axes rotation, gave best performance while the principal component ordinations with varimax and qartimax rotation performed poorly. The results are discussed in the light of the computational techniques involved.
43461198|An overview of the literature on succession theory, patterns and processes in North American boreal forest ecosystems is presented, incorporating data that we have recently collected from the boreal forests of southeast and western Manitoba, northwest and east-central Ontario, and the montane region of southwest Alberta, Canada. Ecological theories and scientific concepts pertaining to boreal forest ecosystems are summarized and discussed. A spatio-temporal conceptual framework of boreal forest dynamics is also developed, emphasizing vegetation-environment relationships and the concept of ecosystem persistence.
43461161|A bibliography of 178 papers, editorials and notes published in Coenoses volumes 1-10 (1986-1995) is presented. It contains several indices featuring the sources (summary information on papers), authors, disciplines, geography, ecosystem type as well as an extensive list of keywords.
43461285|The popularity of the reductionist approach led to a considerable advancement of succession theory. Its methods are particularly adequate for the analysis of short-term secondary processes. It is emphasized that in the interpretation of long-term primary successional seres the holistic approach has also been useful and relevant. Of the various primary seres, any sequence of stages that lead to a climatically zonal community may be selected as a reference basis. As an example, two seres of the Hungarian Great Plain are analyzed and compared.
43461101|This study examined how correspondence analysis (CA) and its detrended-(DCA) and canonical (CCA) variants revealed an a priori humidity gradient and potential secondary gradients. Environmental and vegetation data from 56 sites in an arid area were used. The ordination-axes were correlated with the humidity gradient (distance measure), topographical factors, and disturbance factors such as house density and distance from a market. Only the two disturbance factors were spatially correlated, and only these had a non-linear spatial relationship to the humidity gradient. Axis one represents the humidity gradient, and topographical factors correlated to higher axes in all ordinations. The disturbance factors were polynomial functions of axis one, and were confused with the arch in CA and CCA (including all variables). However, an arch-free CCA was obtained by using uncorrelated variables only. This indicates that house density represents a significant (p < 0.01) secondary disturbance gradient, which was confirmed by redundancy analyses. DCA avoids the arch-pattern by removing all non-linear relationships between axes, hence the disturbance factors had no significance (p > 0.01) in the DCA-ordination. CCA is superior to DCA in exploring secondary gradients, especially those which are caused by variables whose influence is important at one end of the primary gradient only. Indirect factors, such as human disturbance, may be operationally independent of resource gradients. But it is the spatial arrangement of environmental variables that determine dependence vs independence and hence the ordination result and interpretation.
43461113|The cause of increased densities, survival, and body size and decreased reproductive output of rodents isolated on islands was explored by constructing a series of models. Qualitative methods of signed digraphs and time averaging were used to examine the correlation pattern among resource level, population density, individual body size, reproductive output, and predation. Data collected from two species of rodents in Massachusetts were compared with the models. The models suggest that the explanation for characteristics exhibited by island rodent populations lies in the structure of the interrelations among the variables included in the model. Specifically, patterns on islands may be accounted for if the differences between locations are due to differences originating at the predation level when predators are present and at the density level in the absence of predators. The most likely pathway for such an effect is "predation reduces density, density reduces reproductive effort, and reproductive effort reduces body size". While the conclusions are specific to rodent populations, the method has broader application and provides the first step toward developing a diagnostic key to population dynamics..
43461290|The floristic and structural intricacies of a catenary-mosaic vegetation complex in the south-west of the Sudan are investigated numerically. The vegetation of the area is not characterized simply by that of individual species, vegetation types or growth forms, but rather by different combinations of these. Even virtually ubiquitous and/or well distributed species change in dominance, growth form and associates through the study area. This complex of vegetation features is repetitive and helps to identify community types. Their distribution patterns divide the study area into major phytogeographical zones and elucidate environmental gradients. In turn, these last are primarily determined by soil type and topography (texture, depth, drainage) rather than merely climate. A northeasterly trend can be recognised from the more mesic -eluvial/colluvial soil associated - equatorial forest edges to drier -illuvial soil associated -lowland open grasslands. Perhaps, two vegetation types (Closed Woodland and Thicket) tend to dilute towards the north, however, no apparent subtraction effect with increasing latitude has been detected for major/dominant species. Conversely, although the woodland dominates overall, the bush to tree cover ratio increases in a northerly direction. In the north, the successional stages of major communities reflect Tire pro-climax' equilibria. Only isolated relict southern mesic species survive in localised, e.g. riverine, strips. Otherwise these communities derive from persistent remnants of local associations primarily made of xeric species coping with fire and/or other man induced transformations. In the south, community successional position is more often mediated by the establishment of pioneer northern species.
43461019|Mixtures of distributions, in particular the normal, have been used extensively as models in a wide variety of important practical situations where the population of interest may be considered as consisting of two or more subpopulations mixed in varying proportions. The problem of decomposing such a mixture of distributions is of considerable interest and utility. Two commonly used clustering methods based on maximum likelihood are considered in the context of the classification problem where observations of unknown origin belong to one of the two possible populations. The basic assumptions and associated properties of the two methods are contrasted and illustrated by a series of simulations under two different sampling schemes, namely mixture sampling and separate sampling. A case study is presented to demonstrate the basic differences between these two methods.
43461196|The focus is on complex landscapes and in these on the effects of hierarchical arrangements and scales on the process. Rightfully considered a philosophical essay in landscape ecology, the paper emphasizes that for a best resolution of domains, of patterns and of their determinants study designs must accommodate scales. Relevant references and examples enrich the contents.
43461169|An interpretation of ecological succession is outlined based on recent applications of non-equilibrium thermodynamics to living systems. From such a perspective it is suggested that phenomenological analogies between ontogeny, phylogeny and succession are not accidental but follow from patterns of self-organization in complex systems. Thereby Lotka's maximum power law and Prigogine's concept of self-organizing dissipative structures are seen as the common organizing principles. Consequences of such an interpretation are discussed in light of Darwinian theory and Gleasonian objections to holistic succession theories.
43461168|Patterns of architectural variation of some "macchia" woody species (Cistus monspeliensis, Erica multiflora, Pistacia lentiscus, Myrtus communis and Quercus ilex) were studied in different post-fire physiognomic types of Circeo National Park (Central Italy): Ampelodesmos grassland, Erica arborea open-shrubland, Cistus monspeliensis shrubland and Quercus ilex tall-shrubland. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was carried out based on data from all stands and species using the variables plant height, basal stem diameter, number of stems, first-leaf height and height/mean crown diameter ratio. Different architectural patterns could be described. C. monspeliensis has a vertical spatial arrangement and few stems in all situations ("stable" architectural type). E. multiflora, M. communis and P. lentiscus show lateral spreading and many stems in open stands, but show both horizontal or vertical spatial arrangements in closed-canopy stands ("plastic" architectural type). Q. ilex, though not found in all situations, seemed to belong to this latter group. The high competitive ability of Q. ilex may be related to its greater growth capacity.
43461244|There have been many alternative ways in which clusters have been defined. Perhaps the most frequent choice has been the geometric concept of a cluster as a set of point "close" in some space, a concept related to notions of probability density functions and hence to the framework of mathematical statistics. However such a model is not everywhere suitable, and in this paper I shall also examine some of the alternatives, chosen from models which have been used in deciding the number of clusters present. The aim of this examination it twofold. Firstly to indicate what alternatives have in fact been suggested, for many of them are neither well-known nor widely applied. Secondly to try and explore the situations in which one definition might be more appropriate than another. Ultimately such a decision must rest with the analyst, or agent, for approaches to testing for existence of clusters, and for determining the number of clusters, are closely related to the nature of the clusters being sought.
43461104|This paper discusses the idea that perceptions of the vegetation are affected by the taxonomic system on the basis of which plant populations are identified. It is argued that the best taxonomic system is not necessarily species-based, and that the traditional belief that a common taxonomic platform can be found for vegetation analysis is not realistic. The question of taxonomic choice is raised and resolved through simple reasoning as follows. Examples from the Brazilian Caatinga, Argentine Chaco, and Canadian Sub-Boreal Forest clarify both concepts and techniques.
43461321|Our motivation is to design a sampling approach for estimating the species richness (total number of species) of breeding birds in Pennsylvania. The sampling frame is a tesselation of Pennsylvania by hexagons, each of size 635 km, that are a subset of the Environmental Protection Agency's Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP) hexagons that cover the United States. Using the concept of a species-area relationship, our objective is to select hexagons for successive aggregation into larger areas in such a way that maximally accelerates the species-area curve, thus minimizing the number of hexagons that require species enumeration. Using a known population of breeding birds, we conducted a retrospective analysis for the sake of designing future estimates of species richness when statewide survey data are not available. Our results show that using tree species richness as a covariate for determining the order of selecting and aggregating hexagons causes the bird species-area curve to accelerate faster than either directional sampling (spatially contiguous aggregation) or random sampling. Since tree species richness is actually only weakly correlated with bird richness, as stronger covariates are identified, the performance of covariate-directed sampling is expected to perform even better.
43460978|The statistical procedures that are most widely used in ecological population and comunity research belong to the family of parametric methods. Embedded in these procedures are assumptions about the normal distribution of the underlying population, homogeneity of variances and linear response patterns. One of the problems encountered in ecological and vegetation studies, however, is that these assumptions are very difficult, if not impossible, to meet. In addition, a very serious shortcoming of the most widely used statistical methods is the lack of congruence between the geometry of the data space, which is for the most part Euclidean, and the analysis space, which in the standard parametric tests and most of the nonparametric tests, is not Euclidean. In ecological and vegetation studies, the combination of a failure to meet model assumptions and a lack of congruence between the geometries of the data space and the analysis space can lead, as shown in this paper, to gross errors in data interpretation and hypothesis testing. A new and powerful statistical technique (MRPP) is presented in this paper which is free from assumptions about the underlying distribution model of the population under analysis, can easily handle nonli-near data structures and more importantly meets the congruence principle (a common geometry for both the data and analysis spaces). The theoretical formulations for MRPP and its randomized block design counterpart MRBP as well as their relationship to other statistical methods are outlined in the first part of a paper. This is followed by computer algorithms and programs needed for their inplementation as well as a series of detailed examples which demonstrate major advantages of MRPP and MRBP over the currently most widely used statistical methods.
43461179|Chaotic phenomena universally exist in the natural world and are often the target in ecological studies. As their principles have not been well-appreciated before and the "abnormal" or "morbid" state problem was mostly avoided, the topic always contains abundant intrinsic characteristics to warrant interest. This paper discusses chaotic phenomena which appear in ecological energy activity. It not only observes that the mechanism in a nonlinear mathematical model leads to chaos, but it also puts forward a hypothesis on the biological mechanism of chaotic phenomena. Further, it shows about chaotic pehnomena that, under certain conditions notwithstanding the presence of chaos in the local region, exhibit a globally ordered state, which leads us to exploration of the regularity in chaos.
43461184|Natural landscapes often reveal extremely complex patterns that can only be very roughly characterized by methods of Euclidean geometry. In contrast, fractals can be applied to a variety of landscape ecology problems because they conveniently describe many of the irregular, fragmented patterns found in nature. This paper focuses on a fractal-based measure of landscape complexity for grid-based GIS layers. A non-regression technique for measuring the distribution of diversity within a raster database consisting of square cells is generalized to incorporate any regular shaped grid cell (e. g. regular polygon, rectangle) that forms a continuous, fully tessellated grid.
43461122|The application of fuzzy set theory for describing vegetation dynamics is discussed on the basis of results obtained with forest data of northeastern Italy.
43461246|An expert system is defined as a computer program that provides to non-expert users the knowledge of an expert person in a particular field. An example is described for aiding diagnosis and therapy. The use of expert systems in community studies is considered with application in the description and structuring of a vegetation table.
43461170|The importance of spatial and temporal scaling to the study of biological systems and processes has long been recognized. We demonstrate that concepts derived from fractal and chaos theory are fundamental to the description and modelling of scale-related phenomena in biology, from the molecular to ecosystem levels of organization. Algorithms for estimating the fractal dimension are described, and numerous applications of fractal theory in the biological sciences are summarized.
43461167|Rough set theory in its both crisp and fuzzy versions is presented. It is argued that the applicability of crisp rough sets is limited to some problem situations, whereas their fuzzy counterparts constitute a powerful tool for coping with complexities of real-world data. It is shown that the strength of a relationship between two sets of attributes C and D can be expressed by the quality of approximation of the similarity relation RD by RC. The goal of the analysis employing fuzzy rough sets is to find the smallest possible subset (or subsets) of condition attributes C* for which the quality of approximation of the similarity relation RD is the highest. The problem of combinatorial explosion involved in this task can be resolved by application of a genetic algorithm. Theoretical considerations are illustrated by a geobotanical example pertaining to the floristic description of anthropopressure zones in eight Polish cities.
43460941|We used simulated data to evaluate the influence of data centering, data standardization, and outliers on R-type principal component analysis (PCA). First principal components from centered analyses extracted increasing amounts of variance as the correlation structure of the raw data increased, while non-centered analyses derived only one principal axis which was independent of data correlation. Data standardization resulted in a loss of information by equating variances among all variables. The percentage of the total variance incorporated in the first component was always slightly greater from centered analyses on covariance matrices, than on correlation matrices, and was independent of data correlation. Outliers showed greatest influence on PCA when the data were weakly correlated. Outliers affected the results from both types of resemblance matrices equally.
43461059|Part IV of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology presents a description of a new model for conducting analysis and synthesis across broad realms of environmental data. This new workshops model, referred to as "Computational Workshops", emphasizes the full use of ecological data in testing hypotheses and making environmental decisions. This workshops model is presented as a primary activity for a proposed "Institute of Theoretical Ecology". Part I of this series (Conley 1990) provided a definition of Theoretical Ecology. Part II (Conley 1991a) provided both a critique and a discussion of proper design of large interdisciplinary "Centers" that focus on a broad discipline such as Theoretical Ecology. Part III (Conley 1991b) presented an argument for the desireability of such an institue. Part V (Conley and Brunt 1991c), provides increasing detail on some of the activities and methods that would enhance the chances for success of this institute.
43461219|Researchers having to deal with enormous amounts of information gleaned from international data banks are familiar with the benefits of a specialized, well-constructed thesaurus for information retrieval. In the ecology field considerable amounts of specialized, interdisciplinary information can be obtained from international data banks that are continuously updated. We describe here the construction of an interactive thesaurus for information retrieval in a subdomain of the ecology, specifically the ecology of the Venice Lagoon. The thesaurus was constructed using a multilingual bibliography (Italian, French and English texts). Two approaches to information retrieval are used: 1) examination of text by grammatical analysis, leading to the extraction of significant phrases; and 2) semantic clustering of these phrases using the word root. The design is described by applying it to a subset of an example bibliography.
43461200|We discuss the apparent inconsistency between climate and vegetation in southern Brazil, especially in Rio Grande do Sul, a transitional zone with elements of the broadleaf subtropical forest, mixed Araucaria-broadleaf forest and coastal rain forest vegetation types dominating to the north, and the campos grassland and shrublands dominating to the south and southwest. We show that on the large spatial scale, seasonal and annual climate fluctuations cause water deficits that may prevent the dominance of forest in some regions. This contradicts large scale vegetation models based on climate averages predicting that forest should prevail. On the small spatial scale water budget is affected by local heterogeneity related to geomorphic and soil features (slope, aspect, drainage). We review evidence and conjecture that interactions of water budget with vegetation type and fire and grazing regimes may explain the resilience of a relict vegetation pattern.
43461255|The mayfly communities of 150 localities of brooks, rivers, lakes and ponds from the Labe basin were quantitatively sampled in the two research periods (1950-65, 1970-85). Besides classical saprobiological methods, the following methods of multivariate analysis were applied to evaluate qualitative and quantitative changes in community composition: detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), agglomerative hierarchical classification, and divisive hierarchical classification (TWINSPAN). Two designs were applied; in the first one, the samples from each period were analyzed separately to determine factors responsible for community differentiation in each period. In the second design, all the samples were pooled and the changes in membership in clusters, or shifts of localities in ordination space, were interpreted as signs of community changes. The ordination results reflect the saprobiological indicator values of species. The classification by TWINSPAN provides informative results for subsequent construction of transition matrices.
43461057|'Character-based' implies 'species-free' in that the analysis is unconstrained by an external speciesbased taxonomy. The taxonomy is intrinsic and connected with the states of chosen characters. The objective is maximal local relevance. With these in mind, character choice, character arrangement, and community comparison are discussed.
43461046|This paper focuses in the study of patch structure of natural grasslands of Crdoba mountains associated to the rock substrate variability (coarse-grained structure). Grasslands with a relatively homogeneous spatial distribution (conglomerate environments) are compared with grasslands where the patchwork was conspicuous (gneiss and granite environments). A stratified sampling design based on plant physiognomy was carried out. Presence of species was recorded and frequency values used as final expression of species abundance. The data were ordinated by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and classified by two-way indicator analysis (TWINSPAN). Shannon-Wiener diversity index was also calculated. Grasslands growing on a conglomerate bed rock showed as continuous tall-tussock cover, while on granite and gneiss substrates a complex mosaic of tall-grasslands (on well developed soils) and dry-grasslands (on excesively drained soils) is recognized. In granite environments, poorly drained patches, with summer waterlogged turfs are also described. When grasslands form a continuous tall tussock cover, diversity was low and increased with increasing spatial heterogeneity (patches). These patches are differentiated through structural, floristic composition and species diversity features. Diversity was high in dry-grasslands, decreased in tall-grasslands and the lowest values were found in turfs. Diversity models the results conform best are discussed.
43461233|The problem of non-trivial characterization of ecological specificity in yeast communities as a function of their physiological responses was examined. It was found that when overall specificity is expressed as the mean number of responses which deviate significantly from those of a theoretical random assemblage, the probability vectors associated with the responses can be defined and transformed to obtain multivariate predictors of habitat quality. Significantly, the distribution of the transformed vectors is continuous, and their relationships are linear. To explore the usefulness of the method, data from yeast communities associated with angiosperm trees were subjected to principal components analysis, and responses which depart significantly from expectations were subjected to cross-tabulation. These provided a means of visually elucidating community profiles.
43461252|An efficient heuristic method called MINGFC (for MINimization of Global Fusion Criterion) is proposed to select approximately optimal consensus partitions from the consensus interval defined by Neumann and Norton. The method utilizes a dissimilarity measure, the number of partitions in which two objects belong to different classes. A new consensus index is defined as the ratio of the average of all within-class dissimilarities to the average of all between-class dissimilarities. The lower this ratio, the more appropriate a given partition is as a consensus of the alternative classifications. This consensus index serves as the fusion criterion in the agglomerative clustering algorithm of MINGFC which generates a series of consensus partitions. The result is represented by a set of at least two trees, in graph theoretical terms: a consensus forest. To obtain a unique solution for any consensus problem, two procedures are suggested to resolve ties encountered during the clustering process. If a particular level of the consensus forest is of primary concern, the partition into the given number of classes may be further improved by an iterative relocation procedure. Artificial partitions and actual vegetation data provide the basis for illustrating MINGFC and iterative relocation, for evaluating the tie-breaking procedures, and for comparing MINGFC with two other hierarchical methods of consensus generation.
43461186|The climatic description of the Carpathian Basin's typically transitional climate is approached through the concept of "climatic year types" for the years 1891-1990. With the help of the frequency of annual precipitation curve types, characteristic of the individual climates, major climate fluctuations are detected. An undoubted trend is the increasing frequency of "steppe years", i.e. definite aridification. European-Continental and Pontic-Mediterranean precipitation curve types spread at the expense of the Atlantic-Submediterranean types in the second half of this century. The growing frequency of Koppen's class climate indicates amelioration.
43461018|Results of fuzzy clustering are influenced by the degree of fuzziness arbitrarily specified, so the comparative evaluation of fuzzy partitions is useful. A distance coefficient based on finding the best correspondence of clusters is suggested for such comparisons. Two algorithms are described for calculating consensus fuzzy partitions. Determination of the best overall correspondence of clusters results in a more exact solution but requires more computation than the heuristic algorithm of centroid clustering. The actual and artificial examples demonstrate that 1) the methods provide a useful means for the evaluation of community classifications, and 2) the methods equally apply to conventional and fuzzy classifications, allowing their simultaneous comparison.
43461313|A method for comparing growth-curves used to describe the dynamics of individuals or their parts in plantdemographic studies is presented. The shape of the curves is compared using a multiplication invariant resemblance measure. A possibility of shifting vector elements ss also considered. The synchronity of curves is tested using a Monte Carlo randomization procedure yielding many pairs of semirandom test vectors. The test vectors were constructed to be permutations of the original vectors. The power of the method is shown on an example involving cumulative natality and mortality curves for Globularia punctata and Anthyllis vulneraria, respectively (data collected in a dry grassland in eastern Austria).
43461031|The objective of this paper is to describe the factors that affect vegetation pattern on continental saline lowlands around rivers. Three transects were laid perpendicular to the River Saladillo (S.E. Santa Fe, Province, Argentina). Vegetation and soil data were collected and analysed based on indirect canonical correlation, Spearman rank correlation coefficient and Pearson correlation coefficient. Three plant communities were detected: Flechillar of Stypa hyalina, Espartillar of Spartina densiflora and a Halophilous prairie. Flechillar was positively correlated with soil texture and exchangeable ions, Mg, Ca, CO and PO; the Halophilous prairie with elevation, HCO, pH, Na and CO; and the Espartillar clearly with none of the examined edaphic variables. Characteristic species, in contrast to rare species, show correlation with edaphic variables for all three transects. No correlations for rare species can be related to plasticity.
43461123|A direct way of spatial series analysis is presented to analyze spatial pattern of multi species communities. A test of randomness is proposed based on the average number of species per plots and its variance in a series of increasing plot sizes. Complete spatial randomness (CSR) is used as a neutral or null hypothesis model. The statistical inference presented in the paper nothwistanding this test procedure should be viewed as a heuristic tool for characterizing the constraints on pattern manifested by deviations from the null model at different scales of vegetation. The usefulness of the method is demonstrated in a study of the regeneration pattern in a beech forest (Melico-Fagetum silvaticae) after clear-cutting. This suggests four characteristic plot sizes for describing the vegetation. The maximum area, that is the plot size at which vegetation heterogeneity is maximal, is 1.3 m by 1.3 m. The comparative area, where variation is reduced, is 2 m by 2 m. The discriminatory area, where the average number of species for the actual and the random community is significantly different, is 4 m by 4 m. The spurious area, which is an upper limit of the relevant plot sizes for the studied community, is 8.5 m by 8.5 m.
43461180|This paper is concerned with a predator-prey system, with autocompetition in both populations, supposing that there are two phenotypes in each population, all the individuals have only one phenotype, and the populations are asexual. Such populations may be modelled either by the Lotka-Volterra model or by density dependent evolutionary game dynamics. The present paper shows that in terms of asymptotic stability of dissipative systems these approaches are equivalent, given the above conditions.
43461299|The covariance structure of a freshwater mussel community and its habitat were analyzed using a hierarchical approach. Nested Analyses of Variance and Covariance were used to partition the variability and covariability of species abundances and habitat descriptors into two spatial scales differing by six orders of magnitude. Principal Component Analysis was then used to describe the community and habitat structure at each scale. For the mussel community, there was more of structure present at the site than the bay scale. Variation in Lampsilis radiata dominated the community structure at both spatial scales, but a second, independent gradient of Anodonta grandis and Proptera alata abundance was present at the bay scale. Secondary and tertiary gradients at the site scale described correlated variation in Anodonta grandis and Ligumia nasuta, and the ratio of the two species, respectively. The habitat structure at the bay scale was greater in magnitude than that at the site scale, and was defined by a "sand-mud" gradient in sediment quality, with associated variation in alkalinity and calcium. The structure of the habitat at the site scale was more complex, with three independent gradients of organic content of the sediment, sediment coarseness, and pH of the water. Canonical Correlation was applied to each spatial scale to quantify relationships between the mussel community and its habitat, but no strong association was found.
43461109|I propose the use of new feeding indices, to classify species in homogeneous trophic groups. To illustrate the approach I examined macrozoobenthic species sampled in Posidonia oceanica meadows off the Island of Ischia (Mediterranean Sea, Gulf of Naples).
43460939|The National Forest Management Act of the United States (NFMA) requires that management practices maintain the diversity of forest ecosystems. An 8-year study of plant community structure and succession in managed coastal plain pine plantations and a 7-year study in an oldgrowth Douglas-fir forest following clearcut logging provide data sufficient for preliminary assessments in the spirit of NFMA. Continuously remeasured abundances of all plants in second-growth pinelands and in young (< 5-year-old) plantations established by clearcutting, site preparation, and planting under two very distinct management regimes show that plant communities comprising the young plantations are more diverse than were communities comprising the antecedent second-growth forests. An analysis of similar data from pre- and post-logging periods in an old-growth Douglas-fir forest show similar results. Recent theory is described and illustrated, including concepts of intrinsic diversity. Diversity profiles for the plantations and second-growth pine and pre- and post-logging Douglas-fir communities show that the results are index free.
43461006|Niche overlap measures in single and multiple resource states, and the current status of hypothesis testing using niche overlap measures, are reviewed. Two main hypotheses are recognized. To test the hypothesis of niche identity, the comparison of replicated samples of intra- and interspecific niche overlap measures is suggested. To test the influence of interspecific interactions on niche overlap, the shuffledsticks model appears promising. Relying on the available information on the properties, bias and statistical parameters of niche overlap measures, some practical recommendations are made. Although single resource niche overlap measures have been extensively studied and may be applied to empirical data, comparisons between communities and measures in multiple resource states are more problematic and should be handled with caution. The present status of the niche overlap concept is discussed.
43461010|This paper describes a technique for ordering species based on their contribution to the total within species sums of squares. The effect of data reduction, accomplished by the omission of lowly ranked species account for the information on the underlying trends or group structure in vegetation. The ranking procedure suggested here can be incorporated in an iterative ranking-clustering algorithm in order to minimize misclassification, by excluding species with larger random components in relev sub-sets. The implications of within species sum of squares as a ranking criterion are discussed in relation to some multivariate methods of data analysis.
43461047|A syntaxonomic classification of the grasslands, dwarf shrublands and succulent thicket of the semi-arid eastern Cape midlands was prepared using two-way indicator species analysis. The relationships between selected environmental variables and the vegetation gradients were examined. Median annual rainfall and altitude were investigated using linear regression. Surface soil samples were analyzed for field moisture content, organic matter content, pH, conductivity, Ca, Mg, K, Na, P and texture. The results were ordinated using principal component analysis and compared with the structural/floristic classification of the vegetation. A shallow precipitation gradient was exposed, but does not adequately explain the high structural and floristic diversity. Axis 1 of the ordination revealed a gradient of decreasing Ca, Mg and conductivity values from the minerally rich sites of the shrublands to the leached conditions of the grasslands and dwarf shrublands. Axis 2 revealed a soil texture gradient of high clay and silt in the succulent dwarf shrublands to the sandy soils of the dwarf shrublands and grasslands. The models provide a set of multiple working hypotheses for understanding vegetation/environment interactions in the region.
43461178|Fractal time-series analysis (Hurst range scaling) and temporal autocorrelation were used to examine the persistence of water level fluctuations in the Delta Marsh, Canada. Persistence was quantified by calculating the Hurst fractal exponent (H) for two time periods. The period from 1924-1960 was used to determine persistence prior to the installation of the Fairford water control structure in 1961. The period 1962-1996 was also examined, to determine how human regulation of water levels since 1961 has affected system persistence. Prior to 1961, water level fluctuations displayed high persistence (H = 0.844). However, persistence has declined (H = 0.737) since water level regulation began in 1961. The importance of environmental (water level) persistence in controlling the community structure, dynamics, and species composition of Delta Marsh and other northern prairie marshes is discussed. It is suggested that decreased persistence may be as important as a decline in the magnitude of water fluctuations in explaining changes in vegetation composition and structure that have occurred in the Delta Marsh since 1961. Higher environmental persistence appears to promote species-habitat diversity and productivity in northern prairie marshes.
43461263|Ethiopia's ecological crisis has acquired notoriety owing to the magnitude of the famines that have occurred in the last two decades. This agricultural country has played a very important role in the history of agriculture, and is now one of the 12 Vavilov centres of genetic diversity. The physical and vegetational setting of the country is summarized. Its history of changes of social organization and land tenure is reviewed. It is seen that, starting in the seventeenth century, the landed gentry class of shimaglle, their serfs and the soldier class of chewas coalesced as a consequence of legislation aimed at improving the fighting force so as to withstand the disruptive effects of the internal movement into the agricultural highlands of nomads from the south, and of foreign aggression from other countries. Whilst the shimaglle had absolute control over their land, the peasants could control their cultivated fields only during the growing season; all other lands (forests, grazing areas, etc.) and fallows, as well as harvested areas, fell to communal use. The peasantry was not allowed to organize itself to bring about communal responsibility commensurate with communal ownership. As a result, virtually all environmental management lapsed, and the land came to be used as a mine for food, feed and wood. No environment can withstand such treatment.
43461038|This review summarizes the major spatial approaches to modelling intraspecific interactions in plants. Spatial models recognize that interactions in plant populations are localized, and therefore use the number, size, and proximity of neighbouring plants to predict an individual's performance. Such models have been used to develop interaction (or competition) indices, to assess the relative importance of spatial patterning on individual plant performance, and to examine mortality patterns and changes in the size distribution of individuals in field, laboratory, and computer-simulated plant populations. The review begins by outlining the competition (or interference) indices developed by foresters and ecologists, and discusses their utility and limitations. Next the 'zone of influence' model, which utilizes overlapping circles in quantifying intraspecific interactions, is reviewed. Specific applications of this model are outlined, examples given, and limitations discussed. This is followed by a detailed outline of spatial tessellation models, which have only recently been applied to examine spatial processes in plant populations. The paper concludes with a discussion of future directions, in which it is argued that tessellation methods should be more widely used in modelling dynamic interactions in plant populations.
43461318|The year 1994 marked the 25th year of statistical ecology and related ecological statistics with reference to the first international symposium on statistical ecology. The silver jubilee was celebrated at the International Association for Ecology, International Society for Ecological Modeling, International Environmetrics Society, and the American Statistical Association. Distinguished Statistical Ecologist Awards were made at the Manchester International Ecological Congress. This paper provides a birds eye view.
43460979|A comparison between the use of Bitterlich relascope and the traditional method of basal area estimation shows that the probability distribution of tree diameters is much less non-normal than previously thought.
43461319|This paper provides an overview of the past twenty-five years of statistical ecology and environmental statistics at the Pennsylvania State University with focus on: Center for Statistical Ecology and Environmental Statistics, graduate environmental statistics program, graduate quantitative ecology program, journal of Environmental and Ecological Statistics, statistical ecology series, observational economy series, risk assessment consortium initiative, and the spatial environmental and ecological statistics using geographic information systems. The paper also provides a complete listing of the publications of the Penn State Center for Statistical Ecology and Environmental Statistics.
43461213|Secondary Brachypodium pinnatum grasslands are typical in low precipitation areas of Hungary after clearing of the oak forest. These grasslands contain steppe species and shade tolerant forest species in varying proportions. Quantitative results from the Institute of Ecology and Botany research site in the Gdll Hills support the proposition of an intense differentiation. For one thing, a spatial-floristic gradient is revealed. Along this, the representation of the forest species and that of the steppe species show opposite trends. A sharp hierarchical group structure is also revealed. This is characterised by the separation of the types dominated by forest species from other types dominated by the steppe species. While the two species groups tend to mutual exclusion under strong coenological and environmental selective pressures, interestingly, no evidence suggests that the species of the Brachypodium pinnatum grassland have an aggressive trait sufficient to endanger biodiversity. The paper presents the detailed results and also the description of analytical techniques.
43461275|323 grass species in 81 genera and 21 tribes in Ethiopia are classified into those with Kranz syndrome and those without Kranz syndrome. An important environmental variable considered is altitude which affects moisture, temperature and light intensity, all of which are closely tied with plant establishment, growth and performance. Three broad altitudinal zones of grassland vegetation have been recognized. Two tribes, Andropogoneae and Paniceae, are predominant in the middle altitudes at 1750-2750 m.a.s.l.. Most members of these tribes are valuable pasture plants owing to their high diversity and high grazing value. This altitudinal range is designated as the Andropogoneae zone. Areas below and above the Andropogoneae zone are recommended for uses by industrial forestry. Integration of the agricultural systems, and possible readjustments within the systems, however, are deemed mandatory to increase overall production.
43461045|The ISODATA clustering analysis based on the theory of fuzzy sets makes use of the concept of membership degree, and thus more objectively and reasonably handles the relation between individuals and their representative classes. However the number of classes into which all individuals are classified has to be predetermined. This requires certain insight into the structure and distribution of the data set to which the analysis is to be applied, otherwise arbitrariness and subjectivity are inevitabe to be involved in the results of the analysis. It is natural and reasonable to think that the number of classes should be determined according to the behavior of the observed data set. In the light of the Minimum Description Lenght Principle, developed in the field of statistical modeling, an optimal number of classes may be identified. The method has been implemented in the general purpose computer software, with sample analyses included.
43461287|The objective is to examine the relationships of management, floristic composition, altitude and chemical soil constituents in an area in which traditional systems are still practiced. The results obtained in a numerical analyses indicate that the four variables interact. They also show that the lowland meadows are more productive than the highland meadows and their soils have higher concentrations of Cu, Zn, Al, Ca, N and organic matter. The latter may reflect, in part, the greater use of organic fertilizers. As expected, species diversity in the highland meadows, where haying is infrequent, is higher than diversity in the lowland meadows. The absolute concentration of the elements in the herbage indicate inadequate summer levels of copper and sodium in the highland meadows. The consequences of this for animal production are discussed.
43460951|A model of the evolution of a trait, which is under phenotypic transmission, originally proposed by Feldmann and Cavalli-Sforza, is further investigated under the additional assumption the probability of oblique (non-parental) transmission being dependent on the previous diffusion of the trait in the population. This model is then applied to the contemporaneous diffusion of two or more traits interacting each other and influencing their transmission probabilities and/or the relative viabilities of the phenotypes carrying them. The analysis is conducted algebraically in simple cases and via computer simulation in cases more complex. Relations between traits, and evolution in time of their diffusion, turn out similar to relations between living organisms in an ecological context (e.g. competition for the same niche, succession in a trophic chain) and evolution in time of their diffusion. An analogy between cultural and biological evolution is then proposed, in wich the analogue of a living organism is applied to a cultural trait rather than to a whole culture. The analogue of the evolution of a whole culture is, under this view, the historical succession of climatic climaxes.
43461311|This paper gives an account of causal analyses of populations, which are sharply different in relative abundances in the perennial drought limited sand grassland Festucetum vaginatae. Three complementary approaches were pursued: 1. Sociological, based on spatial associations between species-pairs to find species sensitive or indifferent to the common ecological factors extracted by factor analysis. 2. "Traditional", rooted in niche theory using the parameters of niche width, and overlap between species in pairs and multiplets. All calculations were based on measurements of soil moisture content and depth of maximal root mass. 3. Experimental, involving investigations on the physiological tolerance and adaptation mechanisms of populations to interpret results obtained by approaches 1 and 2. We found a positive relationship between abundance and niche width. The dominant species, Festuca vaginata, has the largest niche width and highest average overlap value. Regarding the role of species in niche space measurements concerning photosynthesis ecology and biochemistry indicate that the rank order of species based on mesophyll succulence is informative and that in continental open grassland communities with summer drought, species with C and/or C-C intermediate photosynthesis type have the best chance to achieve competitive superiority in the role of a generalist.
43461284|We examined recent climate data from the Mesilla Valley in southern New Mexico, USA. Monthly data for total precipitation, maximum and minimum temperatures, and mean annual temperatures were analyzed from the Jornada Experimental Range headquarters station (July 1914-Dec 1984) and the NMSU station (Jan 1892-Dec 1984). We examined data at monthly, seasonal, and annual intervals. Seasons were developed that corresponded to vegetation and animal phenologies from the study area. Our intent was to examine the hypothesis that changes in climate patterns over the past 100 years were the causal agent in the observed shift in vegetation of the Jornada Basin from perennial grasslands to shrublands. An alternate hypothesis was that this vegetation shift was caused by the introduction and effect of grazing by domestic livestock. We conducted statistical analyses that included descriptive and exploratory techniques, linear and quadratic regression, de-trended autocorrelation analyses, and Monte-Carlo simulation studies. There were no statistically significant trends in precipitation in 11 of 12 months, with only May showing a significant quadratic fit. There are no statistically significant linear or quadratic trends in seasonal or annual precipitation totals from either the Jornada headquarters or the NMSU stations. Significant autocorrelation terms were obtained for lag times of 2, 4, 16, and 17 years. Only lag 17 showed agreement between both the Jornada headquarters and the NMSU stations. Spatial variability was demonstrated between the Jornada and the NMSU stations for both precipitation and temperature. This is particularly so for the summer season, where the Jornada precipitation is quite different from that at the NMSU station. Simulation studies allowed the examination of probabilities of occurrence of segments of data that constituted climatic events in the sense of being of interest biologically. These analyses allowed us to examine such events in the context of the recent climate history of the valley. We were unable to demonstrate any consistent statistical rationale for invoking climate as a causal mechanism in the observed vegetative change of the valley. An examination of the history of grazing by introduced livestock leads to acceptance of an alternate hypothesis that this vegetation shift was caused by grazing effects from introduced livestock. These analyses also demonstrate that the meteorological and environmental "context" within which ecological studies are conducted can have significant influence on the results obtained.
43461164|A correlation analysis between the vegetation of Pyrenean Pinus sylvestris forests (Spain) and some selected chemical-physical variables is presented based on an indirect classification approach. The results of a numerical classification of phytosociological relevs of the understory component are evaluated in terms of class separation based on chemical physical variables (external variables) and canonical analysis. The results suggest that the relev groups obtained by clustering are environmentally well-differentiated, and that soil pH and humidity have the greatest discriminatory power between relev groups.
43461305|Importance value, ecological dominance, species diversity and community equitability were examined in 76 forest types of the Manchurian temperate forest. It was revealed that species diversity has positive relationship with species richness, total number of individuals and equitability, but it has negative relationship with ecological dominance, which in turn has positive relationship with the importance values of dominant populations, especially where the number of populations is low, and negative relationship with community equitability. In these terms sharp differences exist between community types, developmental states after logging, and vegetation zones. Specifically, ecological dominance increases and species diversity decreases in communities in order of their climatic zonation: cold temperate conifer forest  cold temperate mixed broadleaf-conifer forest  temperate conifer forest  temperate mixed broadleaf-conifer forest. While ecological dominance should decrease and species diversity should increase in the course of succession, this trend is reversed in community development after logging. This suggests a case of community retrogression.
43461023|The handling of mixed type multivariate data sets is discussed on an example from the "Man and Biosphere" project, Davos, Switzerland. The data comprise variables of different spatial resolution, aggregation and reliability. Correlograms are computed for data subsets describing different landscape features on differing scales. Some variables show spatial independence, others exhibit correlation among adjacent sampling localities. Periodicity is detected in the distribution pattern of some animal species, and soil types form coenoclines. While some results derived by previous modelling reflect local patterns, others suggest wide ranging relevance. Optimum sampling intensity therefore should not only depend on the aims of the study, but be also influenced by the nature of the variables. For investigations with multiple objectives, the simultaneous use of a combination of sampling designs is suggested. Quadrat size, grid width, and even investigation areas may vary. The commensurability of the designs can be achieved by simultaneously running the operations at the different aggregation levels for the relevant variables.
43460964|The literature is reviewed and a sampling design is described which present a reliable basis for the study of the environmental distribution of soil microfungi. An example illustrates the method's application.
43460975|Data on epiphytic lichen distribution on isolated trees in a moderately polluted area in Czechoslovakia were analyzed using a log-linear model to investigate the interaction of environmental factors. Pollution, bark eutrophication and substrate (tree species) were the factors included in the analysis. Few third-order interactions were identified (only for Pseudevernia furfuracea, Lecanora carpinea and Usnea hirta), indicating that the effects of the factors can be separated from each other in most cases. The implications for bioindication and similar studies are discussed.
43461029|Hardwood forests in the Duke Forest, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina, USA, were studied in order to determine whether plant community patterns on the landscape scale were also present on a scale less than 0.1 hectare. I randomly located forty 2m subplots in each of thirty 0.1 hectare hardwood forest plots, and estimated the percent cover of species under 1 m tall in each subplot. I evaluated the similarity of small-scale (within-plot) patterns to large-scale (among-plot) patterns with a Monte Carlo test for correspondence analysis eigenvalues. Similarities were much stronger for floristic (presenceabsence) data than for abundance data. Although the similarities are statistically significant, within-plot patterns are not miniature versions of among-plot patterns. Species richness of 0.1 ha plots is strongly related to soil cations. Within-plot variation in species richness is only weakly related to cations, implying that large scale determinants of richness are detectable but unimportant on the small scale.
43461049|In 1983 an extraordinary flood destroyed the Panicum prionitis tall grasslands in the Paran River Valley. In this paper phytosociological analyses of the communities, which in March 1988 were in the place of the tall grasslands along the transect from El Rabn to Puerto Piracuacito, are presented. These are compared with a previous analysis performed immediately following the flood. It is shown that pioneer communities evolve convergently into tall grasslands with slightly different variants. Panicum prionitis partially recovers, and its ground cover is inversely proportional to the Cynodon dactylon cover. Floristic richness and diversity decrease. As the floristic composition change, the proportions of therophytes decrease and the phanerophytes increase. It is concluded that exposed to an extraordinary flood, the Panicum prionitis grassland is very resilient.
43461100|Species diversity indices, wich describe distribution of individuals among species into a single value, are at best questionable tools for community functional analysis. As shown in the article, they cannot be safely used either deductively for the testing of hypotheses, or inductively for the sorting of communities into different functional types.
43461268|The use of factor scores in multiple regression models which suffer greatly from collinearity between the variables in the right hand of the equation is discussed. Data on the abundance of the anglerfish, Lophius budegassa, (dependent variable) and temperature, salinity, depth and prey availability (independent variables) in the Mediterranean Sea were used. Temperature, depth and prey abundance were significantly correlated with each other. Multiple regression techniques performed on the original, logarithmically transformed data revealed temperature as the only variable determining the abundance of L. budegassa. However, factor analysis (performed on the independent variables) and multiple regression techniques (performed on factor scores and the dependent variable) revealed that the abundance of L. budegassa is largely determined by temperature, depth and prey availability and, to a lesser extent, salinity. Hence, collinearity may bias greatly the fit of multiple regression models by masking and/or underestimating the importance of some other factors.
43461278|I describe a modification of a timber volume estimation algorithm (Fraser 1977) for use in studying interplant interaction and dynamics in plant populations. The Fraser tessellation results when triangles connecting neighbour plants (as defined by the Delaunay triangulation) are partitioned. I compare the Fraser tessellation to the commonly-used Dirichlet tessellation, and describe various weighting options for the Fraser tessellation. I use the weighted model to examine plant performance in artificial populations of Zinnia elegans, in which germination time is used as the weighting factor. It was found that spatial positioning of plants (as defined by the Dirichlet and unweighted Fraser tessellations) was itself a poor predictor of plant performance. Inclusion of germination time (weighted Fraser tessellation) improved prediction. I suggest that the weighted Fraser tessellation be used to predict plant performance when local interplant interactions are thought to be important. The weighted model is particularly useful when initial individual size differences are present in the population, and when interplant interactions are between first-order spatial neighbours.
43461121|We used a set of multivariate methods to evaluate floristic relationships among saxicolous communities in the Sierra del Moncayo (Spain). In the first step, we established a community typology for homogeneous geomorphological units by means of ordination tecniques (CCA). Then we looked for the best clustering algorithm to explain the floristic variability in the original synthetic table and built a consensus tree based on the dendrograms that accounted for the initial variation. After that, we have isolated ten groups related to geomorphological units. Our approach is objective and logical to use in work with synthetic tables.
43461097|Modelling water ecosystem dynamics requires a thorough knowledge of the chemico-physical parameters in the constitutive equations of the chosen model. These processes are mathematically described by ordinary, in general non-linear, differential equations whose solution depends strongly on the parameter values. We used the adjoint equation method, minimizing the square deviation between states and observations with the conjugate gradient method, in order to estimate the parameters of a logistic growth model on the basis of macroalgae data collected in the Gulf of Trieste. An extension of the method to a more complete trophic model is also discussed.
43461325|As researchers continue to evaluate fractal-based methods of analysis in ecology, a common theme seems to arise as a valuable application: Estimating the fractal dimension or information dimension over a range of spatial scales can deduce ranges of scale-invariance. We present an updated conceptual and methodological review of these methods, with a particular view for multiscale landscape analysis.
43461217|Pasturelands in the Mediterranean region of southern Italy show considerable variation in biomass production and floristic composition. Experiments were undertaken in four sites to examine the effect of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizer addition on biomass productivity and community composition of native pasturelands. The fertilizer treatments (60 N kg ha, 80 P kg ha, and N plus P at two rates of application: 20-44 and 32-70 kg ha N and P respectively) were compared to unfertilized control plots. Fertilizer addition affected biomass production and community composition at all locations. Nitrogen treatment generally increased the biomass production of grasses, but forb species productivity declined. Phosphorus addition resulted in an increased abundance of legumes; other plant families showed reduced productivity, except grasses which increased in moister sites. The combined nitrogen and phosphorus applications increased overall agronomic fertility, with a result that biomass production increased. Moreover, the higher application rate had little effect on the floristic composition of these native pasturelands.
43461210|This study defines and describes the floristic heterogeneity of the natural grasslands of the southern region of the Ro Salado Basin (Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina), one of the regional subdivision of the Flooding Pampa. Vegetation data were obtained through preferential sampling of stands located through photointerpretation. Vegetation relevs were analysed using classification and ordination techniques. An average linkage clustering yielded 14 vegetation units; a phytosociological summary table with 26 floristic groups was produced using correspondence analysis. The ordination of relevs through correspondence analysis allowed to relate plant communities to two main ecological gradients: topographical position and soil salinity. The plant communities were described primarily on the basis of floristic groups, dominant species and position along the major environmental gradients. The different environmental conditions along these gradients determine the vegetation heterogeneity at community-level present in this area.
43461187|Within a survey of mountain forest types in the Swiss Alps, we compared three statistical sampling methods, i.e. stratified random sampling of the investigation area, systematic sampling and unrestricted random sampling. The stratification was based on a digital terrain model and performed using GIS technology. A comparison of the three sampling methods shows that stratified random sampling is an efficient method that guarantees a sample which is proportional to the extension of the environmental types. We investigated the resemblance pattern of relevs and found that it differs between purely random and all others. This leads to the conclusion that stratification introduces a bias into the true pattern. A comparison of the efficiency of the three tested sampling strategies shows that for a classification as used at the regional level (10-50 km), stratified random sampling draws an accurate picture of the small scale vegetation pattern at low sampling effort. At lower resolution, unrestricted random sampling should be applied in the present case, as it leads to a more balanced sampling of large scale vegetation patterns. Compared to manual stratification, GIS-based stratification generally leads to a considerably higher number of strata. We found that relevs from rare attribute combinations neither tend to become outliers in the final data set nor considerably contribute to rare vegetation types. Stratification using GIS technology therefore can be recommended as an efficient technical help even if the number of resulting strata is large and rare strata have to be omitted.
43461044|The horse-shoe effect, that results when linear analysis methods are used with nonlinear relationships between species and environmental factors, is considered. Limits of the classical eigenmethod are examined and their use is suggested for exploratory purposes. The affine space model, that underlies eigenmethods, is considered unsuitable for indirect gradient analysis and a better mathematical model is suggested, based on generalised co-ordinates. The technical difficulties of this approach are considered. Suggestions are made to investigate experimentally the actual relationships of characteristic species to environmental factors.
43461312|Canonical correlation analysis (COR) is applied to test the predictivity of ordination axes obtained by principal component analysis (PCA) and correspondence analysis (CA) of vegetation data (relevs) from Pyrennean Pinus sylvestris forests with respect to axes obtained by PCA of some environmental variables. COR shows high correlation between understory composition and the environmental variables. However, higher correlation values are shown by axes obtained by PCA after normalization of relevs. This confirms that PCA has to be seen strictly in connection with data transformation.
43461292|Fuzzy set theory is applied to test the coenocline model for structural successional changes in broad leaved forests of North-East Italy. As a working hypothesis, the test model used is the well-known successional sequence of Ostrya-Quercus-Fagus. The results show that fuzzy set theory allows to use a classification approach in a dynamic system perspective. The analytical structures recognized fit well the test model.
43461007|An age-dependent model which examines the factors determining the evolution of altruism in a community is proposed, and a theorem which yields precise conditions for the evolution of altruistic community and for the extinction of altruistic individuals in a population is given. The ecological significance of the conditions is discussed, together with some mathematical details. Simulated examples to illustrate the analytical results are also presented.
43461303|The use of ellipsoids of equal concentration to allocate clusters and to calculate hypervolumes and overlap of niches in ecological multidimensional spaces is suggested. The utility and limitations of the technique are stressed. Program TANTIT is offered for computations.
43461194|A simple dynamical community model mimics species interactions and produces, when it reaches equilibrium, a distribution of species abundances that is indistinguishable from the "J-curves" regularly seen by field biologists in samples and surveys. Analysis of the model reveals an equilibrium solution that is inverse linear in form. The theoretical distribution that results, here called the "logistic" distribution, is defined formally as the inverse linear function under a translation of axes which forms its two parameters. The initial hypothesis, that the resemblance between computer and natural abundance distributions is more than coincidental, has led to a near-cottage industry of new hypotheses, the three main ones being: 1. The logistic distribution describes abundance in natural communities. 2. The sampling process transforms a community abundance distribution into a sample abundance distribution by a scale transformation in both axes. 3. In natural communities a major influence on species abundance is the random (i.e., unpredictable) fluctuation in populations. This report describes the computer model, analysis of the model, and a brief summary of progress toward the establishment of Hypothesis 1. Hypothesis 2 is susceptible of mathematical proof. It abolishes the idea of a "veil-line" as a sampling phenomenon. The third hypothesis is discussed briefly.
43461005|A formalized functional definition of niche is given using an extension of the standard definition of a mathematical relation. The niche is conceived as a relation between species and environment; previously published mathematical definitions of both these concepts are incorporated and described briefly, together with examples. The new definition of niche may be used to classify animal niches. It is unlikely, because of the lack of an associated identity operator, to be of use in further mathematical development, however, because of its simple form it lends itself to use by field ecologists.
43461323|In this paper we examine some ranked set sampling (RSS) methods to estimate the means of multiple characteristics in a single investigation. These methods include RSS as developed by McIntyre with equal as well as unequal allocation, and a modified version of Takahasi's RSS method. For determining the unequal allocation we use the Neyman's criterion with concomitant ranking as suggested by Sarndal, Swensson and Wretman (1992) for obtaining a near-optimal allocation for stratified sampling. In the modified Takahasi's method ranking information is utilized at the estimation stage, and as such on ignoring the information one obtains a random sample. This method is also based on the same assumption as the McIntyre's RSS method that the ranking of a unit in a small group with respect to the characteristic of interest is easier than its quantification. These procedures are illustrated using a real data set consisting of height, diameter at breast height, and age of trees. All the three methods provide better estimators of the population mean than the simple random sampling (SRS) method with the same sample size. But the McIntyre's RSS method with the unequal allocation performs better than other RSS methods under consideration.
43461017|When conventional economic input-output (I-O) analysis is applied to ecological networks, it traces only the positive benefits that material and energetic exchanges impart to their recipients, i.e., the vertical structure of ecosystem trophodynamics. However, unlike their economic counterparts, most predator-prey exchanges in ecology are not accompanied by a compensating counterflow, so that the immediate effect of depredation upon the prey population is negative in character. It is possible to amend the I-O calculus to assess simultaneously the indirect consequences of both positive and negative impacts of trophic interactions, thereby expanding I-O methods to explore also the horizontal dimension of indirect competitions and mutualisms. For example, the new method shows that in the network of carbon exchanges occurring in the Chesapeake Bay estuarine ecosystem, the ctenophores and coelenerates engage in indirect mutualism with the phytoplankton and in extended competition with most other heterotrophs. These invertebrates are seen to play a heretofore unappreciated role in the eutrophic dynamics of the Chesapeake system.
43461232|We examine in this paper the notions of convergence and divergence as applied to the character structure of communities in comparative evolutionary studies. We assume that the character structure is nested hierarchical, as in the natural state, with the same fusion pattern, but with a potentially different complement of character set types in each community being compared. Estimates are derived for character structure convergence and divergence as partial sums of products and related partial correlations, corresponding to levels of the hierarchy and relating the pattern of character set types in pairs of communities. The significance of the estimates is tested based on confidence limits constructed in Monte Carlo simulation. It is shown that the partial correlation coefficients can detect both structural convergence and divergence of any complexity, just as they can identify the specific contribution of any character, simple or complex, to character structure convergence or divergence. The interpretation of the evolutionary significance of partial correlations can follow simple criteria. If the communities have no common species, significant partial correlations are manifesting past episodes of convergent (positive partial correlation) or divergent (negative partial correlation) evolution in similar environments; nonsignificant partial correlations indicate that the evolutionary path of the compared communities has not been convergent. Data from desert and boreal vegetation are analyzed to illustrate the method's application.
43461308|Spatial variation of vegetation was analyzed in relation to the hydrological and geomorphological features of the Mar Chiquita Depression. Sampling was made at 30 S along an E-W transect of nearly 100 km length. Elevation, water table depth, conductivity and the presence of surface water were considered to provide an environmental description of the variability of vegetation. The floristic analysis shows a major trend from hygro-halophyllous grasslands and prairies, through halophyllous scrublands, xero-halophyllous woodlands and xerophyllous forests along an increasing elevation gradient, positively correlated with the first ordination axis. This trend is opposite to that of water influence. The vegetation also has a secondary trend in variability, related to local heterogeneity in relief and water dynamics. There are sharp floristic and physiognomic changes between the margins and lower areas of the depression, and inside, between upper and shallow zones. The textural complexity, species richness and life forms have shown hydro-topographic variation trends. The higher diversity value was detected in middle elevations, and greater local variability at the lower end. From these results some hypotheses on dominant processes shaping the plant communities are suggested. La variacin espacial de la vegetacin fue analizada en relacin a la heterogeneidad hidro-geomorfolgica de la depresin de Mar Chiquita. Los censos florsticos fueron realizados a 30S, a lo largo de una transecta E-W de 100 km. La altura sobre el nivel del mar, la profundidad de la fretica, la conductividad y la presencia de agua en superficie fueron considerados para la interpretacin ambiental de la variabilidad de la vegetacin. El anlisis floristico muestra una tendencia principal de variacin desde praderas y pastizales halfilos e higrfilos, hacia matorrales halfilos, bosques xero-halfilos y bosques xerfilos a lo largo de un gradiente de elevacin, positivamente correlacionado con el primer eje de ordenacin. Dicha tendencia es opuesta a la de la influencia hdrica. La vegetacin muestra una variabilidad secundaria, presumiblemente relacionada con la heterogeneidad local del relieve y con el dinamismo hdrico. Se observan cambios fisonmicos y florsticos ntidos entre los mrgenes y zonas ms bajas de la depresin, y entre las zonas relativamente elevadas y las saturadas. La riqueza de especies, la complejidad estructural y las formas de vida muestran una tendencia hidro-topogrfica. Los valores mximos de diversidad se presentan en puntos intermedios del gradiente de elevacin, y la mayor variabilidad hacia el extremo inferior. A partir de estos resultados surgen algunas hiptesis relativas a los procesos dominantes que estructuran las comunidades en el rea estudiada.
43460947|Vegetation and soil samples were taken over a transect in the Saladillo River valley of southeastern Santa Fe. The set of data was analyzed using principal components analysis and the method of dynamic clouds. The ordination of samples on species was similar to that on soil variables. The samples were grouped in three communities: 'flechillar', 'espartillar', and halophilous prairie. The first and third ones of these were in turn divided into two variants each. Most soils factors as well as community distributions are correlated with elevation. Species have independent distributions along the transect. Dispersion profiles were constructed of twelve species over intervals of the best correlated and contrasting soil variables. In several cases these profiles segregate a response of the species to soil factors from another response that may be owing to the interactions of the species themselves.
43461302|Under the 'Set-aside' scheme of the European Community, many British fields that were formerly arable have been withdrawn from agricultural use. Resulting vegetation changes are hard to predict from past experience, because the arable weed flora is now very much smaller than when the classical studies of old-field succession were made. In an attempt to predict changes that will occur in these fields, a computer model called SETSARIO has been written. In this model, both the seasonal dynamics of species and the management of the field are taken into account. The model starts from an initial floristic composition, including information on species present in the seed bank. The initial composition is represented merely by the order of magnitude of species abundance, more precise values being thought to be rather unimportant in determining the outcome as well as hard to obtain in practice. Subsequent changes are represented by a projection matrix from one season to the next. Competition between species at any one season is represented by a hierarchy of bids for space. Annuals lose their early dominance because at certain seasons they disappear, and therefore lose control of space. It is difficult for them to regain space once it is lost. The model has no explicit representation of spatial dynamics, but clonally spreading species such as Elymus repens are able to spread more effectively in the face of competition from existing vegetation than are species that reproduce only from seed. Management of the field is by mowing or tilling. This is represented by altering the values of transfer probabilities between seasons. Allowance is made for the size of species, with tall plants being more affected by cutting than short ones. The model occupies a position intermediate between a detailed population model and one which merely describes vegetation change. The merits of modelling at this level of resolution are discussed.
43460969|A comprehensive program package written in BASIC and available for use on Apple //, Apple Macintosh, and IBM PC personal computers is described. The programs were written for the analysis of data from population and community ecology studies, but should be of use in a number of fields where exploratory multivariate data analysis plays an important role.
43460977|Through the use of qualitative models (loop models and time averaging), factors controlling biological communities are examined. The traditional approaches, choosing one factor over another, insisting on a strict null hypothesis as opposed to alternative hypotheses, and generally omitting the study of interactions themselves are unproductive, if not misleading. Five examples are examined: density dependent and independent factors; simple predator-prey relations with self-damping; resource - herbivore - predator or parasite correlations; controlling factors in a two predator and one prey system in which one predator is self-damped; controlling species in two resources, two consumer systems in which one consumer switches.
43461294|Formalization of the concepts of the 'environment' of a plant and of a 'community' of plants is given using mainly first-order logic, with some symbols and concepts taken from probability theory, modern algebra and engineering mathematics. The primitive terms from the biological sciences are those used for the analogous animal ecology definitions with two extra added to mean 'plant' and an indication of the well-being of the plant. The functional definitions may be used for classifying objects in the environment and for classifying communities. Examples are given.
43461266|A Forest Sampling Simulator (FOSS) interactive computer program has been developed to investigate the merits of various sampling designs for instruction and research. FOSS allows the user to study aspects of sampling efficiency as affected by spatial patterns of trees in a forest, number of observations, size and shape of individual sampling units, and method of selecting samples. A large variety of field conditions can be simulated, and relevant statistics allow comparisons among sampling schemes. The program is written in BASICA and runs on an IBM personal computer or other fully compatible units. This software package was developed as a teaching tool and does not process field data.
43461192|I consider determinism and randomness as fundamental components of vegetation dynamics. I attempt to resolve the dichotomy in ecological theory which, for vegetation, manifests itself as the Clements-Gleason controversy. I present a case study in which determinism and randomness appear to convolute and in which dynamics may be best described as deterministic chaos. Having presented a technical discussion of the topic elsewhere (Anand & Orlci 1996), I now focus on the implications to ecological theory in general. I suggest that chaos provides the foundation for a unifying theory of vegetation dynamics in which classical theories reside as special cases.
43461011|The concept of fuzzy linguistic variables in redescription of vegetation data is proposed. Species frequency based original data table is redefined on the basis of species life/growth-form category. The example presents analysis of 22 types of Pinus forests described by 300 species. The method may be used in transformation of sample space into other spaces defined on various species attributes.
43460971|This new release of the package contains twenty-two FORTRAN programs written for both mainframe computers and IBM/PC AT and XT compatible machines. Widely used standard multivariate methods and specific data analytical techniques, some of them suggested by the author, are represented in the package. The procedures programmed include hierarchical and nonhierarchical clustering, ordination, character ranking, comparison of classifications and ordinations, generation of consenus partitions and ordinations, Monte Carlo simulation of the distribution of coefficients of partition agreement, simulated sampling based on digitized point patterns, and information theory functions for the analysis of species assemblages. This paper provides general information on the programs, detailed documentation is given in the user's manual.
43461320|Environmental problems never fail to be one of the most controversial issues of our society. Balancing between increased health risks and undue economic burden is difficult enough, but matters are worsened by the need to make such critical decisions in the face of high uncertainty. While such decision-making involves the incorporation of many factors that lead to public perception, science undoubtedly plays a major role. Understanding certain aspects of a natural environment requires information that in turn arises from inference drawn from data and modeling. If information obtained in this scientific manner is to be accurate and defensible, it is essential to include all the necessary specialists and to maintain clear communication amongst them. This is where a statistician should play a very critical role, as the sampling and analysis of environmental data does not lend itself well to conventional statistics. Observational bias, autocorrelation and extremely skewed distributions are some of the common aspects of environmental measurements. For these reasons, statisticians and the substantive scientists must learn each other's languages as though they are working together in the same field. Fostering this communication can begin in the classroom, and student responses of such multidisciplinary classes are shared in this paper.
43461026|A model of an ecological niche is described in which different populations of organisms with trophic interactions involving predator/prey encounters are examined using the notions of food webs and game theory. The reality that species and links are dynamic and change with time is considered. Game theoretical tools are applied to the changing food web structure, where the different "players" are the competing predator populations. Total competition is given by means of payoff functions. The total consumption of the predators, and the biomasses of all prey, are used in the given strategy set. A concept of nucleolar solution is defined which takes into account variation in time. A real predator/prey system is examined and the results of the model are interpreted in ecosystem management terms.
43461130|Vegetation science is concerned with a search for patterns, the discovery of processes giving rise to these patterns, and the uncovering of the mechanisms which ultimately cause such patterns and processes. The distinction between pattern, process and mechanism is rarely explicit in accounts of vegetation study, albeit always implied. I stress the need for a clear distinction of these three concepts as a pre-requisite for clarity in studying vegetation. Most studies of vegetation dynamics deal with either describing pattern, or modelling process, but many fail to connect the two. It is even more rare to see patterns and processes predicted from underlying mechanisms. When such is attempted, it usually includes ambitious assumptions and far-fetched syntheses. This can be traced to the difficulty of the task. I examine vegetation science in terms of its components, namely, pattern recognition, process definition and mechanism isolation, and identify the sources of difficulty. In doing so, I sketch the evolution of thought and methods in, reflecting upon the works of some major contributors. The critical phase is, of course, pattern recognition, which itself is at the mercy of the analytical tools, and, inherently, of perception. Once a pattern has been recognized, process and mechanism are inferred. The reliability of this is limited by the amount of observation that can be made on the system. The method of inference is also critical. In addition, scale effects complicate the picture. Consequently, the connections between pattern, process and mechanism may be blurred. I emphasize the importance of scale and review some approaches to its study. Although establishing the relationships between pattern, process and mechanism through inference thus entails several practical difficulties, it may be that the fundamental challenge lies in the theoretical complications. Stability and uniqueness are properties characteristic of simple systems and induce facility in the establishment of cause-effect relationships. Vegetation, however, is a complex system owing mainly to instability (small inputs leading to large and/or divergent outcomes), and plurality of causes and effects in its dynamics. It is likely that, as a consequence, the relationships between causes and effects (pattern, process and mechanism) are also complex. In essence, the problems identified may be ill-posed, rendering them more difficult to solve than previously thought. I illustrate these points and show that the search for understanding of these relationships predominates scientific inquiry.
43461237|The autocorrelation method, widely used in spatial pattern analysis mainly by geographers, is tested and proposed to measure the predictive value of different variables describing the communities. An example of application is based on three matrices of 20 vegetation types from the mixed woods of Friuli Venezia-Giulia (NE Italy). The predictivity has been measured within and between three sets of variables: a) 8 environmental variables measured by ecological indicator values; b) 15 life form-growth form variables, c) 23 chorological variables. The method, being freer from restrictive assumptions about the relationships between the variables, appears to complement other methods well, such as canonical correlation analysis and discriminant analysis.
43461274|A fundamental understanding of the Acanthaster phenomenon - the outbreaks of the crown-of-thorns starfish - on the Great Barrier Reef has now emerged. This is a result of a concerted integrated research effort over the last decade, involving field, modelling and theoretical work. This new understanding requires that we reevaluate the nature of the outbreaks. It says that beneath the apparent complexity of waves of outbreaks travelling down the Reef lies the simplicity of a classic prey-predator stable limit cycle, which itself is clearly part of a family of dynamical behaviours for the phenomenon. It also says that the density of fish predators of juvenile starfish controls which of the family of behaviours is actually expressed. Finally, it suggests that the historic reduction of these fish populations by fishing, with the resulting series of waves of outbreaks, may now be causing irreversible degradation of the Great Barrier Reef.
43460966|An appropriate index has been proposed to measure beta-diversity taking into account both richness and equitability. Existing niche overlap indices have been examined and extended to include community niche concept. Niche hypervolumes and percentages of overlap between communities have been determined using data from southeastern Ethiopia.
43461286|Process equations of a deterministic model simulating multi-species plankton dynamics in aquatic ecosystems are discussed. Formulations include micro and macroalgae, benthic macrophytes and zooplankton growth processes, interactions with nutrients and oxygen fluxes, dissolved and paniculate organic matter formation and sedimentation. Results with simulated data are shown to designate model capabilities and different compartments influencing plankton dynamics and growth. Simulations with field data are discussed to evaluate ecological stability of the analyzed system and various impact scenarios.
43461276|The potential vegetation of the upper Orange river, South Africa, was modelled using floristic data from 377 Braun-Blanquet quadrats collected by M.J.A. Werger from 1971-1973. The median annual rainfall (MAR) and altitude (ALT) for each quadrat were extracted from a surface response model of MAR for southern Africa and a digital terrain map. MAR and ALT were divided into classes at 25 mm and 100 m intervals respectively. A cross tabulation was prepared for each community, providing frequencies for each cell. A contingency table of the frequencies provided a model for each community. Where the null hypothesis of independence was reejected, the cells with the highest frequencies were selected as the optimum conditions for each community. Using all data from the model of MAR and ALT, all minute by minute co-ordinates between 30S 24E and 31S 28E which satisfied those conditions were classified into eight plant communities. Thirteen thousand four hundred and forty km or 4966 pixels (33.6%) were classified. These communities were plotted as a digital map representing the potential vegetation. The validity of the hypothesis was tested by comparing the digital map with Acocks' (1988) map of the study area. A relationship between the model and the Acocks map, which was prepared after an intensive survey and photo-interpretation in 1950, is discernable. The digital map follows the course of the Orange river, including its tributaries the Caledon and Seekoei rivers. This is attributable to the geographical limits of the Werger study. The communities extend from the grasslands in the east, through the grassy shrublands (Grewio-Rhoetalia and Stachyo-Rhoetum) to the Pentzietea incanae and Stipagrostion in the west. The communities follow an east-west aridity gradient, with the median annual rainfall of samples ranging from 663 mm to 229 mm.
43461021|A probabilistic vegetation model for the simulation of the distribution of vegetation types is described. The performance and limitation of the model are discussed. An application is shown in an alpine landscape in Switzerland.
43461234|Different data base models are considered and compared to the relational model. File structures are described and examples are given to illustrate the differences.
43461209|Diversity has become a very popular measure for characterising the 'value' of ecosystems. In this paper we use a 2-level cellular automaton model to explore the stability of diversity measures in space and time, and to characterise those systems which have maximal diversity. We obtain three classes of system which consistently have high diversity, although for different reasons. We comment on the significance of these results for management and conservation, and note some implications for phytosociology.
43461248|A realization of a specialized database system is illustrated through examples from data processing in integrated studies on plant/Hemiptera communities. A formalized algebra on a set-of-files level is presented and its functionality on real data bodies is considered. Also, some peripheral works interfacing this system with related statistical packages are illustrated with previously defined file structures. It was found that advanced computerized management of large and multifiled data bodies are accessible even from an inexperienced user and this is done through a completely menu-driven usage of the package.
43460965|Variable centered methods of classifications are briefly described and classified into three types: multiple partitioning, initial clusters and dynamic clusters methods. A program for each has been tested (OSUCL4, TABORD and PARTS). Inasmuch as biotic community composition is studied and subjected to comparison and classification, the author proposes to use consistently variable centered classification algorithms, particularly the multiple partitioning methods such as OSUCL4. Special attention is given to the hierarchical interpretation of this method, initially designed as nonhierarchical, by preventing the dichotomous process usually associated with hierarchical procedures. Tests also indicate that the use of percentage dissimilarity give ecologically most easily interpretable results.
43461053|A review of the ordination and classification methods is done in the light of the interpretation of the results. The iterative process of sampling and data analysis at different hierarchical levels is suggested as a necessary exercise to understand vegetation patterns.
43461300|Interpolation is essential to most studies of spatial patterns in ecology. However, there has been a lack of quantitative techniques for interpolation of spatial data. This paper introduces a new method for studying spatial patterns, the two-dimensional net-function interpolation. The method can be used to interpolate unmeasured sample locations based on known values at nearby grid points. Specific examples from ecological studies in the Inner Mongolia Grassland, China are discussed to illustrate the use of the method. A brief comparison between the net-function interpolation and kriging is also made. The method provides a useful tool assisting collection of field data of spatial patterning of physical and biological entities, and allows ecologists to obtain vegetaion, soil and other ecological maps based on field observations with greatly reduced effort and over a relatively large area. Beyond that, the net-function technique has potential in other fields (e.g., mining, forestry, meteorology, and structural geology) in which spatial interpolation plays a crucial role.
43461009|Stowe-Wade methods to detect small-scale vegetation patterns were, as far as we could determine, very rarely applied. Here, they are used with data of a hummock-pool marsh fed by calcium rich canal water, to relate the three-dimensional vegetation structure to the dynamics of surface water and some management effects. Of the two methods, the species-region technique seemed to be the most appropriate one.
43461173|Anthropogenic grassland stands, surveyed over 4,000 km in northeastern Santa Catarina state, Brazil, are examined based on vegetation composition and site descriptors using multivariate techniques (classification, ordination, concentration analysis). Four grassland types are revealed, differentiated by soil organic matter content, grassland age, altitude and soil texture. Inferred species responses to these factors are described.
43461195|It was previously established that uranium concentrations in lichens may be altered by aqueous washing, and that disproportional loss occurs from different thallus regions. In this study, uranium retention was compared in four species of macrolichens before and after wash treatments. In regard to individual parts of the thallus, the greatest differences in uranium concentration between species were observed prior to washing, and significant interspecific differences were maintained after aqueous treatments. In respect to whole thalli, differences between species were also observed in starting uranium concentrations, but these were not maintained after treatment with water or dilute acid solutions. The lack of post-wash differences in whole thalli was apparently related to the fact that all thallus zones were not represented to the same extent in the intact lichen, and the efflux of uranium differed between zones. In any case, exposure to water had an equalizing effect on overall U levels in the four lichen species tested.
43461054|The notion of qualitative model is pointed out and its role in theoretical ecology is discussed. Concepts and algorithms pertaining the stability of equilibria and their dependence from external input parameters are reviewed in the framework of qualitative modelling. The effectiveness and efficiency of symbolic computer languages in tackling these kinds of problems is shown through the detailed examination of case-studies borrowed from the literature and their solution via MACSYMA programs composed by casespecific input statements and general-purpose computing subroutines. It is also shown that a linear system cannot model globally a competitive or a predator-prey interaction if the state components are to be interpreted as absolute population levels. Hence the mathematical methods considered here are suitable only for a local analysis of the community dynamics in a neighborhood of an equilibrium state, nevertheless it appears that the use of symbolic computation has a much wider application range and can become an outstanding software tool in every branch of qualitative ecological modelling.
43461309|The robustness of MULVA and PC-ORD clustering techniques were measured with three different new indices. A method is robust when the results for a given data set are stable despite minor perturbations of the data. In order to test the robustness of these methods 22 plots were classified according to the abundance of trees or trees and shrubs and then 10 new plots were added and reclassified. Of the tested methods, Minimum Variance with Cross Product matrix of non-centred data was the most robust and Complete Linkage with Chord Distance was the least robust.
43461034|This paper presents a mathematical model to determine the development of a population of weevils in stored wheat and the damage the weevils do to the wheat. The system is considered to go through two phases: in the first phase the number of wheat grains available per weevil is still sufficiently large, and in the second phase this number is below the critical food ratio C. Because of the time it takes the egg to develop into a mature weevil, the equations of the model are delay differential equations. Analytical solutions and/or bounds on the solutions can be obtained.
43461304|There is a simple allometric relation between average plant mass and the maximum number of plants in a given area as plants become older and bigger. This relaton, named self-thinning law, is valid when the canopy is totally closed. I neglect this very strict assumption, and regard canopy closure as a dynamically variable quantity. Assuming that intra-and interpopulation competition is determined by canopy closure, I studied a population dynamical model to describe self-thinning of even-aged plants. The parameters of the equations are measurable in the field. I extend the model to multi-species assemblages. Emergence of interpopulation interaction could modify the outcome of the self-thinning relation depending on the result of competition.
43461218|The specialization and metapopulation dynamics hypotheses are the most prominent alternative explanations of the oft-reported correlation between the distribution and abundance of species. We suggest that mechanisms underlying the two explanations are interacting to produce the correlation. We aim to quantify the relative contribution of the mechanisms underlying the two proposed explanations, should both have some validity. An analysis of 40 species of invertebrates inhabiting 49 miniature erosional rock pools allowed us to explicitly address the relationship between distribution, specialization, and abundance. The analysis involved regressing species abundances against several measures of specialization and distribution. Compound measures of species specialization (niche volumes) correlated less with the observed densities than when the constituent variables were used separately, especially in combination with the distribution data. The latter group of statistical models increased the amount of variance explained compared to the best niche volume derived estimates (53% vs 79%). The comparisons further suggest that specialization is a much stronger determinant of species abundance than is metapopulation dynamics. This appears to be particularly true in our system of discrete habitats. To put these results in a broader context, we propose a conceptual model to explain the relative importance of stochastic processes and specialization constraints in predicting patterns of species abundance. While this model focuses on site-patch isolation and on ecological differences among sites-patches, it permits other dimensions such as habitat resolution differences among species.
43461135|The Sweep-Out Component analysis (SCA) is suggested as a method to develop environmental ordination. Comparison of SCA ordination (pertaining to environmental data set) and the unrotated PCA and PCA with varimax rotated ordinations revealed superiority of SCA over PCA in terms of greater mechanical validity, greater correlations with the original variables, greater parsimony (higher explained variance by the first three components) and a better correlation of the components with the corresponding vegetational ordination axes. The characteristics and the utility of the SCA model in ecological context are discussed.
43461098|The ability of plants to interfere with ant-homopteran associations has received relatively little attention in studies of ant-homopteran-plant interactions. Given the potential of significant negative impacts to plant fitness from ant-herbivore mutualisms, one might anticipate that some plants have evolved defensive countermeasures. Here, we experimentally examined the role of sticky rings formed by Boerhavia spicata Choisy (Nyctaginaceae) in plant defense against ant-herbivore associations. We randomly assigned 67 plants to one of two treatments: sticky rings covered with diatomaceous earth and controls. Treatment plants (no rings) supported significantly higher densities of aphids (p= 0.045) and ants (p= 0.056) than did controls. Ants, predominantly Myrmecocystus depilis (Hymenoptera: Formicidae), attained significantly (p= 0.030) higher abundances on a per aphid basis on treatment plants than on controls. Densities of nonmyrmecophilous herbivores did not differ significantly between treatment groups. Sticky rings appear to disrupt the establishment of ant-aphid associations in Boerhavia spicata.
43460949|Where sampling constraints do not allow for the time element to be measured or where it is simply impossible to recognize specific time relationships, regression modelling can facilitate dynamic vegetation studies. The present paper describes such a modelling and presents the results of computer experiments with real data from Boreal and Taiga vegetation in the Yukon Territory. The experiments focus on environmental perturbation and the relationship of this to compositional changes in different vegetation types for which general tendencies and trends are revealed. The mesic types appear the most resistant to perturbation and resistance declines as the types become more hydric or xeric.
43461175|The use of Horn's index is extended to express niche separation in multidimensional niche spaces where each axis represents a combination of states of environmental variables of the nominal or ordinal type. Pairwise niche separation coefficients are applied to snail assemblages in three different successional seres of terrestrial plant communities in the Hungarian Great Plain. Matrices of separation coefficients are subjected to metric and nonmetric multidimensional scaling in order to reveal underlying niche relationships in the assemblages. Principal coordinates analysis proved to be more effective in detecting species groups than nonmetric scaling.
43461295|Two approaches for niche width and overlap are compared based on vegetation types and climatic data from China. One approach applies the trajectory concept and uses a dynamic space, the other applies the hypervolume concept and uses both dynamic and static spaces. The two approaches give similar results when the hypervolume approach is coupled with the dynamical space. Procrustes analysis suggests that the trajectory approach can maintain high levels of information; it should be preferred for ordination purposes. Although the justification of the trajectory approach relies mainly on the fact that a true measure of niche overlap cannot be computed, the two approaches can be used in a complementary way to gain more information concerning the niche position and variability of vegetation types in environmental spaces.
43461230|The origins of classification and ordination in human thought are discussed. It is shown that the genetic and evolutionary history of organisms leads to the separation of discrete classes in a hierarchical structure, whereas the same is not true of communities. It is argued that the model selected for classification or ordination should have the fewest parameters needed to account for non-random variation. One-dimensional ordination should be followed by tests of discontinuity. If discrete classes are discovered, they should be analysed separately, and ordination in higher dimensions of the whole data set should proceed only in their absence. The value of the nodum as a concept in community analysis is emphasized.
43461115|When pasture land is abandoned, logged area left unattended, or in general, when severe perturbation stops, vegetation recovery begins. The process that unfolds from initiation to the new steady state is my topic of discussion. I believe that the recovery process is rapid initially and strongly directed, but as time passes, deceleration occurs, the changes become increasingly chaotic, and in chaos, a new steady state is approached. I also believe that the spacetime scale matters not only in our the perception of the process, but also in the natural unfolding of the process independently from us. I present general thoughts in this paper and introduce the idea that boundary conditions exist not only on the ground, such as Walt Coniey's edges, but also in interactions and association in their own analytical space. I describe conjectures that I and A. Garcia chose to delineate recovery studies in Cantabrian Spain and Carolinian Ontario.
43461108|In ecosystem analysis, we always need to classify an ecosystem into several sub-ecosystems using the variables that define the system. It is hoped that the variables describe the special features of the sub-systems. How to select variables that are of this kind? This question is discussed and a method is described. An example of the analysis of meteorological types from the Baoding discrict, Hebei Province, China, is also presented.
43460967|A formal definition of 'ecosystem' is shown to obey the axioms of category theory. The definition makes use of a previously published symbolic definition of an animal's environment and includes also the formalized notion of an animal community. A product of the category is a food web in the ecosystem. Methods of classification and comparison of real-life communities and ecosystems result from the definitions. Non-overlapping communities within the same habitat may be differentiated precisely. Illustrative examples of communities and ecosystems are given using the ecology of the Common Octopus (Octopus vulgaris). An analysis of R.L. Kitching's water-filled treehole communities is also given.
43461128|Postglacial vegetation dynamics reflects global warming and cooling as these occur in normal progression through precession cycle. It also reflects thermal influences of aberrations such as variations in the Sun's radiation and in the Earth's atmospheric CO concentration. Although the present precession cycle is in the final cooling phase as it approaches a new age of glaciation, global warming caused by man-made increases in atmospheric CO and other greenhouse gases may temporarily, albeit substantially subvert the cooling climatic tend. The author uses the Manabe ocean-atmosphere model's prediction of a 2.5 global temperature rise in less than 7-decades to quantify the level of warming, and on this basis, he undertakes an examination of the potential local effects over latitudes in eastern North America and elevations in Hawaii. His results indicate local thermal flux ranging from over 12 (Arctic Tundra at 58 N) to under 4 (Warm Temperate Evergreen Forest at 32 N). A comparative evaluation of these lead the author to hypothesize that the present vegetation of the cool temperate and cold region will disintegrate. When this happens, it will beget the rise of new plant communities that will be little more than chance assemblages of population remnants, species poor and ill-defined. But given enough time, migration, competition and environmental sorting will enhance community level differentiation and sharpen a new, climatedetermined regional pattern. Neither the communities nor the zonal pattern will be comparable to those of today. The Tundra will lose much of its niche and the Boreal Forest will shrink to quantitatively insignificant isolated stands on azonal northern sites. Elements of the Cool Temperate Deciduous Forest and to some extent the Mixed Conifer-Northern Hardwood Forest will appear in parts of Labrador and adjacent maritime regions to the south. The Oak-Hickory Forest and Savanna, now wedged between grassland and eastern deciduous forests from Minnesota to Oklahoma, and the Warm Temperate Evergreen Forest in the southern Gulf and Atlantic states will be major gainers. Suitable elements of the Oak-Hickory Forest will disperse in north-east direction to form a broad north-south belt extending from subarctic western Quebec to the central Great Lakes where thermal, soil moisture, and precipitation regimes will approximate the present conditions in the eastern plane states. Significantly, the Warm Temperate Evergreen Forest will expand north and north-east in step with the expanding influence of the Maritime-Tropical Airmass. On the mountains of Hawaii, the vegetation zones will shift upwards, resulting in the disappearance of the Tropical Alpine Tundra on Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, and possibly the Tropical Subalpine Scrub vegetation on the lesser high mountains. Regional economies will disintegrate and major dislocations of populations will fan severe regional conflicts.
43461124|In this paper I examine some of the causes of the "horseshoe" effect in ordination, and some of the proposals made to mitigate or remove it. I then introduce a Riemannian unfolding methodology whereby the horseshoe is embedded in the curvature of the space itself. By using monotonie regression methods the curvature of this space need not remain constant. This means first, that the nonlinear responses of species are incorporated into the curvature of the space itself, and second, that differential sampling densities along a gradient can be accepted without excessive distortion of the results. Although much more evaluation is necessary, it seems that the use of a Riemannian space might avoid many of the problems presently found with ordination methods. It also raises several questions of fundamental importance in vegetation science.
43461322|A primary need in planning response to natural disasters is for rapid assessment of location, extent and degree of impact. Logistics and priorities for response depend strongly on the landscape context. Field surveys alone are generally inadequate unless the impact is local. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remotely sensed digital images can provide the needed landscape context along with pre-disaster status and map base for planning. It then remains to assess changes associated with the event, and it is usually of utmost importance that the assessment be rapid. Aerial reconnaissance from a light plane allows both stratification and rating of damage for design of field surveys. Rating ability can, in turn, be exploited by ranked set sampling for achieving observational economy.
43460940|This paper discusses the utility of computerized sampling methods in vegetation studies. A brief review of published work and a presentation of new results demonstrate that computerized sampling may be beneficial in a wide variety of research areas, including the optimization of sampling design and the recognition of the scale of spatial pattern.
43461223|This paper examines the effects of birth and death rates on the dynamics of diversity in systems without abiotic environmental changes using a two-level cellular automaton model. The systems examined combine species with high birthand death-rates (hi/hi) and species with low birth-and death-rates (lo/lo). The resulting chaotic systems seem to possess pseudo-attractors even in the case of high number of interactions between species which was not true of more homogeneous systems previously examined. Overall the introduction of distinct types of species led to increased diversity and stability (though in a special sense) which may explain the association of these two characteristics in field observations. Most systems involved mixtures of hi/hi and lo/lo elements although ' pure' systems did occur, more commonly as lo/lo systems.
43461298|We define niche breadth as the congruence of two distributions, one of species performance over the niche compartments and the other of compartment availability in terms of compartment frequencies in the sample. We propose high-density random sampling to determine frequencies and an information theoretical quantity to measure congruence. Species and soil data from Cryptocarya community in the Dinghushan Natural Reserve of South China serve as illustration.
43461112|Caswell's neutral model of community structure can be considered a useful tool for the analysis of biological interactions and disturbance. We examined the zooplankton data collected during two daily sampling cycles in the Po River, near Viadana, in the summer of 1985 and 1988. Rotifers were the most important group in all the samples examined. The rotifer community shows a marked structural stability during low water phases. In the summer of 1985 dominance is high, while in 1988 evenness increases in response to conditions of moderate disturbance (higher turbidity). Floods act as "catastrophic" events, which destroy community organization and bring diversity to the values predicted by the neutral hypothesis. The results are discussed according to Connell and Huston's theories on diversity and disturbance.
43461227|This study examines spatial and temporal dynamics of land cover in the Pugu and Kazimzumbwi forest reserve region of Tanzania. Cultivation and harvesting of forest products are the main factors affecting the vegetation. These factors are more pronounced in the eastern and northern parts of the forest reserves. Elsewhere, notably in the western parts of the reserves, there has been substantial recovery of vegetation. This is particularly apparent in areas of where depopulation occurred following the 'villagisation' program of the 1970' s. Although most of the vegetation change occurred outside of the forest reserves, increasing population pressure around the forest reserves will likely lead to encroachment into the forest reserves proper.
43461220|This morphometric study describes the relation between branch diameter and branching order in Ilex aquifolium using a simple fractal scaling law. The logarithmic plots of mean branch diameter against the logarithm of order were generally linear, suggesting that biological branching structures may be genetically-controlled. However, fractal exponent values varied a function of environmental factors such as heavy grazing, suggesting that while the fractal scaling function is genetically coded, it is also an expression of adaptations to the environment.
43461120|Several ordination methods, including Principal Component analysis, Correspondence analysis and Multidimensional Scaling, are capable of analysing several matrices simultaneously, that is they can analyse three-mode data. In contrast, almost all classification methods which have been used in phytosociology have employed a single symmetric dissimilarity matrix. At first, this may not seem to pose any particular problem. However, on inspecting such single matrices more closely, we find that they are formed by uniting several matrices, often by summing contributions from several variables (species). Thus implicitly we have adopted a particular method of analysis without examining the alternatives. And there are other situations in which simultaneous analysis of several matrices might be regarded as potentially profitable. There is one exceptional case in classification where multiple matrices have been recognised. Certain procedures utilise ancillary information to constrain the analysis, commonly by permitting only spatially adjacent stands to fuse, or by requiring that subgroups formed by division remain spatially coherent (e.g. Gordon & Birks 1972). Such constraint could equally be derived from any other variable. In such cases elements of one matrix dominate the elements of the other, so the analysis is markedly asymmetric in its treatment. Modifying the constraint matrix during the classification procedure gives a dynamic system. We may use several matrices in such constrained analyses, defining a logical function to combine the constraints, and modifying each matrix idiosyncratically. Furthermore, we could introduce weighting to replace complete prohibition, thus encouraging, say, adjacency without demanding it. However, asymmetry is not always desired, especially in cases where multiple matrices arise from reasons other than constraint satisfaction. In this paper we first examine various situations where several matrices of dissimilarity might reasonably be generated simultaneously and where it does not seem entirely desirable that they be summed to form a single overall dissimilarity matrix. We shall then examine some approaches to the problem of classification using multiple dissimilarity matrices, with and without asymmetric treatment, and illustrate some of their potentialities and problems. Finally we indicate how our results reflect on some fundamentals of phytosociological investigation.
43460968|Some approximation and interpolation approaches to mapping ecological and vegetation variables on a surface are presented. In this connection trend surface analysis based on polynomial regression is shown to be a promising technique. It is reviewed and typical applications are presented. Basic features of the mathematical background for bicubic and triangular splines are discussed. 'Splines' is a family of powerful interpolation techniques for mapping of ecological and vegetational variables both on regular and irregular grids.
43461131|Canonical contingency table analysis is a method to measure structural sharpness and to detect compositional trends in structured phytosociological tables. The present paper analyzes species occupancy and life-form frequency records from the Greater Xingan Mountains of north-east China along elevation gradients. The analysis reveals a sharp group structure in the data by species and elevation class. It also reveals elevation related trends in species distributions of 4 basic types: skewed to low altitude, mode at mid altitude, skewed to high altitude, altitude indifferent. Typical species of the 4 types in the same order include: Pinus sylvestris, Picea jezoensis, Pinus pumila, and Larix gmelini.
43461036|Two alternatives of the Phylogenerator (Vida et al. 1989), describing ceoevolution of abstract asexual, clonal communities, based on explicit multispecies dynamics, are presented along with some preliminary results. The model works in the sense that speciation and extinction lead to variously connected communities comprising all sorts of interactions, including mutualism. Abstract phylogenetic trees generated by the Phylogenerator are shown. Examples of self-inflicted and externally elicited diversity collapses are presented. Commonly used pairwise models of mutualism are not adequate representations in a community evolution context. Hints for further development, such as microevolutionary fine-tuning or rigorous food-web analysis, are outlined.
43461225|A new index is proposed to quantify habitat edge. The index is the ratio between the observed interior-to-edge ratio and a reference value, calculated as the maximum interior-to-edge ratio for the given area. Using the Patton diversity index as a standard, the properties and advantages of the new index are described: (i) it is suitable for raster data; (ii) it considers the edge as an area quantity; (iii) it gives higher values for larger patches, thus incorporating both patch area and shape characteristics. The index is therefore more relevant to nature conservation policy and reserve design.
43461269|Ordination and classification have always been important stages in ecological data analysis. This paper presents a clustering technique based on fuzzy sets to obtain both ordination and classification particularly well suited for ecological analyses. Three algorithms are presented to categorize data, classify new ones, and produce fuzzy dendrograms. Some examples demonstrate the algorithms' capabilities to yield graded classification of data and show that this approach has more flexibility compared to classical methods.
43461048|Many plant communities are made up chiefly of long lived individuals of species adapted to persist by tolerating the particular stresses of their habitats. Such stresses might include: low nutrient levels; low water levels; extremes of temeprature; low light levels; low soil oxygen; low soil availability; waterlogging; extremes of pH; presence of salts or metals; among others. Long lived, often endemic, stress tolerating plants with specific habitat requirements are among those most appropriately protected in reserves. To help understand the role that reserve size plays in the choice and management of nature reserves for such plant communities, probability distributions for the number of species that remnants of larger habitats might contain were calculated assuming equal species abundance, equal individual size, and independent, random spatial distribution. For the inclusion of most species (99%) in a habitat remnant, adequate reserve size is achieved with relatively small reserves with space for about six times as many individuals as species. This suggests that the maintenance of habitat quality may be a more important factor than reserve size for the protection of biodiversity. Factors increasing or maintaining the species richness of an area of long lived, stress tolerating vegetation include: reduction of inappropriate disturbance; original inclusion of such individuals in situ in the area; endemism (an endemic may not have ever colonized an area, it may have evolved there); maintenance of habitat (including water table, air and water quality, and the natural variation of environmental conditions); and low mortality, especially from anthropogenous sources. As we still have a great deal to learn, both scientifically and socially, about maintenance of habitat quality, we should establish a large number of reserves of any size available, recognizing that inevitably many of them will fail for reasons of habitat quality.
43461277|Demography, the study of vital statistics, when applied at the stand-level of community organization, can contribute significantly to the predictability of vegetation change. This is particularly so in low-diversity biomes in which a few key species dominate the vegetation. Examples are presented from low-diversity forest biomes in the Pacific area, where degenerating and regenerating populations of major tree species are the principal determinants of vegetation change.
43461055|The 'multivariate plexus concept' is an extension and generalization of Whittaker's speciesenvironmental plexus applied in plant ecology. It is used in the analysis of complex multiway ecological data by a multistep procedure (eigenvector ordinations of two-way submatrices of data, rank correlations, non-metric multidimensional scaling, plexus diagram). The method was applied to four-way bird-habitat data collected in a Central-European oak forest. The integrated vegetation-bird plexus diagram showed significant relationships between several bird species and vegetation components, but the general physiognomic character of the forest had no relevant effect on bird species at the scale of the study. Using plexus diagram it was possible to detect strong negative effects between vegetation components and bird species; there are not usually revealed by the well-known ordination techniques.
43460976|The use of vegetation types defined in syntaxonomical research is proposed for environmental analysis on the basis of fuzzy set theory. An example with data of a relatively simple environmental system is discussed.
43461193|The research involved a grassland area at UFRGS Agronomic Experimental Station in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. The floristic survey in 1984, when the area was under grazing, was compared with the surveys of 1986, 1988 and 1992, when cattle was excluded. The vegetation analysis used 16 permanent plots (0.25 m) on which the cover of species was scored. The objective was to trace the dynamics of the vegetation. Ordination analysis allowed us to observe directional tendencies, and randomization tests verified divergence and the lack of stabilization of the community.
43461199|Cirsium pitcheri is a threatened plant species endemic to the shoreline sand dunes of the Great Lakes. In this study we attempted to identify some of the environmental factors that may limit the growth, survival and reproduction of its populations. The species is able to grow in varied microhabitats of shoreline sand dunes such as bare areas within populations of grasses, blowouts, and shingle beaches. Seed production of its populations was severely reduced due to consumption of whole capitula by white-tailed deer. An experiment on simulated herbivory by white-tailed deer showed that C. pitcheri possessed good ability to compensate for tissue loss. However, intensive browsing resulted in a significant reduction in root biomass. Since the flowering ability of C. pitcheri is dictated by the amount of stored root reserves, such reduction in root biomass would delay the onset of flowering, reduce overwinter survival, and significantly affect the future growth and survival of this threatened species. Seedlings and juvenile vegetative plants may also be killed by excessive burial in sand. For example, the burial of seedlings to various proportions of their height showed that all seedlings died in the complete (100%) burial, 20% died in the 75% burial and none died in the 25 and 50% burial treatments. Burial of seedlings up to a depth of 25% stimulated their growth but 75% burial significantly decreased the total dry weight. For the restoration of C. pitcheri populations efforts must be made to artificially create new populations and enhance existing populations.
43461127|In a former paper by one of us (L. Papp) diversity measures of frequency lists of Drosophilidae assemblages in four Hungarian low mountain valleys were compared. The present paper elaborates on the diversity measures themselves with the intentions to find how closely conclusions based on the Shannon-Wiener index can be corroborated by other indices. The Shannon-Wiener index, Fisher's index, as well as some indices of Hurlbert's and Hill's index families were calculated. Confidence intervals of the jackknifed diversity values as well as the significance of diversity differences were also determined. Through the high number of original and jackknifed diversity estimates, an opportunity presented itself to study the statistical properties of the original estimates. The bias of estimation and the radii of confidence intervals of jackknife estimates as functions of sample size, were analysed. Strong correlations were found between the diversity indices. A relationship between frequency size and index response was also demonstrated. It is illuminating that when two or three elements of a species frequency vector are changed by an appropriate algorithm for those in a fixed vector, the modified diversity value approximates the diversity belonging to the fixed vector very closely.
43461327|This article is especially put together to provide an informative introduction to the relatively new and innovative cross-disciplinary journal for statistics, ecology, and the environment. Information on the editorial group is given. So also instructions for the authors. Contents of the first eight issues comprising the first two volumes for 1994 and 1995 are spelled out. The headquarters of the journal published by Chapman & Hall are located at the Penn State Center for Statistical Ecology and Environmental Statistics with Professor G. P. Patil as the Editor-in-Chief. A convenient subscription order form follows.
43461279|Spatial interpolation methods are very popular in geosciences. Among these, trend surface analysis (TSA), inverse-distance interpolation, splines, and kriging are the most commonly used. Although vegetation science handles many spatial aspects of ecological data, these methods have experienced less appreciation. TSA and kriging interpolations are discussed in the present paper. Detailed formulations of the techniques are given, and their advantages and flaws briefly discussed. Two example data sets are used to elucidate the applications of these methods in the interpretation of ordination diagrams.
43461004|Diversity is an historical property acquired in the growth and development, not only of eco systems, but also of any system made of replicable subsystems. Its basic expression involves the equivalent of an averaging of quantitative ratios, between any possible pair of components, of most of their extensive and intensive properties. Diversity, like information in general, grows around itself, in analogy to the evolution of Vorticity in fluids. In another approach, diversity can be contemplated as a result from interaction between dynamics of total biomass and dynamics of genetic differentiation inside the same biomass. Connectance, the "syntaxis of ecology", should be placed inside the boundaries of diversity, and is subjected to mayor constraints. Connectance is bounded between the increasing rigidity of the system and its risk of falling apart into separate systems.
43461117|Niche breadth is defined as the fitness between the species' performance distribution and the sampling unit frequency distribution over the compartments of a compartmentalized niche space. An index is derived to measure fitness based on the minimum discrimination information statistic. An example is presented using survey data of species and soil variables from the Cryptocarya community in the Dinghushan Natural Reserve, South China.
43461008|An improved principal components analysis ordination is used to study grass-habitat relationships in the Serengeti short grasslands. Species distribution is found to be influenced by soil factors along a topographic gradient.
43461020|This paper investigates the characteristics of a fish community and the effect of the distance from the coast line on the measure of fish species. Fluctuation in species diversity is noted as the distance from the coast line is increased. The effect of the timing of the day is examined.
43461270|Changes in phanerophytic vegetation in a mountain woodland of Central Argentina are analyzed. Floristic composition, disturbance factors (logging and grazing) and some physical variables are recorded in sampling plots located along a gradient of use intensity. Multivariate analysis shows that the main trend of variation in floristic composition is related to an alteration gradient rather than to physical factors. This gradient is significatively correlated with logging. Diversity parameters are used in order to study spatial organization. Species diversity decreases from slightly to highly disturbed sites. Spatial heterogeneity and average spatial niche width decreases as disturbance intensity increases. The behaviour of diversity parameters applied to highly disturbed woody vegetation is discussed.
43461107|Carabid beetle coenoses in the Aspromonte massif (Southern Italy) have been described and mapped in relation with the main vegetation types. On the basis of the map and of some meaningful community features an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) plan has been suggested. Carabid coenoses proved to have a good correlation with the vegetation types, and to be helpful for EIA.
43461226|Vegetation composition was studied in a semi-arid region of southern Ethiopia where bush fires have been banned for the past 25 years. The area is used by the pastoral Borana people and their livestock. Seven vegetation types are described using a hierarchical classificatory technique. Vegetation types that are new to the landscape have developed as a result of bush fire banning and other forms of human interference. Floristic gradients revealed by numerical ordination technique were not strongly related to measured environmental factors, although variation was partially related to soil texture, soil phosphorus levels, and terrain slope. Fire suppression has favoured the invasion of woody plants, resulting in increased cover of communities dominated by Acacia drepanolobium, A. seyal and Tarchonanthus camphoratus. By contrast, the grassland community that formerly dominated the central plateau is shrinking, and a community dominated by Juniperus procera and Olea europea is facing local extirpation. Removal of invasive woody species, and extraction of livestock through participatory development programs, are suggested as initial management steps to help rehabilitate vegetation diversity and productivity to the conditions existing prior to fire suppression.
43461253|A measure of resemblance is described which is independent of the linearity of descriptor relationships. The descriptors are recorded on interval scales, though not necessarily the same scale. The resemblance measure is based on a minimum distance pathway between the data points, related to a similar pathway for an equidistribution of points in the same reference space.
43460942|A comparison of thirteen presence-absence resemblance coefficients was undertaken based on nonmetric multidimensional scaling of a data set recording the distribution of marine fungal species over 31 sites worldwide. While all coefficients successfully recovered a major gradient in mean seawater temperature, some differences in the ordination scattergrams were nonetheless apparent. The weights space of individual differences scaling (INDSCAL) indicated that coefficient interrelationships reflect (a) whether mutual absence is used in calculating resemblance, (b) whether multiplicative terms are incorporated, and (c) the degree of intercoefficient monotonicity. An empirical assessment of ordination interpretability, together with considerations of the relationship between resemblance and ecological distance as indicated by INDSCAL Shepard diagrams, suggested the utility of the Baroni-Urbani coefficient in biogeographical studies. The Ochiai coefficient, along with the Jaccard and its variants, also produced interpretable results.
43461242|The application of probabilistic methods to the classification of plant communities at different hierarchical levels is discussed. The methods have been applied to phytosociological data of scree vegetation of Central Italy. Two procedures are suggested: the first to compare vegetation types and the second to test homogeneity within vegetation types.
43461281|Part V of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology presents a description of a practical approach to managing and archiving ecological data. The intent of this discussion is to define a generalized data structure that encourages good ecological data management. This approach facilitates the demands of analysis, synthesis, and modelling, of data across scales that range from local to regional or continental. Part I of this series (Conley 1990) provided a definition of Theoretical Ecology. Part II (Conley 1991a) provided both a critique and a proper design of large inter-disciplinary "Centers" that focus on a broad discipline such as Theoretical Ecology. Part III (Conley 1991b) presented an argument for the desireability of this approach to ecological issues guided by such an "Institute for Theoretical Ecology". Part IV (Conley 1991c), presented a description of a new activity referred to as "Computational Workshops" that offered a fresh approach to the analysis and synthesis of broadly developed ecological and environmental data.
43461096|The successional dynamics of pastures in a representative area of the Crdoba Mountains is studied. Traditionally, the pastures are periodically burned to eliminate the phytomass that accumulates in "pajonales", areas of tall grasses that are unpalatable for cattle. This is not an intense disturbance, and it permits development until the start of a new disturbance. In this study, succession is analyzed based upon multivariate ordination techniques and diversity analysis. It is shown that the floristic composition describes a relatively clear successional sequence, and the variability in the communities is not seriously affected in its relation with the geomorphological gradient on the slopes, although many species modify their spatial niche during succession.
43460950|As part of a vegetation survey programme for conserved areas a survey of the Manyeleti Game Reserve was undertaken. From a Braun-Blanquet analysis of the vegetation, seven major plant communities were identified. As this survey forms the basis for further more detailed phytosociological research, an overview of these communities is presented. Descriptions of the communities include habitat characterization, diagnostic species, as well as prominent taxa in the woody and herbaceous strata.
43461039|It has been suggested that the overlap of species niches will decrease if the niche dimensions are increased. To demonstrate this principle, we examined the niche overlap of species within compartmentalized niche spaces of different dimensions. For this we took physical variables as niche dimensions, achieved compartmentalization by fragmentation of each dimension into a given number of intervals, and measured niche overlap as the similarity of species performance mappings over the compartments. We derived the similarity measure as the complement of a standard metric unaffected by distortions owing to interdependences between the niche dimensions. Data from a south China Cryptocarya community, involving 10 soil variables and 35 species, confirmed the general principle: species niche overlap did decrease as the niche dimensions increased. As a useful generalization, the species were grouped into guilds through a cluster analysis of the metric.
43461201|A dissimilarity measure for comparing objects described by ordinal variables with few states is derived from Kendall's tau and Goodman-Kruskal's gamma. The coefficient is calculated by examining all possible pairs of variables such that whenever ties appear, the presence/absence relationships become decisive. The measure is recommended for cases when many values in the data matrix are tied, and presence/absence relations are also of interest, e.g., in phytosociological classifications.
43460974|An examination of many of the indices proposed as numerical measures of pairwise similarity shows that they have strong relationships to string-to-string measures variously known as "Levenshtein distance", "longest common subsequence" or "minimal mutation distance". The variations among coefficients are created in several ways, including changing the set of operations, using a richer structural pattern, modifying weights, limiting the extent of operations and varying the basis for normalisation. In total these measures provide a very flexible means of assessing similarity and can be extended to similarities based on collections of strings. While not denying the interest to the user of other properties, such as metricity or embedding in a euclidean space, examining the coefficients as variations on the Levenshtein theme provides a common basis for their comparison and provides the user with a means of choosing between coefficients in a rational manner. But however interesting this array of coefficients might be, it remains true that only some features of similarity will be captured in a minimal mutational measure. These features may be more or less than are actually required by the user. In this paper I have made a preliminary examination of various measures, some of which are related to the Levenshtein metric, and some of which appear to capture other aspects of similarity (i.e. topological, functional, analogic and/or conceptual). These latter are all measures which I have been unable to relate to the Levenshtein distance, although I have not pursued this very far as yet. All measures were applied to vegetation data, classifying both plots and attributes into a two-way table. The SAHN algorithm has been used for most of the clusterings, so that differences between measures of similarity are the primary cause of differences in results. In a few cases other clustering algorithms have been used and the data has been converted to presence/absence when this was necessary with the particular coefficient.
43461301|Floristic and morphological changes produced by grazing were studied in a high plateau grassland. Two types of disturbance were compared: an enclosed site without grazing during the last twelve years, and a site grazed by cattle and sheep. The effect of grazing on floristic composition and community architecture was analyzed. Grazing produced changes in species frequency, but not an invasion of exotic species. Five groups of species with differing morphology were identified. These morphological groups were represented in a markedly different way in the two grazing types. Grazing caused the occurrence of morphological groups comprised of grazing tolerants, whereas, within the exclosure, groups of species that evade grazing predominated.
43461183|In order to survive, animals must select among the resources available in their environment. Resource selection studies aim to identify the habitats and prey items that different animal species select for use among available choices. These studies have progressively become more reliant on statistical methods for analysis. As in other ecological applications, classical linear models are somewhat constraining due to the assumptions of constant error variance and normal distribution for the response variable Y. Generalized linear models (GLM) add necessary flexibility to model ecological data by allowing Y to come from an exponential family and by taking the variance of to be proportional to a variance function V() of the mean. The variance function V() determines whether there is an exponential family compatible with the moment model. If there is one, maximum likelihood can be used for inference. If there is not one, quasi-likelihood is an alternative method for inference that does not make distributional assumptions for the response variable. In this paper, an introduction to resource selection studies is presented; it includes definitions, motivation, sampling designs, and analysis techniques based on resource selection probability functions. GLM and quasi-likelihood are also introduced and applied in the analysis of three different resource selection studies with binary response variables.
43461235|This paper examines the reasons for, and methods of, species selection which have been proposed for phytosociological use. It attempts to evaluate these methods in terms of cost and effectiveness, by determining if the procedures can identify constant, faithful and discriminating species. Using a single set of data. 5 classes of methods were identified and typical methods from three of the classes were then applied to a second data set to determine their efficacy in recovering patterns similar to those in the full data. The results indicate that two methods, one based on the two-parameter model, the other on a double Poisson model, perform well, and at reasonable computational cost. In addition various proposed tests of resemblance of similarity matrices and partition comparison are examined and shown to be of limited usefulness. Some possible extensions to the double Poisson method are indicated, and some relationships to robust and resistant estimation procedures noted.
43461249|An easy to use numerical simulation model of plankton dynamics in aquatic environments is described. The model simulates growth of two phytoplankton and two zooplankton groups on the basis of physical and trophic data from field measurements collected in the investigated environment. AQUAMOD may specially be of help to users who are being introduced to ecological modelling, since the interactions between variables are easy to understand.
43461050|Part II of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology provides both a critique for large "Centers" that focus on a particular discipline, and suggestions to correct the flaws that are perceived. The overall theme of the discussion continues to be an argument for the design and establishment of an institutionalized program of study for Theoretical Ecology. Part I (Conley 1990) of the series provided a discussion of definitions of "Theoretical Ecology". In Parts III (Conley 1991a), IV (Conley 1991 b) and V (Conley and Brunt 1991c), I offer in increasing detail, the case for establishment of such an Institute, and some of the activities and methods that would enhance the chances of its' success.
43461258|A 30-plot permanent transect along a topographic gradient was laid from the levee to the edge of the internal lake on an island in the River Paran floodplain to study the distribution of new herbaceous vegetation replacing the previous one destroyed by a catastrophic flood. Principal component and cluster analyses were used to analyze the data. It was concluded that the communities' distribution follows environmental gradients related to topographic elevation, and that the main effect of the floods is to smooth down these gradients, thus producing homogeneization in the herbaceous vegetation.
43461028|Plant-environment relationships in the Duke Forest, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina USA were examined within and among tenth hectare plots. Soil samples collected from subplots were analyzed for phosphorus, potassium, calcium, sodium, weight/volume, pH, buffered acidity, cation exchange capacity, manganese, copper, and humic acids. Canopy openness was estimated with a spherical densiometer. Canonical correspondence analysis reveals that the species composition of 0.1 ha plots is strongly related to soil calcium. All of the environmental variables demonstrate some spatial dependence within plots, indicating that within-plot gradient analysis must be interpreted cautiously. Species composition of 2 m subplots is weakly related to soil calcium. Species positions along the calcium gradient within plots are weakly correlated with their positions along the among-plot calcium gradient.
43461271|It has been repeatedly suggested by several kinds of competition models (island models, diffusion models and simulations of local dynamics) that spatially limited dispersion and local competition stabilize the regional coexistence of competing populations. Using a Monte Carlo simulation model, this work demonstrates that local dynamics alone is insufficient to allow stable coexistence of similar species: it is the environmental heterogeneity inherent in island models and most of the simulations that has the stabilizing effect. Increasing spatial inhomogeneity by the introduction of an environmental gradient and the corresponding response curves results in an increased tendency for stable regional coexistence of two annual plant populations.
43461129|The contingency table model expresses vegetation on a specific site in terms of deviations of performance or sampling unit occupancy from an expected state. We define this state as global randomness that would prevail had the dispersion of the plant population not been constrained by trended environmental variation. With expectation so defined, the contingency table model is completely described by output from an enriched canonical contingency table analysis (CCTA). The output includes canonical correlations, canonical scores, and canonical partitions of deviations from expectations. Considering that the row categories in the contingency table in this case are species populations and the column categories are environmentally defined, the population deviations profiles of the sites and their partitions will be suitable as signatures to describe quantitatively the state of vegetation in a particular site at the time of the survey. With concatenation of these states consistent and anticipatory of environmental variation can provide clues of the direction and extent of vegetation change. The analysis has been described in detail elsewhere. We discuss in this paper the problem of mapping new sites into the contingency table model without distortions of the original configuration. We propose CONAMAP, an application program, to derive the mappings. CONAMAP takes results from CCTA and derives canonical scores and deviations profiles for observational vectors from new sites. The species complement and population performance measures must be identical in the new vectors and in the contingency table. To illustrate the procedure we use floristic data from six topo-moisture classes of the eastern Cape midlands.
43461103|This paper examines the various structuring mechanisms which control the distribution of symbiont taxa on crinoid individuals. We identify 3 classes of factors which might be pertinent. These are: 1. Physical and global environmental factors, 2. Host specific factors, 3. Inter-and intra-specific interactions among the symbiont species. Forty-six taxa belonging to the classes Gastropoda, Polychaeta, Myzostomata, Ophiuroidea and Crustacea were identified as symbiotic associates of shallow water crinoids from the central great Barrier Reef. The spatial distribution of the symbiont communities was correlated with host abundance. However, none of the common symbiont taxa showed specificity for a single host species. Stout body morphology and nocturnal behaviour were correlated with higher numbers of associates. Crinoids of the family Comasteraceae had more symbionts than other crinoids.
43461310|This paper considers the problem of clique-partitioning. Existing algorithms that optimally solve this problem employ a graph-theoretical perspective which is not suitable for geobotany. Instead, a GA-based procedure for clique-partitioning is presented, that can be applied to data of any kind. The fitness function involves a stress measure between dissimilarity matrix and the resulting classification. Emphasis is placed on examining the behavior of the proposed objective function with regard to its success in discovering the structure of data sets. Results of numerical experiments conducted on artificial and real-world examples are reported.
43461027|Classification of sequences in space or time was used to search for repeatable patterns in zonation on an environmental gradient and in seasonal dynamics. Three data sets were used which capture the zonation of plant communities on an emerged fishpond bottom along a moisture gradient, seasonal dynamics of phytoplankton communities in different years, and seasonal dynamics of soil macrofauna communities in different sites. A two step procedure was used: all sampling units were classified and assigned to particular states in the first step; sequences of states were classified in the second step. The procedure permits many methodical choices (type of primary classification, similarity between sequences, etc.) and examination of their influence on the resulting classification. The procedure was successful in revealing repeatable patterns in ecological data sets.
43461116|It is especially incumbent upon scholars in general and ecologists and environmental managers in particular to keep pace with ever emerging complex problems of human environments and life. Extraordinarily changing conditions have challenged our perception, theories (principles) and would be remedial/protective/preventive/and conservation measures. Environmental messes, i.e., extremely complex and often highly dynamic systems of interacting environmental problems, are exceptionally aggrandized in underdeveloped countries which are extremely afflicted by problems of bio-diversity, environmental productivity, stability, resilience and above all biological dimensionality. Biological dimensionality is often taken as a one or two-dimensional discrete phenomenon. To the contrary, it is an intricate, seamless and a four-dimensional continuum. It could be unfolded in many different ways, but once unravelled it cannot be put again like what it was. The message of the Law of Entropy is none other than this. The dialectics of biological dimensionality and biological diversity were diagnosed using conceptual schematic models. Their conceptual framework was extended to assess environmental messes of tropical countries especially referring to Ethiopia. Present day human management moves were then entertained based on verified ecological principles. They revealed the overall flaws of our moves as compared to the demands imposed by nature and by the modern rallying call of sustainability which is emphatically coined in Agenda 21.
43461056|The paper analyzes succession from Callana vulgaris - dominated heathland to woodland dominated by Betula pubescens and B. pendula in Scotland and Northern England. Seven methods were used, classical phytosociological analysis, three ordination methods (Principal Component Analysis, PCA, Detrended Correspondence Analysis, DCA, Bray and Curtis Ordination, BCO) and three classification methods (Cluster Analysis, Indicator Species Analysis, Two Way Indicator Species Analysis). Phytosociological analysis well categorized distinct vegetation types, but failed to classify transitional stages. DCA, BCO using Euclidean distance and in particular PCA clearly displayed the successional trends. Numerical classification did not perform well on the raw data, but ordination complemented by classification (e.g., clustering of the component scores from PCA) gave the best insight into vegetation patterns. The suitability of different methods according to the nature of the data to be analyzed is discussed.
43461110|Computer assisted procedures are proposed to serve as a helpful tool for structuring vegetation data tables. Data analysis and typical procedures used for this purpose are discussed in the context of the theoretical steps involved.
43461035|In this paper, several models of the dynamics and the interactions between community components of the pine forest are described: the pest population dynamics model (including development - temperature model and population size model), the tree leaf biomass and seasonal dynamics model, the wood volume growth model of pine trees, and models for the interactions between pest and tree, and between pest and pesticide spray. These models are used in management decision analysis. The main damage stages of pine caterpillars to trees are the 4 to 6 instars of larva. The degree of leaf damage has a strong influence on the survival rate of the pest. The wood volume growth rate is slowed after leaf damage. However, because trees of different ages have different resistance, the wood volume losses may differ. Management decisions depend on pest development stage, population level, tree age, leaf biomass and the economics of pesticide spray and wood harvest..
43461224|Long-term benthic times series data reflect the impact of anthropogenic or hydroclimatic factors, as well as biological behaviour strategies. A numerical method known as 'typology of shapes of series' (TSS) can be used to clear up this complexity. The method is illustrated using macrobenthic data set from the western part of the English Channel (48 species, regularly sampled from 1977 to 1992). TSS is based on the concept that the shape of temporal variation in species abundance gives precise information on responses to environmental variables at different scales, and on reproductive strategy. Shape is characterised by four indices that describe the intensity of year to year and seasonal variations, and the degree of intermittence of the series. 12 groups of similar shapes were detected from the 48 species. Separate analyses were made on groups of species with strong long-term trends, regular seasonal variations, and those of sporadic occurrence. Species abundances were affected by the 1978 'Amoco Cadiz' oil spill, as well as by variation of hydro-climatic parameters.
43461022|A study was conducted in sagebrush-steppe vegetation, near Kemmerer, Wyoming, U.S.A., to separate the effects of observer error and plot randomization on the estimation of interannual changes in plant species richness, evenness, diversity and total cover. Multiple observers of the same set of quadrats produced significantly different estimates of diversity due to differences in the length and composition of species lists and cover estimates. A single observer's estimates of different sets of quadrats had equivalent diversities and reflected the same community. Changing observers, introduced less variability in floristic richness, in a relative sense, than did plot randomization. However, when species presence was combined with ocular estimates of cover, changing observers introduced more error into the estimation of diversity incorporating evenness and the characterization of the trajectory of change than did spatial randomization of plots. The desirability of using permanent plots and the same competent observer over time to detect vegetation change was reconfirmed as was the need to objectify estimates of abundance.
43461216|Various landscape pattern indices were used to quantify landscape spatial structure and historical modifications in the north-west sector of Rome, Italy. Historical land-use data were obtained from interpreted aerial photos dating from 1944, 1974 and 1991. The maps were digitized and a series of structural, shape, change and pattern indices were calculated to quantify changes of the landscape matrix over the past fifty years. One feature of note is a progressive increase in forest cover over time, from 4.3% in 1944 to 8.3% by 1991. This increase is attributed to natural successional processes that occurred with changing socio-economic and geomorphological factors. Our analyses also revealed some redundancy in landscape measures, such as the dominance and contagion indices. The analyses also demonstrated the need to examine many landscape indices simultaneously in order to obtain sufficient information regarding the development of a particular land use type as well as the landscape as a whole. We conclude that further research is needed to more fully examine the relationship between measured landscape indices and underlying ecological functions and processes at the landscape scale.
43461265|Distributional and numerical relationships between the meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) and the short-tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda) on Massachusetts islands were analyzed and found to be inconsistent with previous studies. Population-level interactions between these two species both with and without other variables were qualitatively modeled in order to reconcile inconsistencies. Changes in levels of immigration of M. pennsylvanicus to islands can change expectations of coexistence from negative to positive. This rescue effect was apparently powerful enough to alter expected correlations between M. pennsylvanicus and B. brevicauda on Massachusetts islands.
43461326|The study is based on the data of botanical field work in nine mountainous regions of East Greenland between 71 and 81 northern latitude. Two methodological questions have been treated: -how might the biological diversity of the vegetation of arctic mountains be best described? -how the altitude of the vegetation-line might be estimated from field-observations? The statistical analysis was based on the species/presence index. The best results were obtained using an index based on the slope of the cumulative species/log-abundance curve between the upper and lower quartiles of the distribution. For the estimation of the vegetation-line nonlinear regression methodology based on the logistic function is recommended.
43461211|Diversity indices were introduced originally to quantify floristic and faunistic diversity. Nowadays these indices have wider applications in fields such as genetics, demography, epidemiology, econometrics and linguistics. In these latter fields the number of categories - in contrast with the species number in the ecological diversity studies - is mostly known and fixed. This makes possible the use of concentration measures, the long established scalar distribution parameters. By fixing the number of categories, monotone decreasing functions of the concentration indices can be considered diversity measures. This is why some authors point out that diversity indices are merely the inverses of concentration indices. However, this is only true when the number of categories is fixed. In many situations in biology this is not the case. On the other hand, it may also happen in biology that the number of categories is postulated, and it seems reasonable to use concentration indices instead of or parallel with classic diversity indices. We mention in this short review some well known concentration measures, the additive or multiplicative inverses of which could be used as diversity measures. At any rate, there exists a parallelism between diversity and concentration, regarding both the intuitive basis and the difficulties in quantification. At the same time, we propose a distinction between "concentration related" and "genuine" diversity indices.
43461185|The results of a factorial experiment carried out on sessile oak and Turkey oak seedlings under three light intensities (50%, 30% and 5% of incoming solar radiation) and two soil moisture levels (humid and dry) are reported. Leaf area and total and component (leaves, stems and roots) biomass were measured on each seedling, and indices of net assimilation rate (NAR), specific leaf area (SLA) and root to stem ratios calculated. The imposed light and soil moisture treatments resulted in a higher death rate in sessile oak seedlings compared to Turkey oak, and greatly influenced seedling growth, leaf characteristics and biomass accumulation. Variation in light levels proved to be the most important factor. In both species, greatest biomass production occurred at intermediate light levels (i. e. 30% of full sunlight) and humid soil moisture conditions. Lowest biomass accumulation occurred at the lowest light levels. Although both species showed similar ecological responses to light and soil moisture, Turkey oak appears to be a more adaptable species whereas sessile oak is a more selective one. Hypotheses regarding the adaptive strategies of the two species, based on their observed responses to the experimental treatments, are discussed.
43461257|Tree and shrub dispersions are examined in relation to 10 soil variables. Individualistic species adaptations to prevailing environmental regimes are revealed. This suggests niche differentiation among populations.
43461259|A data file structure is described and the advantage of computer processing is discussed.
43461202|The dependence of survival and of a measure of performance (relative growth rate RGR and fecundity), on gap size and several other variables is explored for two species of annual grassland invaders: Lobelia inflata L. and Rhinanthus minor L., using field experiments and stochastic modeling. The aim of this study was to determine how these two annual species can maintain themselves in a community that exists almost uniquely of perennials. It was found that L. inflata has low survival and low RGR in gaps of diameter < 25 cm, whereas R. minor bas higher survival and grows better (and therefore produces more seeds) even in much smaller gaps. Further experiments showed that survival in L. inflata is strongly affected by fertilization, with extra fertilization raising the probability of survival in the plots with no competition and with only below ground competition, and lowering the probability of survival in the control plots. RGR in L. inflata was almost completely determined by the vegetation treatment: it was high in herbicided plots, lower in netted plots (with only below ground competition), and lower still in the intact control plots (where average RGR was negative). In R. minor, on the other hand, survival was high in both fertilized and unfertilized plots. In the fertilized plots there was no significant difference between the survival of netted and control treatments, whereas in the unfertilized there was. Greater dry weight of the test plants at the start of the experiment (as predicted by initial length) correlated with higher survival. Fecundity in R. minor also depended on initial length, and to some extent on treatment. We conclude that the ability of R. minor to do well in dense vegetation depends on the plants' predatory way of making a living: as a hemiparasite, R. minor depends for all its water and mineral resources and for some of its carbon gain on the plants it parasitizes. A stochastic simulation with spatial extent enabled us to obtain continued survival of both species provided the rate of formation of new gaps was high enough. If it was not, then L. inflata would disappear from the plots, while R. minor continued to thrive. The observed cycling of R. minor could be due to other factors not in the model (seed predation by voles or by a specialized insect), or they could represent stable limit cycles generated by an inherently deterministic process. Further research is required to elucidate these matters.
43461030|General reviews of the concepts of pattern, of sampling methods, of the problems of scale and of the models for pattern analysis of grid and distance data are first presented. Models are then proposed. Tests for monospecific patterns, a sequential model associated with multivariate analyses for multispecific patterns, least-squares mapping associated with a distance technique, and complementary tests for distance patterns are presented. A discussion of future directions in pattern analysis concludes the text.
43460943|Species ranking at various dichotomies of the dendrogram has been illustrated. It must be emphasised that not only those species which show marked changes in rank are of interest, but also those which remain more or less consistently important, either in one branch of the dendrogram, or, in some cases, in several branches. It is felt most strongly that the dynamic changes in species importance direct attention to fundamental questions regarding the current use of species data in the elucidation of vegetation pattern. The programs were written in BASIC for a PDP-1090 computer, and have now been developed to the point where both speed and core requirements are quite acceptable, though transfer to a micro-computer would require memory expansion. Copies of the programs are available from the authors.
43461058|Part III of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology presents an argument for the need to establish an organization that can be referred to as the "Institute for Theoretical Ecology". Part I (Conley 1990) of the series provided a discussion of definitions of "Theoretical Ecology". Part II (Conley 1991a) presented both a critique and suggestions for design of a large instituzionalized "Center" that emphasized an interdisciplinary program of study such as Theoretical Ecology might present. This paper presents the arguments in favor of the establishment of such an institute, along with some of the design details and philosophies that need to be considered. In general, it is argued that this institute should be concerned with fundamental aspects of ecological theory and with some of the methods that lead to better theory. In order for full success in this realm, this institute should not be concerned with supporting data collections. Instead, the institute should emphasize ecological data management (in the broad sense), data analysis and synthesis, and ecological applications of innovative statistical and mathematical developments that would bring a fresh look at pressing ecological and environmental problems. In Part IV (Conley 1991b) and V (Conley and Brunt 1991c), I provide increasing detail on some of the activities and methods that would enhance the chances for success of this institute.
43461174|In modern industrial societies, all development must be planned in the light of its probable impact on the environment. In this context, industrial ecology has evolved with the aim of studying the interactions between industry and basic environmental systems in a systematic way. This paper aims to demonstrate how Geographic Information Systems and certain spatial pattern analysis methods, namely the nearest-neighbour and spatial autocorrelation techniques, can be used to assess the dynamics of industrial systems, facilitating industrial planning and environmental control.
43461162|The paper offers a probabilistic solution to classification and homogeneity testing in vegetation studies. The method described overcomes the problem of having to make subjective choices about the number of groups or the acceptable level of termination in cluster analysis. It also has advantages over other probabilistic solutions in the way that probabilities are determined. A randomization procedure generates probabilities in pairwise relev comparisons for input into cluster analysis to control the homogeneity of groups, or in homogeneity testing within given groups of an existing partition. The methods are illustrated on data from Campos grasslands.
43461134|Mycological and plant surveys were conducted on 32 areas in the Piedmont Alps and the Aosta Valley, representing an extensive sector of the Western Italian Alps. The results were syntaxonomically interpreted. Nine types of vegetation were identified by cluster analysis. The distribution of saprophytic and ectomycorrhizal macromycetes is studied in connection with these vegetation types and correlations between vegetation, environment and fungal communities are discussed.
43461111|This paper discusses the fundamental determinants of the climate-vegetation interaction in China: atmospheric circulation and weather systems, topographical-geological structure and geological history. A brief account of vegetation zones is presented. Multivariate analysis is used to detect zones according to their climatological and geographical parameters.
43461280|The non metric multi-dimensional scaling tecnique (NMDS) was used for ranking 6 natural areas in Italy to establish protection policy priorities. Each area was ranked for each of 8 factors: diversity, rarity, naturalness, size, representativeness, documentation, unicity and scientific value. Spearman's correlation coefficient was used to correlate each factor, with the ordination given by NMDS. Most factors were highly correlated, except unicity and representativeness, weekly correlated, and documentation, which is essentially uncorrelated.
43461163|A numerical index to evaluate the conservation state of the natural landscape has been proposed. The land use map of the study area derived by supervised classification of satellite images has been reclassified on the basis of land use typologies reflecting the degree of environment conservation. The proposed Index of Landscape Conservation state (ILC) has been computed on the basis of the geographic surface covered by each land use typology. The index gives importance to the position of a land use typology along a 'naturalness' degradation gradient. Improvement and limits of the ILC are discussed.
43461176|The problems of sampling design in large-scale ecosystem surveys are discussed. Attention is focused on the sampling unit, the method of selection, sample size optimality, and sampling unit description in an adverse sampling environment.
43461212|Problems with the notion of evenness, such as ambiguity, proliferation of indices, choice of indices, etc. can be overcome by a more fundamental, mathematical approach. We show that the Lorenz curve is an adequate representation of evenness. The corresponding Lorenz order induces a partial order in the set of equivalent abundance vectors. Classical indices such as the Gini index, the coefficient of variation, the Shannon-Wiener index and Simpson's index can be adapted in such a way as to confirm this partial order.
43461102|The notion of species diversity depends on two main components: richness of sources and the spread of items over available sources (evenness). To compare different situations a partial order is introduced into the set of all possible distributions. One such partial order is produced by the criterion of Lorenz dominance, visualized by a Lorenz curve. If a vector X is diversity-dominated by a vector X', the Lorenz curve of X lies beneath that of X'. Defining the bifurcation operator BIF, we may split up an N-vector into an (N+ 1)-vector. Now, the Patil-Taillie bifurcation axiom, or 'introduction of a species' axiom, states that the latter vector, i.e. BIF(X) must always have a larger diversity than the former. However, it may well be that the Lorenz curve of BIF(X) is situated strictly beneath the Lorenz curve of X. Thus, the 'introduction of a species' axiom is not comparable with the diversity-dominance order.
43461267|The paper investigates the influence of acidic deposition on the dynamics of forest ecosystems by means of a simple mathematical model having tree biomass, nutrient concentration in the trees and nutrient concentration in the soil as state variables and exogenous nutrient inflow as driving force. The existence and stability of equilibria are analyzed for three different mechanisms of tree damage: direct effects on exposed tissue, increased soil acidity, and excessive nutrient accumulation. It is shown that when the nutrient inflow from acid precipitation is increased, the second and third mechanisms imply the sudden collapse from a viable equilibrium to tree extinction. More precisely, a fold catastrophe, as it is called within the relevant theory, is generated.
43461037|A mathematical model is constructed for the spatial distribution of rocky shore communities, taking as an example the community of Ancon beach, Lima, Peru, and using the algebraic theory of lattices. The resultant model is displayed algebraically and graphically. Advantages over taxonomical zonation patterns are described. An ignored property of nature, the inanimate property of living nature, is identified by the model.
43461099|The purpose of this study was to evaluate the spatial dependence of species composition in transects of contiguous quadrats. Three aspects were examined. The main analysis was a set of goodness-of-fit tests to determine whether low order Markov models were adequate for describing species composition, looking both at single species and multiple species combinations. The second complementary method was an examination of the means and variances of runs of absences in the data, as defined relative to single species and to combinations of up to six species. The third analysis evaluated the similarity in composition of quadrats at spacings from one to ten quadrats. These methods were applied to vascular plant data from transects 1000 quadrats long in sedge meadows on Ellesmere Island. While the goodness of fit tests suggested that low order Markov models provided an adequate description of the many species data, the runs tests and local similarities showed that they were not appropriate.
43461197|The author argues that biological computing has in potential the advantage of extraordinary speed, storage capacity and energy efficiency. She outlines the principles and points to the practical possibilities.
43461291|A selection of major floristic communities from a transect across the equatorial catenary-mosaic vegetation complex is analysed structurally and in an ecological context. In addition to the cover-dominance of general vegetation growth forms (bush, tree, grass, forb), other aspects of the vegetation structure (leaf size, tallness) respond in a recognisable, repetitive way to soil type and topographic variation. However, the major role in dictating both floristic and general structural trends appears to be played by combinations of edaphic and climatic factors. Three major structural complexes are recognised: a) Anogeissus Woodland/Grass-woodland communities dominated by the tallest height class and the medium leaf size classes; b) Terminalia and/or lsoberlinia Grass-woodland communities well represented in all height and leaf size classes; and c) Grewia and Hyparrhenia Grassland/Grass-bushland communities dominated by medium and short height classes, and medium and large leaf classes.
43461040|As part of a vegetation survey programme for conserved areas in South Africa, a survey of the plant communities of the fersiallitic soils in the Many eleti Game Reserve was undertaken. The Perotido patentis-Terminalietum sericeae is restricted to these soils. From a Braun-Blanquet analysis of the vegetation, two new subassociations, one with three variants, were identified and described. A quantitative assessment of the woody component of each syntaxon is presented. An ordination based on the floristic data revealed the position of the syntaxa on an environmental gradient.
43460944|Many ecological variables are either categorical, or if continuous then severely non-normal and highly interdependent. A non-parametric tree classifier is described which is appropriate for modeling such variables when they interact hierarchically. Tree structures are developed based on elementary probabilistic rules, and then simplified and tested by cross-validation using internal re-sampling. This method is compared to a closely related classification technique which is derived from information theory. Both methods are used to analyze data from field experiments to determine factors controlling post-dispersal establishment of Blue oak (Quercus douglasii) seedlings in Blue oak woodlands of the central Coast Ranges of California. The methods produce similar tree structures which prove to have good predictive value, and are satisfying both for their simplicity and interpretability.
43461016|The concept of complexity has been and is currently used in association to that of stability in both theoretical and applied studies on natural communities. The reference to linear, totally or partially randomly connected systems, makes the search for a critical value of connectance, and its relation to stability, difficult to achieve. More relevant, the majority of investigations refer to complexity only the structural aspects (number of species and of known interrelations), but biological relationships of various kind affect the populations' dynamics with different mechanisms. Any connectedness index seems to be scarcely effective in measuring complexity, if it neglects the functional components of biological interactions. This study presents some community assemblages as found and documented in small island environments. They have been investigated through qualitative methodology under the hypothesis of moving equilibrium. Ten models are presented and discussed: from the simplest one, with two competitors, to that of three competitors and one specialized predator; from a community organized at two trophic levels, to that at three trophic levels. For any situation, pairs of models are compared. They represent communities dynamically differently, but richness and connectedness are equivalent. Counterintuitive results following immigration/emigration processes, where modifications of the system network are often imposed by these processes, are also discussed.
43460948|The standard approach to the study of vegetation is discussed in which sampling represents a first and data analysis a second step. An alternative is suggested where sampling and analysis run concurrently. An example is given to demonstrate possible gains in efficiency and flexibility.
43461293|The ecological interpretation of ordinations is easiest when there is a linear relationship between the site variables and the ordination axes. There are methods, such as detrending, which were claimed to remedy the horseshoe-or arc effect in ordinations. "Flexible shortest path adjustment" (FSPA) is a possible alternative. It is suspected that this method may improve the interpretability of ordinations, by reduction of the non-linearity between vegetation and environment in the ordination projection. The efficiency of this is measured by computing the stress between the ordination and the original resemblance matrices. Ecological interpretability is evaluated first by correlating the ordination axes with environmental data. Alternatively, Mantel-correlograms are computed for the vegetation and environmental data. In one example, using 63 relevs of a statistical sample from a transition bog gradient, principal coordinates analysis combined with FSPA yielded an extremely efficient ordination and improved considerably the linearity. The results were further improved when noise was removed from the data by secondary analyses. The efficiency of FSPA is confirmed in a second example, where 71 centroid records of Swiss forest types with very high species turnover rate were ordinated. The problem of interpretation in the application of the Mantel-statistics in nonstationary systems is discussed. It is concluded that FSPA and Mantel-statistics, when used with care, are very helpful to interpret biological and environmental relationships.
43461177|The aim of this paper is to illustrate the meaning, advantages, and limits of biological monitoring as applied to marine environments. The advantages and disadvantages of each technique are discussed. The limits in the transfer of methods commonly used for freshwater monitoring to the marine environment are considered. In addition, the most suitable techniques to establish a scientific basis for making decisions concerning the environment in relation to various situations are suggested. For example: a) to assess water quality for fishing, aquaculture, bathing and environmental conservation; b) to estimate the influence of sewage, industrial and agricultural effluents on the marine community; and c) to evaluate the effectiveness of any action to reduce the pollution load into the coastal area.
43461324|Assessing pollution impact on water ecosystems is of great concern. Modelling such impact is usually done in a regression framework on a suitable transformed variable, under somewhat strict assumptions on residual distribution and variability. Main aim of this paper is to illustrate some alternative approaches in the framework of Generalized Linear Models. In particular, distributional-free, semiparametric approaches, such as quasi-likelihood and generalized estimating equations, will be discussed with reference to an application on reproductive output in fresh water zooplankton.
43461254|Principal component analysis and three variants of factor analysis were tested as ordination models using environmental data of 22 stands from a desert ecosystem. The effect of orthogonal factor rotation was also examined. A variety of evaluative criteria were employed to characterize each of the environmental ordination. These criteria included: correlation between the ordination space and the original data space (mechanical validity), correlation between ordination axes and the environmental variables, correlation between the environmental ordination axes and components of PCA vegetational ordination, and the relationships between the environmental ordinations and the non-parametric multidimensional scaling vegetational ordination. With respect to the evaluation criteria multiple group and centroid methods, with and without axes rotation, gave best performance while the principal component ordinations with varimax and qartimax rotation performed poorly. The results are discussed in the light of the computational techniques involved.
43461198|An overview of the literature on succession theory, patterns and processes in North American boreal forest ecosystems is presented, incorporating data that we have recently collected from the boreal forests of southeast and western Manitoba, northwest and east-central Ontario, and the montane region of southwest Alberta, Canada. Ecological theories and scientific concepts pertaining to boreal forest ecosystems are summarized and discussed. A spatio-temporal conceptual framework of boreal forest dynamics is also developed, emphasizing vegetation-environment relationships and the concept of ecosystem persistence.
43461161|A bibliography of 178 papers, editorials and notes published in Coenoses volumes 1-10 (1986-1995) is presented. It contains several indices featuring the sources (summary information on papers), authors, disciplines, geography, ecosystem type as well as an extensive list of keywords.
43461285|The popularity of the reductionist approach led to a considerable advancement of succession theory. Its methods are particularly adequate for the analysis of short-term secondary processes. It is emphasized that in the interpretation of long-term primary successional seres the holistic approach has also been useful and relevant. Of the various primary seres, any sequence of stages that lead to a climatically zonal community may be selected as a reference basis. As an example, two seres of the Hungarian Great Plain are analyzed and compared.
43461101|This study examined how correspondence analysis (CA) and its detrended-(DCA) and canonical (CCA) variants revealed an a priori humidity gradient and potential secondary gradients. Environmental and vegetation data from 56 sites in an arid area were used. The ordination-axes were correlated with the humidity gradient (distance measure), topographical factors, and disturbance factors such as house density and distance from a market. Only the two disturbance factors were spatially correlated, and only these had a non-linear spatial relationship to the humidity gradient. Axis one represents the humidity gradient, and topographical factors correlated to higher axes in all ordinations. The disturbance factors were polynomial functions of axis one, and were confused with the arch in CA and CCA (including all variables). However, an arch-free CCA was obtained by using uncorrelated variables only. This indicates that house density represents a significant (p < 0.01) secondary disturbance gradient, which was confirmed by redundancy analyses. DCA avoids the arch-pattern by removing all non-linear relationships between axes, hence the disturbance factors had no significance (p > 0.01) in the DCA-ordination. CCA is superior to DCA in exploring secondary gradients, especially those which are caused by variables whose influence is important at one end of the primary gradient only. Indirect factors, such as human disturbance, may be operationally independent of resource gradients. But it is the spatial arrangement of environmental variables that determine dependence vs independence and hence the ordination result and interpretation.
43461113|The cause of increased densities, survival, and body size and decreased reproductive output of rodents isolated on islands was explored by constructing a series of models. Qualitative methods of signed digraphs and time averaging were used to examine the correlation pattern among resource level, population density, individual body size, reproductive output, and predation. Data collected from two species of rodents in Massachusetts were compared with the models. The models suggest that the explanation for characteristics exhibited by island rodent populations lies in the structure of the interrelations among the variables included in the model. Specifically, patterns on islands may be accounted for if the differences between locations are due to differences originating at the predation level when predators are present and at the density level in the absence of predators. The most likely pathway for such an effect is "predation reduces density, density reduces reproductive effort, and reproductive effort reduces body size". While the conclusions are specific to rodent populations, the method has broader application and provides the first step toward developing a diagnostic key to population dynamics..
43461290|The floristic and structural intricacies of a catenary-mosaic vegetation complex in the south-west of the Sudan are investigated numerically. The vegetation of the area is not characterized simply by that of individual species, vegetation types or growth forms, but rather by different combinations of these. Even virtually ubiquitous and/or well distributed species change in dominance, growth form and associates through the study area. This complex of vegetation features is repetitive and helps to identify community types. Their distribution patterns divide the study area into major phytogeographical zones and elucidate environmental gradients. In turn, these last are primarily determined by soil type and topography (texture, depth, drainage) rather than merely climate. A northeasterly trend can be recognised from the more mesic -eluvial/colluvial soil associated - equatorial forest edges to drier -illuvial soil associated -lowland open grasslands. Perhaps, two vegetation types (Closed Woodland and Thicket) tend to dilute towards the north, however, no apparent subtraction effect with increasing latitude has been detected for major/dominant species. Conversely, although the woodland dominates overall, the bush to tree cover ratio increases in a northerly direction. In the north, the successional stages of major communities reflect Tire pro-climax' equilibria. Only isolated relict southern mesic species survive in localised, e.g. riverine, strips. Otherwise these communities derive from persistent remnants of local associations primarily made of xeric species coping with fire and/or other man induced transformations. In the south, community successional position is more often mediated by the establishment of pioneer northern species.
43461019|Mixtures of distributions, in particular the normal, have been used extensively as models in a wide variety of important practical situations where the population of interest may be considered as consisting of two or more subpopulations mixed in varying proportions. The problem of decomposing such a mixture of distributions is of considerable interest and utility. Two commonly used clustering methods based on maximum likelihood are considered in the context of the classification problem where observations of unknown origin belong to one of the two possible populations. The basic assumptions and associated properties of the two methods are contrasted and illustrated by a series of simulations under two different sampling schemes, namely mixture sampling and separate sampling. A case study is presented to demonstrate the basic differences between these two methods.
43461196|The focus is on complex landscapes and in these on the effects of hierarchical arrangements and scales on the process. Rightfully considered a philosophical essay in landscape ecology, the paper emphasizes that for a best resolution of domains, of patterns and of their determinants study designs must accommodate scales. Relevant references and examples enrich the contents.
43461169|An interpretation of ecological succession is outlined based on recent applications of non-equilibrium thermodynamics to living systems. From such a perspective it is suggested that phenomenological analogies between ontogeny, phylogeny and succession are not accidental but follow from patterns of self-organization in complex systems. Thereby Lotka's maximum power law and Prigogine's concept of self-organizing dissipative structures are seen as the common organizing principles. Consequences of such an interpretation are discussed in light of Darwinian theory and Gleasonian objections to holistic succession theories.
43461168|Patterns of architectural variation of some "macchia" woody species (Cistus monspeliensis, Erica multiflora, Pistacia lentiscus, Myrtus communis and Quercus ilex) were studied in different post-fire physiognomic types of Circeo National Park (Central Italy): Ampelodesmos grassland, Erica arborea open-shrubland, Cistus monspeliensis shrubland and Quercus ilex tall-shrubland. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was carried out based on data from all stands and species using the variables plant height, basal stem diameter, number of stems, first-leaf height and height/mean crown diameter ratio. Different architectural patterns could be described. C. monspeliensis has a vertical spatial arrangement and few stems in all situations ("stable" architectural type). E. multiflora, M. communis and P. lentiscus show lateral spreading and many stems in open stands, but show both horizontal or vertical spatial arrangements in closed-canopy stands ("plastic" architectural type). Q. ilex, though not found in all situations, seemed to belong to this latter group. The high competitive ability of Q. ilex may be related to its greater growth capacity.
43461244|There have been many alternative ways in which clusters have been defined. Perhaps the most frequent choice has been the geometric concept of a cluster as a set of point "close" in some space, a concept related to notions of probability density functions and hence to the framework of mathematical statistics. However such a model is not everywhere suitable, and in this paper I shall also examine some of the alternatives, chosen from models which have been used in deciding the number of clusters present. The aim of this examination it twofold. Firstly to indicate what alternatives have in fact been suggested, for many of them are neither well-known nor widely applied. Secondly to try and explore the situations in which one definition might be more appropriate than another. Ultimately such a decision must rest with the analyst, or agent, for approaches to testing for existence of clusters, and for determining the number of clusters, are closely related to the nature of the clusters being sought.
43461104|This paper discusses the idea that perceptions of the vegetation are affected by the taxonomic system on the basis of which plant populations are identified. It is argued that the best taxonomic system is not necessarily species-based, and that the traditional belief that a common taxonomic platform can be found for vegetation analysis is not realistic. The question of taxonomic choice is raised and resolved through simple reasoning as follows. Examples from the Brazilian Caatinga, Argentine Chaco, and Canadian Sub-Boreal Forest clarify both concepts and techniques.
43461321|Our motivation is to design a sampling approach for estimating the species richness (total number of species) of breeding birds in Pennsylvania. The sampling frame is a tesselation of Pennsylvania by hexagons, each of size 635 km, that are a subset of the Environmental Protection Agency's Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP) hexagons that cover the United States. Using the concept of a species-area relationship, our objective is to select hexagons for successive aggregation into larger areas in such a way that maximally accelerates the species-area curve, thus minimizing the number of hexagons that require species enumeration. Using a known population of breeding birds, we conducted a retrospective analysis for the sake of designing future estimates of species richness when statewide survey data are not available. Our results show that using tree species richness as a covariate for determining the order of selecting and aggregating hexagons causes the bird species-area curve to accelerate faster than either directional sampling (spatially contiguous aggregation) or random sampling. Since tree species richness is actually only weakly correlated with bird richness, as stronger covariates are identified, the performance of covariate-directed sampling is expected to perform even better.
43460978|The statistical procedures that are most widely used in ecological population and comunity research belong to the family of parametric methods. Embedded in these procedures are assumptions about the normal distribution of the underlying population, homogeneity of variances and linear response patterns. One of the problems encountered in ecological and vegetation studies, however, is that these assumptions are very difficult, if not impossible, to meet. In addition, a very serious shortcoming of the most widely used statistical methods is the lack of congruence between the geometry of the data space, which is for the most part Euclidean, and the analysis space, which in the standard parametric tests and most of the nonparametric tests, is not Euclidean. In ecological and vegetation studies, the combination of a failure to meet model assumptions and a lack of congruence between the geometries of the data space and the analysis space can lead, as shown in this paper, to gross errors in data interpretation and hypothesis testing. A new and powerful statistical technique (MRPP) is presented in this paper which is free from assumptions about the underlying distribution model of the population under analysis, can easily handle nonli-near data structures and more importantly meets the congruence principle (a common geometry for both the data and analysis spaces). The theoretical formulations for MRPP and its randomized block design counterpart MRBP as well as their relationship to other statistical methods are outlined in the first part of a paper. This is followed by computer algorithms and programs needed for their inplementation as well as a series of detailed examples which demonstrate major advantages of MRPP and MRBP over the currently most widely used statistical methods.
43461179|Chaotic phenomena universally exist in the natural world and are often the target in ecological studies. As their principles have not been well-appreciated before and the "abnormal" or "morbid" state problem was mostly avoided, the topic always contains abundant intrinsic characteristics to warrant interest. This paper discusses chaotic phenomena which appear in ecological energy activity. It not only observes that the mechanism in a nonlinear mathematical model leads to chaos, but it also puts forward a hypothesis on the biological mechanism of chaotic phenomena. Further, it shows about chaotic pehnomena that, under certain conditions notwithstanding the presence of chaos in the local region, exhibit a globally ordered state, which leads us to exploration of the regularity in chaos.
43461184|Natural landscapes often reveal extremely complex patterns that can only be very roughly characterized by methods of Euclidean geometry. In contrast, fractals can be applied to a variety of landscape ecology problems because they conveniently describe many of the irregular, fragmented patterns found in nature. This paper focuses on a fractal-based measure of landscape complexity for grid-based GIS layers. A non-regression technique for measuring the distribution of diversity within a raster database consisting of square cells is generalized to incorporate any regular shaped grid cell (e. g. regular polygon, rectangle) that forms a continuous, fully tessellated grid.
43461122|The application of fuzzy set theory for describing vegetation dynamics is discussed on the basis of results obtained with forest data of northeastern Italy.
43461246|An expert system is defined as a computer program that provides to non-expert users the knowledge of an expert person in a particular field. An example is described for aiding diagnosis and therapy. The use of expert systems in community studies is considered with application in the description and structuring of a vegetation table.
43461170|The importance of spatial and temporal scaling to the study of biological systems and processes has long been recognized. We demonstrate that concepts derived from fractal and chaos theory are fundamental to the description and modelling of scale-related phenomena in biology, from the molecular to ecosystem levels of organization. Algorithms for estimating the fractal dimension are described, and numerous applications of fractal theory in the biological sciences are summarized.
43461167|Rough set theory in its both crisp and fuzzy versions is presented. It is argued that the applicability of crisp rough sets is limited to some problem situations, whereas their fuzzy counterparts constitute a powerful tool for coping with complexities of real-world data. It is shown that the strength of a relationship between two sets of attributes C and D can be expressed by the quality of approximation of the similarity relation RD by RC. The goal of the analysis employing fuzzy rough sets is to find the smallest possible subset (or subsets) of condition attributes C* for which the quality of approximation of the similarity relation RD is the highest. The problem of combinatorial explosion involved in this task can be resolved by application of a genetic algorithm. Theoretical considerations are illustrated by a geobotanical example pertaining to the floristic description of anthropopressure zones in eight Polish cities.
43460941|We used simulated data to evaluate the influence of data centering, data standardization, and outliers on R-type principal component analysis (PCA). First principal components from centered analyses extracted increasing amounts of variance as the correlation structure of the raw data increased, while non-centered analyses derived only one principal axis which was independent of data correlation. Data standardization resulted in a loss of information by equating variances among all variables. The percentage of the total variance incorporated in the first component was always slightly greater from centered analyses on covariance matrices, than on correlation matrices, and was independent of data correlation. Outliers showed greatest influence on PCA when the data were weakly correlated. Outliers affected the results from both types of resemblance matrices equally.
43461059|Part IV of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology presents a description of a new model for conducting analysis and synthesis across broad realms of environmental data. This new workshops model, referred to as "Computational Workshops", emphasizes the full use of ecological data in testing hypotheses and making environmental decisions. This workshops model is presented as a primary activity for a proposed "Institute of Theoretical Ecology". Part I of this series (Conley 1990) provided a definition of Theoretical Ecology. Part II (Conley 1991a) provided both a critique and a discussion of proper design of large interdisciplinary "Centers" that focus on a broad discipline such as Theoretical Ecology. Part III (Conley 1991b) presented an argument for the desireability of such an institue. Part V (Conley and Brunt 1991c), provides increasing detail on some of the activities and methods that would enhance the chances for success of this institute.
43461219|Researchers having to deal with enormous amounts of information gleaned from international data banks are familiar with the benefits of a specialized, well-constructed thesaurus for information retrieval. In the ecology field considerable amounts of specialized, interdisciplinary information can be obtained from international data banks that are continuously updated. We describe here the construction of an interactive thesaurus for information retrieval in a subdomain of the ecology, specifically the ecology of the Venice Lagoon. The thesaurus was constructed using a multilingual bibliography (Italian, French and English texts). Two approaches to information retrieval are used: 1) examination of text by grammatical analysis, leading to the extraction of significant phrases; and 2) semantic clustering of these phrases using the word root. The design is described by applying it to a subset of an example bibliography.
43461200|We discuss the apparent inconsistency between climate and vegetation in southern Brazil, especially in Rio Grande do Sul, a transitional zone with elements of the broadleaf subtropical forest, mixed Araucaria-broadleaf forest and coastal rain forest vegetation types dominating to the north, and the campos grassland and shrublands dominating to the south and southwest. We show that on the large spatial scale, seasonal and annual climate fluctuations cause water deficits that may prevent the dominance of forest in some regions. This contradicts large scale vegetation models based on climate averages predicting that forest should prevail. On the small spatial scale water budget is affected by local heterogeneity related to geomorphic and soil features (slope, aspect, drainage). We review evidence and conjecture that interactions of water budget with vegetation type and fire and grazing regimes may explain the resilience of a relict vegetation pattern.
43461255|The mayfly communities of 150 localities of brooks, rivers, lakes and ponds from the Labe basin were quantitatively sampled in the two research periods (1950-65, 1970-85). Besides classical saprobiological methods, the following methods of multivariate analysis were applied to evaluate qualitative and quantitative changes in community composition: detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), agglomerative hierarchical classification, and divisive hierarchical classification (TWINSPAN). Two designs were applied; in the first one, the samples from each period were analyzed separately to determine factors responsible for community differentiation in each period. In the second design, all the samples were pooled and the changes in membership in clusters, or shifts of localities in ordination space, were interpreted as signs of community changes. The ordination results reflect the saprobiological indicator values of species. The classification by TWINSPAN provides informative results for subsequent construction of transition matrices.
43461057|'Character-based' implies 'species-free' in that the analysis is unconstrained by an external speciesbased taxonomy. The taxonomy is intrinsic and connected with the states of chosen characters. The objective is maximal local relevance. With these in mind, character choice, character arrangement, and community comparison are discussed.
43461046|This paper focuses in the study of patch structure of natural grasslands of Crdoba mountains associated to the rock substrate variability (coarse-grained structure). Grasslands with a relatively homogeneous spatial distribution (conglomerate environments) are compared with grasslands where the patchwork was conspicuous (gneiss and granite environments). A stratified sampling design based on plant physiognomy was carried out. Presence of species was recorded and frequency values used as final expression of species abundance. The data were ordinated by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and classified by two-way indicator analysis (TWINSPAN). Shannon-Wiener diversity index was also calculated. Grasslands growing on a conglomerate bed rock showed as continuous tall-tussock cover, while on granite and gneiss substrates a complex mosaic of tall-grasslands (on well developed soils) and dry-grasslands (on excesively drained soils) is recognized. In granite environments, poorly drained patches, with summer waterlogged turfs are also described. When grasslands form a continuous tall tussock cover, diversity was low and increased with increasing spatial heterogeneity (patches). These patches are differentiated through structural, floristic composition and species diversity features. Diversity was high in dry-grasslands, decreased in tall-grasslands and the lowest values were found in turfs. Diversity models the results conform best are discussed.
43461233|The problem of non-trivial characterization of ecological specificity in yeast communities as a function of their physiological responses was examined. It was found that when overall specificity is expressed as the mean number of responses which deviate significantly from those of a theoretical random assemblage, the probability vectors associated with the responses can be defined and transformed to obtain multivariate predictors of habitat quality. Significantly, the distribution of the transformed vectors is continuous, and their relationships are linear. To explore the usefulness of the method, data from yeast communities associated with angiosperm trees were subjected to principal components analysis, and responses which depart significantly from expectations were subjected to cross-tabulation. These provided a means of visually elucidating community profiles.
43461252|An efficient heuristic method called MINGFC (for MINimization of Global Fusion Criterion) is proposed to select approximately optimal consensus partitions from the consensus interval defined by Neumann and Norton. The method utilizes a dissimilarity measure, the number of partitions in which two objects belong to different classes. A new consensus index is defined as the ratio of the average of all within-class dissimilarities to the average of all between-class dissimilarities. The lower this ratio, the more appropriate a given partition is as a consensus of the alternative classifications. This consensus index serves as the fusion criterion in the agglomerative clustering algorithm of MINGFC which generates a series of consensus partitions. The result is represented by a set of at least two trees, in graph theoretical terms: a consensus forest. To obtain a unique solution for any consensus problem, two procedures are suggested to resolve ties encountered during the clustering process. If a particular level of the consensus forest is of primary concern, the partition into the given number of classes may be further improved by an iterative relocation procedure. Artificial partitions and actual vegetation data provide the basis for illustrating MINGFC and iterative relocation, for evaluating the tie-breaking procedures, and for comparing MINGFC with two other hierarchical methods of consensus generation.
43461186|The climatic description of the Carpathian Basin's typically transitional climate is approached through the concept of "climatic year types" for the years 1891-1990. With the help of the frequency of annual precipitation curve types, characteristic of the individual climates, major climate fluctuations are detected. An undoubted trend is the increasing frequency of "steppe years", i.e. definite aridification. European-Continental and Pontic-Mediterranean precipitation curve types spread at the expense of the Atlantic-Submediterranean types in the second half of this century. The growing frequency of Koppen's class climate indicates amelioration.
43461018|Results of fuzzy clustering are influenced by the degree of fuzziness arbitrarily specified, so the comparative evaluation of fuzzy partitions is useful. A distance coefficient based on finding the best correspondence of clusters is suggested for such comparisons. Two algorithms are described for calculating consensus fuzzy partitions. Determination of the best overall correspondence of clusters results in a more exact solution but requires more computation than the heuristic algorithm of centroid clustering. The actual and artificial examples demonstrate that 1) the methods provide a useful means for the evaluation of community classifications, and 2) the methods equally apply to conventional and fuzzy classifications, allowing their simultaneous comparison.
43461313|A method for comparing growth-curves used to describe the dynamics of individuals or their parts in plantdemographic studies is presented. The shape of the curves is compared using a multiplication invariant resemblance measure. A possibility of shifting vector elements ss also considered. The synchronity of curves is tested using a Monte Carlo randomization procedure yielding many pairs of semirandom test vectors. The test vectors were constructed to be permutations of the original vectors. The power of the method is shown on an example involving cumulative natality and mortality curves for Globularia punctata and Anthyllis vulneraria, respectively (data collected in a dry grassland in eastern Austria).
43461031|The objective of this paper is to describe the factors that affect vegetation pattern on continental saline lowlands around rivers. Three transects were laid perpendicular to the River Saladillo (S.E. Santa Fe, Province, Argentina). Vegetation and soil data were collected and analysed based on indirect canonical correlation, Spearman rank correlation coefficient and Pearson correlation coefficient. Three plant communities were detected: Flechillar of Stypa hyalina, Espartillar of Spartina densiflora and a Halophilous prairie. Flechillar was positively correlated with soil texture and exchangeable ions, Mg, Ca, CO and PO; the Halophilous prairie with elevation, HCO, pH, Na and CO; and the Espartillar clearly with none of the examined edaphic variables. Characteristic species, in contrast to rare species, show correlation with edaphic variables for all three transects. No correlations for rare species can be related to plasticity.
43461123|A direct way of spatial series analysis is presented to analyze spatial pattern of multi species communities. A test of randomness is proposed based on the average number of species per plots and its variance in a series of increasing plot sizes. Complete spatial randomness (CSR) is used as a neutral or null hypothesis model. The statistical inference presented in the paper nothwistanding this test procedure should be viewed as a heuristic tool for characterizing the constraints on pattern manifested by deviations from the null model at different scales of vegetation. The usefulness of the method is demonstrated in a study of the regeneration pattern in a beech forest (Melico-Fagetum silvaticae) after clear-cutting. This suggests four characteristic plot sizes for describing the vegetation. The maximum area, that is the plot size at which vegetation heterogeneity is maximal, is 1.3 m by 1.3 m. The comparative area, where variation is reduced, is 2 m by 2 m. The discriminatory area, where the average number of species for the actual and the random community is significantly different, is 4 m by 4 m. The spurious area, which is an upper limit of the relevant plot sizes for the studied community, is 8.5 m by 8.5 m.
43461180|This paper is concerned with a predator-prey system, with autocompetition in both populations, supposing that there are two phenotypes in each population, all the individuals have only one phenotype, and the populations are asexual. Such populations may be modelled either by the Lotka-Volterra model or by density dependent evolutionary game dynamics. The present paper shows that in terms of asymptotic stability of dissipative systems these approaches are equivalent, given the above conditions.
43461299|The covariance structure of a freshwater mussel community and its habitat were analyzed using a hierarchical approach. Nested Analyses of Variance and Covariance were used to partition the variability and covariability of species abundances and habitat descriptors into two spatial scales differing by six orders of magnitude. Principal Component Analysis was then used to describe the community and habitat structure at each scale. For the mussel community, there was more of structure present at the site than the bay scale. Variation in Lampsilis radiata dominated the community structure at both spatial scales, but a second, independent gradient of Anodonta grandis and Proptera alata abundance was present at the bay scale. Secondary and tertiary gradients at the site scale described correlated variation in Anodonta grandis and Ligumia nasuta, and the ratio of the two species, respectively. The habitat structure at the bay scale was greater in magnitude than that at the site scale, and was defined by a "sand-mud" gradient in sediment quality, with associated variation in alkalinity and calcium. The structure of the habitat at the site scale was more complex, with three independent gradients of organic content of the sediment, sediment coarseness, and pH of the water. Canonical Correlation was applied to each spatial scale to quantify relationships between the mussel community and its habitat, but no strong association was found.
43461109|I propose the use of new feeding indices, to classify species in homogeneous trophic groups. To illustrate the approach I examined macrozoobenthic species sampled in Posidonia oceanica meadows off the Island of Ischia (Mediterranean Sea, Gulf of Naples).
43460939|The National Forest Management Act of the United States (NFMA) requires that management practices maintain the diversity of forest ecosystems. An 8-year study of plant community structure and succession in managed coastal plain pine plantations and a 7-year study in an oldgrowth Douglas-fir forest following clearcut logging provide data sufficient for preliminary assessments in the spirit of NFMA. Continuously remeasured abundances of all plants in second-growth pinelands and in young (< 5-year-old) plantations established by clearcutting, site preparation, and planting under two very distinct management regimes show that plant communities comprising the young plantations are more diverse than were communities comprising the antecedent second-growth forests. An analysis of similar data from pre- and post-logging periods in an old-growth Douglas-fir forest show similar results. Recent theory is described and illustrated, including concepts of intrinsic diversity. Diversity profiles for the plantations and second-growth pine and pre- and post-logging Douglas-fir communities show that the results are index free.
43461006|Niche overlap measures in single and multiple resource states, and the current status of hypothesis testing using niche overlap measures, are reviewed. Two main hypotheses are recognized. To test the hypothesis of niche identity, the comparison of replicated samples of intra- and interspecific niche overlap measures is suggested. To test the influence of interspecific interactions on niche overlap, the shuffledsticks model appears promising. Relying on the available information on the properties, bias and statistical parameters of niche overlap measures, some practical recommendations are made. Although single resource niche overlap measures have been extensively studied and may be applied to empirical data, comparisons between communities and measures in multiple resource states are more problematic and should be handled with caution. The present status of the niche overlap concept is discussed.
43461010|This paper describes a technique for ordering species based on their contribution to the total within species sums of squares. The effect of data reduction, accomplished by the omission of lowly ranked species account for the information on the underlying trends or group structure in vegetation. The ranking procedure suggested here can be incorporated in an iterative ranking-clustering algorithm in order to minimize misclassification, by excluding species with larger random components in relev sub-sets. The implications of within species sum of squares as a ranking criterion are discussed in relation to some multivariate methods of data analysis.
43461047|A syntaxonomic classification of the grasslands, dwarf shrublands and succulent thicket of the semi-arid eastern Cape midlands was prepared using two-way indicator species analysis. The relationships between selected environmental variables and the vegetation gradients were examined. Median annual rainfall and altitude were investigated using linear regression. Surface soil samples were analyzed for field moisture content, organic matter content, pH, conductivity, Ca, Mg, K, Na, P and texture. The results were ordinated using principal component analysis and compared with the structural/floristic classification of the vegetation. A shallow precipitation gradient was exposed, but does not adequately explain the high structural and floristic diversity. Axis 1 of the ordination revealed a gradient of decreasing Ca, Mg and conductivity values from the minerally rich sites of the shrublands to the leached conditions of the grasslands and dwarf shrublands. Axis 2 revealed a soil texture gradient of high clay and silt in the succulent dwarf shrublands to the sandy soils of the dwarf shrublands and grasslands. The models provide a set of multiple working hypotheses for understanding vegetation/environment interactions in the region.
43461178|Fractal time-series analysis (Hurst range scaling) and temporal autocorrelation were used to examine the persistence of water level fluctuations in the Delta Marsh, Canada. Persistence was quantified by calculating the Hurst fractal exponent (H) for two time periods. The period from 1924-1960 was used to determine persistence prior to the installation of the Fairford water control structure in 1961. The period 1962-1996 was also examined, to determine how human regulation of water levels since 1961 has affected system persistence. Prior to 1961, water level fluctuations displayed high persistence (H = 0.844). However, persistence has declined (H = 0.737) since water level regulation began in 1961. The importance of environmental (water level) persistence in controlling the community structure, dynamics, and species composition of Delta Marsh and other northern prairie marshes is discussed. It is suggested that decreased persistence may be as important as a decline in the magnitude of water fluctuations in explaining changes in vegetation composition and structure that have occurred in the Delta Marsh since 1961. Higher environmental persistence appears to promote species-habitat diversity and productivity in northern prairie marshes.
43461263|Ethiopia's ecological crisis has acquired notoriety owing to the magnitude of the famines that have occurred in the last two decades. This agricultural country has played a very important role in the history of agriculture, and is now one of the 12 Vavilov centres of genetic diversity. The physical and vegetational setting of the country is summarized. Its history of changes of social organization and land tenure is reviewed. It is seen that, starting in the seventeenth century, the landed gentry class of shimaglle, their serfs and the soldier class of chewas coalesced as a consequence of legislation aimed at improving the fighting force so as to withstand the disruptive effects of the internal movement into the agricultural highlands of nomads from the south, and of foreign aggression from other countries. Whilst the shimaglle had absolute control over their land, the peasants could control their cultivated fields only during the growing season; all other lands (forests, grazing areas, etc.) and fallows, as well as harvested areas, fell to communal use. The peasantry was not allowed to organize itself to bring about communal responsibility commensurate with communal ownership. As a result, virtually all environmental management lapsed, and the land came to be used as a mine for food, feed and wood. No environment can withstand such treatment.
43461038|This review summarizes the major spatial approaches to modelling intraspecific interactions in plants. Spatial models recognize that interactions in plant populations are localized, and therefore use the number, size, and proximity of neighbouring plants to predict an individual's performance. Such models have been used to develop interaction (or competition) indices, to assess the relative importance of spatial patterning on individual plant performance, and to examine mortality patterns and changes in the size distribution of individuals in field, laboratory, and computer-simulated plant populations. The review begins by outlining the competition (or interference) indices developed by foresters and ecologists, and discusses their utility and limitations. Next the 'zone of influence' model, which utilizes overlapping circles in quantifying intraspecific interactions, is reviewed. Specific applications of this model are outlined, examples given, and limitations discussed. This is followed by a detailed outline of spatial tessellation models, which have only recently been applied to examine spatial processes in plant populations. The paper concludes with a discussion of future directions, in which it is argued that tessellation methods should be more widely used in modelling dynamic interactions in plant populations.
43461318|The year 1994 marked the 25th year of statistical ecology and related ecological statistics with reference to the first international symposium on statistical ecology. The silver jubilee was celebrated at the International Association for Ecology, International Society for Ecological Modeling, International Environmetrics Society, and the American Statistical Association. Distinguished Statistical Ecologist Awards were made at the Manchester International Ecological Congress. This paper provides a birds eye view.
43460979|A comparison between the use of Bitterlich relascope and the traditional method of basal area estimation shows that the probability distribution of tree diameters is much less non-normal than previously thought.
43461319|This paper provides an overview of the past twenty-five years of statistical ecology and environmental statistics at the Pennsylvania State University with focus on: Center for Statistical Ecology and Environmental Statistics, graduate environmental statistics program, graduate quantitative ecology program, journal of Environmental and Ecological Statistics, statistical ecology series, observational economy series, risk assessment consortium initiative, and the spatial environmental and ecological statistics using geographic information systems. The paper also provides a complete listing of the publications of the Penn State Center for Statistical Ecology and Environmental Statistics.
43461213|Secondary Brachypodium pinnatum grasslands are typical in low precipitation areas of Hungary after clearing of the oak forest. These grasslands contain steppe species and shade tolerant forest species in varying proportions. Quantitative results from the Institute of Ecology and Botany research site in the Gdll Hills support the proposition of an intense differentiation. For one thing, a spatial-floristic gradient is revealed. Along this, the representation of the forest species and that of the steppe species show opposite trends. A sharp hierarchical group structure is also revealed. This is characterised by the separation of the types dominated by forest species from other types dominated by the steppe species. While the two species groups tend to mutual exclusion under strong coenological and environmental selective pressures, interestingly, no evidence suggests that the species of the Brachypodium pinnatum grassland have an aggressive trait sufficient to endanger biodiversity. The paper presents the detailed results and also the description of analytical techniques.
43461275|323 grass species in 81 genera and 21 tribes in Ethiopia are classified into those with Kranz syndrome and those without Kranz syndrome. An important environmental variable considered is altitude which affects moisture, temperature and light intensity, all of which are closely tied with plant establishment, growth and performance. Three broad altitudinal zones of grassland vegetation have been recognized. Two tribes, Andropogoneae and Paniceae, are predominant in the middle altitudes at 1750-2750 m.a.s.l.. Most members of these tribes are valuable pasture plants owing to their high diversity and high grazing value. This altitudinal range is designated as the Andropogoneae zone. Areas below and above the Andropogoneae zone are recommended for uses by industrial forestry. Integration of the agricultural systems, and possible readjustments within the systems, however, are deemed mandatory to increase overall production.
43461045|The ISODATA clustering analysis based on the theory of fuzzy sets makes use of the concept of membership degree, and thus more objectively and reasonably handles the relation between individuals and their representative classes. However the number of classes into which all individuals are classified has to be predetermined. This requires certain insight into the structure and distribution of the data set to which the analysis is to be applied, otherwise arbitrariness and subjectivity are inevitabe to be involved in the results of the analysis. It is natural and reasonable to think that the number of classes should be determined according to the behavior of the observed data set. In the light of the Minimum Description Lenght Principle, developed in the field of statistical modeling, an optimal number of classes may be identified. The method has been implemented in the general purpose computer software, with sample analyses included.
43461287|The objective is to examine the relationships of management, floristic composition, altitude and chemical soil constituents in an area in which traditional systems are still practiced. The results obtained in a numerical analyses indicate that the four variables interact. They also show that the lowland meadows are more productive than the highland meadows and their soils have higher concentrations of Cu, Zn, Al, Ca, N and organic matter. The latter may reflect, in part, the greater use of organic fertilizers. As expected, species diversity in the highland meadows, where haying is infrequent, is higher than diversity in the lowland meadows. The absolute concentration of the elements in the herbage indicate inadequate summer levels of copper and sodium in the highland meadows. The consequences of this for animal production are discussed.
43460951|A model of the evolution of a trait, which is under phenotypic transmission, originally proposed by Feldmann and Cavalli-Sforza, is further investigated under the additional assumption the probability of oblique (non-parental) transmission being dependent on the previous diffusion of the trait in the population. This model is then applied to the contemporaneous diffusion of two or more traits interacting each other and influencing their transmission probabilities and/or the relative viabilities of the phenotypes carrying them. The analysis is conducted algebraically in simple cases and via computer simulation in cases more complex. Relations between traits, and evolution in time of their diffusion, turn out similar to relations between living organisms in an ecological context (e.g. competition for the same niche, succession in a trophic chain) and evolution in time of their diffusion. An analogy between cultural and biological evolution is then proposed, in wich the analogue of a living organism is applied to a cultural trait rather than to a whole culture. The analogue of the evolution of a whole culture is, under this view, the historical succession of climatic climaxes.
43461311|This paper gives an account of causal analyses of populations, which are sharply different in relative abundances in the perennial drought limited sand grassland Festucetum vaginatae. Three complementary approaches were pursued: 1. Sociological, based on spatial associations between species-pairs to find species sensitive or indifferent to the common ecological factors extracted by factor analysis. 2. "Traditional", rooted in niche theory using the parameters of niche width, and overlap between species in pairs and multiplets. All calculations were based on measurements of soil moisture content and depth of maximal root mass. 3. Experimental, involving investigations on the physiological tolerance and adaptation mechanisms of populations to interpret results obtained by approaches 1 and 2. We found a positive relationship between abundance and niche width. The dominant species, Festuca vaginata, has the largest niche width and highest average overlap value. Regarding the role of species in niche space measurements concerning photosynthesis ecology and biochemistry indicate that the rank order of species based on mesophyll succulence is informative and that in continental open grassland communities with summer drought, species with C and/or C-C intermediate photosynthesis type have the best chance to achieve competitive superiority in the role of a generalist.
43461284|We examined recent climate data from the Mesilla Valley in southern New Mexico, USA. Monthly data for total precipitation, maximum and minimum temperatures, and mean annual temperatures were analyzed from the Jornada Experimental Range headquarters station (July 1914-Dec 1984) and the NMSU station (Jan 1892-Dec 1984). We examined data at monthly, seasonal, and annual intervals. Seasons were developed that corresponded to vegetation and animal phenologies from the study area. Our intent was to examine the hypothesis that changes in climate patterns over the past 100 years were the causal agent in the observed shift in vegetation of the Jornada Basin from perennial grasslands to shrublands. An alternate hypothesis was that this vegetation shift was caused by the introduction and effect of grazing by domestic livestock. We conducted statistical analyses that included descriptive and exploratory techniques, linear and quadratic regression, de-trended autocorrelation analyses, and Monte-Carlo simulation studies. There were no statistically significant trends in precipitation in 11 of 12 months, with only May showing a significant quadratic fit. There are no statistically significant linear or quadratic trends in seasonal or annual precipitation totals from either the Jornada headquarters or the NMSU stations. Significant autocorrelation terms were obtained for lag times of 2, 4, 16, and 17 years. Only lag 17 showed agreement between both the Jornada headquarters and the NMSU stations. Spatial variability was demonstrated between the Jornada and the NMSU stations for both precipitation and temperature. This is particularly so for the summer season, where the Jornada precipitation is quite different from that at the NMSU station. Simulation studies allowed the examination of probabilities of occurrence of segments of data that constituted climatic events in the sense of being of interest biologically. These analyses allowed us to examine such events in the context of the recent climate history of the valley. We were unable to demonstrate any consistent statistical rationale for invoking climate as a causal mechanism in the observed vegetative change of the valley. An examination of the history of grazing by introduced livestock leads to acceptance of an alternate hypothesis that this vegetation shift was caused by grazing effects from introduced livestock. These analyses also demonstrate that the meteorological and environmental "context" within which ecological studies are conducted can have significant influence on the results obtained.
43461164|A correlation analysis between the vegetation of Pyrenean Pinus sylvestris forests (Spain) and some selected chemical-physical variables is presented based on an indirect classification approach. The results of a numerical classification of phytosociological relevs of the understory component are evaluated in terms of class separation based on chemical physical variables (external variables) and canonical analysis. The results suggest that the relev groups obtained by clustering are environmentally well-differentiated, and that soil pH and humidity have the greatest discriminatory power between relev groups.
43461305|Importance value, ecological dominance, species diversity and community equitability were examined in 76 forest types of the Manchurian temperate forest. It was revealed that species diversity has positive relationship with species richness, total number of individuals and equitability, but it has negative relationship with ecological dominance, which in turn has positive relationship with the importance values of dominant populations, especially where the number of populations is low, and negative relationship with community equitability. In these terms sharp differences exist between community types, developmental states after logging, and vegetation zones. Specifically, ecological dominance increases and species diversity decreases in communities in order of their climatic zonation: cold temperate conifer forest  cold temperate mixed broadleaf-conifer forest  temperate conifer forest  temperate mixed broadleaf-conifer forest. While ecological dominance should decrease and species diversity should increase in the course of succession, this trend is reversed in community development after logging. This suggests a case of community retrogression.
43461023|The handling of mixed type multivariate data sets is discussed on an example from the "Man and Biosphere" project, Davos, Switzerland. The data comprise variables of different spatial resolution, aggregation and reliability. Correlograms are computed for data subsets describing different landscape features on differing scales. Some variables show spatial independence, others exhibit correlation among adjacent sampling localities. Periodicity is detected in the distribution pattern of some animal species, and soil types form coenoclines. While some results derived by previous modelling reflect local patterns, others suggest wide ranging relevance. Optimum sampling intensity therefore should not only depend on the aims of the study, but be also influenced by the nature of the variables. For investigations with multiple objectives, the simultaneous use of a combination of sampling designs is suggested. Quadrat size, grid width, and even investigation areas may vary. The commensurability of the designs can be achieved by simultaneously running the operations at the different aggregation levels for the relevant variables.
43460964|The literature is reviewed and a sampling design is described which present a reliable basis for the study of the environmental distribution of soil microfungi. An example illustrates the method's application.
43460975|Data on epiphytic lichen distribution on isolated trees in a moderately polluted area in Czechoslovakia were analyzed using a log-linear model to investigate the interaction of environmental factors. Pollution, bark eutrophication and substrate (tree species) were the factors included in the analysis. Few third-order interactions were identified (only for Pseudevernia furfuracea, Lecanora carpinea and Usnea hirta), indicating that the effects of the factors can be separated from each other in most cases. The implications for bioindication and similar studies are discussed.
43461029|Hardwood forests in the Duke Forest, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina, USA, were studied in order to determine whether plant community patterns on the landscape scale were also present on a scale less than 0.1 hectare. I randomly located forty 2m subplots in each of thirty 0.1 hectare hardwood forest plots, and estimated the percent cover of species under 1 m tall in each subplot. I evaluated the similarity of small-scale (within-plot) patterns to large-scale (among-plot) patterns with a Monte Carlo test for correspondence analysis eigenvalues. Similarities were much stronger for floristic (presenceabsence) data than for abundance data. Although the similarities are statistically significant, within-plot patterns are not miniature versions of among-plot patterns. Species richness of 0.1 ha plots is strongly related to soil cations. Within-plot variation in species richness is only weakly related to cations, implying that large scale determinants of richness are detectable but unimportant on the small scale.
43461049|In 1983 an extraordinary flood destroyed the Panicum prionitis tall grasslands in the Paran River Valley. In this paper phytosociological analyses of the communities, which in March 1988 were in the place of the tall grasslands along the transect from El Rabn to Puerto Piracuacito, are presented. These are compared with a previous analysis performed immediately following the flood. It is shown that pioneer communities evolve convergently into tall grasslands with slightly different variants. Panicum prionitis partially recovers, and its ground cover is inversely proportional to the Cynodon dactylon cover. Floristic richness and diversity decrease. As the floristic composition change, the proportions of therophytes decrease and the phanerophytes increase. It is concluded that exposed to an extraordinary flood, the Panicum prionitis grassland is very resilient.
43461100|Species diversity indices, wich describe distribution of individuals among species into a single value, are at best questionable tools for community functional analysis. As shown in the article, they cannot be safely used either deductively for the testing of hypotheses, or inductively for the sorting of communities into different functional types.
43461268|The use of factor scores in multiple regression models which suffer greatly from collinearity between the variables in the right hand of the equation is discussed. Data on the abundance of the anglerfish, Lophius budegassa, (dependent variable) and temperature, salinity, depth and prey availability (independent variables) in the Mediterranean Sea were used. Temperature, depth and prey abundance were significantly correlated with each other. Multiple regression techniques performed on the original, logarithmically transformed data revealed temperature as the only variable determining the abundance of L. budegassa. However, factor analysis (performed on the independent variables) and multiple regression techniques (performed on factor scores and the dependent variable) revealed that the abundance of L. budegassa is largely determined by temperature, depth and prey availability and, to a lesser extent, salinity. Hence, collinearity may bias greatly the fit of multiple regression models by masking and/or underestimating the importance of some other factors.
43461278|I describe a modification of a timber volume estimation algorithm (Fraser 1977) for use in studying interplant interaction and dynamics in plant populations. The Fraser tessellation results when triangles connecting neighbour plants (as defined by the Delaunay triangulation) are partitioned. I compare the Fraser tessellation to the commonly-used Dirichlet tessellation, and describe various weighting options for the Fraser tessellation. I use the weighted model to examine plant performance in artificial populations of Zinnia elegans, in which germination time is used as the weighting factor. It was found that spatial positioning of plants (as defined by the Dirichlet and unweighted Fraser tessellations) was itself a poor predictor of plant performance. Inclusion of germination time (weighted Fraser tessellation) improved prediction. I suggest that the weighted Fraser tessellation be used to predict plant performance when local interplant interactions are thought to be important. The weighted model is particularly useful when initial individual size differences are present in the population, and when interplant interactions are between first-order spatial neighbours.
43461121|We used a set of multivariate methods to evaluate floristic relationships among saxicolous communities in the Sierra del Moncayo (Spain). In the first step, we established a community typology for homogeneous geomorphological units by means of ordination tecniques (CCA). Then we looked for the best clustering algorithm to explain the floristic variability in the original synthetic table and built a consensus tree based on the dendrograms that accounted for the initial variation. After that, we have isolated ten groups related to geomorphological units. Our approach is objective and logical to use in work with synthetic tables.
43461097|Modelling water ecosystem dynamics requires a thorough knowledge of the chemico-physical parameters in the constitutive equations of the chosen model. These processes are mathematically described by ordinary, in general non-linear, differential equations whose solution depends strongly on the parameter values. We used the adjoint equation method, minimizing the square deviation between states and observations with the conjugate gradient method, in order to estimate the parameters of a logistic growth model on the basis of macroalgae data collected in the Gulf of Trieste. An extension of the method to a more complete trophic model is also discussed.
43461325|As researchers continue to evaluate fractal-based methods of analysis in ecology, a common theme seems to arise as a valuable application: Estimating the fractal dimension or information dimension over a range of spatial scales can deduce ranges of scale-invariance. We present an updated conceptual and methodological review of these methods, with a particular view for multiscale landscape analysis.
43461217|Pasturelands in the Mediterranean region of southern Italy show considerable variation in biomass production and floristic composition. Experiments were undertaken in four sites to examine the effect of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizer addition on biomass productivity and community composition of native pasturelands. The fertilizer treatments (60 N kg ha, 80 P kg ha, and N plus P at two rates of application: 20-44 and 32-70 kg ha N and P respectively) were compared to unfertilized control plots. Fertilizer addition affected biomass production and community composition at all locations. Nitrogen treatment generally increased the biomass production of grasses, but forb species productivity declined. Phosphorus addition resulted in an increased abundance of legumes; other plant families showed reduced productivity, except grasses which increased in moister sites. The combined nitrogen and phosphorus applications increased overall agronomic fertility, with a result that biomass production increased. Moreover, the higher application rate had little effect on the floristic composition of these native pasturelands.
43461210|This study defines and describes the floristic heterogeneity of the natural grasslands of the southern region of the Ro Salado Basin (Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina), one of the regional subdivision of the Flooding Pampa. Vegetation data were obtained through preferential sampling of stands located through photointerpretation. Vegetation relevs were analysed using classification and ordination techniques. An average linkage clustering yielded 14 vegetation units; a phytosociological summary table with 26 floristic groups was produced using correspondence analysis. The ordination of relevs through correspondence analysis allowed to relate plant communities to two main ecological gradients: topographical position and soil salinity. The plant communities were described primarily on the basis of floristic groups, dominant species and position along the major environmental gradients. The different environmental conditions along these gradients determine the vegetation heterogeneity at community-level present in this area.
43461187|Within a survey of mountain forest types in the Swiss Alps, we compared three statistical sampling methods, i.e. stratified random sampling of the investigation area, systematic sampling and unrestricted random sampling. The stratification was based on a digital terrain model and performed using GIS technology. A comparison of the three sampling methods shows that stratified random sampling is an efficient method that guarantees a sample which is proportional to the extension of the environmental types. We investigated the resemblance pattern of relevs and found that it differs between purely random and all others. This leads to the conclusion that stratification introduces a bias into the true pattern. A comparison of the efficiency of the three tested sampling strategies shows that for a classification as used at the regional level (10-50 km), stratified random sampling draws an accurate picture of the small scale vegetation pattern at low sampling effort. At lower resolution, unrestricted random sampling should be applied in the present case, as it leads to a more balanced sampling of large scale vegetation patterns. Compared to manual stratification, GIS-based stratification generally leads to a considerably higher number of strata. We found that relevs from rare attribute combinations neither tend to become outliers in the final data set nor considerably contribute to rare vegetation types. Stratification using GIS technology therefore can be recommended as an efficient technical help even if the number of resulting strata is large and rare strata have to be omitted.
43461044|The horse-shoe effect, that results when linear analysis methods are used with nonlinear relationships between species and environmental factors, is considered. Limits of the classical eigenmethod are examined and their use is suggested for exploratory purposes. The affine space model, that underlies eigenmethods, is considered unsuitable for indirect gradient analysis and a better mathematical model is suggested, based on generalised co-ordinates. The technical difficulties of this approach are considered. Suggestions are made to investigate experimentally the actual relationships of characteristic species to environmental factors.
43461312|Canonical correlation analysis (COR) is applied to test the predictivity of ordination axes obtained by principal component analysis (PCA) and correspondence analysis (CA) of vegetation data (relevs) from Pyrennean Pinus sylvestris forests with respect to axes obtained by PCA of some environmental variables. COR shows high correlation between understory composition and the environmental variables. However, higher correlation values are shown by axes obtained by PCA after normalization of relevs. This confirms that PCA has to be seen strictly in connection with data transformation.
43461292|Fuzzy set theory is applied to test the coenocline model for structural successional changes in broad leaved forests of North-East Italy. As a working hypothesis, the test model used is the well-known successional sequence of Ostrya-Quercus-Fagus. The results show that fuzzy set theory allows to use a classification approach in a dynamic system perspective. The analytical structures recognized fit well the test model.
43461007|An age-dependent model which examines the factors determining the evolution of altruism in a community is proposed, and a theorem which yields precise conditions for the evolution of altruistic community and for the extinction of altruistic individuals in a population is given. The ecological significance of the conditions is discussed, together with some mathematical details. Simulated examples to illustrate the analytical results are also presented.
43461303|The use of ellipsoids of equal concentration to allocate clusters and to calculate hypervolumes and overlap of niches in ecological multidimensional spaces is suggested. The utility and limitations of the technique are stressed. Program TANTIT is offered for computations.
43461194|A simple dynamical community model mimics species interactions and produces, when it reaches equilibrium, a distribution of species abundances that is indistinguishable from the "J-curves" regularly seen by field biologists in samples and surveys. Analysis of the model reveals an equilibrium solution that is inverse linear in form. The theoretical distribution that results, here called the "logistic" distribution, is defined formally as the inverse linear function under a translation of axes which forms its two parameters. The initial hypothesis, that the resemblance between computer and natural abundance distributions is more than coincidental, has led to a near-cottage industry of new hypotheses, the three main ones being: 1. The logistic distribution describes abundance in natural communities. 2. The sampling process transforms a community abundance distribution into a sample abundance distribution by a scale transformation in both axes. 3. In natural communities a major influence on species abundance is the random (i.e., unpredictable) fluctuation in populations. This report describes the computer model, analysis of the model, and a brief summary of progress toward the establishment of Hypothesis 1. Hypothesis 2 is susceptible of mathematical proof. It abolishes the idea of a "veil-line" as a sampling phenomenon. The third hypothesis is discussed briefly.
43461005|A formalized functional definition of niche is given using an extension of the standard definition of a mathematical relation. The niche is conceived as a relation between species and environment; previously published mathematical definitions of both these concepts are incorporated and described briefly, together with examples. The new definition of niche may be used to classify animal niches. It is unlikely, because of the lack of an associated identity operator, to be of use in further mathematical development, however, because of its simple form it lends itself to use by field ecologists.
43461323|In this paper we examine some ranked set sampling (RSS) methods to estimate the means of multiple characteristics in a single investigation. These methods include RSS as developed by McIntyre with equal as well as unequal allocation, and a modified version of Takahasi's RSS method. For determining the unequal allocation we use the Neyman's criterion with concomitant ranking as suggested by Sarndal, Swensson and Wretman (1992) for obtaining a near-optimal allocation for stratified sampling. In the modified Takahasi's method ranking information is utilized at the estimation stage, and as such on ignoring the information one obtains a random sample. This method is also based on the same assumption as the McIntyre's RSS method that the ranking of a unit in a small group with respect to the characteristic of interest is easier than its quantification. These procedures are illustrated using a real data set consisting of height, diameter at breast height, and age of trees. All the three methods provide better estimators of the population mean than the simple random sampling (SRS) method with the same sample size. But the McIntyre's RSS method with the unequal allocation performs better than other RSS methods under consideration.
43461017|When conventional economic input-output (I-O) analysis is applied to ecological networks, it traces only the positive benefits that material and energetic exchanges impart to their recipients, i.e., the vertical structure of ecosystem trophodynamics. However, unlike their economic counterparts, most predator-prey exchanges in ecology are not accompanied by a compensating counterflow, so that the immediate effect of depredation upon the prey population is negative in character. It is possible to amend the I-O calculus to assess simultaneously the indirect consequences of both positive and negative impacts of trophic interactions, thereby expanding I-O methods to explore also the horizontal dimension of indirect competitions and mutualisms. For example, the new method shows that in the network of carbon exchanges occurring in the Chesapeake Bay estuarine ecosystem, the ctenophores and coelenerates engage in indirect mutualism with the phytoplankton and in extended competition with most other heterotrophs. These invertebrates are seen to play a heretofore unappreciated role in the eutrophic dynamics of the Chesapeake system.
43461232|We examine in this paper the notions of convergence and divergence as applied to the character structure of communities in comparative evolutionary studies. We assume that the character structure is nested hierarchical, as in the natural state, with the same fusion pattern, but with a potentially different complement of character set types in each community being compared. Estimates are derived for character structure convergence and divergence as partial sums of products and related partial correlations, corresponding to levels of the hierarchy and relating the pattern of character set types in pairs of communities. The significance of the estimates is tested based on confidence limits constructed in Monte Carlo simulation. It is shown that the partial correlation coefficients can detect both structural convergence and divergence of any complexity, just as they can identify the specific contribution of any character, simple or complex, to character structure convergence or divergence. The interpretation of the evolutionary significance of partial correlations can follow simple criteria. If the communities have no common species, significant partial correlations are manifesting past episodes of convergent (positive partial correlation) or divergent (negative partial correlation) evolution in similar environments; nonsignificant partial correlations indicate that the evolutionary path of the compared communities has not been convergent. Data from desert and boreal vegetation are analyzed to illustrate the method's application.
43461308|Spatial variation of vegetation was analyzed in relation to the hydrological and geomorphological features of the Mar Chiquita Depression. Sampling was made at 30 S along an E-W transect of nearly 100 km length. Elevation, water table depth, conductivity and the presence of surface water were considered to provide an environmental description of the variability of vegetation. The floristic analysis shows a major trend from hygro-halophyllous grasslands and prairies, through halophyllous scrublands, xero-halophyllous woodlands and xerophyllous forests along an increasing elevation gradient, positively correlated with the first ordination axis. This trend is opposite to that of water influence. The vegetation also has a secondary trend in variability, related to local heterogeneity in relief and water dynamics. There are sharp floristic and physiognomic changes between the margins and lower areas of the depression, and inside, between upper and shallow zones. The textural complexity, species richness and life forms have shown hydro-topographic variation trends. The higher diversity value was detected in middle elevations, and greater local variability at the lower end. From these results some hypotheses on dominant processes shaping the plant communities are suggested. La variacin espacial de la vegetacin fue analizada en relacin a la heterogeneidad hidro-geomorfolgica de la depresin de Mar Chiquita. Los censos florsticos fueron realizados a 30S, a lo largo de una transecta E-W de 100 km. La altura sobre el nivel del mar, la profundidad de la fretica, la conductividad y la presencia de agua en superficie fueron considerados para la interpretacin ambiental de la variabilidad de la vegetacin. El anlisis floristico muestra una tendencia principal de variacin desde praderas y pastizales halfilos e higrfilos, hacia matorrales halfilos, bosques xero-halfilos y bosques xerfilos a lo largo de un gradiente de elevacin, positivamente correlacionado con el primer eje de ordenacin. Dicha tendencia es opuesta a la de la influencia hdrica. La vegetacin muestra una variabilidad secundaria, presumiblemente relacionada con la heterogeneidad local del relieve y con el dinamismo hdrico. Se observan cambios fisonmicos y florsticos ntidos entre los mrgenes y zonas ms bajas de la depresin, y entre las zonas relativamente elevadas y las saturadas. La riqueza de especies, la complejidad estructural y las formas de vida muestran una tendencia hidro-topogrfica. Los valores mximos de diversidad se presentan en puntos intermedios del gradiente de elevacin, y la mayor variabilidad hacia el extremo inferior. A partir de estos resultados surgen algunas hiptesis relativas a los procesos dominantes que estructuran las comunidades en el rea estudiada.
43460947|Vegetation and soil samples were taken over a transect in the Saladillo River valley of southeastern Santa Fe. The set of data was analyzed using principal components analysis and the method of dynamic clouds. The ordination of samples on species was similar to that on soil variables. The samples were grouped in three communities: 'flechillar', 'espartillar', and halophilous prairie. The first and third ones of these were in turn divided into two variants each. Most soils factors as well as community distributions are correlated with elevation. Species have independent distributions along the transect. Dispersion profiles were constructed of twelve species over intervals of the best correlated and contrasting soil variables. In several cases these profiles segregate a response of the species to soil factors from another response that may be owing to the interactions of the species themselves.
43461302|Under the 'Set-aside' scheme of the European Community, many British fields that were formerly arable have been withdrawn from agricultural use. Resulting vegetation changes are hard to predict from past experience, because the arable weed flora is now very much smaller than when the classical studies of old-field succession were made. In an attempt to predict changes that will occur in these fields, a computer model called SETSARIO has been written. In this model, both the seasonal dynamics of species and the management of the field are taken into account. The model starts from an initial floristic composition, including information on species present in the seed bank. The initial composition is represented merely by the order of magnitude of species abundance, more precise values being thought to be rather unimportant in determining the outcome as well as hard to obtain in practice. Subsequent changes are represented by a projection matrix from one season to the next. Competition between species at any one season is represented by a hierarchy of bids for space. Annuals lose their early dominance because at certain seasons they disappear, and therefore lose control of space. It is difficult for them to regain space once it is lost. The model has no explicit representation of spatial dynamics, but clonally spreading species such as Elymus repens are able to spread more effectively in the face of competition from existing vegetation than are species that reproduce only from seed. Management of the field is by mowing or tilling. This is represented by altering the values of transfer probabilities between seasons. Allowance is made for the size of species, with tall plants being more affected by cutting than short ones. The model occupies a position intermediate between a detailed population model and one which merely describes vegetation change. The merits of modelling at this level of resolution are discussed.
43460969|A comprehensive program package written in BASIC and available for use on Apple //, Apple Macintosh, and IBM PC personal computers is described. The programs were written for the analysis of data from population and community ecology studies, but should be of use in a number of fields where exploratory multivariate data analysis plays an important role.
43460977|Through the use of qualitative models (loop models and time averaging), factors controlling biological communities are examined. The traditional approaches, choosing one factor over another, insisting on a strict null hypothesis as opposed to alternative hypotheses, and generally omitting the study of interactions themselves are unproductive, if not misleading. Five examples are examined: density dependent and independent factors; simple predator-prey relations with self-damping; resource - herbivore - predator or parasite correlations; controlling factors in a two predator and one prey system in which one predator is self-damped; controlling species in two resources, two consumer systems in which one consumer switches.
43461294|Formalization of the concepts of the 'environment' of a plant and of a 'community' of plants is given using mainly first-order logic, with some symbols and concepts taken from probability theory, modern algebra and engineering mathematics. The primitive terms from the biological sciences are those used for the analogous animal ecology definitions with two extra added to mean 'plant' and an indication of the well-being of the plant. The functional definitions may be used for classifying objects in the environment and for classifying communities. Examples are given.
43461266|A Forest Sampling Simulator (FOSS) interactive computer program has been developed to investigate the merits of various sampling designs for instruction and research. FOSS allows the user to study aspects of sampling efficiency as affected by spatial patterns of trees in a forest, number of observations, size and shape of individual sampling units, and method of selecting samples. A large variety of field conditions can be simulated, and relevant statistics allow comparisons among sampling schemes. The program is written in BASICA and runs on an IBM personal computer or other fully compatible units. This software package was developed as a teaching tool and does not process field data.
43461192|I consider determinism and randomness as fundamental components of vegetation dynamics. I attempt to resolve the dichotomy in ecological theory which, for vegetation, manifests itself as the Clements-Gleason controversy. I present a case study in which determinism and randomness appear to convolute and in which dynamics may be best described as deterministic chaos. Having presented a technical discussion of the topic elsewhere (Anand & Orlci 1996), I now focus on the implications to ecological theory in general. I suggest that chaos provides the foundation for a unifying theory of vegetation dynamics in which classical theories reside as special cases.
43461011|The concept of fuzzy linguistic variables in redescription of vegetation data is proposed. Species frequency based original data table is redefined on the basis of species life/growth-form category. The example presents analysis of 22 types of Pinus forests described by 300 species. The method may be used in transformation of sample space into other spaces defined on various species attributes.
43460971|This new release of the package contains twenty-two FORTRAN programs written for both mainframe computers and IBM/PC AT and XT compatible machines. Widely used standard multivariate methods and specific data analytical techniques, some of them suggested by the author, are represented in the package. The procedures programmed include hierarchical and nonhierarchical clustering, ordination, character ranking, comparison of classifications and ordinations, generation of consenus partitions and ordinations, Monte Carlo simulation of the distribution of coefficients of partition agreement, simulated sampling based on digitized point patterns, and information theory functions for the analysis of species assemblages. This paper provides general information on the programs, detailed documentation is given in the user's manual.
43461320|Environmental problems never fail to be one of the most controversial issues of our society. Balancing between increased health risks and undue economic burden is difficult enough, but matters are worsened by the need to make such critical decisions in the face of high uncertainty. While such decision-making involves the incorporation of many factors that lead to public perception, science undoubtedly plays a major role. Understanding certain aspects of a natural environment requires information that in turn arises from inference drawn from data and modeling. If information obtained in this scientific manner is to be accurate and defensible, it is essential to include all the necessary specialists and to maintain clear communication amongst them. This is where a statistician should play a very critical role, as the sampling and analysis of environmental data does not lend itself well to conventional statistics. Observational bias, autocorrelation and extremely skewed distributions are some of the common aspects of environmental measurements. For these reasons, statisticians and the substantive scientists must learn each other's languages as though they are working together in the same field. Fostering this communication can begin in the classroom, and student responses of such multidisciplinary classes are shared in this paper.
43461026|A model of an ecological niche is described in which different populations of organisms with trophic interactions involving predator/prey encounters are examined using the notions of food webs and game theory. The reality that species and links are dynamic and change with time is considered. Game theoretical tools are applied to the changing food web structure, where the different "players" are the competing predator populations. Total competition is given by means of payoff functions. The total consumption of the predators, and the biomasses of all prey, are used in the given strategy set. A concept of nucleolar solution is defined which takes into account variation in time. A real predator/prey system is examined and the results of the model are interpreted in ecosystem management terms.
43461130|Vegetation science is concerned with a search for patterns, the discovery of processes giving rise to these patterns, and the uncovering of the mechanisms which ultimately cause such patterns and processes. The distinction between pattern, process and mechanism is rarely explicit in accounts of vegetation study, albeit always implied. I stress the need for a clear distinction of these three concepts as a pre-requisite for clarity in studying vegetation. Most studies of vegetation dynamics deal with either describing pattern, or modelling process, but many fail to connect the two. It is even more rare to see patterns and processes predicted from underlying mechanisms. When such is attempted, it usually includes ambitious assumptions and far-fetched syntheses. This can be traced to the difficulty of the task. I examine vegetation science in terms of its components, namely, pattern recognition, process definition and mechanism isolation, and identify the sources of difficulty. In doing so, I sketch the evolution of thought and methods in, reflecting upon the works of some major contributors. The critical phase is, of course, pattern recognition, which itself is at the mercy of the analytical tools, and, inherently, of perception. Once a pattern has been recognized, process and mechanism are inferred. The reliability of this is limited by the amount of observation that can be made on the system. The method of inference is also critical. In addition, scale effects complicate the picture. Consequently, the connections between pattern, process and mechanism may be blurred. I emphasize the importance of scale and review some approaches to its study. Although establishing the relationships between pattern, process and mechanism through inference thus entails several practical difficulties, it may be that the fundamental challenge lies in the theoretical complications. Stability and uniqueness are properties characteristic of simple systems and induce facility in the establishment of cause-effect relationships. Vegetation, however, is a complex system owing mainly to instability (small inputs leading to large and/or divergent outcomes), and plurality of causes and effects in its dynamics. It is likely that, as a consequence, the relationships between causes and effects (pattern, process and mechanism) are also complex. In essence, the problems identified may be ill-posed, rendering them more difficult to solve than previously thought. I illustrate these points and show that the search for understanding of these relationships predominates scientific inquiry.
43461237|The autocorrelation method, widely used in spatial pattern analysis mainly by geographers, is tested and proposed to measure the predictive value of different variables describing the communities. An example of application is based on three matrices of 20 vegetation types from the mixed woods of Friuli Venezia-Giulia (NE Italy). The predictivity has been measured within and between three sets of variables: a) 8 environmental variables measured by ecological indicator values; b) 15 life form-growth form variables, c) 23 chorological variables. The method, being freer from restrictive assumptions about the relationships between the variables, appears to complement other methods well, such as canonical correlation analysis and discriminant analysis.
43461274|A fundamental understanding of the Acanthaster phenomenon - the outbreaks of the crown-of-thorns starfish - on the Great Barrier Reef has now emerged. This is a result of a concerted integrated research effort over the last decade, involving field, modelling and theoretical work. This new understanding requires that we reevaluate the nature of the outbreaks. It says that beneath the apparent complexity of waves of outbreaks travelling down the Reef lies the simplicity of a classic prey-predator stable limit cycle, which itself is clearly part of a family of dynamical behaviours for the phenomenon. It also says that the density of fish predators of juvenile starfish controls which of the family of behaviours is actually expressed. Finally, it suggests that the historic reduction of these fish populations by fishing, with the resulting series of waves of outbreaks, may now be causing irreversible degradation of the Great Barrier Reef.
43460966|An appropriate index has been proposed to measure beta-diversity taking into account both richness and equitability. Existing niche overlap indices have been examined and extended to include community niche concept. Niche hypervolumes and percentages of overlap between communities have been determined using data from southeastern Ethiopia.
43461286|Process equations of a deterministic model simulating multi-species plankton dynamics in aquatic ecosystems are discussed. Formulations include micro and macroalgae, benthic macrophytes and zooplankton growth processes, interactions with nutrients and oxygen fluxes, dissolved and paniculate organic matter formation and sedimentation. Results with simulated data are shown to designate model capabilities and different compartments influencing plankton dynamics and growth. Simulations with field data are discussed to evaluate ecological stability of the analyzed system and various impact scenarios.
43461276|The potential vegetation of the upper Orange river, South Africa, was modelled using floristic data from 377 Braun-Blanquet quadrats collected by M.J.A. Werger from 1971-1973. The median annual rainfall (MAR) and altitude (ALT) for each quadrat were extracted from a surface response model of MAR for southern Africa and a digital terrain map. MAR and ALT were divided into classes at 25 mm and 100 m intervals respectively. A cross tabulation was prepared for each community, providing frequencies for each cell. A contingency table of the frequencies provided a model for each community. Where the null hypothesis of independence was reejected, the cells with the highest frequencies were selected as the optimum conditions for each community. Using all data from the model of MAR and ALT, all minute by minute co-ordinates between 30S 24E and 31S 28E which satisfied those conditions were classified into eight plant communities. Thirteen thousand four hundred and forty km or 4966 pixels (33.6%) were classified. These communities were plotted as a digital map representing the potential vegetation. The validity of the hypothesis was tested by comparing the digital map with Acocks' (1988) map of the study area. A relationship between the model and the Acocks map, which was prepared after an intensive survey and photo-interpretation in 1950, is discernable. The digital map follows the course of the Orange river, including its tributaries the Caledon and Seekoei rivers. This is attributable to the geographical limits of the Werger study. The communities extend from the grasslands in the east, through the grassy shrublands (Grewio-Rhoetalia and Stachyo-Rhoetum) to the Pentzietea incanae and Stipagrostion in the west. The communities follow an east-west aridity gradient, with the median annual rainfall of samples ranging from 663 mm to 229 mm.
43461021|A probabilistic vegetation model for the simulation of the distribution of vegetation types is described. The performance and limitation of the model are discussed. An application is shown in an alpine landscape in Switzerland.
43461234|Different data base models are considered and compared to the relational model. File structures are described and examples are given to illustrate the differences.
43461209|Diversity has become a very popular measure for characterising the 'value' of ecosystems. In this paper we use a 2-level cellular automaton model to explore the stability of diversity measures in space and time, and to characterise those systems which have maximal diversity. We obtain three classes of system which consistently have high diversity, although for different reasons. We comment on the significance of these results for management and conservation, and note some implications for phytosociology.
43461248|A realization of a specialized database system is illustrated through examples from data processing in integrated studies on plant/Hemiptera communities. A formalized algebra on a set-of-files level is presented and its functionality on real data bodies is considered. Also, some peripheral works interfacing this system with related statistical packages are illustrated with previously defined file structures. It was found that advanced computerized management of large and multifiled data bodies are accessible even from an inexperienced user and this is done through a completely menu-driven usage of the package.
43460965|Variable centered methods of classifications are briefly described and classified into three types: multiple partitioning, initial clusters and dynamic clusters methods. A program for each has been tested (OSUCL4, TABORD and PARTS). Inasmuch as biotic community composition is studied and subjected to comparison and classification, the author proposes to use consistently variable centered classification algorithms, particularly the multiple partitioning methods such as OSUCL4. Special attention is given to the hierarchical interpretation of this method, initially designed as nonhierarchical, by preventing the dichotomous process usually associated with hierarchical procedures. Tests also indicate that the use of percentage dissimilarity give ecologically most easily interpretable results.
43461053|A review of the ordination and classification methods is done in the light of the interpretation of the results. The iterative process of sampling and data analysis at different hierarchical levels is suggested as a necessary exercise to understand vegetation patterns.
43461300|Interpolation is essential to most studies of spatial patterns in ecology. However, there has been a lack of quantitative techniques for interpolation of spatial data. This paper introduces a new method for studying spatial patterns, the two-dimensional net-function interpolation. The method can be used to interpolate unmeasured sample locations based on known values at nearby grid points. Specific examples from ecological studies in the Inner Mongolia Grassland, China are discussed to illustrate the use of the method. A brief comparison between the net-function interpolation and kriging is also made. The method provides a useful tool assisting collection of field data of spatial patterning of physical and biological entities, and allows ecologists to obtain vegetaion, soil and other ecological maps based on field observations with greatly reduced effort and over a relatively large area. Beyond that, the net-function technique has potential in other fields (e.g., mining, forestry, meteorology, and structural geology) in which spatial interpolation plays a crucial role.
43461009|Stowe-Wade methods to detect small-scale vegetation patterns were, as far as we could determine, very rarely applied. Here, they are used with data of a hummock-pool marsh fed by calcium rich canal water, to relate the three-dimensional vegetation structure to the dynamics of surface water and some management effects. Of the two methods, the species-region technique seemed to be the most appropriate one.
43461173|Anthropogenic grassland stands, surveyed over 4,000 km in northeastern Santa Catarina state, Brazil, are examined based on vegetation composition and site descriptors using multivariate techniques (classification, ordination, concentration analysis). Four grassland types are revealed, differentiated by soil organic matter content, grassland age, altitude and soil texture. Inferred species responses to these factors are described.
43461195|It was previously established that uranium concentrations in lichens may be altered by aqueous washing, and that disproportional loss occurs from different thallus regions. In this study, uranium retention was compared in four species of macrolichens before and after wash treatments. In regard to individual parts of the thallus, the greatest differences in uranium concentration between species were observed prior to washing, and significant interspecific differences were maintained after aqueous treatments. In respect to whole thalli, differences between species were also observed in starting uranium concentrations, but these were not maintained after treatment with water or dilute acid solutions. The lack of post-wash differences in whole thalli was apparently related to the fact that all thallus zones were not represented to the same extent in the intact lichen, and the efflux of uranium differed between zones. In any case, exposure to water had an equalizing effect on overall U levels in the four lichen species tested.
43461054|The notion of qualitative model is pointed out and its role in theoretical ecology is discussed. Concepts and algorithms pertaining the stability of equilibria and their dependence from external input parameters are reviewed in the framework of qualitative modelling. The effectiveness and efficiency of symbolic computer languages in tackling these kinds of problems is shown through the detailed examination of case-studies borrowed from the literature and their solution via MACSYMA programs composed by casespecific input statements and general-purpose computing subroutines. It is also shown that a linear system cannot model globally a competitive or a predator-prey interaction if the state components are to be interpreted as absolute population levels. Hence the mathematical methods considered here are suitable only for a local analysis of the community dynamics in a neighborhood of an equilibrium state, nevertheless it appears that the use of symbolic computation has a much wider application range and can become an outstanding software tool in every branch of qualitative ecological modelling.
43461309|The robustness of MULVA and PC-ORD clustering techniques were measured with three different new indices. A method is robust when the results for a given data set are stable despite minor perturbations of the data. In order to test the robustness of these methods 22 plots were classified according to the abundance of trees or trees and shrubs and then 10 new plots were added and reclassified. Of the tested methods, Minimum Variance with Cross Product matrix of non-centred data was the most robust and Complete Linkage with Chord Distance was the least robust.
43461034|This paper presents a mathematical model to determine the development of a population of weevils in stored wheat and the damage the weevils do to the wheat. The system is considered to go through two phases: in the first phase the number of wheat grains available per weevil is still sufficiently large, and in the second phase this number is below the critical food ratio C. Because of the time it takes the egg to develop into a mature weevil, the equations of the model are delay differential equations. Analytical solutions and/or bounds on the solutions can be obtained.
43461304|There is a simple allometric relation between average plant mass and the maximum number of plants in a given area as plants become older and bigger. This relaton, named self-thinning law, is valid when the canopy is totally closed. I neglect this very strict assumption, and regard canopy closure as a dynamically variable quantity. Assuming that intra-and interpopulation competition is determined by canopy closure, I studied a population dynamical model to describe self-thinning of even-aged plants. The parameters of the equations are measurable in the field. I extend the model to multi-species assemblages. Emergence of interpopulation interaction could modify the outcome of the self-thinning relation depending on the result of competition.
43461218|The specialization and metapopulation dynamics hypotheses are the most prominent alternative explanations of the oft-reported correlation between the distribution and abundance of species. We suggest that mechanisms underlying the two explanations are interacting to produce the correlation. We aim to quantify the relative contribution of the mechanisms underlying the two proposed explanations, should both have some validity. An analysis of 40 species of invertebrates inhabiting 49 miniature erosional rock pools allowed us to explicitly address the relationship between distribution, specialization, and abundance. The analysis involved regressing species abundances against several measures of specialization and distribution. Compound measures of species specialization (niche volumes) correlated less with the observed densities than when the constituent variables were used separately, especially in combination with the distribution data. The latter group of statistical models increased the amount of variance explained compared to the best niche volume derived estimates (53% vs 79%). The comparisons further suggest that specialization is a much stronger determinant of species abundance than is metapopulation dynamics. This appears to be particularly true in our system of discrete habitats. To put these results in a broader context, we propose a conceptual model to explain the relative importance of stochastic processes and specialization constraints in predicting patterns of species abundance. While this model focuses on site-patch isolation and on ecological differences among sites-patches, it permits other dimensions such as habitat resolution differences among species.
43461135|The Sweep-Out Component analysis (SCA) is suggested as a method to develop environmental ordination. Comparison of SCA ordination (pertaining to environmental data set) and the unrotated PCA and PCA with varimax rotated ordinations revealed superiority of SCA over PCA in terms of greater mechanical validity, greater correlations with the original variables, greater parsimony (higher explained variance by the first three components) and a better correlation of the components with the corresponding vegetational ordination axes. The characteristics and the utility of the SCA model in ecological context are discussed.
43461098|The ability of plants to interfere with ant-homopteran associations has received relatively little attention in studies of ant-homopteran-plant interactions. Given the potential of significant negative impacts to plant fitness from ant-herbivore mutualisms, one might anticipate that some plants have evolved defensive countermeasures. Here, we experimentally examined the role of sticky rings formed by Boerhavia spicata Choisy (Nyctaginaceae) in plant defense against ant-herbivore associations. We randomly assigned 67 plants to one of two treatments: sticky rings covered with diatomaceous earth and controls. Treatment plants (no rings) supported significantly higher densities of aphids (p= 0.045) and ants (p= 0.056) than did controls. Ants, predominantly Myrmecocystus depilis (Hymenoptera: Formicidae), attained significantly (p= 0.030) higher abundances on a per aphid basis on treatment plants than on controls. Densities of nonmyrmecophilous herbivores did not differ significantly between treatment groups. Sticky rings appear to disrupt the establishment of ant-aphid associations in Boerhavia spicata.
43460949|Where sampling constraints do not allow for the time element to be measured or where it is simply impossible to recognize specific time relationships, regression modelling can facilitate dynamic vegetation studies. The present paper describes such a modelling and presents the results of computer experiments with real data from Boreal and Taiga vegetation in the Yukon Territory. The experiments focus on environmental perturbation and the relationship of this to compositional changes in different vegetation types for which general tendencies and trends are revealed. The mesic types appear the most resistant to perturbation and resistance declines as the types become more hydric or xeric.
43461175|The use of Horn's index is extended to express niche separation in multidimensional niche spaces where each axis represents a combination of states of environmental variables of the nominal or ordinal type. Pairwise niche separation coefficients are applied to snail assemblages in three different successional seres of terrestrial plant communities in the Hungarian Great Plain. Matrices of separation coefficients are subjected to metric and nonmetric multidimensional scaling in order to reveal underlying niche relationships in the assemblages. Principal coordinates analysis proved to be more effective in detecting species groups than nonmetric scaling.
43461295|Two approaches for niche width and overlap are compared based on vegetation types and climatic data from China. One approach applies the trajectory concept and uses a dynamic space, the other applies the hypervolume concept and uses both dynamic and static spaces. The two approaches give similar results when the hypervolume approach is coupled with the dynamical space. Procrustes analysis suggests that the trajectory approach can maintain high levels of information; it should be preferred for ordination purposes. Although the justification of the trajectory approach relies mainly on the fact that a true measure of niche overlap cannot be computed, the two approaches can be used in a complementary way to gain more information concerning the niche position and variability of vegetation types in environmental spaces.
43461230|The origins of classification and ordination in human thought are discussed. It is shown that the genetic and evolutionary history of organisms leads to the separation of discrete classes in a hierarchical structure, whereas the same is not true of communities. It is argued that the model selected for classification or ordination should have the fewest parameters needed to account for non-random variation. One-dimensional ordination should be followed by tests of discontinuity. If discrete classes are discovered, they should be analysed separately, and ordination in higher dimensions of the whole data set should proceed only in their absence. The value of the nodum as a concept in community analysis is emphasized.
43461115|When pasture land is abandoned, logged area left unattended, or in general, when severe perturbation stops, vegetation recovery begins. The process that unfolds from initiation to the new steady state is my topic of discussion. I believe that the recovery process is rapid initially and strongly directed, but as time passes, deceleration occurs, the changes become increasingly chaotic, and in chaos, a new steady state is approached. I also believe that the spacetime scale matters not only in our the perception of the process, but also in the natural unfolding of the process independently from us. I present general thoughts in this paper and introduce the idea that boundary conditions exist not only on the ground, such as Walt Coniey's edges, but also in interactions and association in their own analytical space. I describe conjectures that I and A. Garcia chose to delineate recovery studies in Cantabrian Spain and Carolinian Ontario.
43461108|In ecosystem analysis, we always need to classify an ecosystem into several sub-ecosystems using the variables that define the system. It is hoped that the variables describe the special features of the sub-systems. How to select variables that are of this kind? This question is discussed and a method is described. An example of the analysis of meteorological types from the Baoding discrict, Hebei Province, China, is also presented.
43460967|A formal definition of 'ecosystem' is shown to obey the axioms of category theory. The definition makes use of a previously published symbolic definition of an animal's environment and includes also the formalized notion of an animal community. A product of the category is a food web in the ecosystem. Methods of classification and comparison of real-life communities and ecosystems result from the definitions. Non-overlapping communities within the same habitat may be differentiated precisely. Illustrative examples of communities and ecosystems are given using the ecology of the Common Octopus (Octopus vulgaris). An analysis of R.L. Kitching's water-filled treehole communities is also given.
43461128|Postglacial vegetation dynamics reflects global warming and cooling as these occur in normal progression through precession cycle. It also reflects thermal influences of aberrations such as variations in the Sun's radiation and in the Earth's atmospheric CO concentration. Although the present precession cycle is in the final cooling phase as it approaches a new age of glaciation, global warming caused by man-made increases in atmospheric CO and other greenhouse gases may temporarily, albeit substantially subvert the cooling climatic tend. The author uses the Manabe ocean-atmosphere model's prediction of a 2.5 global temperature rise in less than 7-decades to quantify the level of warming, and on this basis, he undertakes an examination of the potential local effects over latitudes in eastern North America and elevations in Hawaii. His results indicate local thermal flux ranging from over 12 (Arctic Tundra at 58 N) to under 4 (Warm Temperate Evergreen Forest at 32 N). A comparative evaluation of these lead the author to hypothesize that the present vegetation of the cool temperate and cold region will disintegrate. When this happens, it will beget the rise of new plant communities that will be little more than chance assemblages of population remnants, species poor and ill-defined. But given enough time, migration, competition and environmental sorting will enhance community level differentiation and sharpen a new, climatedetermined regional pattern. Neither the communities nor the zonal pattern will be comparable to those of today. The Tundra will lose much of its niche and the Boreal Forest will shrink to quantitatively insignificant isolated stands on azonal northern sites. Elements of the Cool Temperate Deciduous Forest and to some extent the Mixed Conifer-Northern Hardwood Forest will appear in parts of Labrador and adjacent maritime regions to the south. The Oak-Hickory Forest and Savanna, now wedged between grassland and eastern deciduous forests from Minnesota to Oklahoma, and the Warm Temperate Evergreen Forest in the southern Gulf and Atlantic states will be major gainers. Suitable elements of the Oak-Hickory Forest will disperse in north-east direction to form a broad north-south belt extending from subarctic western Quebec to the central Great Lakes where thermal, soil moisture, and precipitation regimes will approximate the present conditions in the eastern plane states. Significantly, the Warm Temperate Evergreen Forest will expand north and north-east in step with the expanding influence of the Maritime-Tropical Airmass. On the mountains of Hawaii, the vegetation zones will shift upwards, resulting in the disappearance of the Tropical Alpine Tundra on Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, and possibly the Tropical Subalpine Scrub vegetation on the lesser high mountains. Regional economies will disintegrate and major dislocations of populations will fan severe regional conflicts.
43461124|In this paper I examine some of the causes of the "horseshoe" effect in ordination, and some of the proposals made to mitigate or remove it. I then introduce a Riemannian unfolding methodology whereby the horseshoe is embedded in the curvature of the space itself. By using monotonie regression methods the curvature of this space need not remain constant. This means first, that the nonlinear responses of species are incorporated into the curvature of the space itself, and second, that differential sampling densities along a gradient can be accepted without excessive distortion of the results. Although much more evaluation is necessary, it seems that the use of a Riemannian space might avoid many of the problems presently found with ordination methods. It also raises several questions of fundamental importance in vegetation science.
43461322|A primary need in planning response to natural disasters is for rapid assessment of location, extent and degree of impact. Logistics and priorities for response depend strongly on the landscape context. Field surveys alone are generally inadequate unless the impact is local. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remotely sensed digital images can provide the needed landscape context along with pre-disaster status and map base for planning. It then remains to assess changes associated with the event, and it is usually of utmost importance that the assessment be rapid. Aerial reconnaissance from a light plane allows both stratification and rating of damage for design of field surveys. Rating ability can, in turn, be exploited by ranked set sampling for achieving observational economy.
43460940|This paper discusses the utility of computerized sampling methods in vegetation studies. A brief review of published work and a presentation of new results demonstrate that computerized sampling may be beneficial in a wide variety of research areas, including the optimization of sampling design and the recognition of the scale of spatial pattern.
43461223|This paper examines the effects of birth and death rates on the dynamics of diversity in systems without abiotic environmental changes using a two-level cellular automaton model. The systems examined combine species with high birthand death-rates (hi/hi) and species with low birth-and death-rates (lo/lo). The resulting chaotic systems seem to possess pseudo-attractors even in the case of high number of interactions between species which was not true of more homogeneous systems previously examined. Overall the introduction of distinct types of species led to increased diversity and stability (though in a special sense) which may explain the association of these two characteristics in field observations. Most systems involved mixtures of hi/hi and lo/lo elements although ' pure' systems did occur, more commonly as lo/lo systems.
43461298|We define niche breadth as the congruence of two distributions, one of species performance over the niche compartments and the other of compartment availability in terms of compartment frequencies in the sample. We propose high-density random sampling to determine frequencies and an information theoretical quantity to measure congruence. Species and soil data from Cryptocarya community in the Dinghushan Natural Reserve of South China serve as illustration.
43461112|Caswell's neutral model of community structure can be considered a useful tool for the analysis of biological interactions and disturbance. We examined the zooplankton data collected during two daily sampling cycles in the Po River, near Viadana, in the summer of 1985 and 1988. Rotifers were the most important group in all the samples examined. The rotifer community shows a marked structural stability during low water phases. In the summer of 1985 dominance is high, while in 1988 evenness increases in response to conditions of moderate disturbance (higher turbidity). Floods act as "catastrophic" events, which destroy community organization and bring diversity to the values predicted by the neutral hypothesis. The results are discussed according to Connell and Huston's theories on diversity and disturbance.
43461227|This study examines spatial and temporal dynamics of land cover in the Pugu and Kazimzumbwi forest reserve region of Tanzania. Cultivation and harvesting of forest products are the main factors affecting the vegetation. These factors are more pronounced in the eastern and northern parts of the forest reserves. Elsewhere, notably in the western parts of the reserves, there has been substantial recovery of vegetation. This is particularly apparent in areas of where depopulation occurred following the 'villagisation' program of the 1970' s. Although most of the vegetation change occurred outside of the forest reserves, increasing population pressure around the forest reserves will likely lead to encroachment into the forest reserves proper.
43461220|This morphometric study describes the relation between branch diameter and branching order in Ilex aquifolium using a simple fractal scaling law. The logarithmic plots of mean branch diameter against the logarithm of order were generally linear, suggesting that biological branching structures may be genetically-controlled. However, fractal exponent values varied a function of environmental factors such as heavy grazing, suggesting that while the fractal scaling function is genetically coded, it is also an expression of adaptations to the environment.
43461120|Several ordination methods, including Principal Component analysis, Correspondence analysis and Multidimensional Scaling, are capable of analysing several matrices simultaneously, that is they can analyse three-mode data. In contrast, almost all classification methods which have been used in phytosociology have employed a single symmetric dissimilarity matrix. At first, this may not seem to pose any particular problem. However, on inspecting such single matrices more closely, we find that they are formed by uniting several matrices, often by summing contributions from several variables (species). Thus implicitly we have adopted a particular method of analysis without examining the alternatives. And there are other situations in which simultaneous analysis of several matrices might be regarded as potentially profitable. There is one exceptional case in classification where multiple matrices have been recognised. Certain procedures utilise ancillary information to constrain the analysis, commonly by permitting only spatially adjacent stands to fuse, or by requiring that subgroups formed by division remain spatially coherent (e.g. Gordon & Birks 1972). Such constraint could equally be derived from any other variable. In such cases elements of one matrix dominate the elements of the other, so the analysis is markedly asymmetric in its treatment. Modifying the constraint matrix during the classification procedure gives a dynamic system. We may use several matrices in such constrained analyses, defining a logical function to combine the constraints, and modifying each matrix idiosyncratically. Furthermore, we could introduce weighting to replace complete prohibition, thus encouraging, say, adjacency without demanding it. However, asymmetry is not always desired, especially in cases where multiple matrices arise from reasons other than constraint satisfaction. In this paper we first examine various situations where several matrices of dissimilarity might reasonably be generated simultaneously and where it does not seem entirely desirable that they be summed to form a single overall dissimilarity matrix. We shall then examine some approaches to the problem of classification using multiple dissimilarity matrices, with and without asymmetric treatment, and illustrate some of their potentialities and problems. Finally we indicate how our results reflect on some fundamentals of phytosociological investigation.
43460968|Some approximation and interpolation approaches to mapping ecological and vegetation variables on a surface are presented. In this connection trend surface analysis based on polynomial regression is shown to be a promising technique. It is reviewed and typical applications are presented. Basic features of the mathematical background for bicubic and triangular splines are discussed. 'Splines' is a family of powerful interpolation techniques for mapping of ecological and vegetational variables both on regular and irregular grids.
43461131|Canonical contingency table analysis is a method to measure structural sharpness and to detect compositional trends in structured phytosociological tables. The present paper analyzes species occupancy and life-form frequency records from the Greater Xingan Mountains of north-east China along elevation gradients. The analysis reveals a sharp group structure in the data by species and elevation class. It also reveals elevation related trends in species distributions of 4 basic types: skewed to low altitude, mode at mid altitude, skewed to high altitude, altitude indifferent. Typical species of the 4 types in the same order include: Pinus sylvestris, Picea jezoensis, Pinus pumila, and Larix gmelini.
43461036|Two alternatives of the Phylogenerator (Vida et al. 1989), describing ceoevolution of abstract asexual, clonal communities, based on explicit multispecies dynamics, are presented along with some preliminary results. The model works in the sense that speciation and extinction lead to variously connected communities comprising all sorts of interactions, including mutualism. Abstract phylogenetic trees generated by the Phylogenerator are shown. Examples of self-inflicted and externally elicited diversity collapses are presented. Commonly used pairwise models of mutualism are not adequate representations in a community evolution context. Hints for further development, such as microevolutionary fine-tuning or rigorous food-web analysis, are outlined.
43461225|A new index is proposed to quantify habitat edge. The index is the ratio between the observed interior-to-edge ratio and a reference value, calculated as the maximum interior-to-edge ratio for the given area. Using the Patton diversity index as a standard, the properties and advantages of the new index are described: (i) it is suitable for raster data; (ii) it considers the edge as an area quantity; (iii) it gives higher values for larger patches, thus incorporating both patch area and shape characteristics. The index is therefore more relevant to nature conservation policy and reserve design.
43461269|Ordination and classification have always been important stages in ecological data analysis. This paper presents a clustering technique based on fuzzy sets to obtain both ordination and classification particularly well suited for ecological analyses. Three algorithms are presented to categorize data, classify new ones, and produce fuzzy dendrograms. Some examples demonstrate the algorithms' capabilities to yield graded classification of data and show that this approach has more flexibility compared to classical methods.
43461048|Many plant communities are made up chiefly of long lived individuals of species adapted to persist by tolerating the particular stresses of their habitats. Such stresses might include: low nutrient levels; low water levels; extremes of temeprature; low light levels; low soil oxygen; low soil availability; waterlogging; extremes of pH; presence of salts or metals; among others. Long lived, often endemic, stress tolerating plants with specific habitat requirements are among those most appropriately protected in reserves. To help understand the role that reserve size plays in the choice and management of nature reserves for such plant communities, probability distributions for the number of species that remnants of larger habitats might contain were calculated assuming equal species abundance, equal individual size, and independent, random spatial distribution. For the inclusion of most species (99%) in a habitat remnant, adequate reserve size is achieved with relatively small reserves with space for about six times as many individuals as species. This suggests that the maintenance of habitat quality may be a more important factor than reserve size for the protection of biodiversity. Factors increasing or maintaining the species richness of an area of long lived, stress tolerating vegetation include: reduction of inappropriate disturbance; original inclusion of such individuals in situ in the area; endemism (an endemic may not have ever colonized an area, it may have evolved there); maintenance of habitat (including water table, air and water quality, and the natural variation of environmental conditions); and low mortality, especially from anthropogenous sources. As we still have a great deal to learn, both scientifically and socially, about maintenance of habitat quality, we should establish a large number of reserves of any size available, recognizing that inevitably many of them will fail for reasons of habitat quality.
43461277|Demography, the study of vital statistics, when applied at the stand-level of community organization, can contribute significantly to the predictability of vegetation change. This is particularly so in low-diversity biomes in which a few key species dominate the vegetation. Examples are presented from low-diversity forest biomes in the Pacific area, where degenerating and regenerating populations of major tree species are the principal determinants of vegetation change.
43461055|The 'multivariate plexus concept' is an extension and generalization of Whittaker's speciesenvironmental plexus applied in plant ecology. It is used in the analysis of complex multiway ecological data by a multistep procedure (eigenvector ordinations of two-way submatrices of data, rank correlations, non-metric multidimensional scaling, plexus diagram). The method was applied to four-way bird-habitat data collected in a Central-European oak forest. The integrated vegetation-bird plexus diagram showed significant relationships between several bird species and vegetation components, but the general physiognomic character of the forest had no relevant effect on bird species at the scale of the study. Using plexus diagram it was possible to detect strong negative effects between vegetation components and bird species; there are not usually revealed by the well-known ordination techniques.
43460976|The use of vegetation types defined in syntaxonomical research is proposed for environmental analysis on the basis of fuzzy set theory. An example with data of a relatively simple environmental system is discussed.
43461193|The research involved a grassland area at UFRGS Agronomic Experimental Station in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. The floristic survey in 1984, when the area was under grazing, was compared with the surveys of 1986, 1988 and 1992, when cattle was excluded. The vegetation analysis used 16 permanent plots (0.25 m) on which the cover of species was scored. The objective was to trace the dynamics of the vegetation. Ordination analysis allowed us to observe directional tendencies, and randomization tests verified divergence and the lack of stabilization of the community.
43461199|Cirsium pitcheri is a threatened plant species endemic to the shoreline sand dunes of the Great Lakes. In this study we attempted to identify some of the environmental factors that may limit the growth, survival and reproduction of its populations. The species is able to grow in varied microhabitats of shoreline sand dunes such as bare areas within populations of grasses, blowouts, and shingle beaches. Seed production of its populations was severely reduced due to consumption of whole capitula by white-tailed deer. An experiment on simulated herbivory by white-tailed deer showed that C. pitcheri possessed good ability to compensate for tissue loss. However, intensive browsing resulted in a significant reduction in root biomass. Since the flowering ability of C. pitcheri is dictated by the amount of stored root reserves, such reduction in root biomass would delay the onset of flowering, reduce overwinter survival, and significantly affect the future growth and survival of this threatened species. Seedlings and juvenile vegetative plants may also be killed by excessive burial in sand. For example, the burial of seedlings to various proportions of their height showed that all seedlings died in the complete (100%) burial, 20% died in the 75% burial and none died in the 25 and 50% burial treatments. Burial of seedlings up to a depth of 25% stimulated their growth but 75% burial significantly decreased the total dry weight. For the restoration of C. pitcheri populations efforts must be made to artificially create new populations and enhance existing populations.
43461127|In a former paper by one of us (L. Papp) diversity measures of frequency lists of Drosophilidae assemblages in four Hungarian low mountain valleys were compared. The present paper elaborates on the diversity measures themselves with the intentions to find how closely conclusions based on the Shannon-Wiener index can be corroborated by other indices. The Shannon-Wiener index, Fisher's index, as well as some indices of Hurlbert's and Hill's index families were calculated. Confidence intervals of the jackknifed diversity values as well as the significance of diversity differences were also determined. Through the high number of original and jackknifed diversity estimates, an opportunity presented itself to study the statistical properties of the original estimates. The bias of estimation and the radii of confidence intervals of jackknife estimates as functions of sample size, were analysed. Strong correlations were found between the diversity indices. A relationship between frequency size and index response was also demonstrated. It is illuminating that when two or three elements of a species frequency vector are changed by an appropriate algorithm for those in a fixed vector, the modified diversity value approximates the diversity belonging to the fixed vector very closely.
43461327|This article is especially put together to provide an informative introduction to the relatively new and innovative cross-disciplinary journal for statistics, ecology, and the environment. Information on the editorial group is given. So also instructions for the authors. Contents of the first eight issues comprising the first two volumes for 1994 and 1995 are spelled out. The headquarters of the journal published by Chapman & Hall are located at the Penn State Center for Statistical Ecology and Environmental Statistics with Professor G. P. Patil as the Editor-in-Chief. A convenient subscription order form follows.
43461279|Spatial interpolation methods are very popular in geosciences. Among these, trend surface analysis (TSA), inverse-distance interpolation, splines, and kriging are the most commonly used. Although vegetation science handles many spatial aspects of ecological data, these methods have experienced less appreciation. TSA and kriging interpolations are discussed in the present paper. Detailed formulations of the techniques are given, and their advantages and flaws briefly discussed. Two example data sets are used to elucidate the applications of these methods in the interpretation of ordination diagrams.
43461004|Diversity is an historical property acquired in the growth and development, not only of eco systems, but also of any system made of replicable subsystems. Its basic expression involves the equivalent of an averaging of quantitative ratios, between any possible pair of components, of most of their extensive and intensive properties. Diversity, like information in general, grows around itself, in analogy to the evolution of Vorticity in fluids. In another approach, diversity can be contemplated as a result from interaction between dynamics of total biomass and dynamics of genetic differentiation inside the same biomass. Connectance, the "syntaxis of ecology", should be placed inside the boundaries of diversity, and is subjected to mayor constraints. Connectance is bounded between the increasing rigidity of the system and its risk of falling apart into separate systems.
43461117|Niche breadth is defined as the fitness between the species' performance distribution and the sampling unit frequency distribution over the compartments of a compartmentalized niche space. An index is derived to measure fitness based on the minimum discrimination information statistic. An example is presented using survey data of species and soil variables from the Cryptocarya community in the Dinghushan Natural Reserve, South China.
43461008|An improved principal components analysis ordination is used to study grass-habitat relationships in the Serengeti short grasslands. Species distribution is found to be influenced by soil factors along a topographic gradient.
43461020|This paper investigates the characteristics of a fish community and the effect of the distance from the coast line on the measure of fish species. Fluctuation in species diversity is noted as the distance from the coast line is increased. The effect of the timing of the day is examined.
43461270|Changes in phanerophytic vegetation in a mountain woodland of Central Argentina are analyzed. Floristic composition, disturbance factors (logging and grazing) and some physical variables are recorded in sampling plots located along a gradient of use intensity. Multivariate analysis shows that the main trend of variation in floristic composition is related to an alteration gradient rather than to physical factors. This gradient is significatively correlated with logging. Diversity parameters are used in order to study spatial organization. Species diversity decreases from slightly to highly disturbed sites. Spatial heterogeneity and average spatial niche width decreases as disturbance intensity increases. The behaviour of diversity parameters applied to highly disturbed woody vegetation is discussed.
43461107|Carabid beetle coenoses in the Aspromonte massif (Southern Italy) have been described and mapped in relation with the main vegetation types. On the basis of the map and of some meaningful community features an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) plan has been suggested. Carabid coenoses proved to have a good correlation with the vegetation types, and to be helpful for EIA.
43461226|Vegetation composition was studied in a semi-arid region of southern Ethiopia where bush fires have been banned for the past 25 years. The area is used by the pastoral Borana people and their livestock. Seven vegetation types are described using a hierarchical classificatory technique. Vegetation types that are new to the landscape have developed as a result of bush fire banning and other forms of human interference. Floristic gradients revealed by numerical ordination technique were not strongly related to measured environmental factors, although variation was partially related to soil texture, soil phosphorus levels, and terrain slope. Fire suppression has favoured the invasion of woody plants, resulting in increased cover of communities dominated by Acacia drepanolobium, A. seyal and Tarchonanthus camphoratus. By contrast, the grassland community that formerly dominated the central plateau is shrinking, and a community dominated by Juniperus procera and Olea europea is facing local extirpation. Removal of invasive woody species, and extraction of livestock through participatory development programs, are suggested as initial management steps to help rehabilitate vegetation diversity and productivity to the conditions existing prior to fire suppression.
43461253|A measure of resemblance is described which is independent of the linearity of descriptor relationships. The descriptors are recorded on interval scales, though not necessarily the same scale. The resemblance measure is based on a minimum distance pathway between the data points, related to a similar pathway for an equidistribution of points in the same reference space.
43460942|A comparison of thirteen presence-absence resemblance coefficients was undertaken based on nonmetric multidimensional scaling of a data set recording the distribution of marine fungal species over 31 sites worldwide. While all coefficients successfully recovered a major gradient in mean seawater temperature, some differences in the ordination scattergrams were nonetheless apparent. The weights space of individual differences scaling (INDSCAL) indicated that coefficient interrelationships reflect (a) whether mutual absence is used in calculating resemblance, (b) whether multiplicative terms are incorporated, and (c) the degree of intercoefficient monotonicity. An empirical assessment of ordination interpretability, together with considerations of the relationship between resemblance and ecological distance as indicated by INDSCAL Shepard diagrams, suggested the utility of the Baroni-Urbani coefficient in biogeographical studies. The Ochiai coefficient, along with the Jaccard and its variants, also produced interpretable results.
43461242|The application of probabilistic methods to the classification of plant communities at different hierarchical levels is discussed. The methods have been applied to phytosociological data of scree vegetation of Central Italy. Two procedures are suggested: the first to compare vegetation types and the second to test homogeneity within vegetation types.
43461281|Part V of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology presents a description of a practical approach to managing and archiving ecological data. The intent of this discussion is to define a generalized data structure that encourages good ecological data management. This approach facilitates the demands of analysis, synthesis, and modelling, of data across scales that range from local to regional or continental. Part I of this series (Conley 1990) provided a definition of Theoretical Ecology. Part II (Conley 1991a) provided both a critique and a proper design of large inter-disciplinary "Centers" that focus on a broad discipline such as Theoretical Ecology. Part III (Conley 1991b) presented an argument for the desireability of this approach to ecological issues guided by such an "Institute for Theoretical Ecology". Part IV (Conley 1991c), presented a description of a new activity referred to as "Computational Workshops" that offered a fresh approach to the analysis and synthesis of broadly developed ecological and environmental data.
43461096|The successional dynamics of pastures in a representative area of the Crdoba Mountains is studied. Traditionally, the pastures are periodically burned to eliminate the phytomass that accumulates in "pajonales", areas of tall grasses that are unpalatable for cattle. This is not an intense disturbance, and it permits development until the start of a new disturbance. In this study, succession is analyzed based upon multivariate ordination techniques and diversity analysis. It is shown that the floristic composition describes a relatively clear successional sequence, and the variability in the communities is not seriously affected in its relation with the geomorphological gradient on the slopes, although many species modify their spatial niche during succession.
43460950|As part of a vegetation survey programme for conserved areas a survey of the Manyeleti Game Reserve was undertaken. From a Braun-Blanquet analysis of the vegetation, seven major plant communities were identified. As this survey forms the basis for further more detailed phytosociological research, an overview of these communities is presented. Descriptions of the communities include habitat characterization, diagnostic species, as well as prominent taxa in the woody and herbaceous strata.
43461039|It has been suggested that the overlap of species niches will decrease if the niche dimensions are increased. To demonstrate this principle, we examined the niche overlap of species within compartmentalized niche spaces of different dimensions. For this we took physical variables as niche dimensions, achieved compartmentalization by fragmentation of each dimension into a given number of intervals, and measured niche overlap as the similarity of species performance mappings over the compartments. We derived the similarity measure as the complement of a standard metric unaffected by distortions owing to interdependences between the niche dimensions. Data from a south China Cryptocarya community, involving 10 soil variables and 35 species, confirmed the general principle: species niche overlap did decrease as the niche dimensions increased. As a useful generalization, the species were grouped into guilds through a cluster analysis of the metric.
43461201|A dissimilarity measure for comparing objects described by ordinal variables with few states is derived from Kendall's tau and Goodman-Kruskal's gamma. The coefficient is calculated by examining all possible pairs of variables such that whenever ties appear, the presence/absence relationships become decisive. The measure is recommended for cases when many values in the data matrix are tied, and presence/absence relations are also of interest, e.g., in phytosociological classifications.
43460974|An examination of many of the indices proposed as numerical measures of pairwise similarity shows that they have strong relationships to string-to-string measures variously known as "Levenshtein distance", "longest common subsequence" or "minimal mutation distance". The variations among coefficients are created in several ways, including changing the set of operations, using a richer structural pattern, modifying weights, limiting the extent of operations and varying the basis for normalisation. In total these measures provide a very flexible means of assessing similarity and can be extended to similarities based on collections of strings. While not denying the interest to the user of other properties, such as metricity or embedding in a euclidean space, examining the coefficients as variations on the Levenshtein theme provides a common basis for their comparison and provides the user with a means of choosing between coefficients in a rational manner. But however interesting this array of coefficients might be, it remains true that only some features of similarity will be captured in a minimal mutational measure. These features may be more or less than are actually required by the user. In this paper I have made a preliminary examination of various measures, some of which are related to the Levenshtein metric, and some of which appear to capture other aspects of similarity (i.e. topological, functional, analogic and/or conceptual). These latter are all measures which I have been unable to relate to the Levenshtein distance, although I have not pursued this very far as yet. All measures were applied to vegetation data, classifying both plots and attributes into a two-way table. The SAHN algorithm has been used for most of the clusterings, so that differences between measures of similarity are the primary cause of differences in results. In a few cases other clustering algorithms have been used and the data has been converted to presence/absence when this was necessary with the particular coefficient.
43461301|Floristic and morphological changes produced by grazing were studied in a high plateau grassland. Two types of disturbance were compared: an enclosed site without grazing during the last twelve years, and a site grazed by cattle and sheep. The effect of grazing on floristic composition and community architecture was analyzed. Grazing produced changes in species frequency, but not an invasion of exotic species. Five groups of species with differing morphology were identified. These morphological groups were represented in a markedly different way in the two grazing types. Grazing caused the occurrence of morphological groups comprised of grazing tolerants, whereas, within the exclosure, groups of species that evade grazing predominated.
43461183|In order to survive, animals must select among the resources available in their environment. Resource selection studies aim to identify the habitats and prey items that different animal species select for use among available choices. These studies have progressively become more reliant on statistical methods for analysis. As in other ecological applications, classical linear models are somewhat constraining due to the assumptions of constant error variance and normal distribution for the response variable Y. Generalized linear models (GLM) add necessary flexibility to model ecological data by allowing Y to come from an exponential family and by taking the variance of to be proportional to a variance function V() of the mean. The variance function V() determines whether there is an exponential family compatible with the moment model. If there is one, maximum likelihood can be used for inference. If there is not one, quasi-likelihood is an alternative method for inference that does not make distributional assumptions for the response variable. In this paper, an introduction to resource selection studies is presented; it includes definitions, motivation, sampling designs, and analysis techniques based on resource selection probability functions. GLM and quasi-likelihood are also introduced and applied in the analysis of three different resource selection studies with binary response variables.
43461235|This paper examines the reasons for, and methods of, species selection which have been proposed for phytosociological use. It attempts to evaluate these methods in terms of cost and effectiveness, by determining if the procedures can identify constant, faithful and discriminating species. Using a single set of data. 5 classes of methods were identified and typical methods from three of the classes were then applied to a second data set to determine their efficacy in recovering patterns similar to those in the full data. The results indicate that two methods, one based on the two-parameter model, the other on a double Poisson model, perform well, and at reasonable computational cost. In addition various proposed tests of resemblance of similarity matrices and partition comparison are examined and shown to be of limited usefulness. Some possible extensions to the double Poisson method are indicated, and some relationships to robust and resistant estimation procedures noted.
43461249|An easy to use numerical simulation model of plankton dynamics in aquatic environments is described. The model simulates growth of two phytoplankton and two zooplankton groups on the basis of physical and trophic data from field measurements collected in the investigated environment. AQUAMOD may specially be of help to users who are being introduced to ecological modelling, since the interactions between variables are easy to understand.
43461050|Part II of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology provides both a critique for large "Centers" that focus on a particular discipline, and suggestions to correct the flaws that are perceived. The overall theme of the discussion continues to be an argument for the design and establishment of an institutionalized program of study for Theoretical Ecology. Part I (Conley 1990) of the series provided a discussion of definitions of "Theoretical Ecology". In Parts III (Conley 1991a), IV (Conley 1991 b) and V (Conley and Brunt 1991c), I offer in increasing detail, the case for establishment of such an Institute, and some of the activities and methods that would enhance the chances of its' success.
43461258|A 30-plot permanent transect along a topographic gradient was laid from the levee to the edge of the internal lake on an island in the River Paran floodplain to study the distribution of new herbaceous vegetation replacing the previous one destroyed by a catastrophic flood. Principal component and cluster analyses were used to analyze the data. It was concluded that the communities' distribution follows environmental gradients related to topographic elevation, and that the main effect of the floods is to smooth down these gradients, thus producing homogeneization in the herbaceous vegetation.
43461028|Plant-environment relationships in the Duke Forest, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina USA were examined within and among tenth hectare plots. Soil samples collected from subplots were analyzed for phosphorus, potassium, calcium, sodium, weight/volume, pH, buffered acidity, cation exchange capacity, manganese, copper, and humic acids. Canopy openness was estimated with a spherical densiometer. Canonical correspondence analysis reveals that the species composition of 0.1 ha plots is strongly related to soil calcium. All of the environmental variables demonstrate some spatial dependence within plots, indicating that within-plot gradient analysis must be interpreted cautiously. Species composition of 2 m subplots is weakly related to soil calcium. Species positions along the calcium gradient within plots are weakly correlated with their positions along the among-plot calcium gradient.
43461271|It has been repeatedly suggested by several kinds of competition models (island models, diffusion models and simulations of local dynamics) that spatially limited dispersion and local competition stabilize the regional coexistence of competing populations. Using a Monte Carlo simulation model, this work demonstrates that local dynamics alone is insufficient to allow stable coexistence of similar species: it is the environmental heterogeneity inherent in island models and most of the simulations that has the stabilizing effect. Increasing spatial inhomogeneity by the introduction of an environmental gradient and the corresponding response curves results in an increased tendency for stable regional coexistence of two annual plant populations.
43461129|The contingency table model expresses vegetation on a specific site in terms of deviations of performance or sampling unit occupancy from an expected state. We define this state as global randomness that would prevail had the dispersion of the plant population not been constrained by trended environmental variation. With expectation so defined, the contingency table model is completely described by output from an enriched canonical contingency table analysis (CCTA). The output includes canonical correlations, canonical scores, and canonical partitions of deviations from expectations. Considering that the row categories in the contingency table in this case are species populations and the column categories are environmentally defined, the population deviations profiles of the sites and their partitions will be suitable as signatures to describe quantitatively the state of vegetation in a particular site at the time of the survey. With concatenation of these states consistent and anticipatory of environmental variation can provide clues of the direction and extent of vegetation change. The analysis has been described in detail elsewhere. We discuss in this paper the problem of mapping new sites into the contingency table model without distortions of the original configuration. We propose CONAMAP, an application program, to derive the mappings. CONAMAP takes results from CCTA and derives canonical scores and deviations profiles for observational vectors from new sites. The species complement and population performance measures must be identical in the new vectors and in the contingency table. To illustrate the procedure we use floristic data from six topo-moisture classes of the eastern Cape midlands.
43461103|This paper examines the various structuring mechanisms which control the distribution of symbiont taxa on crinoid individuals. We identify 3 classes of factors which might be pertinent. These are: 1. Physical and global environmental factors, 2. Host specific factors, 3. Inter-and intra-specific interactions among the symbiont species. Forty-six taxa belonging to the classes Gastropoda, Polychaeta, Myzostomata, Ophiuroidea and Crustacea were identified as symbiotic associates of shallow water crinoids from the central great Barrier Reef. The spatial distribution of the symbiont communities was correlated with host abundance. However, none of the common symbiont taxa showed specificity for a single host species. Stout body morphology and nocturnal behaviour were correlated with higher numbers of associates. Crinoids of the family Comasteraceae had more symbionts than other crinoids.
43461310|This paper considers the problem of clique-partitioning. Existing algorithms that optimally solve this problem employ a graph-theoretical perspective which is not suitable for geobotany. Instead, a GA-based procedure for clique-partitioning is presented, that can be applied to data of any kind. The fitness function involves a stress measure between dissimilarity matrix and the resulting classification. Emphasis is placed on examining the behavior of the proposed objective function with regard to its success in discovering the structure of data sets. Results of numerical experiments conducted on artificial and real-world examples are reported.
43461027|Classification of sequences in space or time was used to search for repeatable patterns in zonation on an environmental gradient and in seasonal dynamics. Three data sets were used which capture the zonation of plant communities on an emerged fishpond bottom along a moisture gradient, seasonal dynamics of phytoplankton communities in different years, and seasonal dynamics of soil macrofauna communities in different sites. A two step procedure was used: all sampling units were classified and assigned to particular states in the first step; sequences of states were classified in the second step. The procedure permits many methodical choices (type of primary classification, similarity between sequences, etc.) and examination of their influence on the resulting classification. The procedure was successful in revealing repeatable patterns in ecological data sets.
43461281|Part V of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology presents a description of a practical approach to managing and archiving ecological data. The intent of this discussion is to define a generalized data structure that encourages good ecological data management. This approach facilitates the demands of analysis, synthesis, and modelling, of data across scales that range from local to regional or continental. Part I of this series (Conley 1990) provided a definition of Theoretical Ecology. Part II (Conley 1991a) provided both a critique and a proper design of large inter-disciplinary "Centers" that focus on a broad discipline such as Theoretical Ecology. Part III (Conley 1991b) presented an argument for the desireability of this approach to ecological issues guided by such an "Institute for Theoretical Ecology". Part IV (Conley 1991c), presented a description of a new activity referred to as "Computational Workshops" that offered a fresh approach to the analysis and synthesis of broadly developed ecological and environmental data.
43461096|The successional dynamics of pastures in a representative area of the Crdoba Mountains is studied. Traditionally, the pastures are periodically burned to eliminate the phytomass that accumulates in "pajonales", areas of tall grasses that are unpalatable for cattle. This is not an intense disturbance, and it permits development until the start of a new disturbance. In this study, succession is analyzed based upon multivariate ordination techniques and diversity analysis. It is shown that the floristic composition describes a relatively clear successional sequence, and the variability in the communities is not seriously affected in its relation with the geomorphological gradient on the slopes, although many species modify their spatial niche during succession.
43460950|As part of a vegetation survey programme for conserved areas a survey of the Manyeleti Game Reserve was undertaken. From a Braun-Blanquet analysis of the vegetation, seven major plant communities were identified. As this survey forms the basis for further more detailed phytosociological research, an overview of these communities is presented. Descriptions of the communities include habitat characterization, diagnostic species, as well as prominent taxa in the woody and herbaceous strata.
43461039|It has been suggested that the overlap of species niches will decrease if the niche dimensions are increased. To demonstrate this principle, we examined the niche overlap of species within compartmentalized niche spaces of different dimensions. For this we took physical variables as niche dimensions, achieved compartmentalization by fragmentation of each dimension into a given number of intervals, and measured niche overlap as the similarity of species performance mappings over the compartments. We derived the similarity measure as the complement of a standard metric unaffected by distortions owing to interdependences between the niche dimensions. Data from a south China Cryptocarya community, involving 10 soil variables and 35 species, confirmed the general principle: species niche overlap did decrease as the niche dimensions increased. As a useful generalization, the species were grouped into guilds through a cluster analysis of the metric.
43461201|A dissimilarity measure for comparing objects described by ordinal variables with few states is derived from Kendall's tau and Goodman-Kruskal's gamma. The coefficient is calculated by examining all possible pairs of variables such that whenever ties appear, the presence/absence relationships become decisive. The measure is recommended for cases when many values in the data matrix are tied, and presence/absence relations are also of interest, e.g., in phytosociological classifications.
43460974|An examination of many of the indices proposed as numerical measures of pairwise similarity shows that they have strong relationships to string-to-string measures variously known as "Levenshtein distance", "longest common subsequence" or "minimal mutation distance". The variations among coefficients are created in several ways, including changing the set of operations, using a richer structural pattern, modifying weights, limiting the extent of operations and varying the basis for normalisation. In total these measures provide a very flexible means of assessing similarity and can be extended to similarities based on collections of strings. While not denying the interest to the user of other properties, such as metricity or embedding in a euclidean space, examining the coefficients as variations on the Levenshtein theme provides a common basis for their comparison and provides the user with a means of choosing between coefficients in a rational manner. But however interesting this array of coefficients might be, it remains true that only some features of similarity will be captured in a minimal mutational measure. These features may be more or less than are actually required by the user. In this paper I have made a preliminary examination of various measures, some of which are related to the Levenshtein metric, and some of which appear to capture other aspects of similarity (i.e. topological, functional, analogic and/or conceptual). These latter are all measures which I have been unable to relate to the Levenshtein distance, although I have not pursued this very far as yet. All measures were applied to vegetation data, classifying both plots and attributes into a two-way table. The SAHN algorithm has been used for most of the clusterings, so that differences between measures of similarity are the primary cause of differences in results. In a few cases other clustering algorithms have been used and the data has been converted to presence/absence when this was necessary with the particular coefficient.
43461301|Floristic and morphological changes produced by grazing were studied in a high plateau grassland. Two types of disturbance were compared: an enclosed site without grazing during the last twelve years, and a site grazed by cattle and sheep. The effect of grazing on floristic composition and community architecture was analyzed. Grazing produced changes in species frequency, but not an invasion of exotic species. Five groups of species with differing morphology were identified. These morphological groups were represented in a markedly different way in the two grazing types. Grazing caused the occurrence of morphological groups comprised of grazing tolerants, whereas, within the exclosure, groups of species that evade grazing predominated.
43461183|In order to survive, animals must select among the resources available in their environment. Resource selection studies aim to identify the habitats and prey items that different animal species select for use among available choices. These studies have progressively become more reliant on statistical methods for analysis. As in other ecological applications, classical linear models are somewhat constraining due to the assumptions of constant error variance and normal distribution for the response variable Y. Generalized linear models (GLM) add necessary flexibility to model ecological data by allowing Y to come from an exponential family and by taking the variance of to be proportional to a variance function V() of the mean. The variance function V() determines whether there is an exponential family compatible with the moment model. If there is one, maximum likelihood can be used for inference. If there is not one, quasi-likelihood is an alternative method for inference that does not make distributional assumptions for the response variable. In this paper, an introduction to resource selection studies is presented; it includes definitions, motivation, sampling designs, and analysis techniques based on resource selection probability functions. GLM and quasi-likelihood are also introduced and applied in the analysis of three different resource selection studies with binary response variables.
43461235|This paper examines the reasons for, and methods of, species selection which have been proposed for phytosociological use. It attempts to evaluate these methods in terms of cost and effectiveness, by determining if the procedures can identify constant, faithful and discriminating species. Using a single set of data. 5 classes of methods were identified and typical methods from three of the classes were then applied to a second data set to determine their efficacy in recovering patterns similar to those in the full data. The results indicate that two methods, one based on the two-parameter model, the other on a double Poisson model, perform well, and at reasonable computational cost. In addition various proposed tests of resemblance of similarity matrices and partition comparison are examined and shown to be of limited usefulness. Some possible extensions to the double Poisson method are indicated, and some relationships to robust and resistant estimation procedures noted.
43461249|An easy to use numerical simulation model of plankton dynamics in aquatic environments is described. The model simulates growth of two phytoplankton and two zooplankton groups on the basis of physical and trophic data from field measurements collected in the investigated environment. AQUAMOD may specially be of help to users who are being introduced to ecological modelling, since the interactions between variables are easy to understand.
43461050|Part II of the five part series on Theoretical Ecology provides both a critique for large "Centers" that focus on a particular discipline, and suggestions to correct the flaws that are perceived. The overall theme of the discussion continues to be an argument for the design and establishment of an institutionalized program of study for Theoretical Ecology. Part I (Conley 1990) of the series provided a discussion of definitions of "Theoretical Ecology". In Parts III (Conley 1991a), IV (Conley 1991 b) and V (Conley and Brunt 1991c), I offer in increasing detail, the case for establishment of such an Institute, and some of the activities and methods that would enhance the chances of its' success.
43461258|A 30-plot permanent transect along a topographic gradient was laid from the levee to the edge of the internal lake on an island in the River Paran floodplain to study the distribution of new herbaceous vegetation replacing the previous one destroyed by a catastrophic flood. Principal component and cluster analyses were used to analyze the data. It was concluded that the communities' distribution follows environmental gradients related to topographic elevation, and that the main effect of the floods is to smooth down these gradients, thus producing homogeneization in the herbaceous vegetation.
43461028|Plant-environment relationships in the Duke Forest, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina USA were examined within and among tenth hectare plots. Soil samples collected from subplots were analyzed for phosphorus, potassium, calcium, sodium, weight/volume, pH, buffered acidity, cation exchange capacity, manganese, copper, and humic acids. Canopy openness was estimated with a spherical densiometer. Canonical correspondence analysis reveals that the species composition of 0.1 ha plots is strongly related to soil calcium. All of the environmental variables demonstrate some spatial dependence within plots, indicating that within-plot gradient analysis must be interpreted cautiously. Species composition of 2 m subplots is weakly related to soil calcium. Species positions along the calcium gradient within plots are weakly correlated with their positions along the among-plot calcium gradient.
43461271|It has been repeatedly suggested by several kinds of competition models (island models, diffusion models and simulations of local dynamics) that spatially limited dispersion and local competition stabilize the regional coexistence of competing populations. Using a Monte Carlo simulation model, this work demonstrates that local dynamics alone is insufficient to allow stable coexistence of similar species: it is the environmental heterogeneity inherent in island models and most of the simulations that has the stabilizing effect. Increasing spatial inhomogeneity by the introduction of an environmental gradient and the corresponding response curves results in an increased tendency for stable regional coexistence of two annual plant populations.
43461129|The contingency table model expresses vegetation on a specific site in terms of deviations of performance or sampling unit occupancy from an expected state. We define this state as global randomness that would prevail had the dispersion of the plant population not been constrained by trended environmental variation. With expectation so defined, the contingency table model is completely described by output from an enriched canonical contingency table analysis (CCTA). The output includes canonical correlations, canonical scores, and canonical partitions of deviations from expectations. Considering that the row categories in the contingency table in this case are species populations and the column categories are environmentally defined, the population deviations profiles of the sites and their partitions will be suitable as signatures to describe quantitatively the state of vegetation in a particular site at the time of the survey. With concatenation of these states consistent and anticipatory of environmental variation can provide clues of the direction and extent of vegetation change. The analysis has been described in detail elsewhere. We discuss in this paper the problem of mapping new sites into the contingency table model without distortions of the original configuration. We propose CONAMAP, an application program, to derive the mappings. CONAMAP takes results from CCTA and derives canonical scores and deviations profiles for observational vectors from new sites. The species complement and population performance measures must be identical in the new vectors and in the contingency table. To illustrate the procedure we use floristic data from six topo-moisture classes of the eastern Cape midlands.
43461103|This paper examines the various structuring mechanisms which control the distribution of symbiont taxa on crinoid individuals. We identify 3 classes of factors which might be pertinent. These are: 1. Physical and global environmental factors, 2. Host specific factors, 3. Inter-and intra-specific interactions among the symbiont species. Forty-six taxa belonging to the classes Gastropoda, Polychaeta, Myzostomata, Ophiuroidea and Crustacea were identified as symbiotic associates of shallow water crinoids from the central great Barrier Reef. The spatial distribution of the symbiont communities was correlated with host abundance. However, none of the common symbiont taxa showed specificity for a single host species. Stout body morphology and nocturnal behaviour were correlated with higher numbers of associates. Crinoids of the family Comasteraceae had more symbionts than other crinoids.
43461310|This paper considers the problem of clique-partitioning. Existing algorithms that optimally solve this problem employ a graph-theoretical perspective which is not suitable for geobotany. Instead, a GA-based procedure for clique-partitioning is presented, that can be applied to data of any kind. The fitness function involves a stress measure between dissimilarity matrix and the resulting classification. Emphasis is placed on examining the behavior of the proposed objective function with regard to its success in discovering the structure of data sets. Results of numerical experiments conducted on artificial and real-world examples are reported.
43461027|Classification of sequences in space or time was used to search for repeatable patterns in zonation on an environmental gradient and in seasonal dynamics. Three data sets were used which capture the zonation of plant communities on an emerged fishpond bottom along a moisture gradient, seasonal dynamics of phytoplankton communities in different years, and seasonal dynamics of soil macrofauna communities in different sites. A two step procedure was used: all sampling units were classified and assigned to particular states in the first step; sequences of states were classified in the second step. The procedure permits many methodical choices (type of primary classification, similarity between sequences, etc.) and examination of their influence on the resulting classification. The procedure was successful in revealing repeatable patterns in ecological data sets.
